-- Kenyatta Pledges Kenya Land Reform, Security in Manifesto
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-02-03T17:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/kenyatta-pledges-kenya-land-reform-security-in-manifesto.html
Kenyan presidential candidate and
Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, who faces war crimes
charges for election violence five years ago, pledged to focus
on security and land reform if he wins next month’s vote.  In its campaign document today, Kenyatta’s  National
Alliance  party pledged to hire an extra 15,000 police a year to
provide one police officer for every 800 Kenyans in five years,
down from a ratio of 1:1,150 now. The 51-year-old Jubilee
Coalition candidate will focus on national cohesion, economic
transformation, transparency and accountability, according to a
statement outlining the platform.  “The coalition will focus on security -- keeping  Kenya 
safe and secure,” according to the statement. An “industrial
revolution” and “land reform -- towards a property-owning
democracy” are also among Kenyatta’s plans.  Kenyatta, the son of Kenya’s first president, is
campaigning for the presidency even as he prepares to face
charges at the  International Criminal Court  for his role in the
ethnic violence surrounding the last elections in 2007. The
clashes left more than 1,100 people dead and forced 350,000 to
flee their homes.  Growth Plan  The March 4 election will be the first since that disputed
vote. The unrest hobbled agriculture output, cutting growth by
two-thirds to 1.5 percent in 2008. Output is forecast to expand
5.6 percent this year from 5.1 percent in 2012, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  The National Alliance also pledged today to subsidize
fertilizer and farm equipment to improve  food production . It
will establish an oil and gas fund, giving 5 percent of public
revenue back to communities where resources are located and 5
percent to pay for local renewable-energy programs, it said.  Grievances over land have triggered violence in every vote
except one since 1992, when multiparty democracy was introduced
in Kenya, the world’s largest tea exporter and  East Africa ’s
biggest economy.  The ICC charged Kenyatta, an ethnic Kikuyu, with engaging
the Mungiki criminal gang to carry out reprisal attacks against
the Luo, Luhya and Kalenjin communities. Kenyatta’s running
mate, 46-year-old  William Ruto , has been accused of
orchestrating attacks on Kikuyu, Kamba and Kisii people. Both
men deny the charges. Their trials begin in April.  Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  was named on Jan 28 as the
presidential candidate for the Coalition for Reform and
Democracy, which includes his party parties and those of Vice
President Kalonzo Musyoka and Trade Minister Moses Wetangula,.  Kenyatta had 40 percent support from respondents in an
Ipsos-Synovate poll published on Jan 25. Odinga, with 46
percent, leads the eight candidates  cleared  by the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Jan. 30 to vie for the
presidency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  