-- Koch as Remarkable, If Temporary, New York Savior
-- B y   E . J .   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-02-02T22:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/koch-as-remarkable-if-temporary-new-york-savior.html
Former New York Mayor Edward I. Koch,
who died this week at 88,  exemplified  two extremes of budget
politics in America’s largest city. When he was elected mayor in
1977, New York was teetering on the brink of bankruptcy.
Standing up to municipal unions and other interest groups, he
helped bring about a remarkable recovery. And once the budget
was balanced and the revenue was rolling in again, he spent it.  For those too young to remember the fiscal crisis, there’s
no overstating the contrast between the irrepressible Koch and
his drab, one-term predecessor in the mayor’s office. Abe Beame,
all 5-foot-2 of him, was a clubhouse pol and former city
comptroller, who seemed overwhelmed by the rapid unraveling of
New York’s finances. With the city already in virtual state
receivership, Beame made the mistake of telling reporters that
he was running again in 1977 to “finish the job.” This
inspired a  memorable punch line  from Koch’s most effective
campaign commercial: “Finish the job? Hasn’t he done enough?”  In fact, the job had barely begun when Koch, after
prevailing in a seven-way Democratic primary, took office in
January 1978. Although the fiscal crisis dated back to the
spring of 1975, when the city was shut out of credit markets,
New York was still on very shaky ground. Governor Hugh Carey had
effectively taken control of the municipal budget, but the
ultimate goal was to prod City Hall back onto its own two feet.  Temporary Change  Koch  more than held up his end of the bargain, balancing
the budget for the first time in 15 years and getting the city
released from state financial control in 1981, a year ahead of
schedule. But he was more successful at temporarily suppressing
the budget’s growth than he was at permanently reshaping it.
Aside from one lasting productivity reform -- a move from three-
man to two-man sanitation trucks -- Koch was unable to negotiate
significant work-rule changes with city union leaders, who
focused on an ultimately successful push to recoup the wage
increases they had forgone during the crisis.  While Koch deserved a good deal of the credit for the
recovery, he was immeasurably aided by larger outside factors.
The double-digit inflation rates of 1979 and 1980, a negative
for most of the economy, were perfectly timed to shrink the
city’s liabilities while swelling its income and sales tax
receipts. Federal seasonal loans were expanded into more
reliable loan guarantees (on tough terms) soon after Koch took
office. The state provided significant added relief by taking
over most of the operating costs of both the City University of
New York and the city’s court system. Koch himself gave much of
the credit for the recovery to Carey,  eulogizing him  in 2011 as
New York’s “greatest governor of the modern era going back to
the administration of Alfred E. Smith.”  By the time the Wall Street bull market and national
economy took off in tandem in 1983, a leaner New York City
government was well positioned to significantly reduce taxes,
restructure government, and become more competitive with other
major cities and surrounding suburbs.  Unfortunately, that didn’t happen. Adjusted for inflation,
city-funded operating expenditures shot up by 35 percent during
Koch’s last two terms. Koch allowed the city payroll to grow by
57,000 full-time positions, pushing the number of employees well
past the level that had helped trigger the fiscal crisis. By the
time David Dinkins succeeded him in 1989, the city budget was
again dangerously bloated and ready to tip out of balance.
 Dinkins presided  over another fiscal crisis, and it was left to
Rudolph Giuliani to clean up the mess.  In his defense, even if Koch had been more determined to
fundamentally restructure and permanently streamline New York’s
budget, he would have been fighting a strong political tide.
Then as now, the unions could count on support from their
friends in both houses of the state legislature, which shaped
the laws controlling crucial budget drivers such as city taxes
and employee pension benefits.  Bitter Rivals  Koch severely undermined his own clout in Albany with a
disastrous decision to run for governor in 1982. The upset
victor in the Democratic primary was Mario Cuomo, the man he had
defeated in the 1977 mayoral primary runoff. That left the
state’s top office in the hands of a bitter political rival,
while state lawmakers were all too willing to do the unions’
bidding. Koch countered by strengthening his alliances with
Democratic bosses in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens -- all of
whom would be implicated in the Parking Violations Bureau
scandal, which badly tarnished his third mayoral term and
contributed to his loss when seeking a fourth in 1989.  Memories of his mistreatment at the hands of Albany hacks
no doubt fueled Koch’s last big campaign, leading a coalition
urging 2010 candidates for state office to support redistricting
reform that would prevent legislative leadership from drawing
maps favorable to incumbents. Governor Andrew Cuomo duly signed
on -- only to eventually approve gerrymandered Assembly and
Senate district maps as the price for achieving some of his
legislative priorities, including pension reforms that will at
least modestly help the city.  Koch was disappointed, but surely wasn’t surprised. Signed
pledges aside, the legislative votes were never really there for
an independent redistricting commission. Best known for his
joyful self-centeredness, Koch also had two characteristics
especially valuable in a government executive during a fiscal
crisis: He was a realist, and he could count.  (E.J. McMahon is a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute’s Empire Center for New York State Policy. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
E.J. McMahon at  ejm@empirecenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro1@bloomberg.net . 