-- Netanyahu Says Israel Must Stop a Nuclear-Armed Iran
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-03T11:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/netanyahu-asked-by-peres-to-form-next-israeli-government.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, nominated to form a coalition after winning the most
Knesset seats in elections, said stopping Iran from building
nuclear arms would be the government’s foremost challenge.  “We have many missions to deal with,” Netanyahu said in
Jerusalem after being chosen by President Shimon Peres. “But
first we must maintain security, and the first task is to stop
Iran from arming itself with nuclear weapons.”  Netanyahu has 28 days to form a government and can ask for
an additional two weeks if he fails to put a coalition together
in that time. His choice of partners may influence policy on the
economy, Iran and settlement construction in the West Bank.  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden said yesterday that
Washington is ready for direct talks with Iran about its nuclear
program as soon as the Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei makes a commitment to negotiate.  Iran has told United Nations monitors it’s installing new
centrifuges at its Natanz facility that can enrich more uranium
in less time, according to a restricted International Atomic
Energy Agency document circulated to members last week.  “While the world is discussing where and when the next
meeting with Iran will be, Iran is rapidly advancing toward
obtaining a nuclear bomb,” Netanyahu’s office said in a
statement on Jan. 31. “The international community cannot allow
Iran to arm itself with a nuclear weapon.”  Unity Government  “Last night I called on all the factions to join with me
in as broad a national unity government as possible, that would
unite our public in this decisive moment of our history,”
Netanyahu told the weekly Cabinet meeting in Jerusalem today.
“The highest priority facing a national unity government is
stopping the nuclear armament of Iran,” Netanyahu said,
according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  The prime minister’s Likud-Beitenu list won 31 seats in the
120-seat Knesset in Jan. 22 elections, while the centrist Yesh
Atid won 19. The Labor Party, campaigning on promises of fairer
distribution of wealth, came in third while the pro-settlement
Jewish Home was fourth. In the past two decades, leaders have
typically taken between 20 and 50 days to form coalitions,
according to the Israel Democratic Institute.  “I hope that the work will be concluded quickly,” Peres
said at the press conference. “Israel needs diplomatic and
economic stability so that the government can make the necessary
decisions which are on the agenda. The challenges are many,
serious and urgent.”  ‘Great Things’  After exit polls were published on election day, Netanyahu
called Yesh Atid’s leader, former television host Yair Lapid,
and told him that together they “could do very great things.”  Representatives from Yesh Atid and Likud-Beitenu will
officially begin coalition negotiations today, Israel’s Army
Radio said.  Lapid on Jan. 30 recommended that Peres choose Netanyahu to
form a government. He said that what Israel needs is a
government “that divides the burden equally and will resume
peace negotiations,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Lapid’s platform, which calls for drafting ultra-Orthodox
rabbinical students into the army in addition to the secular
population and ultimately bringing them into the workforce, has
caused concern among the religious parties that Netanyahu’s
Likud traditionally takes into its coalitions.  Common Ground  Shas, the largest ultra-Orthodox party with 11 seats,
pleaded with Peres to help the nation find common ground on the
draft issue. “This is not a coalition matter or a governmental
matter but something far deeper than that which can undo one of
the things that binds us together as a society,” Shas leader
Ovadia Yosef told Peres, according to an e-mailed statement from
the president’s office.  Netanyahu said yesterday his new government will work to
limit ultra-Orthodox draft deferment, create more jobs, and
strengthen the economy. He pledged to pursue peace and urged
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to resume negotiations.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer, who has repeatedly
promoted the need to have the ultra-Orthodox work to shore up
growth, has said the first thing the new coalition will have to
do is cut the budget deficit. Fischer, who resigned on Jan. 29,
agreed to stay on until June 30 to oversee the next budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  