-- Newcastle Beats Chelsea in Premier League on Sissoko’s Goal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-02T20:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/newcastle-beats-chelsea-3-2-in-premier-league-on-sissoko-s-goal.html
A second Moussa Sissoko goal helped
Newcastle snatch a 3-2 win over Chelsea in the 90th minute.  Sissoko, making his home debut, scored twice in the second
half as Newcastle rallied at St. James’ Park for its second
straight win in English soccer’s Premier League.  In the day’s other games,  Manchester United  extended its
league lead with a 1-0 win at Fulham, Arsenal beat Stoke 1-0,
Reading defeated Sunderland 2-1 and West Ham beat Swansea 1-0.  Everton came from two goals down to draw 3-3 with Aston
Villa, Wigan and Southampton tied 2-2 and Mark Bunn saved a
penalty kick to preserve Norwich’s goalless draw with Queens
Park Rangers.  Newcastle moved six points above the teams in the three
relegation places at the bottom of the standings.  The Magpies took a 1-0 lead on Jonas Gutierrez’s header in
the 41st minute.  Frank Lampard  and  Juan Mata  then scored six
minutes apart early in the second half to put Chelsea in front.  Sissoko, who joined Newcastle from Toulouse on Jan. 25, had
scored off a rebound in the 68th minute before winning the game
in the final minute with a low shot from the edge of the area.  Wayne Rooney  scored in the 79th minute as Manchester United
increased its lead to 10 points over defending champion
 Manchester City .  The match was interrupted in the 43rd minute after the
floodlights went out at Craven Cottage. The players remained on
the field for a brief time before going into the locker rooms.
Power returned about five minutes later and the teams came back
out to finish the first half.  Lukas Podolski’s deflected goal in the 78th minute gave
Arsenal the win over Stoke. Jimmy Kebe had two goals, including
the game-winner in the 85th minute, as Reading beat Sunderland
to move two points clear of relegation.  Second Goal  Marouane Fellaini’s second goal, deep in injury time,
earned Everton the home draw with  Aston Villa , which is winless
in eight league matches. Fellaini had scored in the 69th minute
as the Toffees rallied from a 3-1 deficit.  Andy Carroll’s goal lifted West Ham past Swansea, while
Shaun Maloney scored in the 90th minute to give Wigan a 2-2 home
draw with Southampton.  Norwich goalkeeper Bunn dived to his left to save Adel Taarabt’s penalty in the 56th minute. QPR remains in last in the
20-team league with 17 points, four fewer than Wigan and Aston
Villa above it in the standings.  Manchester City hosts Liverpool and Tottenham is at West
Brom in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 