-- Pemex Combs Rubble for Cause of Deadliest Blast Since 2006
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z ,   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-02-02T19:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/pemex-combs-rubble-for-explanation-of-deadliest-blast-since-2006.html
The probe into a blast that tore the
face off a building at Petroleos Mexicanos’s  Mexico  City
headquarters and killed at least 33 people continued, with
authorities saying they still don’t know what happened.  Forensic, chemical and explosive experts were sifting
through clues and haven’t identified the cause of the disaster
at the state-owned oil company’s office on Jan. 31, Attorney
General Jesus Murillo Karam said yesterday. Pemex has stepped up
security at oil production facilities during the investigation,
the company said.  The government will update on the cause no later than
tomorrow, Murillo Karam told reporters at a news conference. He
added there weren’t signs of any fire sparked by the explosion.
“The federal government is determined to find the truth of this
incident whatever it may be, whether it involves an accident,
whether it involves negligence, whether it involves an attack.”  The nation’s deadliest explosion since a mine accident in
2006 comes as President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec.
1, plans to submit a bill to increase private investment in the
energy industry and lower taxes on Pemex, the nation’s largest
company by revenue and the world’s fourth-biggest crude
producer. The initiative is set to be the biggest energy-
industry overhaul since the nation seized oil fields from
British and U.S. companies 75 years ago. Pena Nieto declared
three days of national mourning after the incident.  Pemex Output  Pemex Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya, who took the
helm of the oil producer two months ago, told reporters at a
yesterday that the incident didn’t hinder Pemex output, the
company is producing about 2.57 million barrels of oil daily and
the headquarters will reopen Feb. 5. after a three-day federal
holiday weekend commemorating  Constitution Day.  The blast also injured 121 at offices where about 10,000
work or visit daily, Lozoya said.  Investigators from the attorney general’s office, the
Defense Ministry, the Navy and the National Autonomous
University of Mexico are working on the probe, Lozoya said.  The nation’s civil protection teams, and federal
investigators remain working this morning at the blast site,
Pemex said today on its Twitter page.  Shattered Windows  Milenio TV reported that the incident may have been caused
by an implosion due to halon gas, a fire suppressant chemical
that the network said Pemex was storing after taking the gas
offline amid global bans because of the threat it poses to the
environment. Milenio didn’t say where it got the information.
Murillo Karam said that while he couldn’t confirm whether halon
was found at the scene, an implosion has been ruled out.  Footage on Milenio TV showed shattered windows and gaping
holes in walls on several floors after the blast rocked the B2
building adjacent to the company’s main office, the second-
tallest tower in the country, between 3:40 p.m. and 3:45 p.m.
local time on Jan. 31. Security personnel surrounded the complex
and roped off the area outside, where dozens of ambulances were
parked and a bust of the late President Lazaro Cardenas, who
nationalized Mexico’s oil industry in 1938, stood intact.  Employees were evacuated from the scene of the blast, some
on stretchers. The Army cordoned off the Pemex complex and sent
in search parties with dogs to look for survivors. Televisa TV
network reported the condition of seven injured as “very
grave” as of last night.  Economic Impact  The explosion won’t have any financial or economic impact,
Lozoya said in an interview yesterday after the news conference
with journalists in Mexico City.  The cost to protect Pemex debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 115 basis
points yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  Yields on Pemex dollar bonds due 2022 rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.53 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The Mexican peso erased earlier
losses to rise 0.8 percent to 12.6062 per U.S. dollar.  Leticia Vigueras, who was working on the second floor of
the adjacent B1 building, said she felt a burst like a shockwave
as the windows shattered.  “From the magnitude of the damage, it’s hard for me to
think it was an accident,” said Vigueras, 38, a finance
department employee who said one of her co-workers was killed
and another is missing. “The whole structure of the first floor
and mezzanine was destroyed.”  Basement, Floors  The explosion “seriously” damaged the basement and the
first two floors of building B2, Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told reporters on Jan. 31.  The blast may have been related to maintenance deficiencies
in the boilers used for power generation and air conditioning,
Mexico City-based newspaper El Universal reported,  citing Moises
Flores , the leader of one of Pemex’s unions.  Pemex said on its Twitter account on Jan. 31 that an
electrical failure had prompted a preventive evacuation of the
headquarters. Lozoya declined to comment on the bad equipment
report.  “We’re going to dedicate ourselves as much as possible to
first know what happened,” Pena Nieto said from the explosion
site when he toured the area hours after the blast. “If there
are people who are responsible in this case, we’ll put the full
weight of the law on them.”  National Mourning  After visiting yesterday with people injured in the blast,
Pena Nieto declared three days of national mourning, saying the
incident has filled Mexico with sadness.  Pena Nieto on Jan. 30 spoke at a conference for his
Institutional Revolutionary Party, promoting his proposed
energy-industry overhaul in a bid to stem production declines at
Pemex. While he’s promised not to privatize Pemex, he’s also
pledged to forge ahead on a modernization that would allow more
non-government investment and boost competitiveness.  The government undertook some overhaul efforts with Pemex
under the previous administration. In 2008, then-president
Felipe Calderon pushed through a bill that allowed outsourcing
production projects through performance-based contracts.  At least three other incidents have caused significant
casualties at Pemex in the past five years. A fire at a gas
distribution hub near the U.S. border left at least 30 dead last
year, and 21 workers were killed in 2007 when an oil rig hit a
drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico.  Domestic Product  In addition, an explosion prompted by a criminal gang
attempting to steal oil from a pipeline in the state of Puebla
killed 28 in 2010. Mexico has been wracked by drug violence
since Calderon sent troops to fight the nation’s organized crime
groups after taking office in December 2006. The drug war
resulted in more than 58,000 deaths during his term, and his
government estimated it shaved one percentage point annually off
gross domestic product.  Milenio newspaper  reported  that between 2008 and 2011 Pemex
requested funds to update disaster-prevention equipment, such as
smoke detectors, at its headquarters. The government repeatedly
denied those requests, Milenio said.  The explosion could have been even deadlier at other times
of day.  “At the time of the blast many Pemex employees, including
my staff and those of other board members, were out” board
member Fluvio Ruiz said in an interview on Jan. 31. “It was
lunch hour.”  Pemex Reform  The Pemex facilities are “very well maintained,” leaving
a “low probability” of accidents at the site, Sergio Flores, a
former Pemex employee who teaches architecture at Mexico’s
National Autonomous University in Mexico City, said in an
interview.  Barclays Plc said in a note to clients yesterday that the
explosion is “very unlikely” to have been caused on purpose.  “We believe that if the blast is proved to have been an
accident, it should not affect discussions on Pemex reform,”
Marco Oviedo, Barclays analyst, wrote in the note.  Tomas Torres, vice-coordinator of the Green Party in the
lower house of congress, said the incident will probably
intensify debate over Pena Nieto’s plans to overhaul the oil
industry.  “Positions may harden,” Torres said in a telephone
interview from the central state of Queretaro. “It could be an
element that strengthens the argument to invest in, modernize
and take care of” Pemex, although those opposing changes may
lobby against “using the pain of the families who died there
for political reasons,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  