-- Qihoo 360 Open to Buying Stakes in Smaller Rivals, CEO Zhou Says
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-03T10:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/qihoo-360-open-to-buying-stakes-in-smaller-rivals-ceo-zhou-says.html
Qihoo 360 Technology (QIHU)  Co. Chairman
Zhou Hongyi said the Chinese antivirus company is willing to
acquire stakes in smaller businesses, as it competes against
larger rivals such as  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   Zhou said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday that he
has always considered investing and acquiring smaller companies
to help more Internet startups grow. Qihoo has invested in more
than 100 companies since its initial public offering, according
to Zhou.  “If all the little companies die and I’m left alone as the
only company fighting against industry giants, I don’t think I
have much competitive advantage either,” Zhou said.  Qihoo, which earns most of its revenue by selling ads
through its browser and free anti virus software, brands itself
as a “disruptive innovator,” and has fought legal battles with
Yahoo!  China , Tencent Holdings and Baidu.  Qihoo will hire hundreds of engineers to focus on
development of its mobile browser, cloud and mobile-search
functions, Zhou said. The company’s biggest focus this year will
be developing its mobile applications.  “People ask me what will overthrow 360, thinking it’s
either Baidu or Tencent or the copycats,” Zhou said. “I think
it’s the migration of computers to mobile devices.”  Qihoo had more than 150 million users for its mobile
security product 360 Mobile Safe and more than 100 million for
its app store for Android, 360 Mobile Assistant, as of Sept. 30.  Zhou said Qihoo’s chief financial officer is in the U.S.
meeting with Apple Inc. to resolve issues related to its apps
being removed from iTunes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  