-- Treasury Yields Rise to Highest Since April as U.S. Adds Jobs
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/treasury-yields-rise-to-highest-since-april-as-u-s-adds-jobs.html
Treasury 10- and 30-year yields rose
to the highest since April after data on payrolls,  consumer
confidence  and manufacturing added to signs the U.S. economic
recovery is gathering momentum.  Longer-term yields rose for a second week after the Labor
Department said the economy has added 200,000 jobs on average in
the past three months, and as consumer confidence unexpectedly
rose in in January. The  Federal Reserve  will buy between $9.25
billion and $12.25 billion of securities next week as part of
its efforts to stimulate economic growth.  “The market is focusing more on positive indicators of
moderate strength than negative numbers,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer
at United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New York . “The
promise of additional easing has also bolstered risk markets,
which has taken some of the steam out of Treasuries.”  Treasury 10-year note yields climbed on the week seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.02 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. They reached 2.04
percent, the highest since April 13. The price of the 1.625
percent security due in November 2022 dropped 18/32 or $5.63 per
$1,000 face value to 96 17/32.  The yield on 30-year bonds reached 3.24 percent, the
highest since April 5.  Break-even rates  on 30-year inflation-
protected securities, or how much investors estimate consumer
prices will rise over the life of the securities, touched the
highest level since September.  ‘Showing Growth’  “You’re seeing still-positive economic data surface,”
said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC) 
in Oaks,  Pennsylvania . “It’s an environment that’s not going to
push yields significantly higher in the near term, but it’s an
environment that’s healing and showing growth.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
 consumer sentiment  climbed to 73.8 in January from 72.9 in
December. The gauge was projected to drop to 71.5, according to
the median forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
compared with a preliminary reading of 71.3.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
 climbed to 53.1  last month from December’s 50.2, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings above 50
signal expansion. The figure exceeded the highest estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 86 economists. The median forecast was 50.7.  Jobless Rate  U.S. employers added 157,000 jobs last month following a
revised 196,000 advance in December and a 247,000 surge in
November, Labor Department figures in  Washington  showed.
January’s increase was less than the advance of 165,000 that was
the median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Treasuries rallied early yesterday after the Labor
Department said the  unemployment rate  rose to 7.9 percent in
January, undermining speculation that the Fed might begin
winding down its $85 billion a month in asset purchases. A
survey projected the jobless rate to hold steady at 7.8 percent.  The central bank said Jan. 30 that it would continue the
purchases and left unchanged its statement that it plans to hold
its target interest rate  near zero  as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains no more than 2.5
percent.  U.S. government debt  gained Jan. 30 after the Commerce
Department said the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly shrank in the
fourth quarter and the Fed reiterated its commitment to asset
purchases to push down yields and lift growth.  ‘Downside Risks’  “The fundamental picture supports the idea of pausing at 2
percent as the data has been positive, but sluggish,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “We should continue to see higher
rates, but slowly. Right now we are in a very tight range.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement that
growth, while slowed by “transitory factors,” faces “downside
risks” even after strains in global financial markets have
eased. The expansion will pick up and unemployment will fall in
response to “appropriate policy accommodation,” Fed officials
said in a statement after a two-day meeting.  Fed policy makers said in the statement they may end their
$85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013, with
members divided between a mid-or end-of-year finish.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard , an advocate
for slowing stimulus, said today that U.S. job growth in the
past three months has been “an encouraging sign.”  At its December meeting, the FOMC announced Treasury
purchases of $45 billion a month in addition to $40 billion a
month of mortgage-debt purchases begun in September. Policy
makers didn’t set a limit on the program’s size or duration and
said the purchases will continue “if the outlook for the labor
market does not improve substantially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  