-- Religare Says Software Glitch Caused 10% Plunge in Tata Motors
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-02T11:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/religare-says-software-glitch-caused-10-plunge-in-tata-motors.html
Religare Capital Markets Ltd., a
brokerage controlled by  India ’s billionaire Singh brothers, said
a software glitch sent  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s shares tumbling 10
percent in Mumbai trading yesterday.  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM) 
also fell by the same amount before paring losses. Tata Motors,
the owner of Jaguar and Land Rover brands, declined 5.5 percent
to 281.65 rupees at close, while UltraTech lost 3.4 percent.  “Due to some technical issue in the software, unintended
transactions got executed,” Religare said in a statement today.
“The matter is being investigated by the software supplier.”  The error comes four months after trading was halted for 15
minutes on the National Stock Exchange, India’s biggest bourse,
as the  S&P CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  plunged 16 percent on Oct. 5 due to
erroneous orders entered by a dealer at brokerage Emkay Global
Financial Services Ltd. Yesterday’s trades weren’t because of a
broker error and didn’t cause any loss to clients, Religare
said. Faulty software caused a $457.6 million trading error at
Knight Capital Group Inc. in the U.S. in August.  Tata Motors dropped from 290 rupees to 270 rupees in one
trade four seconds before 3:07 p.m. Within nine seconds it  fell 
further to 269.95 rupees before recovering, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a very unfortunate incident,”  Arun Kejriwal ,
director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt. in
Mumbai, said in a phone interview today. “The good thing is
that now we know what, where and how it happened and it was not
a systemic error or something like that.”  Erroneous Orders  Knight bombarded U.S. equity exchanges with erroneous
orders on Aug. 1 after improperly installing software that
malfunctioned, according to Chief Executive Officer Thomas
Joyce. The trading caused volume to surge and prices to swing in
dozens of securities listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange and
NYSE Arca.  Religare will “operate as normal” on Feb. 4. The
brokerage may have lost 100 million rupees ($1.8 million) to 150
million rupees due to the error, according to calculations by
 CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR)   “That’s small change for a big broker like Religare,” CNI
managing director Kishor Ostwal said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  