-- ResCap Creditors Object to $8.7 Billion Securities Deal
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/rescap-creditors-object-to-8-7-billion-securities-deal.html
Creditors of Residential Capital LLC
objected to a proposed settlement the bankrupt home lender made
with investors in its mortgage-backed securities that would give
the investors an $8.7 billion claim in the Chapter 11 case.  The official committee of ResCap’s unsecured creditors said
in a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  that
it was “dismayed” to have found that the negotiations that led
to the settlement were dominated and controlled by ResCap’s
parent company,  Ally Financial  Inc. The committee said Ally was
concerned with limiting its own liability.  “It appears that the debtors, or, in fact, Ally,
negotiated the deal with one overriding objective in mind:
obtaining the institutional investors’ support for a release of
all estate and third-party claims against Ally based on a capped
settlement payment of $750 million,” the creditors committee
said in its request for the judge to reject the settlement.  In exchange for the investors’ support for the $750 million
settlement of Ally’s exposure, ResCap agreed to give the
investors a bankruptcy claim that is $4 billion more than what
the company publicly has stated was its potential liability from
claims by the trusts overseeing its residential mortgage-backed
securities, according to the creditors committee.  In the proposed settlement ResCap asked the court to
approve last year, hundreds of securitization trusts would drop
legal claims related to 1.6 million mortgages originally worth
$221 billion. In return, the investors would share an $8.7
billion bankruptcy claim.  The so-called RMBS Trust Settlement would “swamp”
ResCap’s unsecured creditors, according to the committee’s
objection. If a non-conflicted party had negotiated with the
investors, the allowed claim would have been substantially lower
and in line with ResCap’s earlier estimate of its potential
liability, according to the committee.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at  epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 