-- Rome Court to Hold New Hearing on Monte Paschi Rescue
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-02T14:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/rome-court-to-hold-new-hearing-on-monte-paschi-rescue-on-feb-20.html
The administrative court for the
region of Lazio will hold a new hearing on a challenge by a
consumer group to block government plans to lend 3.9 billion
euros ($5.3 billion) to  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA .  The  Bank of Italy  didn’t submit its board’s opinion on the
bank’s rescue, Pietro Valentini, a lawyer for consumer
association Codacons, said today by phone, adding the new
hearing will be held on Feb. 20. Judge Franco Bianchi will
decide on Monday or Tuesday how to get Bank of  Italy ’s Jan. 26
opinion, according to Valentini.  “According to the Bank of Italy, the document is among
those that have to be kept secret and not to be made public,”
Valentini said. “They are withdrawing behind a secret that
doesn’t exist.”  Earlier this week, Codacons filed a claim to the Rome-based
court seeking damages from the central bank and other
institutions for not adequately monitoring Monte Paschi’s
activities. The Siena, Italy-based bank, the world’s oldest
lender, said on Jan. 17 it may be forced to restate earnings
after  Bloomberg News  reported that it used derivatives to
obscure losses. Accounting irregularities also led to a criminal
investigation targeting former management.  Siena Prosecutors  Today, the Bank of Italy asked Codacons’s request be
rejected as “inadmissible and unfounded” and Codacons to pay
damages as they started litigation as a pretext, it said in a
statement. The Bank of Italy is available to submit its opinion
to the judge with respect of protection of sensitive
informations, it said in the statement.  In a separate case, prosecutors in Siena are probing Monte
Paschi’s past management for alleged market manipulation, false
accounting, obstructing regulators and fraud related to
structured-financing deals. On Jan. 31, the lender had its
 credit rating  cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern the
investigation may hurt results.  The losses “may be higher than initially anticipated” and
demonstrate “a risk of management weaknesses,” S&P said,
cutting Monte Paschi’s long-term grade to BB from BB+ with
negative outlook, which means the company may be downgraded
again.  Shares (BMPS)  fell 5.9 percent in Milan trading yesterday.  The Bank of Italy acted vigilantly in its oversight of the
lender, a former senior official of the central bank who was
involved in the inspections told Bloomberg News Jan. 30.  The court also asked officials for the lender and market
watchdog Consob to testify.  Monte Paschi is seeking state aid to bolster its balance
sheet after the bank failed to meet the  capital requirements  set
by the European Banking Authority. The lender is also selling
assets and reducing risk and costs in a three-year plan to
restore liquidity. Under the government’s rescue plan, Monte
Paschi will sell securities, dubbed “Monti bonds” after  Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , to the government with a 9 percent coupon
that may rise to as much as 15 percent.  Monte Paschi Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola said on
Jan. 28 the bank’s board will complete the bailout request by
early February, and the Italian Treasury will conclude the
transaction by the end of the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  