-- Spain’s Rajoy Says Allegations of Graft Against Him are ‘False’
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-02T14:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/spain-s-rajoy-says-allegations-of-graft-against-him-are-false-.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said reports in  El Pais  newspaper that he or members of his
party received illegal payments are wrong and stem from
allegations made by unknown persons trying to damage his party.  “It’s false, I have never received or shared out illegal
payments within the party or anywhere else,” the premier said
during a press conference in  Madrid  today. “These allegations
come from unknown people who have something to gain and I repeat
the party hasn’t, nor has ever had, accounts abroad.”  El Pais,  Spain ’s best-selling newspaper, reproduced on Jan.
31 what it said were extracts from handwritten ledgers by the
former People’s Party Treasurer Luis Barcenas, showing payments
to party officials including Rajoy, Maria Dolores de Cospedal,
general secretary of the party, and the former managing director
of the  International Monetary Fund ,  Rodrigo Rato . The records
show Rajoy received 25,200 euros ($34,100) a year for 11 years
from a secret fund set up by Barcenas, El Pais said.  The allegations come as Rajoy grapples to implement the
harshest austerity measures in Spain’s democratic history to
contain a deficit and rein in borrowing costs which hit a euro-
era high of 7.75 percent in July. The prime minister vowed today
to stay on, saying he never became a politician with the aim to
make money and that he’s undeterred by the allegations.  Alleged Contributions  Barcenas said in a statement published on the website of
the newspaper ABC earlier this week that he never made illegal
payments to officials and never kept secret financial records.
Rato’s lawyer, Ignacio Ayala, declined to comment through his
assistant when contacted twice by  Bloomberg News . Cospedal said
the allegations were false in a press conference on Jan. 31.  The accounts show a series of contributions from
construction executives and only a portion of the revenue they
show was deposited in the party’s official account for
donations, El Pais said.  Obrascon Huarte (OHL)  Lain SA Chairman Jose
Miguel Villar Mir paid 530,000 euros between 2004 and 2008 and
former  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  Chairman Luis del Rivero donated
380,000 euros, the newspaper said.  A spokesman for OHL said Villar Mir never made any
contributions, either legal or illegal, to the party. A
spokeswoman for Sacyr declined to comment.  “If Rajoy has done something illegal, he cannot continue
as president of the government,” Oscar Lopez, secretary of the
opposition Socialist Party, said in a press conference yesterday
televised today by Spain’s 24 channel, “First, the whole truth
must be known, and second responsibilities should be assumed.”  Requesting Resignations  A social media website called  Change.org  has collected
640,850 online signatures from the Spanish public requesting
that all members of the  People’s Party  implicated resign
immediately. The petition, which was put up on the site on Jan.
31, is targeting one million signatures.  “If someone believes that because of this harassment that
I’ll lose spirit or abandon the task given to me by the Spanish
people, then they are wrong,” Rajoy told reporters today,
“This government has set itself a task and I assure you it
won’t be sidetracked.  Rajoy ordered the party treasurer, Carmen Navarro, on Jan.
21 to conduct an internal investigation of party finances after
El Mundo newspaper reported that Barcenas, her predecessor,
handed out monthly envelopes containing as much as 15,000 euros
in cash to senior party officials. Barcenas’s lawyer, Alfonso
Trallero, declined to comment through an assistant when
contacted by Bloomberg on Jan 31.  Rajoy also commissioned an external audit of the party’s
official finances following the allegations that Barcenas
channeled donations from construction companies into a secret
cash fund for party officials.  Today, he pledged to make his tax declaration and list of
personal wealth accessible to the public by publishing them on
the government’s website next week so that they can be
scrutinized by all.  ‘‘I have worked outside politics and earned more in my
private profession than as a politician,” Rajoy said. “But I
didn’t become a politician to earn money.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ; 