-- U.S. Ready for ‘Serious’ Direct Nuclear Iran Negotiations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-02T16:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/u-s-ready-for-serious-direct-nuclear-iran-negotiations.html
The U.S. is ready for direct talks
with Iran over its contested nuclear program as soon as the
Islamic Republic’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  gives a
commitment to negotiate, Vice President  Joe Biden  said.  “When the Iranian Supreme Leader is serious, we have made
it clear at the outset that we would be prepared to meet bi-
laterally with the Iranian leadership,” Biden said today at the
 Munich Security Conference . “We would not do it in secret. That
offer stands. It is real and tangible.”  U.S. and Iranian diplomats haven’t acknowledged bilateral
meetings since October 2009, when they came together at a
nuclear gathering in Geneva. The so-called P5+1, composed of
China,  France , Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S., held a series
of meetings with Iran to defuse tension over the Persian Gulf
nation’s atomic work. Those negotiations broke down in June at
the last round of talks in Moscow.  “We have to convince Iran that it isn’t about regime
change,” Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said at the
Munich conference. “Any use of force, any threat of use of
force will be unacceptable.”  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  is scheduled to
speak on a panel at the Munich conference tomorrow.  No Progress  United Nations nuclear monitors, who continue to verify the
non-military use of Iran’s atomic material, have been
investigating the country’s alleged weapons research for a
decade. Iran, under dozens of international sanctions because it
refuses to suspend its atomic work, has maintained its nuclear
activities are peaceful.  “Let’s be frank, we haven’t gotten anywhere with Iran in
the last year,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said
today in Munich. “It is essential that we focus all our efforts
on a diplomatic solution.”  The U.S. imposed a diplomatic moratorium on Iran after the
1979 Islamic revolution, when 52 U.S. diplomats were held
hostage in Tehran for 444 days.  Israel , a key U.S. ally in the
 Middle East , has said military force may be needed to prevent
Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.  “Iran also has legitimate security concerns,” Lavrov
said. “It has been attacked several times while it hasn’t
attacked anyone.”  Iranian nuclear scientists and facilities have been
targeted by assassins and sabotage. Iran, which supports the
militant Islamist group Hezbollah, fought an eight-year war with
 Iraq  until 1988 after neighboring forces invaded it.  “There is still time, there is still space for diplomacy
backed by pressure to succeed,” Biden said. “The ball is in
the government of Iran’s court, and it’s well past time to adopt
a serious good faith approach to negotiations.”  The leader of Iran’s parliament,  Ali Larijani , said last
week that direct talks with the U.S. aren’t a ‘‘red line.’’ The
nations Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has decreed
nuclear weapons forbidden under the Islamic republic’s laws, has
in the past criticized what he described as Western hypocrisy
over the atomic issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  