-- Warner’s ‘Dark Knight’ Partner Legendary Mulls Options
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/warner-s-dark-knight-partner-legendary-mulls-options.html
Legendary Entertainment, co-producer
of the “Dark Knight” films, is in talks with Hollywood studios
that could potentially lead to a break with longtime partner
 Warner Bros ., people with knowledge of the situation said.  Legendary Chief Executive Officer Thomas Tull may also stay
with Warner Bros. when his current deal expires at the end of
this year, said the people, who sought anonymity because the
talks are private. The production company is located on the  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  studio’s lot in  Burbank ,  California .  Tull is considering his options amid a leadership change at
Warner Bros., which named home entertainment President Kevin Tsujihara to replace Barry Meyer as CEO on March 1. Tull has
occasionally had friction with Warner Bros. Pictures President
Jeff Robinov, the people said. There are no major disagreements
that would keep Tull from re-signing, they said.  Tsujihara has said he hopes both Robinov and TV head Bruce Rosenblum, who lost in the three-way competition to replace the
retiring Meyer, will stay with Warner Bros.  Robinov and Tull have disagreed over issues of authority
and credit for their movies, the website TheWrap reported
yesterday.  Legendary, which raised more than $700 million last year,
is attractive to Hollywood studios hungry for film financing and
its proven track record. The company has been courted by other
studios for several years as it co-produced a string of
profitable films with Warner.  Legendary recently began producing some films on its own,
retaining Warner Bros. as the distributor. The Jackie Robinson
biography “42” is scheduled for release in April, and
“Godzilla” in May 2014.  Future Warner Bros. co-productions include “Man of
Steel,” a revival of the Superman franchise set for June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  