-- Obama Skeet-Shooting Photograph Released by White House
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-02-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/white-house-releases-picture-of-president-obama-skeet-shooting.html
The White House released a photograph
yesterday of President  Barack Obama  skeet shooting at Camp David
last August after some Republicans expressed doubts that the
Democratic president had engaged in the activity.  Obama, who is seeking a ban on assault weapons and other
measures to reduce gun violence, told the New Republic in its
Feb. 11 issue that he shoots skeet “all the time” at Camp
David and respects the nation’s hunting tradition. He was
responding to a question about whether he had ever fired a gun.  The photo, sent to reporters via Twitter by White House
spokesman Jay Carney and Obama adviser Dan Pfeiffer, shows Obama
shooting clay targets on a range at Camp David Aug. 4.  Asked earlier last week about a photo of the president
skeet shooting, Carney replied that when Obama “goes to Camp
David, he goes to spend time with his family and friends and
relax, not to produce photographs.”  Thereafter, Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of
 Tennessee , expressed doubt about Obama’s skeet shooting.  “You know, if you don’t have the photos, if this is not
something that’s a new hobby, then I think he should invite me
out to Camp David and I’ll challenge him,” Blackburn said on
CNN, according to a transcript.  Asked for a reaction to Blackburn’s challenge, Carney
responded, “I have none.”  The president continues his pressure on Congress to curb
gun violence when he speaks tomorrow at the Minneapolis Police
Department’s Special Operations Center.  The president has responded to the Dec. 14 Sandy Hook
Elementary School shooting deaths of 20 children and six
educators in Newtown,  Connecticut , by proposing legislation Jan.
16 to mandate background checks for all gun buyers, a ban on
high-capacity ammunition clips and reinstatement of a ban on the
sale of assault weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  