-- Zoetis Plans to Keep Factories as It Seeks New Products
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/zoetis-plans-to-keep-factories-as-it-seeks-new-products.html
Zoetis Inc., the animal health
company that gained 19 percent in its initial public offering
yesterday, is developing new antibiotic medicines and doesn’t
anticipate closing any of its 29 factories around the world.  The animal drug maker, which  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  spun off in a
$2.24 billion IPO, will issue its 2013 financial  guidance  after
the first quarter of this year, said Chief Executive Officer
Juan Ramon Alaix. It projects annual growth of 5.7 percent a
year through 2016, led by its livestock business, he said.  Zoetis traces its roots to 1952 as a Pfizer unit and has
made at least 10 acquisitions to become the largest animal-
health business, almost doubling its  sales  to $4.3 billion in
2012 from 2005. The company has about 20 percent of the $22
billion market and Alaix said Zoetis probably is done with the
bigger deals that helped fuel that growth.  “We have the critical mass to operate, and also the
presence in all the markets,” he said in an interview. “We
don’t need a large acquisition. But of course we can be
opportunistic.”  Zoetis, based in Madison, New Jersey,  rose 19 percent  to
$31.01 at the close of its first day of trading, valuing the
company at $15.51 billion. Pfizer, the world’s biggest
drugmaker, sold 17 percent of the company, or 86.1 million
shares, in the biggest IPO since Facebook Inc.’s last year.
Pfizer may dispose of the rest of its holdings after a six-month
waiting period.  Keeping Assets  Alaix said Zoetis plans to keep all or most of its 29
manufacturing plants, rather than close some to save money, as
Mark Schoenebaum, an analyst with ISI Group Inc. in New York,
has  speculated .  The animal-health company’s structure is different than a
company that makes drugs for people, where manufacturing plants
are large and expensive, he said in an interview yesterday.  “As for the 29, the number can be misleading -- the size
can be very small,” he said. Some of the plants only have six
or seven employees, Alaix said, and exist to manufacture
vaccines or other products in their country of need.  Zoetis’s research and development operations have been
independent from New York-based Pfizer’s since 2003, he said,
and won’t need major investment.  “We have created our own organization. We have our own
labs. We have our own models,” he said. It also has a seven-
year agreement with Pfizer to use the drugmaker’s library of
chemicals to help develop new drugs.  Different Populations  Alaix said failure rates are lower for animal-health drugs
compared with medicines for humans because there are fewer
safety concerns, since the animals don’t live as long as people.  “Human trials, you start with an animal, then you need to
move the model to humans,” Alaix said. “In animals, we start
with the animals and we continue. Side effects are very rare in
our industry, especially in  livestock .”  Alaix said that that major areas for new product investment
will include medical diagnostics, new antibiotics less likely to
result in bacterial resistance and livestock products that help
pigs, chickens and beef on less water or feed, making production
cheaper for farmers.  Antibiotics are added to animal feed to tamp down bacterial
growth when cattle are fed grain rather than their natural diet
of grass. Grain helps them grow more quickly, though wide use of
the antibiotics may cause bacteria to develop resistance to the
drugs, making them less useful as human medicine.  The company is benefiting as people consume more protein, a
trend likely to increase as wealth grows in emerging countries
such as Brazil, China and India, said Marshall Gordon, of New
York-based money manager ClearBridge Investments LLC.  Rival Drugmakers  Zoetis competes mainly with non-listed units of  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and companies such as Sanofi, according to
ISI’s Schoenebaum. The IPO has forced chief executive officers
of other drugmakers to answer questions about divesting their
animal health operations. The CEOs of Merck and Lilly talked
about their animal units on recent earnings calls and said they
were happy keeping the businesses.  While Zoetis’s 17 percent sales growth in 2011 outpaced all
but Lilly’s animal unit, data compiled by Bloomberg show, Pfizer
is parting with the company as part of CEO Ian Read’s strategy
to concentrate on the drug business after losing patent
protection for cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  