-- Taiwan’s Cabinet Studying Measures to Bolster Stock Market
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2012-11-23T09:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/taiwan-s-cabinet-studying-measures-to-bolster-stock-market-2-.html
Taiwan is studying measures to
bolster stocks and plans to unveil a proposal in a month,
according to Cabinet spokeswoman Cheng Li-wun.  Premier Sean Chen has asked Minister Without Portfolio Kuan Chung-ming to prepare the proposal amid concerns over the U.S.
budget and the impact of slumping stocks on the economy, Cheng
said in a telephone interview today after markets closed.  The government is moving to boost confidence after the
Taiex index sank to a four-month low on Nov. 21 as the island’s
exports contracted. Banks that are partially owned by the
government and state-controlled funds should buy local stocks at
lows, the  Central News Agency  cited Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford as saying yesterday. The Taiex surged 3.1 percent
today, the most in 11 months, as foreign investors bought the
most equities in 10 weeks.  “There’s pressure on them to take these measures,”  Peter Kurz , an analyst at Citigroup Inc, said by phone today from
Taipei. “One shouldn’t look at government intention, but rather
the action policy themselves. Just because the government wants
the market to go higher, doesn’t necessarily mean that it
will.” His team was ranked first for Taiwanese research by
Institutional Investor this year.  The Taiex has fallen 5 percent this quarter, making it the
third worst-performing Asian index after Mongolia and  Sri Lanka ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Taiex’s  valuation  fell
yesterday to 17 times estimated profit, a 24 percent premium
over the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which is the cheapest level in
five months, the data show.  Declining Exports  Stocks have slumped on concern the global slowdown will
hurt the island’s  exports  of mobile-phone handsets and
computers. Overseas shipments unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent in
October from a year earlier, the eight monthly drop this year.  The island’s third-quarter gross domestic product expanded
0.98 from the previous year, the statistics bureau said today in
Taipei. The median in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was
1 percent.  Taiex trading volumes today were 73 percent higher than the
30-day average after the finance minister’s comments, while the
gauge’s 30-day  volatility  rose to 14.7, the highest level since
Aug. 22, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Overseas  investors  bought $426.6 million more Taiwanese
shares than they sold today, the biggest net purchases since
Sept. 14, according to stock exchange data.  The National Stabilization Fund, created in March 2000 to
provide support when markets are threatened by non-economic
factors, isn’t intervening in the market at this stage, Deputy
Finance Minister Tseng Ming-chung said by phone in Taipei today.  “The government often says a lot, but the eventual policy
may be very minor,” Zhan Zu-guang, a  fund manager  from
BlackRock Inc.’s Taiwan branch, said in a telephone interview
from Taipei. “Still, it’s time to buy Taiwan stocks. Valuations
are attractive and bad news has been priced in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapor at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  