-- Taiwan GDP Grew Less Than Initially Estimated Last Quarter
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-23T09:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/taiwan-gdp-grew-less-than-initially-estimated-last-quarter-1-.html
Taiwan’s economy grew at a slower
pace than previously estimated in the third quarter even as a
recovery in  China  boosted the island’s industrial output and
exports, reducing pressure to ease monetary policy.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.98 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said today in Taipei, lower than the government’s initial
estimate of a 1.02 percent gain. The median in a Bloomberg News
survey of 13 economists was 1 percent.  Data signaling China is rebounding has brightened the
outlook for Asian exports and lifted currencies including the
Taiwanese dollar. Retail sales, factory production and  exports 
on the mainland improved last month, boosting the island’s
 industrial output  growth in October from a year earlier.  “It’s just a slight revision,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong
Kong-based senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. “The October industrial production figures are very
encouraging and suggest  Taiwan ’s growth momentum will pick up in
the fourth quarter. It basically means the central bank will not
cut the rate in the December meeting.”  The Taiwan dollar closed little changed at NT$29.171
against its U.S. counterpart in Taipei today. It has gained 2.8
percent in the past three months, the best performer after the
South Korean won among 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The benchmark Taiex Index climbed 3.1 percent
after Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford said government-
controlled funds should buy equities.  Chinese Manufacturing  A Chinese manufacturing  index  yesterday signaled the first
expansion in 13 months, adding to signs that the country is
rebounding after a seven-quarter slowdown.  Taiwan today raised its 2012 growth estimate to 1.13
percent from 1.05 percent, and said the economy may expand 3.15
percent next year from 3.09 percent forecast earlier. GDP will
rise 2.97 percent in the fourth quarter, it said. Exports will
contract 2.16 percent this year, compared to a previous estimate
of a 2.5 percent decline, the agency said.  Asian officials have restrained their stimulus efforts as
global expansion slowed, with some refraining from interest-rate
cuts to preserve firepower should  Europe ’s debt crisis worsen,
and others including  Singapore  and Hong Kong acting to prevent
asset-price bubbles. Taiwan’s monetary policy is “adequately
loose,” Governor Perng Fai-Nan said last month after holding
the benchmark  rate  for a fifth meeting to damp inflation.  Taiwan’s  inflation  slowed for a second month in October
after accelerating to a four-year high in August. The government
today kept its forecast for price gains this year at 1.93
percent and raised its estimate for next year to 1.27 percent
from 1.25 percent.  Boosting Exports  President Ma Ying-jeou’s approval rating stayed at a
record-low 13 percent in October, according to a survey last
month by TVBS Poll Center, as the island’s  jobless rate  held at
4.3 percent last month, the highest in more than a year.  As a new leadership takes charge in China, the focus is on
economic cooperation, especially to realize the agreements
signed under the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, or
ECFA, a spokesman said before the start of the 18th Communist
Party Congress in Beijing earlier this month.  The deals may boost Taiwan’s exports to China, which rose
11.9 percent in September from a year earlier, the most in
nearly a year.  Export orders , an indicator of shipments in the
next one to three months, climbed more than estimated in October.  Strong demand for smartphones helped Taipei-based  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics, post a bigger-than-expected third-
quarter profit.  “Global technology demand has bottomed out,” Katrina Ell,
an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the
report. “We should see improving production and exports, and
that’s coming from improved U.S. demand and also China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  