-- Man. City Bids $24 Million for Palace’s Zaha: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-23T06:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/man-city-bids-24-million-for-palace-s-zaha-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Zaha Bid  Manchester City bid 15 million pounds ($24 million) for
Crystal Palace winger Wilfried Zaha, the  Sun reported .  The Premier League champion is offering Palace 12 million
pounds up front and 3 million pounds in add-ons and will allow
the 20-year-old to remain on loan at the London club until the
end of the season, the newspaper added.  Redknapp to Rangers?  Queens Park Rangers has lined up Harry Redknapp to take
over as manager from Mark Hughes after the London club visits
Manchester United tomorrow, the  Daily Mirror reported .  QPR is said to be confident that 65-year-old Redknapp, who
left Tottenham in June, will take charge as early as Nov. 25,
the Mirror added.  Liverpool Targets  Liverpool is confident of completing a 6 million-pound deal
for Blackpool’s Tom Ince and also will seek to acquire Chelsea
striker Daniel Sturridge for 12 million pounds, the  Daily Mail
reported .  The 20-year-old Ince, who has 18 months left on his
Blackpool contract, has attracted attention from other clubs,
the Mail added.  Spurs Step Up  Tottenham has stepped up its interest in Ince, though will
have to pay 10 million pounds to sign the England under-21
international in January, the  Sun reported .  Spurs’ interest in a left-sided player signals they are
planning for life after winger Gareth Bale, who is wanted by
some of  Europe ’s top clubs, the newspaper added.  Season Revamp  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger renewed his call for the
Premier League to introduce a winter break and also proposed
that officials consider starting the season in January and
finishing in November, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “The period of rest would be the same, it wouldn’t change
the number of games,” the Telegraph cited Wenger as saying.
“You would not be confronted with these situations when players
are playing in two different championships. You would play
during the summer period in the best period for football to be
played.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  