-- ArcelorMittal South Africa Rises: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-11-23T06:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/arcelormittal-south-africa-rises-johannesburg-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects to show  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and not ArcelorMittal
South  Africa  agreed to sale in fifth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. had
the biggest two-day rally and rose the most in almost four years
in Johannesburg trading on speculation that a drop to the lowest
level since 2003 was overdone.  The shares in Africa’s biggest steelmaker climbed 8.5
percent to 30.48 by 1:57 p.m. in the city, taking its increase
over two days to 20 percent, the most for the same period since
Nov. 28, 2008. The stock had fallen for 12 consecutive days
through Nov. 20, when the company announced Matthias Wellhausen
would replace Rudolph Torlage as chief financial officer. The
14-day relative strength index on the stock was below 30 from
Nov. 7 to Nov. 20. A  reading  below that level is a signal to
technical analysts that the price is poised to appreciate.  “It was oversold and now the market realizes that,”
Mohamed Kharva, an analyst with Nedbank Securities, said in a
phone interview. “People overreacted to the CFO announcement.”  Torlage will now “focus on projects of a strategic
nature,” the company said on Nov. 20. The stock fell to the
lowest level since November 2003 on the same day.  ArcelorMittal has agreed to sell its 50 percent interest in
Kalagadi Manganese Ltd. for $447 million to Daphne Mashile- Nkosi, its South African partner in the producer of the
steelmaking ingredient, the company said Nov. 15. The companies
were in dispute over ArcelorMittal’s shareholder obligations.  Opportunistic Buying  “The stock got hammered when the CFO was replaced, plus
many steel businesses around the world have tanked,” Campbell
Parry, an equity analyst at Investec who has a sell
recommendation on the stock, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It’s probably worth around 30 rand so this is
opportunistic buying.”  ArcelorMittal  South Africa  has retreated 56 percent this
year. Posco,  Asia ’s third-largest steelmaker, has declined 19
percent.  The South African company’s  30-day historical volatility , a
measure of stock swings, increased to 58 today, the highest
since April 2010. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s 30-day
volatility measure was at 9.2 compared with 8.9 yesterday. A
higher reading means an asset’s price can have bigger moves.
More than 52,000 shares have traded, or 95 percent of the daily
average over the past three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  