-- Harmony Kusasalethu Mine Works Night Shift After Two Killed
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-23T15:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/harmony-kusasalethu-mine-works-night-shift-after-two-killed-1-.html
Employees at  Harmony Gold Mining
Company Ltd. (HAR) ’s Kusasalethu mine worked the night shift yesterday
after two people were killed and one injured in a fight between
competing labor unions.  “The mine is operating as normal,” Marian van der Walt, a
spokeswoman for the Johannesburg-based company, said by phone
today. “The incident is a big disappointment to us.”  Fighting started with  National Union of Mineworkers  members
after the Association of Mining and Construction Union moved its
meeting into the mine’s hostel when it started raining, Van der
Walt said. No company property was damaged, she said.  About 46 workers, police officials and security personnel
have been killed in labor unrest that swept through South
African platinum, gold, chrome and iron-ore operations starting
Aug. 10, the deadliest mine violence since apartheid ended in
1994. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said stoppages have cost
more than 10 billion rand ($1.1 billion) in lost output and will
probably shave about 0.5 percentage point off growth.  AMCU has applied for recognition at Kusasalethu, situated
southwest of Johannesburg, and the company is busy verifying the
number of members, Van der Walt said. The labor union has
challenged the dominance of NUM in the platinum industry.  The Chamber of Mines expects union rivalry to result in
violence for some time yet and pay talks in the gold, coal and
platinum industries to be disrupted next year, according to
Bheki Sibiya, the industry body’s chief executive officer.  “The fight between the NUM and AMCU is extremely
serious,” Sibiya told the  Cape Town  Press Club today. “We are
going to struggle to get the NUM and AMCU to partner. We are
going to have to cajole them to negotiate. We may see industrial
action.”  The chamber anticipates that mining companies will be
forced to cut their workforces as a result of high pay increases
they awarded to end the strikes.  “The  mining industry  is going to restructure, there are
going to be retrenchments because the levels of wages are high,
not in absolute terms, but relative to productivity,’ Sibiya
said. “I can’t tell you the numbers, but I can tell you it’s
probably in the thousands, possibly going above 10,000, maybe
higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  