-- Arsenal Signs $239 Million Emirates Sponsorship Renewal
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-11-23T15:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/arsenal-signs-emirates-sponsorship-deal-valued-at-239-million.html
Arsenal signed a 150 million-pound
($239 million) agreement with Emirates to extend the Gulf
airline’s sponsorship of the Premier League soccer club’s shirts
and stadium.  The contract gives Emirates five more years on the front of
the north  London  club’s jerseys, and will keep the airline’s
name on the stadium through 2028, Arsenal said today. Under a
2004 pact, Emirates had naming rights to the 60,000-seat stadium
until 2021 and a shirt sponsorship that began in the 2006
season. The club didn’t break down the value of each portion of
today’s agreement.  “The deal is all about football,” Gunners’ Chief
Executive Officer  Ivan Gazidis  told a press conference. “It is
all about giving us the resources, in what we believe is a
responsible and well-managed way, to be able to invest in what
we put onto the pitch for our fans.”  Gazidis said Emirates agreed to pay a significant amount of
the agreement upfront, providing the club with additional funds
to add players. Arsenal hasn’t won a trophy since Emirates began
its sponsorship, causing some fans to voice dissatisfaction with
management.  The lack of success didn’t put Emirates off renewing
because of the team’s consistent performance, said Boutros Boutros, the airlines senior vice president for corporate
communications. Arsenal this week became the first team to
qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League for 13
straight seasons.  ‘One Winner’  “At the end of the day there can only be one winner,”
Boutros told reporters. “We would love them to win and we hope
this amount we are paying will help them invest more.”  The club’s  latest figures  showed it gets about 53 million
pounds from sponsorships, less than half of that brought in by
Manchester United, and lower than Liverpool and Chelsea. Arsenal
has trailed in commercial income because it signed long-term
agreements to help fund the construction of Emirates stadium,
where it moved move from the old Highbury ground in 2006.  Arsenal’s parent company said in September it had sales of
243 million pounds for the year ended May 31, the third-highest
in the Premier League behind United’s 320.3 million pounds and
European champion Chelsea’s 255.7 million pounds.  Main Sponsors  Arsenal’s two major sponsors, Emirates and Nike Inc.,
provide the majority of its commercial income. The Dubai-based
airline originally signed a 42 million-pound, 15-year agreement
for naming rights to the team’s stadium and agreed to pay a
further 5.5 million pounds per year to sponsor the Gunners’
jersey until the end of next season.  “This deal will be one of the biggest deals struck in the
game of football,” Gazidis said, adding the accord includes
rights for Emirates to also brand the team’s training gear.  Aon Corp. and Standard Chartered Plc are currently paying
about 20 million pounds per season to sponsor United and
Liverpool respectively while United’s share will double in two
years when a new agreement with General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet
brand begins. Manchester United also gets 11 million pounds a
year from DHL to sponsor its training kit.  Arsenal’s 8 million pound a season apparel partnership with
Nike compares with United’s more than 25 million pound agreement
with the Oregon-based manufacturer and deals Liverpool and
Chelsea have with Warrior and Adidas.  Arsenal’s majority shareholder is American billionaire Stan Kroenke, who also owns the National Football League’s St. Louis
Rams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 