-- Asia-Pacific Dollar Bond Sales Slow to Four-Week Low on Holidays
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-23T03:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Asia-Pacific sales of dollar-
denominated bonds slowed to the least in a month this week as
issuers paused for national holidays in the U.S. and  Japan . Bond
risk in the region fell.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of  China ’s most popular search
engine, led $1.8 billion of debt sales, 54 percent less than
last week and the least since the five-day period ending Oct.
26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. markets closed
for Thanksgiving yesterday while Japan shuts today.  “It’s the Thanksgiving effect,” said Mark Reade, a credit
desk analyst at Credit Agricole SA in Hong Kong. “That,
combined with the year-end effect, which I think will see
issuance progressively slow then ultimately stop as we approach
mid-to-late December.”  Asian companies face paying more to sell dollar debt after
average yield premiums climbed 23 basis points to 269.9 basis
points from a 2 1/2-year low reached Oct. 19, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes. Global A&T Electronics Ltd. postponed a
planned bond sale this week, with three people familiar with the
matter citing market conditions for the delay.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds from
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region is on track for its first
weekly decline since the period ending Nov. 2, according to
traders of credit-default swaps and data provider CMA.  Australia Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell two basis points to
134 basis points as of 11:13 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices. The benchmark is set for its
lowest close in more than a month, according to CMA which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased one basis point to 114.5 as of
8:18 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The gauge is poised for its lowest close since Oct. 18,
CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  -- With assistance from Tanya Angerer in  Singapore . Editors:
Sarah McDonald, Shelley Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  