-- Asian Stocks Cap Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Months on U.S. Data
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-11-23T23:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/asian-stocks-cap-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months-on-u-s-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week by the
most in two months as U.S. jobs and home data and China’s
preliminary manufacturing report showed signs the world’s two
largest economies are recovering.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., climbed 2.8 percent this week in Hong Kong. Toyota
Motor Corp., Asia’s largest carmaker, jumped 5.7 percent in
Tokyo after its local venture partner Guangzhou Automobile Group
Co. said the most difficult period has passed since the breakout
of anti-Japan protests.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s No.
15 company by value, surged 10 percent to a record in Seoul
after debt ratings on its Japanese rivals were cut to junk by
 Fitch Ratings .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2.5 percent to 122.87
this week, its steepest weekly gain since the period ended Sept.
14. The gauge has gained almost 13 percent from this year’s low
on June 4 as central banks from Europe, the U.S., Japan and
China took steps to support economic growth.  “The manufacturing data bodes very well for 2013,”  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management,
said on Bloomberg Television. “A lot of the bad news has been
priced in. We’ve probably seen the bottom for the markets.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were valued at about 13.8
times estimated earnings on average, compared with about 13.6
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 3.8 percent in a
holiday-shortened week. The gauge has surged 8.1 percent since
Nov. 14 when Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called for elections
that polls show the opposition Liberal Democratic Party will win.
The  Bank of Japan  held off from more monetary easing on Nov. 20
after expanding asset purchases in September and October.  Taiwan, Korea  Taiwan’s Taiex Index increased 2.8 percent, erasing a
weekly decline on Nov. 23 as the island’s finance minister said
government-invested funds and banks should be buying stocks.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 2.7 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index added 1.5 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.8 percent. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia said more interest-rate reductions may
be appropriate to spur economic growth as the nation’s mining
boom wanes, minutes of its Nov. 6 policy meeting showed this
week.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in the city rose
3.6 percent. China’s manufacturing may expand for the first time
in 13 months in November, according to a preliminary survey
released on Nov. 22 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Shanghai, U.S.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.6 percent this week,
underperforming other indexes in the region as waning
speculation of lower bank reserve requirements overshadowed the
positive manufacturing data.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 3.6 percent this
week. In the U.S., sales of previously owned homes climbed in
October and housing starts rose 3.6 percent to an 894,000 annual
rate, the fastest since July 2008 and exceeding all estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, a separate report showed. Shares in Asia
also gained after President Barack Obama expressed confidence
that he and Congress will reach a budget agreement.  Sentiment Uplift  “Confidence is growing that a U.S. budget deal can be
reached, as politicians from both parties continue to make some
positive comments on working together,” said Stan Shamu, a
Melbourne-based strategist at IG Markets, a provider of trading
services for equities, currencies and commodities. “Better-
than-expected existing home sales data has also helped to lift
sentiment.”  Li & Fung gained 2.8 percent to HK$12.40 this week in  Hong
Kong , while  Man Wah Holdings Ltd. (1999) , a sofa-maker that gets about
half of its revenue from the U.S., rose 8.3 percent to HK$5.86.
Billabong International Ltd., a surf-wear maker that counts
Americas as its biggest market, surged 27 percent to 94
Australian cents in Sydney after saying the head of its biggest
unit is examining a potential buyout of the company.  Samsung Electronics, the biggest maker of smartphones,
jumped 10 percent to 1,437,000 won in Seoul after Fitch Ratings
cut Sony Corp. and Panasonic Corp. to junk, improving the
chances of the world’s biggest maker of TVs to extend its
dominance. The gain boosted Samsung to 15th on the list of the
world’s biggest companies by market value.  Toyota, Nissan  Japanese automakers advanced as they participated in their
first major car show in China since large-scale, anti-Japan
protests broke out in September over a territorial dispute.
 Toyota (7203)  gained 5.7 percent to 3,515 yen after Hiroji Onishi, its
senior managing officer, said at the Guangzhou auto show the
company will introduce 20 new models to China in the next three
years. Nissan Motor Co. jumped 6.8 percent to 788 yen after
saying it plans to expand in smaller Chinese cities with its
Venucia brand.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  rose 6.1 percent to 2,750 yen.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales will expand by an average 8
percent a year to reach 22 million in 2020, driven by demand for
sport-utility vehicles and rising incomes in smaller cities,
according to McKinsey & Co.  Guangzhou Automobile, which operates joint ventures with
both Toyota and Honda, jumped 11 percent to HK$5.87 in Hong Kong.
The most difficult period has passed and people are calmer, said
Zeng Qinghong, general manager of the company.  Dongfeng Motor
Group Co. (489) , which produces cars with Nissan Motor Co. in China,
surged 8.8 percent to HK$10.56.  Lynas Surges  Lynas Corp., builder of the largest rare-earth refinery in
Malaysia, surged 30 percent to 72 Australian cents in Sydney,
the biggest  weekly advance  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP) 
Macquarie Group Ltd. raised the stock’s rating to outperform
from underperform as the rare-earth producer prepares to start
production at the Malaysian refinery by the first quarter of
2013.  Among stocks that fell,  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
world’s second-largest rice trader, slid 5.7 percent in
Singapore after short-seller  Carson Block  questioned the
company’s accounting methods. Olam sued investment firm Muddy
Waters LLC and its founder Block for defamation and said it has
enough liquidity to withstand market stress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 