-- Asian Stocks Rise, Led by Rare-Earth Firms; Taiwan Surges
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-11-23T10:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/asian-stocks-outside-japan-fall-as-talks-continue-on-greek-aid.html
Asian  stocks  rose, led by gains in
rare-earth companies and Chinese developers, and as Taiwan
shares surged after the island’s finance minister said
government-controlled funds should buy equities at lows.
Japanese markets are closed today.  Lynas Corp. (LYC) , builder of the largest rare-earth refinery in
Malaysia, climbed 6.7 percent in Sydney as it prepares to start
production in the Southeast Asian country.  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , a
mainland Chinese home builder, added 7.4 percent.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  rose to a record in Seoul. The Taiex Index
jumped 3.1 percent in Taipei, leading gains among the region’s
benchmark indexes.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  rose 0.8
percent to 443.33 as of 6:22 p.m. in Hong Kong, with almost two
shares rising for each that fell. The gauge is heading for its
first weekly advance in three weeks as data on China
manufacturing, U.S. jobs and housing added to signs the world’s
two largest economies are on the mend.  “The manufacturing data bodes very well for 2013,”  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management,
said on Bloomberg Television. “A lot of the bad news has been
priced in. We’ve probably seen the bottom for the markets.”  The benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index that includes Japan
gained 12 percent from this year’s low on June 4 through
yesterday as central banks added stimulus to spur economic
growth and data showed a slowdown in China may be ending. The
Asian benchmark  traded  at 13.8 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.4 for the S&P 500 and 12.3 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Regional Indexes  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng Index  added 0.8 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 0.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index was little changed.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. U.S. markets were closed yesterday for holidays as
European budget talks began in Brussels. The main obstacle to
unlocking international loans for Greece is a plan to reduce
 interest rates  charged by euro-area creditors, a Greek official
said.  Lynas climbed 5.5 percent to 71.2 Australian cents.
Macquarie Group Ltd. raised the stock’s rating to outperform
from underperform as the rare-earth producer prepares to start
production at its Malaysian refinery by the first quarter of
2013.  China Rare Earth Holdings Ltd. rose 4.1 percent to HK$1.78
in  Hong Kong .  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. (600111) 
climbed 1.4 percent to 33.67  yuan  in Shanghai. The government
may provide annual subsidies of between $35 million and $40
million to the industry, the Financial Times reported, citing
Chen Zhanheng, deputy secretary general of China Rare Earths
Industry Association.  Samsung Rally  Shui On Land Ltd., which develops properties in mainland
China, surged 7.4 percent to HK$3.63 in Hong Kong. A gauge of
property companies led gains on the Hang Seng Index, increasing
1.6 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co. climbed 1.5 percent to 1.437
million won in Seoul, heading for a record close on speculation
Asia’s biggest electronics maker will extend its dominance in
the industry after Fitch Ratings cut Sony Corp. and Panasonic
Corp.’s debt ratings to junk.  The gains propelled the market value of Samsung
Electronics, based in Suwon, South Korea, t0 212 trillion won
($195 billion), making it the 15th-biggest in the world by
market capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Samsung will benefit from the crumbling of its Japanese
rivals,” Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a report today. “On top
of smartphone sales, Samsung is also boosting its market share
with tablet computers.”  The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  advanced after the Taipei-based  Central
News Agency  reported that Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford said
government-controlled funds and banks that are partially owned
by the government should buy local stocks. Government-owned  Bank
of Taiwan  has about NT$22 billion ($755 million) for stock
investment, of which about NT$8 billion is invested in local
shares, the report said, citing Chairman Liu Teng-cheng.  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. (6505)  jumped 6 percent to NT$84.50 in
Taipei, bound for the biggest gain since Sept. 14. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp. added 4.6 percent to NT$95.50,
heading for a record high. Zhen Ding Technology Holding Ltd.,
which makes circuit boards, rose by the daily 7 percent limit to
NT$78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  