-- Aston Martin Said to Get Bids for 50% Stake in Carmaker
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-11-23T23:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/aston-martin-said-to-get-bids-for-50-stake-in-carmaker.html
Aston Martin owner Investment Dar
Co. has received competing bids from Investindustrial and
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  for half the sports-car maker, three
people familiar with the matter said.  Investment Dar and other Kuwaiti investors who own Gaydon,
U.K.-based Aston Martin may choose a winner as early as this
weekend, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. The buyer will get the stake as part of a
capital increase, two of the people said.  Investindustrial, a European private-equity fund based in
 London , offered just under 250 million pounds ($401 million),
said the people. Indian automaker Mahindra then trumped the
offer with a higher bid, they said.  A decision would mark the end of a months-long search by
Investment Dar to find an investor for  Aston Martin , the maker
of luxury  sports cars  featured in  James Bond movies , people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month. For Investment
Dar, part of the group that bought Aston Martin from  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  for 503 million pounds in 2007, the proceeds would help the
company pay off debt.  The winning bidder will get 50 percent of the  voting rights 
and a 40 percent equity stake, one of the people said.
Investment Dar, the other Kuwaiti investors and Aston Martin
management will retain the rest, the person said.  Officials at Investindustrial and Aston Martin declined to
comment. Mahindra and Investment Dar did not respond to requests
for comment outside of regular business hours yesterday. The
talks were reported earlier yesterday by Private Equity News.  Boosting Volumes  A new backer for the iconic British brand may help the
maker of the 1.2-million-pound One-77 to boost volumes and
develop cars that can challenge  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat
SpA (F) ’s Ferrari. Investindustrial earlier this year sold Italian
motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA to Volkswagen AG’s
Audi brand.  Investindustrial’s offer for Aston Martin includes plans to
use technology and car parts from AMG, the Mercedes-Benz unit
that makes sports cars, said two of the people. The buyout firm
will invest in Aston Martin’s existing models, and potentially
add new vehicles, to attract buyers, they said.  An official at Daimler AG, which owns Mercedes, declined to
comment.  While Aston Martin still gets engines from Ford, it lost
access to Ford’s other resources after the sale and remains the
only global luxury brand that’s not part of a larger auto group.  Development Spending  That independence could be a handicap with the  auto
industry  under pressure to develop technologies to improve  fuel
efficiency . Bayerische Motoren Werke AG is investing more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) this year on making engines more
efficient and developing electric vehicles. That sum exceeds
Aston Martin’s 2011 revenue of 507 million pounds.  The bulk of Aston Martin’s lineup consists of two-door
coupes like the DB9, Vanquish and Vantage. It also offers the
Cygnet city car, which is based on  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s iQ.
Aston Martin vehicles have been featured in 11 James Bond
movies, including the vintage silver DB5 in the latest one,
“Skyfall.”  The British carmaker’s adjusted earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization last year fell 18 percent
to 76.2 million pounds, with deliveries steady at about 4,200
vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  