-- Australia Opposition Leader Abbott Pledges to Cut Refugee Intake
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-23T00:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/australia-opposition-leader-abbott-pledges-to-cut-refugee-intake.html
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said he’ll cut the nation’s refugee intake to save A$1.3
billion ($1.35 billion) over four years if he wins office in
elections due next year.  Abbott, whose Liberal-National coalition leads polls, would
reverse Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to increase the
annual refugee intake to 20,000 from about 13,700 now. In an
interview on Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio, Abbott also
said refugees should be forced to work before they received any
financial benefits from the government.  “We want to break the something for nothing mentality,”
Abbott, 55, said. “If it’s right and proper for young
Australians to be working for the dole, surely it’s even more
right and proper for people who have come illegally to our
country to be pulling their weight.”  Abbott’s stance comes as a move by Gillard’s minority Labor
government to halt an influx of refugees arriving by boat looks
to have failed. At least 1,000 asylum seekers, often from war-
torn Middle Eastern and South Asian nations, are known to have
drowned in the waters between Indonesia and Australia since
2001.  “Abbott is trying to sell this policy as being both
fiscally responsible and as tough on asylum seekers,” said  John
Warhurst , a political analyst at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “He wants to differentiate himself from
the government and keep the issue alive in voters’ minds.”  Australian Immigration Minister  Chris Bowen  shepherded laws
through parliament on Aug. 17 to allow refugees to be processed
on the South Pacific island nation of Nauru and in  Papua New
Guinea  in a bid to deter asylum seekers from paying Indonesian
smugglers to ferry them in overcrowded boats to Australia.  Underclass Risk  A total of 7,874 asylum seekers have arrived in Australia
by boat since Aug. 13, while the two offshore detention centers
will have a capacity of 2,100 people when completed, according
to the government.  Bowen on Nov. 21 announced a policy shift to allow some
asylum seekers to be “processed in Australia and processed in
the community.” They won’t be allowed to work for as long as
five years and can be transferred offshore at any time in that
period.  That policy risks creating an underclass in  Australia ,
Abbott said today.  “The worst possible preparation for life in Australia is
five years on welfare,” he said. “It’s saying to the people
smugglers and their customers, if you get to Australia you’ll
eventually get what you want -- namely permanent residency and
ultimately Australian citizenship -- but you’ll be sitting on
the dole for five years.”  Polls Narrow  Polls show Gillard’s ruling  Labor party  has in recent
months rebounded from near-record lows to narrow the gap against
the opposition.  Labor’s primary vote remained on 36 percent, while Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition rose 2 points to 43 percent,
according to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper Nov. 13. Taking preference votes into account, Labor
dipped 1 point to 49 percent and the opposition rose 1 point to
51 percent on a two-party preferred basis.  Processing refugees in Papua New Guinea and Nauru marks a
return to former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called Pacific
Solution that was scrapped after Labor won office in 2007.  While asylum seekers have been arriving by boat in
Australia since the  Vietnam War  in the 1970s, the issue became
more politicized about a decade ago when Howard’s Liberal-
National government detained refugees, including children, in
offshore processing camps or in detention centers in remote
areas.  Inhumane, Degrading  Some asylum seekers responded to their detention with
riots, suicides and by sewing their lips together to protest,
with a United Nations report released in 2002 saying their
treatment was “inhumane and degrading.”  In August 2001, Howard refused to allow 430 asylum seekers
on the MV Tampa, a Norwegian freighter, to enter Australian
waters and ordered soldiers to board the ship. His bid to deter
people smugglers included orders to the Navy to “turn back the
boats,” a phrase Abbott repeats as opposition policy.  The nation received 15,441 asylum applications last year,
compared with 60,587 in the U.S. and 43,759 for  Sweden ,
according to the Refugee Council of Australia. While the
political debate is focused on so-called boat people, 6,316
people seeking asylum in 2010-11 arrived in Australia by air,
compared with 5,175 by boat, the council says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  