-- Autonomy Founder Defends Sales Practices Amid HP Claims
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-23T08:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/autonomy-founder-defends-sales-practices-amid-hp-claims.html
Mike Lynch, who founded the British
software company accused by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  of falsifying
finances, said that while he may have used some of the contested
accounting and sales methods, they were all legal.  One of the claims levelled by Hewlett-Packard is that
Cambridge, England-based Autonomy mischaracterized some revenue
from unprofitable hardware and improperly included it as
“license revenue.” The U.S. company said this week it recorded
an $8.8 billion writedown related to last year’s purchase of
Autonomy and that more than $5 billion of that impairment charge
was the result of accounting practices.  “Essentially we would offer a discount on hardware,
especially if people were buying software or a big long-term
partner,” Lynch said in an interview. “A bank would buy
software from us every other quarter, but they would also buy
hardware from us.”  Lynch, who said he hasn’t yet hired a lawyer, has mounted a
public campaign against his accusers, appearing on television
and giving interviews rejecting Hewlett-Packard’s version of
events, to defend his reputation as one of  Europe ’s most
successful technology entrepreneurs. Hewlett-Packard this week
called Autonomy’s practices a “willful effort” to inflate
financial metrics and mislead investors.  Hewlett-Packard said the misrepresentations caused them to
value Autonomy incorrectly before the deal, which ultimately
cost the Palo Alto, California-based company $11.1 billion.  John Schultz , Hewlett-Packard’s general counsel, has said
among those practices, which accounted for $200 million in
miscategorised or false revenue, was reselling  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
hardware and recording them as software revenue.  ‘Highly Complex’  Lynch denied miscategorizing revenue. The company treated
some of the costs as marketing costs because that’s what they
were, promotional deals to attract customers, a spokesman for
Lynch said today.  While that practice would be “highly unusual” and “could
be construed as misleading,” it would be difficult to call it a
breach of accounting rules with the information available, said
 Larry Kanter , a Dallas-based forensic accountant who teaches a
forensic accounting and financial fraud course at the Southern
Methodist University’s  Cox School of Business .  “That’s what makes this so difficult,” he said in an
interview. “These are highly complex transactions and you’ve
got to get all the facts to be able to make the determination on
the proper way to account for it.”  ‘Red Flags’  Deloitte LLC said this week that it didn’t find any
evidence of improper accounting methods or misrepresentations
when it last looked at Autonomy’s finances before Hewlett-
Packard bought the software company. Deloitte, which said it
wasn’t employed to do due diligence on the deal, last audited
Autonomy’s finances for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.  “The board relied on audited financials -- audited by
Deloitte -- not Brand X accounting firm but Deloitte,” Hewlett-
Packard Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman has said.  Analysts had voiced their concerns about Autonomy’s growth
rate in the years before Hewlett-Packard’s acquisition.  Paul Morland , now an analyst at Peel Hunt, included Autonomy in a
June 2009 note for Astaire Securities called “Accounting Red
Flags.”  The rate at which the company was converting profit into
cash, a sign of “true profit” was particularly low, Morland
said at the time. Autonomy said that this was due to high growth
rates, according to the note.  Sales Push  Autonomy also had a low rate of converting sales into cash,
Morland said. A potential explanation for this phenomenon could
be a situation where revenue is recognized twice and cash is
collected once, which might happen with cash from an acquired
company, or if businesses accelerate revenue recognition from
acquired companies, he said at the time.  Lynch, 47, founded Autonomy as a spinoff from the
University of Cambridge in 1996 and built it into the U.K.’s
second-largest software company with customers including  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  His technology, enabling the search of a broad range of
information, known as unstructured data, including e-mails,
music, video and social networks such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) , became a
hit with organizations seeking to organize increasing amounts of
data and information.  Autonomy’s success made Lynch one of the best-known British
technology executives. He was named “Entrepreneur of the Year”
by the Confederation of British Industry in 1999 and in 2000,
Time magazine named in as one of the 25 most influential
technology leaders in Europe.  Asked if Autonomy put pressure on partners including
investment banks handling business for the software company to
buy software, Lynch said while he’d “encourage anyone” to buy
his software, it was never a condition of employment.  “We would certainly put pressure on anyone to buy more,”
Lynch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   thiel1@bloomberg.net  