-- Black Friday Starts C$5 Billion Holiday Drain
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-11-23T21:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/black-friday-starts-c-5-billion-holiday-drain.html
Niyousha Kerr plans to drive two
hours to Buffalo, New York from Toronto for Black Friday
shopping at U.S. stores that will help drain C$5 billion ($5.01
billion) from Canadian retailers this holiday season.  “Things are always cheaper and then on top of that there
are sales,” said Kerr, shopping at Toronto’s Eaton Centre mall.
Kerr plans to get her Christmas gifts south of the border this
weekend with her husband and two friends, shopping at stores
including  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Toys ’R’ Us Inc.  While retailers like Hudson’s Bay Co., Canada’s oldest
company, are advertising Black Friday deals of their own, higher
duty-free limits, lower U.S. prices and a currency near par with
the U.S. dollar will lead to at least a 25 percent increase in
lost sales abroad in November and December, said Douglas Porter,
deputy chief economist at the  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  He says the
sales drain will total C$5 billion.  The government in June raised the amount Canadians can
spend duty-free to C$200 from C$50 for trips longer than 24
hours and as much as C$800 for stays of more than 48 hours,
giving shoppers more incentive to head south. Overnight trips to
the U.S. rose 58 percent from 2001 to 2011, the latest year data
is available from Statistics  Canada . The Canadian dollar surged
about 56 percent over the period, from 63 U.S. cents at the end
of 2001, and hovered near par today.  “People are doing little shopping vacations in the U.S.,
even for a weekend,” said Porter by phone from Toronto. “If
you take a family of four down for a weekend the duty free limit
would be C$3,200. Obviously it depends on the family but I think
that would pretty much fill the bill for the Christmas shopping
season.”  Deep Discounts  Black Friday, the day after U.S. Thanksgiving, is
traditionally the beginning of the holiday shopping season in
the U.S. when retailers lure customers with deep discounts. The
name recalls a time when U.S. retailers would use the day to
make a big part of their annual profit, and income statements
would go to black from red.  Six percent of Canadians are planning a trip to the U.S.
for Black Friday deals this year, according to a Harris-Decima
survey of 1,004 people conducted Oct. 18 to 21 by the Retail
Council of Canada, an industry group.  In Toronto, the country’s largest city, 44 percent of
shoppers said they were planning to buy gifts in the U.S. this
holiday season, and 70 percent said U.S. retailers provide
deeper discounts, according to a survey by  Accenture Plc (ACN) , a
Dublin-based consulting firm.  U.S. Calendar  Canadian mall traffic will be reduced by people going south
to shop, said Jeremy Reitman, chief executive officer of
 Reitmans Canada Ltd. (RET/A) , a Montreal-based specialty clothing
retailer. “That impedes the traffic to the malls and thereby
the sales.”  There will be no Black Friday promotions at the 918 stores
under the six Reitmans banners in Canada including Smart Set,
RW&CO., and Thyme Maternity, Reitman said in a telephone
interview.  “We don’t focus on Black Friday because we have our own
calendar in Canada,” he said.  The last two months of the year account for about 23
percent of retail sales in Canada, excluding autos, making them
a crucial time for retailers to turn a profit, Porter said.  Canadian retail sales rose 0.1 percent in September, less
than the 0.5 percent increase economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
forecast, as gains at new car dealers were offset by declines in
department stores, Statistics Canada reported yesterday.  Canada is starting to see “consumer tightening,” Calvin McDonald, chief executive officer of  Sears Canada Inc. (SCC) , said on
Business News Network. The Toronto-based retailer, 51-percent
owned by  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  of Hoffman Estates,  Illinois , is
having Black Friday sales all weekend.  Boxing Day  Other retailers in Canada are conforming to the U.S.
calendar, holding Black Friday events with sales and extended
hours. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world’s largest retailer, has
distributed flyers to advertise Black Friday promotions at its
stores in Canada. Hudson’s Bay, which operates The Bay
department stores, advertised Black Friday events at its stores
a  week and a half early .  Hudson’s Bay has cut prices in the days leading up to
Christmas since 2010, adding to the traditional post-holiday
Boxing Day sales. This year Black Friday is being incorporated
in the events with extra sales and extended hours, said Tiffany
Bourre, a spokeswoman for the company.  Hudson’s Bay fell 0.2 percent to C$16.85 at the close in
Toronto today, down from its initial public offering price of
C$17 on Nov. 19. Reitmans fell 0.8 percent to C$11.70 at the
close and has declined 22 percent this year.  Felicia Fefer, a spokeswoman for  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Canada, didn’t
respond to voice mail messages requesting comment. Target will
open 125 to 135 stores in Canada starting next year.  Early Opening  Cadillac Fairview, a mall operator owned by the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan, is extending hours on Black Friday at
six of its properties around Toronto. The Eaton Centre was set
to open at 6 a.m. today. Retailers will offer “comparable
deals” to those in the U.S., sparing shoppers a commute to the
border, and giving them the chance “to find deals in the
comfort and convenience of their own backyards,” a press
release said.  ANN Inc. (ANN)  opened its first Canadian Ann Taylor store in
Cadillac Fairview’s Eaton Centre in October and will match its
Black Friday offerings in the U.S., said Meredith Vlitas, senior
marketing director at the Eaton Centre.  “The deals that will be offered here on Friday will be the
same that people will be accessing in the U.S.,” Vlitas said by
phone Nov. 19.  Disperse Population  Companies with operations in Canada and the U.S. may have
to sacrifice profit to offer Canadians comparable deals as
suppliers sometimes demand a premium for goods sold in Canada.  Retailers with stores in both countries pay suppliers 10
percent to 50 percent more for a product sold in Canada, the
Retail Council said in a submission to an inquiry into consumer
price discrepancies by the Canadian Senate.  Suppliers say they need to charge higher prices to supply a
smaller, more dispersed Canadian population, which makes volume
discounts more difficult, the Retail Council submission said. As
a result, Canadians pay 13 percent more for a 46-inch LED TV
than those sold in the U.S., 47 percent more for a printer, and
31 percent more for a coffee maker, a survey by the Retail
Council said.  “It is difficult for Canadian retailers to compete with
their U.S. counterparts,” said Sally Ritchie, a spokeswoman for
the Retail Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  