-- Brazil Creates Fewest Jobs in October Since Lehman Collapse
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-11-23T18:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/brazil-creates-fewest-jobs-in-october-since-lehman-collapse-1-.html
Brazil ’s economy created the lowest
number of  jobs  in October since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, as the government struggles to spur
growth in the world’s second-largest emerging market.  Brazil created 66,988 government-registered jobs in the
month, the Labor Ministry announced today in Brasilia. That was
lower than every estimate from 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for 92,100 jobs. A year
earlier, 126,143 jobs were created.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has expanded
stimulus measures to fuel the economy, which economists forecast
will grow 1.5 percent this year. The  unemployment rate  has been
close to record lows all year, as employers retain staff in
expectation of a rebound. Even though Brazil’s labor market
remains robust, flagging growth has translated into a slower
rate of new hiring, said Leonardo Sapienza, chief economist at
Banco Votorantim SA.  “This is a delayed impact from the weak economic growth
that the country saw in the past few quarters,” Sapienza said
in a telephone interview  Sao Paulo . “It is much more of an
accommodation than a reversal.”  Slow hiring in construction, public service and services
drove down October’s number, said Rodolfo Torelly, interim
secretary for public employment policy at Brazil’s Labor
Ministry. “We were expecting a better result, around 100,000,”
Torelly said to reporters in Brasilia today. “We were a little
surprised.”  Brazil will create 1.4 million jobs this year, Torelly
added. The ministry’s previous estimate was about 1.5 million.  The government-registered job creation report takes account
of the number of posts created minus jobs eliminated. Registered
jobs, or so-called formal work, assure employees benefits such
as  unemployment insurance , bonuses and government retirement
payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  