-- Brazil Sticks to Renewal Terms That Sank Utility Stocks
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-23T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/brazil-sticks-to-renewal-terms-that-sank-utility-stocks.html
Brazil ’s government will enforce a
Dec. 4 deadline it gave power companies to decide whether to
renew concessions and won’t change any terms of its offer,
Deputy Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said.  In an interview yesterday, he said state-controlled
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , the worst performer in the
 MSCI Emerging Market Index (EEM)  in the past month, has more to gain
by accepting new conditions and keeping its licenses than by
returning assets in 2015. All companies probably will reach the
same conclusion before the deadline, he said.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is forcing utilities including
Eletrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known, and
 Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo  to reduce rates in exchange for the
renewal of licenses for an additional 30 years. Rousseff wants
energy rates to fall 20 percent next year as part of a plan to
reduce production costs and slow inflation.  “I saw with such clarity during an Eletrobras board
meeting the advantages of renewing licenses that I find it very
difficult that other companies will opt to lose their license,”
Zimmermann said from his office in Brasilia. “If they want to
renew, they will need to accept the rules.”  Utilities with contracts expiring between 2015 and 2017
have plunged in share trading since Rousseff announced the
concessions plan on Sept. 11. Eletrobras has lost 62 percent in
that period, including a 6.9 percent drop yesterday to a decade-
low 7.30 reais.  ‘Oil Well’  “There were frustrated expectations, funds that thought
Eletrobras was sitting in an infinite oil well and probably
never read Brazilian concession law,” said Zimmermann.  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais  is another company facing
renewals. Cemig, as the Belo Horizonte-based utility is known,
hasn’t looked to negotiate the renewal of three of its dams
that have concessions expiring, Zimmermann said  “I’ve signaled interest for a deal but they never looked
us up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  