-- Canada Becoming Vulnerable as Stimulus Options Weaken
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-23T19:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/canada-becoming-vulnerable-as-stimulus-options-weaken.html
Canada is more vulnerable to a
global slowdown than it was in 2009, when it emerged from a
recession before other Group of Seven countries, because the
levers policy makers pulled then would be less effective now,
say economists at two of Canada’s largest banks.  Renewed government stimulus and lower interest rates won’t
provide the same boost they did during the last slump, when
spending on housing and infrastructure helped cushion the blow,
said  Robert Kavcic , a Bank of Montreal economist in Toronto.  “There aren’t a lot of supports to Canadian economic
growth right now,” Kavcic said. Even if new stimulus was
offered, “you wouldn’t get the same burst out of the housing
market now as you did in 2009,” he said.  Canada’s  stock market  and yields on government Treasury
bills have declined this month on concern that Europe’s debt
crisis may persist and the U.S. may not avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff -- $607 billion of spending cuts and tax increases
due next year unless Congress acts -- crimping exports. The
prospect of renewed global weakness comes as Canada reports
inflation near the bottom of the central bank’s target band for
a third month, and with growth forecast to stay below a 2
percent annual rate for a third quarter.  Exports, such as crude from Calgary-based  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  and flight simulators from Montreal-based  CAE Inc. (CAE) , account
for one-third of Canada’s economy. While Finance Minister Jim Flaherty and Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney have said they
have options if another global shock hits the world’s 11th
largest economy, “it’s definitely a challenge for the
government to identify areas that could benefit” from stimulus
measures, said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  ‘Pent-up Demand’  “Pent-up demand has largely been released so it’s harder
for Canada this time to outperform,” Tulk said.  Canada’s Conference Board also said today that its  consumer
confidence  index declined for a second month in November, to
80.3 from 81.1, reflecting more negative responses about the
current economy.  Canada’s banking system, ranked world’s soundest by the
World Economic Forum for five straight years, has continued to
lend, boosting the country’s housing market to records.
Consumers have taken advantage of low  interest rates  to increase
their debt as a share of income to levels greater than those in
the U.S. before a slump in the  housing market  brought on its
last recession.  In response, Flaherty has acted four times to make mortgage
lending rules more restrictive, and he and Carney have warned
that that debt-fueled big-ticket spending is the biggest
domestic economic risk, suggesting policy makers would be
reluctant to try to boost that part of the economy again.  Budget Balance  Similarly, the government has been working to eliminate its
budget shortfall after recording a record deficit in 2009.
Flaherty said in a speech yesterday his goal is restoring fiscal
balance before the next federal election, expected in 2015, by
controlling spending.  “Faced with a crisis in 2008-09, we responded quickly and
effectively,” said Flaherty spokeswoman Kathleen Perchaluk, in
an e-mail. “If we are faced with another crisis, we are
prepared to act again.”  With consumers indebted and governments retrenching, policy
makers are relying on business investment to drive economic
growth.  Canada  has already cut the federal corporate tax rate to
15 percent from 19 percent in 2009 and could offer temporary
incentives such as higher depreciation rates or investment
credits to boost investment, said Mark Chandler, head of fixed-
income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s Capital Markets unit
in Toronto.  ‘Dead Money’  While Carney has said companies should use “dead money”
on their balance sheets to spend on boosting  productivity ,
companies remain reluctant to expand. Investment  intentions  fell
to a three-year low in a quarterly central bank survey published
Oct. 15 that also showed firms expect sales growth to stagnate
over the next 12 months.  CAE Chief Executive Officer Marc Parent said reduced
military spending from indebted European countries has blunted
profits. New orders have been “dropping off faster than we
expected,” Parent said on a Nov. 8 earnings call.  Bombardier Inc. delayed a $1 billion bond sale last week
after the Montreal-based commercial-aircraft maker’s credit
rating was lowered by Standard & Poor’s on lower-than-expected
cash generation.  Statistics Canada said today that consumer prices advanced
1.2 percent in October from a year earlier, matching the pace of
the prior two months. The Bank of Canada sets interest rates to
keep inflation in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band,
and forecasts inflation will remain below 2 percent until the
end of next year.  Longest Pause  The central bank has kept its key  lending  rate at 1 percent
for more than two years, the longest pause since the 1950s.
Spokesman Jeremy Harrison declined to comment today on the
effectiveness of new stimulus.  Elsewhere, South Korean consumers faced with falling home
prices and record household debt are cutting spending, dragging
on demand just as export growth is restrained by gains in the
won. Borrowing and credit purchases rose to a record 937.5
trillion won ($864 billion) in the third quarter, the Bank of
Korea said yesterday.  In  Europe , German business confidence unexpectedly rose
from the lowest in 2 1/2 years in November, signaling Europe’s
largest economy may regain some strength. The Munich-based Ifo
institute said its business climate  index , based on a survey of
7,000 executives, climbed to 101.4 from 100 in October, the
first gain in eight months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  