-- Canada October Inflation Stays Near Bottom of Target Band
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-11-23T13:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/canada-october-inflation-stays-near-bottom-of-carney-target-band.html
Canada ’s  inflation  rate remained
near the bottom of the central bank’s target band for a third
month in October as slower gains in energy prices blunted
increases in property taxes and restaurant meals.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in October from a
year ago, the same as the prior two months, Statistics Canada
said today from Ottawa.  Core inflation , which excludes eight
volatile products, advanced at a 1.3 percent pace for a second
month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast total inflation
would be 1.1 percent and the core rate would be 1.2 percent.  The  Bank of Canada  has held its key lending rate at 1
percent for more than two years and says that inflation will
remain below its 2 percent target until the end of next year.
Governor  Mark Carney  will probably keep borrowing costs
unchanged until the third quarter of 2013, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Canadian consumer is going to become more price
sensitive and pickier” because of high debt loads and other
signs of a weak economy, said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice-
president of economics in Toronto. “The Bank of Canada is on
hold for a long time yet.”  The Canadian dollar was little changed after the report,
trading at 99.72 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 8:50 a.m. in Toronto.
Two-year bond yields were little changed at 1.11 percent.  Slower Increases  Energy price gains slowed to a 1.7 percent year-over-year
pace in October from 2.9 percent in September,  Statistics Canada 
said today. Electricity inflation decelerated to 1.7 percent
from 6 percent and gasoline price increases slowed to 4 percent
from 4.7 percent.  Property taxes rose 2.8 percent in October from a year
earlier while restaurant meal prices advanced 2.1 percent.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  rose 0.2 percent in
October and the core rate climbed 0.3 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that the overall monthly rate
would increase 0.1 percent and core by 0.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation gained 0.3 percent in October
and the adjusted core rate rose 0.1 percent.  Other reports this week have suggested modest consumer
demand, including a 0.1 percent increase in September retail
sales that trailed economist expectations and the Teranet home
resale index, which showed annual price gains slowing for an
11th month in October.  “Our measured food price inflation was virtually nil” in
the quarter that ended Sept. 29, grocery chain Metro Inc. Chief
Financial Officer Francois Thibault said on an earnings call
last week.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a speech yesterday he
may offer fresh stimulus if global demand stumbles, affecting
the domestic economy. Carney, who sets  interest rates  to keep
inflation in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band, has
also said he has options to mitigate a shock coming from outside
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  