-- Cathay Pacific Bans Holiday Parties as Union Seeks Pay Raises
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-11-23T10:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/cathay-pacific-calls-2012-very-challenging-on-fuel-lower-fares.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  Chief
Executive Officer John Slosar told staff the carrier was facing
a “very challenging year” and must reduce expenses as cabin
crew seek above-inflation raises.  “We must tackle our cost base where we can,” Slosar wrote
in the Hong Kong-based carrier’s in-house magazine, without
specifically mentioning labor costs. New cost-cutting measures
include banning spending on festive gatherings, scrapping a
management conference and cutting entertainment expenditure to a
“bare minimum,” according to another article on the same page.  Slosar highlighted a rise in fuel prices that has made
actual fuel costs 6 percent higher than expected, along with a
decline in fares and a cargo slump caused by the economic
slowdown. The  airline , which had a first-half loss, has this
year quickened the retirement of older planes, grounded
freighters and offered cabin crew unpaid leave to cut costs.  “Cathay’s business will not be pretty this year,” said
Kelvin Lau, a Hong Kong-based Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
analyst. “It’s watering down expectations from both employees
and investors by issuing this update.”  The  airline  dropped 0.6 percent to close at HK$13.88 in
Hong Kong trading, reversing gains of as much as 1 percent in
the morning session. The carrier distributed the article as a
trading update via the exchange during the lunchtime break.  Cathay Pacific Airways Flight Attendants Union earlier this
month requested a 5 percent wage increase for next year.  Hong
Kong ’s  consumer prices  were 3.8 percent higher than a year
earlier in October.  The union is in pay talks with Cathay, General Secretary
Tsang Kwok-Fung said by phone. He didn’t comment on Slosar’s
article. The group represents over 5,800 cabin crewmembers,
according to its  website .  Fuel Costs  Actual  fuel costs  have been about 6 percent higher than
expected, Slosar said. That would have caused the carrier to
exceed its high fuel budget by HK$2.5 billion ($323 million) if
it had done nothing, he said. The airline offsets at least some
of the higher costs through hedging and surcharges.  The airline is also facing higher charges in areas
including airports, catering and groundhandling, Slosar said.
Chief Operating Officer Ivan Chu is overseeing a cost-cutting
drive, which also includes strict enforcement of a headcount
freeze and further restrictions on travel.  Average fares have fallen by 4 percent from last year
because of competition and slower demand, Slosar said. Top
corporate customers in the finance industry have cut flying by
more than 15 percent over the past two years.  “Many airlines are facing similar challenges and the
competition for passengers is even more intense than usual,”
Slosar said. This is “a very challenging year,” he said.  Cargo Slump  Cargo sales are down about 13 percent from last year, and
freight will probably account for “well below” the almost 30
percent of  total revenue  it can generate in good years, Slosar
said. The carrier has begun tests on a new cargo terminal in
Hong Kong that’s due to open early next year, according to the
magazine.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  earlier this month said it will
park one of its 13  Boeing Co. (BA)  747 freighters for more than a
year to cut capacity after losses at its cargo unit. The carrier
had a smaller-than-expected profit in the quarter ended
September.  Cathay Pacific is following Singapore Air in retiring its
747-400 passenger fleet. The Hong Kong carrier is replacing its
jumbo jets with 777-300ERs, which are more than 20 percent more
fuel efficient than the older 747s. The full benefit will not be
realized until 2014 because of delivery schedules, Slosar said.  The airline lost HK$935 million in the six months through
June, its first half-year loss since 2008. The carrier will post
a full-year profit of HK$1.4 billion, based on the average of
nine  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 