-- China Liquor Maker JiuGuiJiu Declines 10%: Shenzhen Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-23T08:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/china-liquor-maker-jiuguijiu-declines-10-shenzhen-mover.html
JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799) , a Chinese liquor-
maker, fell by the daily limit on resumption of trading in
Shenzhen after a halt related to quality concerns over the
finding of excessive levels of a plasticizer in its drinks.  JiuGuiJiu dropped 10 percent to close at 42.82  yuan , the
largest decline since May 2010, following a four-day trading
halt. Rivals Wuliangye Yibin Co., Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-
Stock Co.,  Kweichow Moutai (600519)  Co. and  Sichuan Swellfun Co. (600779) 
rebounded after declines yesterday.  The Jishou, Hunan-based spirits maker yesterday apologized
to consumers and investors and said it’s cooperating with
requests from the provincial quality watchdog to run strict
checks on distribution and packaging processes to rectify the
issue. JiuGuiJiu was suspended from trading Nov. 19, and the
company said at the time it was looking into a media report that
its liquor contains excessive amounts of a plasticizer.  “The company continues to strengthen its quality
supervision infrastructure in order to produce safe and high
quality products for buyers,” JiuGuiJiu said in the statement.
“At the same time, we extend our sincere apologies to consumers
and investors over this recent issue.”  Inspections showed as much as 1.04 milligrams a kilogram of
dibutyl phthalate, or DBP, in some JiuGuiJiu samples, China’s
official Xinhua News Agency said, citing the General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and
Quarantine. The health ministry set a limit of 0.3 milligram a
kilogram of the substance used to soften plastics, Xinhua said.  Meets Standards  JiuGuiJiu said its products met the relevant national
standards in China and didn’t pose a health risk.  Wuliangye (000858) , China’s biggest liquor maker, rose 1 percent to
27.71 yuan at the trading break in Shenzhen, while Jiangsu
Yanghe, the nation’s third-biggest distiller, climbed 2.1
percent to 97.97 yuan.  Kweichow Moutai, the world’s second-largest distiller by
market value, gained 2.3 percent to 222.23 yuan in Shanghai
trading, and Sichuan Swellfun, part-owned by  Diageo Plc (DGE) , added
1.8 percent to 19.40 yuan.  The Administration of Quality and Technology Supervision of
Hunan Province asked the company to investigate the findings,
the regulator said on its website.  Ingestion of dibutyl phthalate may cause gastrointestinal
irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, according to the
 website  of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  