-- China Money Rate Drops Most in a Week on Signs of Cash Inflows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-23T09:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/china-money-rate-drops-most-in-a-week-on-signs-of-cash-inflows.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped by
the most in a week on speculation capital inflows will increase
as  yuan  appreciation quickens.  The currency strengthened 0.11 percent this week, a second
straight five-day gain, as a purchasing managers’ index showed
China’s manufacturing may have expanded in November for the
first time in 13 months. The People’s Bank of China drained a
net 24 billion yuan ($3.9 billion) from the banking system, a
third week of withdrawals, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The decline in the repurchase rate is a surprise today
given the central bank withdrew funds this week,” said Wang Huane, a senior trader at Qilu Bank Co. in Jinan, the capital of
eastern Shandong province. “Financial institutions are abundant
with cash. It’s probably because inflows are rising and the
 finance ministry  is depositing money at banks for year-end
expenditure.”  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, dropped 40 basis points to 2.84 percent as of 4:30
p.m. in  Shanghai , the lowest level since Oct. 22, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The benchmark was six basis points lower for the week.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined two
basis points to 3.33 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yuan positions  at local banks accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange to the PBOC, an indicator of cross-border
capital flows to China, rose 21.6 billion yuan in October, a
second monthly gain, a central bank statement showed Nov. 16.  The yield on the 3.10 percent government bonds due
September 2015 climbed two basis points to 2.98 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  