-- Airbus Wins 60-Plane China Order After EU Retreat on CO2 Charges
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w
-- 2012-11-24T02:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/china-eastern-orders-60-a320s-sells-18-regional-jets-to-airbus.html
Airbus SAS won an order for 60 A320
planes from state-backed  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , less than
two weeks after the European Union backed down in a dispute with
the government in Beijing over jetliner-emission levies.  China Eastern received a “substantive” discount to the
list price of $5.4 billion for the single-aisle planes, it said
in a statement from  Shanghai  yesterday, adding that Toulouse,
France-based Airbus also agreed to take 18 regional jets off its
hands.  EU plans to impose carbon dioxide-emission fees on flights
in and out of the bloc were suspended on Nov. 12 after countries
including China, India and  Russia  threatened retaliatory steps.
Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  had said
the levies might cause China to refuse to take its planes.  “I suspect there’s a message there,” said Sandy Morris,
an analyst at Jefferies International in  London  with a “buy”
rating on EADS. “China has been light on A320 orders for a
while now and it looks like Airbus held some production slots
back until this was resolved. It’s called looking after your
customer.”  The A320s, due to arrive from 2014 to 2017, will be used
mainly on domestic routes, according to China Eastern, which
last year switched an order for 24  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s wide-body
planes to 45 smaller 737s because of waning long-haul demand.  Regional Deal  The airline will sell eight  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ planes and
10 Embraer SA regional jets with a book value of 1.5 billion
 yuan  ($241 million) to Airbus, it said in the statement.  China was pleased with the EU move to suspend the plan for
emissions charges, Xia Xinghua, deputy director of its aviation
regulator, said Nov. 13. The Asian country’s airline association
said in June that carriers would snub a deadline for filing
emissions data and that the government would support them.  Three calls to China Eastern’s offices outside regular
office hours yesterday went unanswered.  Airbus Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier said in
September that  China  was withholding signature on 35 to 45 wide-
body A330 planes because of the emissions dispute. A contract
for those aircraft would have given a “bigger signal”
regarding current Chinese attitudes, Jefferies’ Morris said.  Airbus, which has an A320 assembly plant in China, won an
order for 50 of the planes from the leasing arm of state-
controlled Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. in August.  China and other nations had said the EU should wait for a
global emissions program being drawn up by the United Nations’
aviation agency rather than push ahead with a regional plan.  The levies are designed to curb C02 output associated with
global warming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Denslow in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  