-- Citigroup, Morgan Stanley Sued Over Overseas Shipholding
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-23T19:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/citigroup-morgan-stanley-sued-over-overseas-shipholding.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , Morgan Stanley and
 HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (HSBA)  were among underwriters sued by an
investor in a $300 million debt offering by  Overseas Shipholding
Group Inc. (OSGIQ) , which filed for bankruptcy Nov. 14.  The underwriters and Overseas directors and officers signed
off on misleading financial documents for the March 24, 2010,
offering, according to the lawsuit filed Nov. 21 in  New York 
state court in  Manhattan .  Overseas, the largest U.S. tanker operator, sought
 bankruptcy protection  after saying Oct. 22 that its financial
statements from 2009 through the first two quarters of 2012
contained inaccuracies. Before the announcement, the New York-
based company posted 13 straight quarters of net losses as
shipping rates fell.  Documents provided to investors in the $300 million
offering contained inaccuracies from previous financial filings,
according to the complaint, filed by Paul Otto Koether IRA
Rollover on behalf of all investors in the debt. The investor
said it is seeking to recoup losses after prices for the notes
fell about 58 percent.  “Unaware of the material misstatements in the offering
materials, investors purchased the notes in or traceable to the
offering,” David  Wales , a lawyer for the plaintiff, said in the
complaint.  Senior Notes  Securities at issue in the suit are 8 1/8 percent senior
notes due in 2018.  Spokeswomen Danielle Romero-Apsilos of Citigroup, Mary Claire Delaney of Morgan Stanley and Juanita Gutierrez of HSBC
Securities (USA) declined to comment on the complaint. The three
firms are based in New York.  The company’s inaccurate financial filings failed to
account for tax liabilities, resulting in the overstatement of
income, understatement of losses and mistakes in balance sheet
information, according to the complaint. When the company told
investors that it would be withdrawing the statements because of
inaccuracies, the announcement “stunned the market,” leading
to immediate downgrades of the company’s credit ratings, Wales
said in the complaint.  “The company was foreclosed from accessing the commercial
paper, capital and credit markets and thus, the company was
unable to obtain the financing it needed to run its business,”
Wales said.  The suit alleges the underwriters are liable for damages as
much as the amount of the securities each handled in the
offering. Citigroup,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and HSBC, which acted as
book runners, together handled $225 million of the notes,
receiving total fees of about $4 million, according to the
complaint.  The case is Paul Otto Koether IRA Rollover v. Arntzen,
654037/2012, New York Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  