-- Colombia Yields Fall Before Central Bank Unexpectedly Cuts Rate
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-23T21:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/colombia-bond-yields-fall-before-rate-decision-currency-weakens.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields fell to
a three-week low before the central bank unexpectedly cut
borrowing costs, citing slowing growth in the Andean country.  The yield on the 10 percent peso-denominated bonds due in
July 2024 dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 6.09 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since Oct. 29,
according to the central bank. The yield fell 14 basis points
this week.  Banco de la Republica lowered the benchmark  interest rate 
by a quarter point to 4.5 percent after the close of trading, as
projected by only two of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Thirty-one analysts forecast policy makers would leave the rate
unchanged. The decision wasn’t unanimous, bank Governor Jose
Dario Uribe told reporters.  “This wasn’t expected,” said  Andres Pardo , the Bogota-
based head analyst at Corp. Financiera Colombiana SA. “We had
seen a less dovish bank in last month’s minutes. Yields will
drop throughout the curve.”  Yields on the bonds due 2024 had fallen before the rate
decision as a second surprise decline in the nation’s industrial
output led some investors to bet on a cut, according to Eduardo Bolanos, an analyst at Asesores en Valores brokerage in Bogota.  Colombia’s industrial output dropped 1.3 percent in
September, the government’s statistics agency reported Nov. 20,
compared with a median estimate for a 0.6 percent increase among
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It was the second consecutive
decline.  Recent data show “a moderation in growth slightly higher
than expected,” Banco de la Republica said in its statement,
while reiterating its 4.3 percent growth forecast for this year.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs at its July and
August meetings, citing slowing global growth that curbed demand
for exports.  The peso declined 0.5 percent to 1,823.80 per  U.S. dollar .
It was little changed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  