-- Colombia Bank Votes 4-3 for Rate Cut After Brokerage Implosion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/colombia-cuts-policy-rate-to-4-5-after-interbolsa-collapse.html
Colombia ’s central bank board voted
4-3 to cut interest rates to the lowest level in a year after
the nation’s biggest brokerage collapsed and industry contracted
for a second month.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, cut its  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter point to 4.5
percent on Nov. 23, as forecast by only two of 33 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Thirty-one analysts forecast no change in
the rate. In a speech in Cartagena, President  Juan Manuel Santos 
said Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  provided the decisive
vote in the 4-3 decision.  “Colombian growth has slowed from rates observed above
trend levels in the second half of 2011,” policy makers said in
their  statement . “The weakness of the world economy and the
decline in internal demand have been reflected in lower export
growth and a contraction in growth and in the contraction in
industrial output.”  The move came after the bank opened a so-called liquidity
window for brokerages in an effort to avoid disruptions in
financial markets following the collapse of Interbolsa SA’s
brokerage this month. The rate cut may have been intended to
restore investor confidence, said Daniel Velandia, head of
research at Correval SA brokerage in Bogota.  ‘Totally Unexpected’  “This was totally unexpected,” Velandia said in a
telephone interview after the decision. “Although they don’t
mention it in the statement, it’s possible that the Interbolsa
case gave the bank an incentive to generate confidence in the
market with a rate cut.”  The central bank last lowered borrowing costs at its July
and August meetings, citing weakening global growth that curbed
demand for exports. Cardenas described this month’s move as an
exercise in “adjustment and calibration.” The finance
minister’s comments suggest that the rate cut is the last in the
cycle, said  Francisco Rodriguez , senior Andean economist at Bank
of America Corp.  “The majority of the board is seeing signs of
international weakness being transferred to the domestic economy
through export demand, and saw one more rate cut as necessary to
ensure that the economy grows near potential next year,”
Rodriguez said Nov. 23, in answer to an e-mailed question.  Cardenas said Nov. 7 that regulators would liquidate
Interbolsa’s brokerage after it had failed to meet a loan
payment a week earlier.  Output, Peso  Industrial output shrank 1.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, its second consecutive contraction.  Manufacturers have been hurt by weak global growth and by
the peso’s 6.3 percent rally against the dollar this year, the
fifth-best performance among the 31 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the  government bonds  due July 2024 has fallen
nine basis points this month.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.06 percent in October, the
weakest pace among  Latin America ’s seven biggest economies after
 Chile , from 3.08 percent in September. The central bank targets
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Credit growth slowed for a ninth straight month in
September, to 15.2 percent, its slowest pace in almost two
years.  Gross domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the third-fastest expansion among
Latin America’s seven biggest economies, behind Peru and Chile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  