-- Concern Lingers Over New Indonesia Energy Regulator, Lawyer Says
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-11-23T09:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/concern-lingers-over-new-indonesia-energy-regulator-lawyer-says.html
Investors will look for government
guarantees that rulings from a temporary office replacing
 Indonesia ’s dissolved energy regulator won’t be overturned,
according to a local  law firm .  With presidential elections due in 2014, a permanent regime
and new oil and gas legislation are unlikely to be adopted in
coming months following the disbandment of BPMigas, Shamim
Razavi, foreign legal counsel at Susandarini & Partners in
association with Norton Rose  Australia , said in a report.  “We can’t expect certainty on the fundamental
constitutional issues any time soon,” Jakarta-based Razavi said
in the report. “A few measures should be taken in the coming
weeks to alleviate investors’ concerns and remove ambiguities
where legal realities have not kept pace with political will.”  One such action would be the adoption or ratification of
BPMigas policies, rules and procedures through appropriate
regulation, he said.  Indonesia’s  Constitutional Court  dissolved BPMigas last
week after ruling the agency’s role violated the nation’s
constitution. A temporary working unit named SKSPMigas was
created within the nation’s energy and mineral resources
ministry to handle the agency’s role. All contracts already
issued by the agency remained valid.  The dissolution of BPMigas has raised concerns about future
investments in Indonesia as the country struggles to stem a
decline in oil and gas output. The nation, with its aging fields
pumping less amid a lack of foreign investment, withdrew from
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 2008.  “The Government has taken care to signal that it is
business as usual, and the foundations are in place to make that
so, but more needs to be seen and done before investors will
respond in kind,” Razavi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  