-- Cool Berliners Feast on Ox Roast in Old Girls’ School
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/cool-berliners-feast-on-ox-roast-in-old-girls-school.html
The  Pauly Saal  in Berlin was once a
gym where schoolgirls burned off calories. Now it’s a place to
pile them on, with duck pate, meaty roasts and sweet pastries.  The restaurant in arty Auguststrasse aims to recapture the
Berlin of the swinging 1920s and 1930s, when Marlene Dietrich
was singing cabaret and Brecht and Weill’s “Threepenny Opera”
was taking theater audiences by storm. With high ceilings,
chenille-upholstered benches and outrageous swirly orange Murano
chandeliers, Pauly Saal, open since February, has retro panache.  What it lacks is warmth and coziness. The building was a
school for Jewish girls in the 1930s, and that institutional
feel lingers in the height of the ceiling, tobacco-colored tiles
and ecru walls. The lighting is too bright and flat, a flashback
to the classroom.  A huge red-and-white missile hangs over glass panels that
offer a widescreen view of the kitchen, and a pair of wounded
foxes with walking-sticks and caps, a Daniel Richter artwork,
stand guard on pedestals at the opposite end of the room.  The culinary concept is to provide hearty meals of local
ingredients that diners share, rather than each ordering their
own separate dish from the menu (though you can do that too.)
Waiters carve on a central island in the restaurant and carry
plates from there to the table.  Creamy Pate  They bring a mix of hits and misses, though luckily --
considering the prices -- the hits predominate. A plate of
handmade local delicacies included a nutty, rich duck pate as
the star turn. The cornichons and beetroots that came with it
were no better than you can buy in a jar.  A bright green celery soup was a sophisticated treat with
fizzy foam, celery dumplings and a hint of anis. Roast duck with
spiced pear, quince and cabbage, a dish you can only order for
two or more at the royal price of 62 euros ($79.80), was
wonderfully tender and succulent. It came with a concentrated
rooty sauce and silken mashed potatoes.  A side-dish of fibrous chewy chunks of pumpkin
unsurprisingly went uneaten. I have twice had undercooked
pumpkin at Pauly Saal now, and it really is too expensive a
restaurant for that.  The roast meat is a better bet than the fish, in my
experience. I’d recommend the shoulder and saddle of venison
with candied orange jus, juniper-kohlrabi salad and marinated
plums. An ox entrecote, served on a charcoal grill for two or
more people, was cooked and seasoned to perfection.  Plum Tart  The selection of desserts is limited and there’s nothing to
get the pulse racing. A poached peach disappointed; a summer
plum tart with almond ice cream was light and flavorsome.  Pauly Saal has a good wine selection, with plenty of
reasonably priced bottles to choose from. For an aperitif, try a
Hugo, a lovely light, refreshing drink that originates from
South Tirol and is made of sparkling white wine, fresh mint
leaves and elderflower cordial with mineral water.  Like so many buildings in Berlin, the  Jewish girls’ school 
has a somber history. Built in 1930 in the Neue Sachlichkeit
(New Objectivity) style, it closed under Nazi orders in 1942.
Most of the teachers and pupils were deported and died in camps.  It reopened in 1950 as the Bertolt Brecht School, a regular
East German secondary school, and closed again in 1996 because
of a lack of pupils. It was finally returned to Berlin’s Jewish
community in 2009 and has since undergone a thorough renovation.
As well as the Pauly Saal, the building houses art galleries, a
delicatessen and a kosher cooking school.  The restaurant attracts a hip and moneyed crowd -- as does
another venture by the same Berlin team, Grill Royal. On the
three visits I’ve made to Pauly Saal, the service was courteous
and on the most recent, even friendly. In summer you can sit in
a pleasant courtyard at the back of the building.  I’m sure I’ll go back to the bar, and not just because I’m
in danger of getting addicted to Hugos. It’s a homier space than
the restaurant, with peaceful green walls, comfortable leather
chairs and elegant wooden surfaces.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Expensive. Calculate at least 100 euros per person
for three courses with wine and aperitif.  Sound level? The right level of background chat.  Date place? I’d go somewhere cozier.  Special features? Wounded foxes, missile.  Private room? Yes, for as many as 35 guests.  Will I be back? Possibly; definitely to the bar.  Pauly Saal is at Auguststrasse 11-13. Information:
 http://paulysaal.com/  Telephone: +49-30-3300-6070.  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Robert Heller  on music,  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater and
 Greg Evans  on film.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley, in Berlin, at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 