-- Crude Futures Erase Weekly Gain as Mideast Tension Eases
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-11-23T13:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/crude-futures-erase-weekly-advance-as-middle-east-tension-eases.html
Crude dropped in New York, erasing a
weekly advance, after a truce between  Israel  and Hamas held for
a second day, easing concern that the conflict would disrupt
supplies from producers in the Middle East.  West Texas Intermediate declined as much as 0.8 percent
after a Egypt-U.S.-crafted cease-fire halted eight days of
aerial assaults that killed at least 167 Palestinians and six
Israelis. Crude may decline next week following the cessation of
hostilities, according to a Bloomberg survey. There was no U.S.
floor trading yesterday because of the Thanksgiving holiday.  “Crude will probably close down on the day as there are no
new catalysts and the apparent calming of the situation in
Gaza,” Michael Hewson, a London-based market analyst at CMC
Markets Plc, said by phone today. “It’s a good day to grab a
cup of coffee and kick the feet up.”  Futures for January delivery dropped as much as 67 cents to
$86.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That’s within 4 cents of last week’s close. Futures
were down 7 cents to $87.31 at 1:15 p.m. London time.
Yesterday’s electronic transactions will be booked with today’s
trades for settlement purposes.  Brent for January settlement rose 9 cents to $110.64 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange and is
heading for a weekly gain of 1.6 percent. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $23.33 to New York-traded WTI grade.  Hamas and Israel are seeking to solidify the cease-fire
which took effect at 9 p.m. local time Nov. 21 and was announced
by Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr and U.S. Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton.  Futures in New York may decline next week, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Twelve of 27 analysts and traders, or 44
percent, forecast prices will decrease through Nov. 30. Nine
respondents, or 33 percent, predicted a gain. Six forecast
little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  