-- Cuomo Seen Surmounting Sandy as Yield Penalty Rises: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/cuomo-seen-surmounting-sandy-as-yield-penalty-rises-muni-credit.html
Superstorm Sandy may have doubled
the deficit New York Governor Andrew Cuomo needs to plug in his
budget. His fiscal track record has investors betting he will
handle the challenge in talks that begin in two months.  Bonds of the third-biggest U.S. state are showing signs of
stress since the storm struck the region Oct. 29, leaving 2
million New Yorkers without power and crippling transportation.
The yield penalty on some maturities has climbed at least 18
percent since Oct. 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show. New York
debt has trailed a  rally  in the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  Yet investors such as Howard Cure of Evercore Wealth
Management LLC say the past two years suggest Cuomo, a 54-year-
old Democrat, will steer the state through a recovery that may
cost more than $30 billion. Since taking office in 2011, he has
closed more than $12 billion in budget gaps in part by cutting
school funding and raising taxes on the wealthiest New Yorkers.
The accomplishments led Standard & Poor’s to say it may boost
the state’s credit rating to the highest in 40 years.  “The state and New York City have shown they’re able to
handle some pretty dire circumstances, and right now I give them
the benefit of the doubt,” said Cure, director of muni research
at Evercore in New York, which oversees $3.8 billion.  Widening Gap  Sandy killed more than 40 state residents, flooded the New
York City subway system and leveled beach communities in Long
Island,  Brooklyn , Staten Island and Queens. The storm disrupted
fuel distribution, leading to hours-long lines at gasoline
stations and rationing. Cuomo’s midyear budget update, due Oct.
31, is late because Sandy’s costs are still being tallied.  On Nov. 8, the governor said the deficit for fiscal 2014
will probably widen to $2 billion from $1 billion as Sandy’s
destruction caused $33 billion in economic losses and damage.  Speaking in a radio interview Nov. 20, Cuomo declined to
specify a deficit estimate, while saying, “It can’t be good.”  Tax collections before Sandy were already lagging behind
projections made in July by $170.8 million, Comptroller Thomas
DiNapoli said in a statement Nov. 21.  S&P boosted the outlook on New York’s general obligations
to positive from stable in August, five months after Cuomo
pushed through a pension revamp projected to save the state $13
billion over 30 years. Two more years of balanced budgets may
merit a one-step rating increase to AA+, second-highest, S&P
said. That would earn New York its best ranking since it was cut
to AA from AAA in 1972.  Smaller Hole  David Hitchcock, S&P’s primary analyst covering New York
state, said natural events like hurricanes and earthquakes are
typically one-time costs that don’t lead to long-term budget
imbalances.  “In comparison to the large budget holes they had to solve
from the recession, I would expect this to be relatively
small,” Hitchcock said in a Nov. 20 telephone interview.
“They’ve been relatively good at budget cuts in order to
maintain the structural balance.”  Cuomo has said he will ask for $30 billion in supplemental
aid from Congress in addition to seeking 100 percent
reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
rather than the 75 percent it typically provides. With its
fiscal year beginning April 1, New York has less time for budget
planning after Sandy than its battered neighbors, New Jersey and
 Connecticut .  Over time, the cost of the damage, which includes debris
cleanup, transportation infrastructure repairs and tax-revenue
losses, will be offset by economic gains from reconstruction,
Moody’s Investors Service wrote in a Nov. 13 report.  Sales Taxes  “We expect sales taxes in particular to see a significant
boost as spending on repairs and rebuilding ramps up,” Moody’s
said.  Still, Cuomo may not have the same leverage he had during
his first two budgets, especially after pushing through a year-
end tax increase in 2011. Also, Democrats may be poised to
retake control of the Senate for the first time since 2008,
which may lead to an intraparty battle for leadership. In 2010,
a similar squabble delayed the budget by four months.  “Cuomo was able to raise income taxes last year, and I
don’t think he can do it again,” Cure said. “You could also
have arguments about who is controlling the state Senate, and
that could have a big effect on how the state goes about fixing
the deficit.”  The aftermath of Sandy may have prevented New York state
bonds from joining the biggest municipal-debt rally since July,
which has sent  interest rates  in the tax-exempt market to the
lowest since 1967. Yields on muni bonds due in 10 years fell to
1.44 percent Nov. 21, the lowest since at least January 2009,
when Bloomberg data begins.  No Doom  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold New York state and
local securities compared with AAA general-obligations has
increased this month to the most since September, Bloomberg data
show. The spread widened to 0.46 percentage point on Nov. 19,
the biggest gap since Sept. 10.  Matt Dalton, who manages about $1.2 billion in munis at
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York, said
municipal-bond buyers understand economic growth will follow
Sandy’s destruction.  “Enough investors have had experience with disasters to
realize it’s not a doom-and-gloom event,” Dalton said.
“There’s insurance, there’s federal aid, and there’s the
rebuilding effort. You get a rubber-band effect as you get
revenue up.”  Following is a pending sale:  TEXAS plans to sell $1.1 billion in general-obligation
bonds as soon as Dec. 3 to finance road projects, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will be issued through the
Texas Transportation Commission, according to Moody’s Investors
Service, which rates the securities Aaa, its top grade. (Added
Nov. 23)  To contact the reporterS on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  