-- Dangdang Tops ADR Jump on Manufacturing: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-23T18:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/dangdang-tops-adr-jump-on-manufacturing-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose in New York,
driving the benchmark index to its biggest weekly gain since
September, as expanding manufacturing adds to signs that growth
in the world’s second-largest economy is recovering.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 2.3 percent to 93.62 for a 4.5
percent jump this week, the most since the second week of
September. Online book seller  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) 
surged 7.4 percent to the highest level since Oct. 4, while
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  climbed to a premium over its Hong Kong
shares for a fourth trading day.  A preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index
released on Nov. 22 indicated the first expansion in China’s
manufacturing industry in 13 months, a sign the nation’s seven-
quarter slowdown may have reached its zenith. Analysts have
 boosted  earnings forecasts for Chinese U.S.-listed stocks this
week, with the average estimated earnings-per-share at the
highest in two months for the China-US gauge.  “All the numbers have confirmed that the economy has
bottomed in the third quarter,” Michael Ding, the lead manager
of the  China Region Fund (USCOX)  at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which
oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone from  San Antonio , Texas
yesterday. “The stabilization will benefit corporate earnings.
The market has finished the downward adjustment of earnings
expectations.”  ETF Surges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., jumped 2.4 percent to $37.46
yesterday, the highest close since Nov. 6. The ETF gained 4.7
percent this week, the most since September.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.3 percent and had
the biggest weekly increase in five months, after German
business confidence unexpectedly climbed and the American
holiday shopping season got under way. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.6 percent in the week, the first advance in three
weeks.  Dangdang, the country’s biggest online bookseller, rose to
$4.52 in New York in trading volume that was double the daily
average over the past three months.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , an  Internet
service provider , jumped 9.9 percent to $6.20, the biggest
increase since April.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , an advertising company, climbed
0.9 percent to $24.52. China Development Bank, Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China and China Minsheng Banking Corp. are
joining lenders including Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche in
providing finance for a consortium to buy the Chinese company,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The persons
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  A consortium of bidders including  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and
Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang, proposed to buy
 Focus Media  at $27 a share in August.  Earnings Outlook  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou surged 5 percent,
the most since Sept. 14, to $15.52. The ADRs traded 0.9 percent
higher than their equivalent shares in  Hong Kong .  The improving manufacturing data comes after reports showed
growth in industrial output and retail sales picked up in
October.  Analysts expect earnings  of companies in the Bloomberg
China index will increase to $7.28 per share over the next 12
months, from an estimated $5.81 this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. At the end of October, they were
forecasting earnings to be $6.89 per share.  China’s gross domestic product is poised to expand 7.7
percent this year, the weakest pace since 1999, based on the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this month.
Growth may rebound to 8.1 percent in 2013, according to the
median of 46 forecasts.  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , promoted last week to the No. 2
spot in the ruling Communist Party and set to take the job of
premier in March, said this week that three decades of opening
up the economy must be accelerated.  Li, speaking Nov. 21 at a meeting in Beijing, said China
needed open up state-owned enterprises and the taxation system,
according to  remarks  published on the government’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  