-- Denmark to Decide on U.K. Power Cable Next Year, Grid Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-23T11:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/denmark-to-decide-on-power-cable-with-u-k-next-year-grid-says.html
Grid companies in the U.K. and
 Denmark  are completing studies for the first subsea cable
linking the countries, in a bid to boost electricity trading and
help integrate a growing share of wind power output.  “Building a first power link to the U.K. looks
interesting, though our calculations and analyzes are not yet
complete, with a verdict due next year,” Dorthe Vinther, head
of planning at Danish grid operator Energinet.dk said today by
e-mail. “We will only go ahead if it is socio-economically
beneficial.”  Denmark plans to increase links to foreign electricity
markets as it prepares for the growing role of intermittent
solar and wind sources, helping ship surplus power from
countries where the wind blows to others where demand is high.
Reduced coal generation is also poised to increase the nation’s
reliance on imports during peakload periods, such as cold and
dark winter afternoons.  National Grid Plc (NG/)  wants to complete a study for the cable
by year-end, with routes, landing points, capacity and a
possible commissioning timetable still to be decided. The U.K.
network operator is still working on its pre-feasibility study,
Isobel Rowley, a company spokeswoman, said by e-mail yesterday.  Grid Expansion  “You can’t get all the renewable energy in place without
expanding the grid, and we hope the cable will be in place
before 2020,” Ulrich Bang, director of EU affairs at the  Danish
Energy Association , said today by phone from Frederiksberg,
Denmark.  The share of wind power in Danish electricity supply is set
to almost double from last year’s 26 percent to 50 percent by
2020, according to the  government , which plans to replace 50
percent of coal use with renewable energy sources over the next
eight years.  “The northern German grid faces huge bottlenecks, so a
cable to the U.K. is the obvious solution for Denmark, to avoid
putting all our eggs in one basket,” Bang said.  The U.K. has three operational power links with Ireland,
 France  and the Netherlands, and has projects for connections
with  Norway  and  Belgium , as well as boosting capacity with
France and Ireland. Denmark has cables that connect to Norway,
Sweden and  Germany , and is increasing capacity toward Norway,
while considering a link to the Netherlands.  Baseload power prices in the U.K. are higher than in
Denmark, which means a power cable may “marginally” push up
costs for Danish consumers, while benefits include a cheaper
transition toward a renewable energy infrastructure, according
to Energinet.dk.  “Connecting to a high-price market does push up
electricity costs, but it will also cut costs for back-up power
plants and system balancing, which must be taken into account,”
Bang from the Danish Energy Association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  