-- Edenor Jumps on Electricity Rate Increase: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-11-23T21:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/edenor-jumps-on-electricity-rate-increase-buenos-aires-mover.html
Empresa Distribuidora &
Comercializadora Norte SA (EDN)  rose after two Argentine officials
announced that the government will allow electricity and gas
distributors to increase rates frozen since 2007.  Edenor, as Argentina’s largest electricity distributor is
known, gained 9.6 percent to 0.663 peso at the close in  Buenos
Aires  after Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Economy Deputy
Minister Axel Kicillof announced that residential and commercial
consumers will be charged with bimonthly fixed rates of as much
as 300 pesos ($62).  Authorities will adjust rates to invest in infrastructure
projects, Kicillof said. Two trustees will manage electricity
and gas revenues coming from the increase, Kicillof said. The
government wants to collect 2 billion pesos per year for gas and
electricity investments, De Vido said.  “Edenor will benefit from the increase because this money
will alleviate its operational results,” Daniela Cuan, a
Moody’s Investors Service analyst in Buenos Aires, said in a
telephone interview. “It doesn’t matter that proceeds will be
managed by the government, the increase will mean more cash for
the distributors.”  Metrogas SA (METR)   jumped 6.3 percent  to 0.574 peso.  Cuan said she hasn’t been able to project figures to
determine how much the increase will benefit Edenor or Metrogas.
“The companies are getting a mechanism that will help their
cash generation and is the first concrete increase in many years
that will indeed change its complicated situation.”  Edenor, owned by  Pampa Energia SA (PAMP) , has posted six straight
quarterly losses that forced it to sell assets for  capital
spending  to avoid a debt default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  