-- EDF Nuclear Plants Get Boost From U.K. Low Carbon Funds
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/edf-nuclear-plan-gets-boost-from-u-k-low-carbon-funds.html
The U.K.’s plan to collect 7.6
billion pounds ($12 billion) for low-carbon projects by 2020
would advance  Electricite de France SA’s  nuclear plants and add
about a third to consumer electricity bills, analysts said.  The sum, announced yesterday by the Department of Energy
and  Climate Change , will help pay for the 1.1 billion pounds of
support a year needed to build two European Pressurized Reactors
made by  Areva SA (AREVA)  for use at EDF sites in  England , as well as
renewable plants, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  European nations seeking to meet climate change targets
have adopted mechanisms that reward generators of low-carbon
power, paid for by consumers on their electricity bills. Leaders
from the U.K. to Germany are debating the costs that burden
imposes on consumers as they pursue goals to lower emissions.
British Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  tripled the sum utilities can
collect from consumers in 2020, which amounts to 9.8 billion
pounds after inflation.  “The key uncertainty is, can the capacity be delivered,
and will there be a consumer backlash once customers actually
realize just how much their electricity bill will be jacked-
up,” said  Lakis Athanasiou , an independent equity analyst in
London.  The cap may add as much as 28 percent to consumer bills if
the subsidies proposed were put in place on top of the existing
levy and with a planned tax on carbon dioxide emissions, he said
by phone. Davey’s announcement, made in advance of publication
of energy legislation next week, prompted calls for Britain to
monitor the effect on bills.  Cost Concern  “The government should ensure that those households and
businesses most vulnerable to increased energy prices are
protected,”  John Cridland , director-general of the
 Confederation of British Industry , said in a statement.  The issue is particularly sensitive after utilities
including  SSE Plc (SSE)  and Centrica Plc’s British Gas put up their
charges for power and natural gas, blaming an increase in
wholesale price and government environmental policies.  Davey said the impact of supporting clean technology
accounts for 2 percent of customer’s bills and will grow to 7
percent, or about 95 pounds for the average home, by 2020.
Savings from  energy efficiency  will counter part of that.  Credit Suisse said in its note that the levy “effectively
allows” for a 150-percent increase in renewable subsidies in
the second half of this decade.  Consumer Impact  “We remain skeptical, as the cost to be passed-through to
consumers is high, and a return to economic growth or high
fossil fuel prices is still required to keep the consumer impact
manageable,” the bank said in a note to clients.  Based in Zurich, the bank said in earlier research that the
cost of subsidizing renewables in Europe’s five largest power
markets is becoming unaffordable for consumers and utilities who
will share the 570 billion-euro ($739 billion) bill, at current
values. Those markets are in Germany,  France , the U.K.,  Spain ,
 Italy .  The levy control framework pays for government programs to
support renewable energy including the Renewables Obligation,
feed-in tariffs and the contracts for difference that come into
force from 2017. The “subsidy envelop” should allow the
government to reach its goal to get 30 percent or more of its
electricity from renewables by 2020, Athanasiou said.  EDF’s Plan  EDF Energy, planning atomic reactors in Somerset, southern
England, said the contracts for difference that guarantee a
price for power have the potential to unlock significant
investment and jobs in U.K. infrastructure projects. Credit
Suisse said Davey’s announcement was of particular importance
for EDF Energy and  Centrica Plc (CNA) , which sought the arrangements.  A spokesman for SSE said, “We are pleased to see that the
Levy Control Framework means that the U.K. will be building new
power stations, including nuclear and renewables.”  The levy will help “diversify our energy mix to avoid
excessive gas import dependency by increasing the amount of
electricity coming from renewables,” DECC said in a statement.
The department said it also will support new nuclear and carbon
capture and storage projects.  The  levy’s budget  is currently 2.35 billion pounds for 2012
to 2013. For 2013 to 2014 it’s 3.18 billion pounds, and it’s
3.87 billion pounds in 2014 to 2015. The cap does not include
efficiency measures called ECO and Warm Front.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  