-- Emerging Stocks Gain for Fifth Day as Taiwan Shares Rally
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-23T22:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/emerging-stocks-gain-for-fifth-day-as-taiwan-s-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fifth day, its longest stretch of gains in two months, as
 Taiwan ’s shares rallied and data showed improvement in  Germany ’s
business climate. South Africa’s benchmark stock index climbed
to a record.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1 percent to 995.94
in  New York , the highest since Sept. 14. The gauge increased 2.7
percent since on the week, the first advance since the five days
ended Nov. 2. The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose to the
highest level on record for a second day. Voting shares of
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  jumped in  Sao Paulo ,
rebounding from a 17-year low.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  surged 3.1 percent, the most this
year, after the Cabinet said it’s studying measures to bolster
the stock market. The Ifo institute said the index for business
climate in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,  rose  to 101.4 this
month, beating the 99.5 median estimate of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The 21 countries with companies in the
MSCI emerging stocks index send 30 percent of their exports on
average to the European Union, data from the World Trade
Organization show.  “Overall  market sentiment  has been improving, with more
indicators showing some recovery in the world’s main
economies,” Monthol Junchaya, chief investment officer at
Bangkok-based One Asset Management Ltd., which manages about
$2.3 billion of assets, said by phone today.  Putin’s Decree  The FTSE/JSE Africa gauge closed 0.1 percent to an all-time
high, as  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer,
gained 1.5 percent for a weekly increase of 8.8 percent.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.7 percent, extending the week’s
gains to 2.1 percent, the first such advance in three, as
utilities rallied. Equity indexes in the  Czech Republic  and
 Turkey  also increased.  Argentina ’s Merval index rallied 4.3
percent, rebounding from the lowest level since June.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 1.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, lost 3 percent.  Federal Grid Co. rose 7.2 percent, the most since June.
Shares  rallied after President  Vladimir Putin  signed a decree
yesterday giving OAO MRSK Holding a majority stake in Russia’s
monopoly for high-voltage power transmission. The combined
company will be renamed OAO Rossiiskiye Seti. MRSK shares gained
6.1 percent in Moscow.  Eletrobras Gains  Eletrobras’s voting shares advanced 7.6 percent in Sao
Paulo, paring this month’s slump to 41 percent.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (IBOV) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, climbed
2.8 percent, helping push the benchmark Bovespa higher. The
measure rose 2 percent, extending this week’s gain to 3.9
percent, the most since Sept. 14.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  climbed 1.4 percent to a record,
valuing it at 212 trillion won ($195 billion) and making it the
world’s 15th-biggest company by value. Fitch Ratings yesterday
cut Sony Corp. and Panasonic Corp. to junk, improving the
chances of Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of TVs, to extend
its dominance.  Taiwan is studying measures to bolster stocks and plans to
unveil a proposal in a month, according to Cabinet spokeswoman
Cheng Li-wun. Premier Sean Chen has asked Minister Without
Portfolio Kuan Chung-ming to prepare the proposal amid concerns
over the U.S. budget and the impact of slumping stocks on the
economy, Cheng said in a telephone interview today.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  jumped 4.6 percent
in Taipei. Taiwan’s state-controlled funds and banks that are
partially owned by the government should buy local stocks at
lows, the  Central News Agency  said, citing Finance Minister
Chang Sheng-ford.  Trading Volumes  Volumes on the Taiwanese index were 74 percent higher than
the 30-day average, while the gauge’s 30-day volatility rose to
14.7, the highest level since Aug. 22, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Taiwan’s equity market has received a big boost because
domestic funds are the main players in the market,” One Asset
Management’s Junchaya said. “Any support from government funds
should help Taiwanese shares in the short term.”  Ruble, Rand  The Russian ruble had its biggest weekly gain in two months
at 2.1 percent against the dollar as companies converted dollar
revenue to rubles to pay government taxes. South Africa’s rand
gained for a second day, rising 0.8 percent. Brazil’s real
climbed 1.1 percent from a three-year low after the central bank
intervened in the  currency market .  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 295, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  climbed 0.6 percent to the
highest close in two weeks. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
added 0.6 percent.  The  Merval (MERVAL)  index surged 4.3 percent after sinking yesterday
to the lowest level in five months. A New York court ruling,
obtained by Bloomberg on Nov. 21, stated Argentina must pay
$1.33 billion to holders of its defaulted debt if it goes
forward with next month’s scheduled payments of more than $3
billion on the nation’s restructured bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  