-- EU Deadlocks Over Budget in Echo of Debt-Crisis Stalemate
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-23T12:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/eu-deadlocks-over-budget-in-echo-of-debt-crisis-stalemate.html
European Union leaders deadlocked
over the bloc’s next seven-year budget, adding to the quarrels
between rich and poor countries that have stymied the response
to the euro debt crisis.  France  defended farm subsidies, Britain clung to a rebate
and  Denmark  demanded its own cash-back guarantee, while eastern
and southern countries said reduced financing for public-works
projects would condemn them to lag behind the wealthier north.  The conflicts at a Brussels summit offered a 27-nation re-
enactment of the fury and acrimony that have marked the fiscal
crisis in the 17-nation euro region, and predictions abounded
that it would take another summit next year to clinch a deal.  “The positions are still quite far apart,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters as the meeting resumed
today. “And if we need a second stage, then we will take the
time for it.”  At stake is a spending plan for the years 2014-2020 that
would total about 1 percent of EU-wide gross domestic product.
While that sum is paltry compared to the average 50 percent of
GDP that each country spends inside its borders, the political
resonance is far larger.  Wealthier countries such as  Germany , the U.K., Denmark,
 Sweden  and the Netherlands have banded together to cut what they
pay in to the budget, pounding away at the original proposal of
1.033 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) that came out in mid-2011.  Budget Trims  By the time the summit started yesterday, the figure on the
table was 973 billion euros. Overnight talks shaved the number
to the neighborhood of 950 billion euros and triggered a battle
to allocate the cuts among the host of subsidy programs.  Merkel, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker and
Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann floated the prospect of
another summit in January or February to nail down a deal. In
the absence of an accord by late 2013, the EU would roll over
its annual budget.  “We are really not there yet,” Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said. “There are huge differences.”  The euro was little changed, trading at $1.2899 at 1:15
p.m. in Brussels, compared to $1.2880 late yesterday. Greek
bonds declined, snapping 10 days of gains, while debt of
Portugal, Spain and Ireland slipped. The Euro Stoxx 50 index
dropped 0.1 percent to 2,531.59.  New Proposal  Leaders met in shifting configurations with each country
determined to pay less in or get more out. EU President Herman Van Rompuy was set to release a new proposal this afternoon and
gauge reactions in the evening.  Led by  Poland , defenders of EU financing pointed out that
spending at the European level goes further than money that
stays within national borders, since EU subsidies back
international projects like pipelines, bridges and airports.  European Parliament President Martin Schulz countered the
wealthier countries’ insistence on paying less with the
contention that it is cheaper for them to promote European
projects, since contracts in Latvia or Slovenia go to companies
in places like Germany and Sweden.  “Every euro invested by the EU attracts an average of
between 2 and 4 euros in additional investment,” Schulz told
the leaders. “The EU budget is not a zero-sum game in which one
country wins what another loses. Synergies are generated which
benefit the net contributors as well.”  Cameron’s Rebate  At a time of austerity at home, that argument failed to
sway leaders like U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron. Cameron
zeroed in on the salaries of the EU’s more than 50,000 civil
servants, and said a discussion of a rebate won by Margaret Thatcher in 1984 is off-limits.  “It isn’t the time for moving money from one part of the
budget to another,” Cameron said. Cuts are “what’s happening
at home and that’s what needs to happen here.”  Using language out of the postwar era, when food shortages
led to the setup of programs to promote beef, cereal and dairy
production, French President Francois Hollande defended farm aid
as a guarantor of “food security.”  Farm subsidies make up over a third of the budget. French
farmers picked up 9.5 billion euros in European subsidies in
2011, the biggest single share. Spain,  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland
and Poland also number among the defenders of farm support.  “The reduction is still too large,” Hollande said of a
new proposal that would restore 8 billion euros of a proposed 25
billion-euro farm-aid cut. He countered Britain’s refund claims,
saying “they can’t ask for a smaller budget and a larger
rebate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  