-- Euro Rises as German Business Confidence Climbs; Krona Advances
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-23T22:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/euro-rises-versus-dollar-set-for-weekly-gain-on-greek-optimism.html
The euro strengthened to the highest
level in three weeks versus the dollar after data showed German
business confidence rose in November, boosting optimism that
Europe’s biggest economy is weathering the region’s slowdown.  The 17-nation shared currency registered a weekly gain
versus 12 of its 16 most-traded peers on speculation Europe’s
policy makers will agree to keep aid flowing to  Greece  when they
meet on Nov. 26. The yen strengthened against the dollar as a
technical indicator signaled its decline this week may have been
too rapid. Sweden’s krona advanced on strong demand for higher-
yielding assets.  “Certainly sentiment towards the euro has changed,”
 Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist in Toronto at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS) , said in a telephone interview. Europe’s common
currency “rallied slightly again after we got German confidence
numbers, which highlighted better-than-expected business
sentiment.”  The euro rose 0.7 percent to $1.2976 at 5 p.m. in  New York 
and touched $1.2991, the highest since Oct. 31. It extended its
weekly gain to 1.8 percent. Europe’s shared currency rose 0.6
percent to 106.91 yen, extending its five-day advance to 3.2
percent.  Japan ’s currency added 0.1 percent to 82.40 per dollar,
paring its decline to 1.3 percent from Nov. 16.  Sweden’s krona strengthened 0.9 percent to 6.6228 per
dollar and lead all gainers with a 2.5 percent advance this
week.  Rand, Ruble  The rand gained for a second day, climbing the most in two
weeks, as investors speculated the central bank has limited
flexibility to reduce rates.  South Africa ’s currency advanced
0.8 percent to 8.8770 per dollar after rising as much as 1
percent, the most since Nov. 6.  The ruble headed for its biggest weekly gain in two months
as companies bought  Russia ’s currency to pay mineral-extraction
and excise taxes taxes. The currency rallied 0.4 percent to
31.0653 per dollar, extending its weekly gain to 2.2 percent,
the most since the five days ended Sept. 14.  Europe ’s shared currency may climb to its September high
against the dollar of $1.3172 should it rise above the Oct. 31
high of $1.3021, analysts at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt  including Ralf Umlauf wrote in a note to clients.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 101.4
from 100 in October for its first gain in eight months.
Economists predicted a drop to 99.5 according to the median of
48 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Euro ‘Potential’  “The uptick in confidence is reasonably substantial and
that’s constructive for  Germany  and for the euro area as a
whole, keeping the euro relatively well-bid,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in  London . “Assuming the politicians get a
deal done on Greece, then there’s some potential for the euro to
move higher.”  Europe’s shared currency climbed above its 50-day moving
average of $1.2911 for the first time since August, which
technical traders may perceive as a signal the euro is poised to
strengthen, Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Sutton said.  “When it crossed on the upside at the end of August, we
had a big rally, and when it crossed on the downside in the
beginning of November, we had a big drop,” Sutton said.  Greece Meeting  Euro-region finance ministers will meet on Nov. 26 to
discuss ways to unlock international loans for Greece and
prevent it from dropping out of the shared currency. The nation
has been negotiating with euro-area politicians and the
 International Monetary Fund  over the steps needed to qualify for
the release of loan installments frozen since June.  The euro has strengthened 2.5 percent over the past three
months, making it the best performer among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen is the worst performer, dropping 6.3 percent,
and the dollar has fallen 1.1 percent.  The euro has risen amid a “lack of bad news, and at the
margin better news,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA in London, said in a telephone
interview. “We had a pretty big move by the dollar against a
bunch of things last week, and it has lost momentum.”  The yen climbed against the dollar after its relative
strength indicator signaled it may have fallen too far. The
index was at 25, its fifth-straight day below the 30 level that
some traders see as a sign an asset is about to change
direction.  ‘Weakening Trend’  Japan’s currency still headed for a second weekly decline
against the dollar as opposition leader Shinzo Abe, who is
favored to become the country’s next prime minister after
elections on Dec. 16, increased pressure on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to
add to stimulus measures that tend to weaken the yen.  “We believe the yen will start on a multi-year weakening
trend,” Thanos Papasavvas, a fixed-income and currency
strategist at Investec Asset Management said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“The most underweight currency we have is the Japanese yen
because of the continuing uncertainty in the political
environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  