-- European Stocks Rise on German Confidence, Black Friday
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-23T17:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-german-data.html
European stocks  climbed, with the
benchmark index completing its biggest weekly gain in almost a
year, as German business confidence rose and investors watched
Black Friday sales to gauge prospects for U.S. holiday shopping.  Outotec Oyj surged 6.3 percent after predicting an increase
in its operating-profit margin in 2013.  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  declined 1.4 percent after a report that
Germany will buy shares in the world’s largest maker of civil
aircraft from France.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.6 percent to 273.33 in
 London . The gauge jumped 4 percent this week, the most since
Dec. 2, as U.S. and Chinese data added to signs the global
economy is on the mend and optimism grew that American lawmakers
will reach a budget compromise.  “Investors are, amid a bullish sentiment, buying stocks
into the weekend as the holiday shopping season begins,” said
Manish Singh, who helps manage $2 billion as head of investment
at Crossbridge Capital in London. “Positive news from  China 
this week and German data this morning are supporting the
positive risk tone we’ve seen in the last couple of days.”  The volume changing hands on Stoxx 600 companies was 28
percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Business Sentiment  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its  business climate 
index for  Germany , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
climbed to 101.4 in November from 100 in October. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey predicted a drop to 99.5. French business
confidence increased from the lowest in more than three years
this month, a separate report showed.  “When Germany is doing well, that is positive for all of
 Europe ,” said Pierre Mouton, a fund manager who helps oversee
$6 billion at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “This confirms our
view. We are relatively optimistic.”  Stocks extended gains as post-Thanksgiving sales got under
way in what is known as Black Friday in the U.S. It is
traditionally the beginning of the holiday shopping season, when
retailers lure customers with deep discounts. The name recalls a
time when U.S. retailers would use the day to make a big part of
their annual profit, and income statements would go to black
from red.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC and Germany’s DAX both advanced
0.9 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.5 percent.  Greek Rescue  Euro-area finance ministers will hold an emergency meeting
in Brussels on Nov. 26 to discuss unlocking the next installment
of aid to  Greece . Their meeting this week failed to produce a
decision as creditors led by Germany refused to bring fresh
money or offer debt relief.  Divisions between rich and poor countries flared over the
European Union’s next seven-year budget, leading German
Chancellor Angela Merkel to rule out an accord until the new
year.  “Positions remain too far apart,” Merkel told reporters
early today after the first session of a summit in Brussels.
“Probably there will be no result at the end of this summit.
There may be some progress but it is probable that we will need
to meet again at a second stage.”  Outotec Margin  Outotec (OTE1V)  jumped 6.3 percent to 39.06 euros, the biggest gain
since Sept. 14. The Finnish maker of mining machinery said its
sales and operating margin will increase in 2013, driven by a
strong order book, the current market outlook and customer
tendering activity. The company also said it aims to raise its
services revenue to 1 billion euros per year by the end of 2017.  Iliad SA (ILD) , the mobile operator that drove prices down in
France with a 2-euros-a-month offering, climbed 4.1 percent to
133.65 euros, the highest since it sold shares to the public in
2004. Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to overweight, a
recommendation similar to buy, from equal weight.  Valeo SA (FR) , France’s second-biggest car-parts maker, gained
3.4 percent to 35.45 euros. The stock was raised to buy from
neutral at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Arkema SA (AKE)  rose 2.4 percent to 76.67 euros after Chief
Executive Officer Thierry Le Henaff said he expects demand in
China to grow at a good pace after the Chinese new year.  Chemical makers advanced 1.4 percent, for the second-
biggest gain among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  EADS Stake  EADS dropped 1.4 percent to 24.90 euros, the lowest since
Sept. 28. The German government will buy shares in EADS from
France, Handelsblatt reported, citing unidentified German
government sources. German, and French governments aim to have
12 percent ownership each in EADS, while Spain will hold a 5
percent stake, according to Handelsblatt.  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  lost 2.6 percent to 18.00 euros,
falling for the eighth day. HSBC Holdings Plc owns more than 400
million euros ($515 million) of Amadeus IT Holding shares after
failing to find buyers for a stake in the travel reservations
company. HSBC, which attempted to place a block of Amadeus
shares last week, holds 5.4 percent of the company, the bank
said in a filing to the Spanish financial regulator this week.  Fraport AG, owner of the Frankfurt airport, retreated 2.3
percent to 42.60 euros. The stock was cut to underweight, the
equivalent of sell, from neutral at HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  