-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Gain of the Year
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-11-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-gain-of-the-year.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly rally of the year as speculation rose that Congress will
agree on a U.S. budget that avoids the so-called fiscal cliff
and  China ’s manufacturing expanded.  Nokia Oyj jumped 31 percent for the largest gain in two
decades after receiving reports its new Lumia smartphone sold
out in Germany. Alcatel-Lucent SA surged 13 percent as people
familiar with the matter said it’s in financing talks with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Daily Mail & General Trust Plc climbed
13 percent after announcing a share buyback and a drop in debt.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index soared 4 percent to
273.33 this past week. That’s the biggest advance since Dec. 2
and the first time the gauge has gained every day of the week
since July 1, 2011. The measure has increased  17 percent  from
this year’s low on June 4 as the  European Central Bank  agreed on
an unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve  started a
third round of asset purchases in the U.S.  The news from the U.S. and China “has probably helped
investors reconsider their allocation to equity markets,” said
Pierre Mouton, a portfolio manager who helps oversee $6 billion
at Notz, Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “It has been a nice ride
after a difficult four weeks. There’s a chance that we will see
less macro concerns in the short term, and maybe more stock
picking.”  The Stoxx 600 lost 4.3 percent through Nov. 16 following
President  Barack Obama ’s Nov. 6 re-election as traders turned
their focus to the $607 billion of tax increases and spending
cuts that come into force next year if Congress doesn’t act.  Obama ‘Confident’  Obama said at a press conference in Bangkok on Nov. 18 that
he is “confident” of striking a deal over a new budget. House
Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, said after the close of
European trading on Nov. 16 that he held constructive talks with
the president and would accept increased government revenue and
spending cuts. Congress returns on Nov. 26 after the
Thanksgiving recess.  A report by the National Association of Realtors on Nov. 19
showed  sales of previously owned houses  in the U.S. rose 2.1
percent to a 4.79 million annual pace in October. That beat the
average of 4.74 million rate estimated by economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  In China, the preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index increased to 50.4 in November from a final
figure of 49.5 in October, according to a release by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The reading climbed above 50
for the first time in 13 months, signaling expansion.  European Economy  Euro-area factory output contracted less than economists
had estimated in November, a Markit Economics report on Nov. 22
showed. The  index  based on a purchase managers’ survey climbed
to 46.2 from 45.4 in October, beating the average economist
estimate of 45.6 in a Bloomberg survey.  In  Germany , the Ifo institute said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 101.4
from 100 in October, the first gain in eight months. Economists
predicted a drop to 99.5, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Israel and Hamas agreed to halt eight days of aerial
assaults on Nov. 21, after talks brokered by  Egypt  and the U.S.
The cease-fire stopped Israeli air strikes that killed more than
150 people in Gaza and Palestinian rocket attacks that left five
Israelis dead.  Euro-region finance ministers failed to reach a deal on a
debt-reduction package for  Greece  at a meeting in Brussels on
Nov. 20. The next installment of aid to Greece remains frozen at
least until the next meeting scheduled for Nov. 26.  National benchmark indexes increased in all of the 18
western European markets this week, except Iceland. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 rose 3.8 percent,  France ’s CAC 40 added 5.6 percent and
Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 5.2 percent.  Nokia Lumia  Nokia soared 31 percent, the biggest weekly gain since
1992. The Finnish mobile-phone maker said Nov. 19 it received
reports that its Lumia 920 model had sold out in Germany. Danske
Bank A/S analyst Ilkka Rauvola advised investors to buy the
shares, saying in a note dated Nov. 22 that Nokia will sell 36
million smartphones that use Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software
in 2013, higher than an earlier estimate of 23 million.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 13 percent after people familiar with
the matter said Nov. 22 the network equipment vendor is in talks
with Goldman Sachs to get a loan to strengthen its balance
sheet. Before this week, the company’s shares had declined 35
percent from the beginning of the year to trade near the lowest
price since at least 1992.  Daily Mail  Daily Mail  climbed 13 percent after saying it will buy back
shares of as much as 100 million pounds ($160 million) in the
coming year. The publisher of the Daily Mail newspaper also said
net debt dropped to 613 million pounds in the year ended Sept.
30 from 719 million pounds 12 months earlier and agreed to sell
its regional newspaper business.  Swiss Life Holding AG surged 15 percent, the largest
increase since March 2009. Analysts estimated before its
investor day on Nov. 28 that the life insurer may write down
almost half the value of its German broker unit AWD Holding AG.  KBC Groep NV advanced 14 percent after saying Nov. 19 it is
planning its first issue of covered bonds either in the current
or the next quarter. ING Groep NV raised its price estimate on
the shares.  Royal Imtech NV, the Dutch provider of infrastructure for
stadiums in this year’s European soccer championship and London
Olympics, dropped 4.8 percent. ABN Amro Bank NV said in a report
on Nov. 20 the company could breach a banking covenant this
year, and downgraded the shares to sell from buy.  Fugro NV tumbled 12 percent after the world’s biggest
surveyor of deepwater oilfields cut its full-year profit
forecast and said Chairman Arnold Steenbakker will step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  