-- Europe Turns Attention to Unlocking Greek Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-11-24T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/europe-turns-attention-to-unlocking-greek-aid.html
European policy makers turned their
attention to unlocking funds to keep  Greece  solvent after a
summit failed to agree on a seven-year budget for the bloc.  Euro-area finance ministers held a conference call today to
prepare for their third meeting this month, on Nov. 26, on
Greece’s rescue. As with the budget talks for the 27-nation
European Union, euro finance chiefs have deadlocked on a plan to
steer the country back to fiscal health.  “There’s no time to waste” in finding a solution for
Greece, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters yesterday
in Brussels. A plan “is being intensively worked on,” she
said.  An agreement, which would release an aid payout of at least
31 billion euros ($40 billion), may raise Greece’s debt target
to 124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 from a previous
goal of 120 percent, a Greek official said Nov. 22. The cost of
reaching the new target from a currently projected trajectory of
129 percent of GDP that year is about 10 billion euros,
according to the official.  The main obstacle to clearing the loans for Greece is a
plan to reduce the  interest rates  charged by euro-area
creditors. A cut in interest rates would put them below the cost
of funding for some of the 17 euro-area countries, the official
told reporters in Brussels.  The latest chapter in the Greek economic crisis that opened
in 2009 was triggered by the ministers’ decision to extend by
two years, to 2016, the deadline for Greece to cut its  budget
deficit  to 2 percent of gross domestic product. The extra time
drove its projected debt higher, stirring tensions with the
 International Monetary Fund . The IMF has provided about a third
of 148.6 billion euros in loans funneled to Greece since 2010.  Greek Praise  European leaders have praised Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s efforts to implement austerity measures, marking a
turnaround from the doubts they’d previously expressed that
 Athens  hasn’t been holding up its end of the bailout deal.  The impasse that has held up the latest aid payment since
June was echoed at the budget summit that ended yesterday.  National chiefs plan another summit early next year to
forge a deal between countries including Britain and Germany
that want to cut subsidies and lesser-developed southern and
eastern economies clamoring for EU investment.  “Anything short of admitting that our talks have been
extraordinarily complex and difficult would not reflect
reality,”  Jose Barroso , head of the European Commission, which
manages the subsidy programs, told reporters after a two-day
meeting in Brussels.  British Rebate  Britain’s defense of its cash-back guarantee and  France ’s
clinging to farm aid gave the summit the flavor of EU
negotiations in the 1970s or 1980s, diluting efforts to equip
 Europe  with a budget to make it more competitive. Eastern and
southern countries said reduced financing for public-works
projects would condemn them to lag behind the wealthier north.  In the absence of an accord by late 2013, the EU would roll
over its annual budget.  At stake is a spending plan for the years 2014-2020 that
would total about 1 percent of EU-wide GDP. While that sum is
paltry compared to the average 50 percent of GDP that each
country spends inside its borders, the political resonance is
far larger.  Wealthier countries such as  Germany , the U.K.,  Denmark ,
 Sweden  and the Netherlands banded together to cut what they pay
to the collective pool, pounding away at the original proposal
of 1.033 trillion euros that came out in mid-2011.  Budget Cuts  By the time the leaders convened, the figure on the table
was 973 billion euros. It was soon trimmed to 971 billion euros,
still too much for financially stronger countries that pressed
for another 30 billion euros in cuts.  The alliance of spending cutters unraveled, when it came to
the financing side of the budget. While U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  defended a rebate won by  Margaret Thatcher  in
1984, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden sought better terms
for their own refunds and Denmark made a bid to join the money-
back club.  French President  Francois Hollande , for example, paired his
farm-aid advocacy with calls for savings elsewhere, since France
is among the 11 countries that pay more into the EU budget than
they get out. As a result, agriculture was the relative winner
as the leaders strengthened some budget lines and pared others.  French Check  Taking aim at Cameron’s rebate, Hollande said: “France
pays more than Britain; I could ask him for a check.”  For Britain, the summit was about more than euros and
cents, testing Britain’s EU influence at a time of mounting
pressure for a national referendum on whether to stay in the
bloc.  Demanding spending cuts at home, Cameron made a special
target of the 50,000 civil servants at EU institutions ranging
from the commission and European Parliament, to the Court of
Justice and agencies that regulate sectors from fishing to
medicines.  “More than 200 Brussels staff earn more than I do,”
Cameron said. “Brussels continues to exist as if it’s in a
parallel universe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  