-- Eversheds, White & Case, Morgan, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-23T12:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/eversheds-white-case-morgan-dewey-business-of-law.html
Eversheds LLP added two partners,
 Dani Kabbani  and  Ben Moylan , to the firm’s Doha, Qatar, office.  Kabbani joins the firm as a partner from Simmons & Simmons
LLP. He has been practicing law in Qatar for the past 15 years
and has experience working with governments and companies on
commercial and corporate matters including mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures and private-equity transactions,
the firm said. He previously worked with  Qatar Petroleum  for
seven years.  Moylan joined as a partner from the Doha office of SNR
Denton LLP. He has spent four years working in Qatar after
relocating from  London . He has experience in finance matters,
including debt capital markets transactions, asset finance,
acquisition finance, real estate investment and development
finance arrangements, both conventional and Islamic, acting for
borrowers and lenders across both public and private sectors,
the firm said.  Financial services litigation partner  Ben Bruton  has
transferred from the firm’s London office to Dubai to lead the
region’s financial dispute resolution team.  Eversheds has lawyers in 45 offices in 28 countries around
the world.  White & Case Hires International Trade Lawyer in Geneva  White & Case  LLP has boosted its World Trade Organization
practice in Geneva with the addition of counsel  Erwan Berthelot .
Berthelot was previously director of legal affairs at the trade
association Cosmetics Europe, providing legal support on
international trade, regulatory affairs and competition law. He
spent nine years in Brussels with Gide Loyrette Nouel.  “Erwan will make a great addition to the firm’s
international trade practice and the WTO team here in Geneva,”
said Brendan McGivern, executive partner of the Geneva office.  Berthelot has a master’s degree in law from the University
of Rennes.  White & Case has lawyers in 38 offices in 26 countries.  Bankruptcy Lawyer Stephen Ravin Joins Saul Ewing in Newark  Saul Ewing LLP announced that  Stephen B. Ravin  joined the
firm as a partner in the bankruptcy and restructuring practice
in  Newark ,  New Jersey . He was previously at the New Jersey
bankruptcy boutique Forman Holt Eliades Ravin & Youngman.  Ravin, who has more than 30 years of experience, focuses
his practice on insolvency and bankruptcy law. He has served as
a trustee and has represented trustees, individual and corporate
debtors, creditors, creditors’ committees, assignees for the
benefit of creditors and receivers, the firm said.  Saul Ewing has 240 lawyers in 11 offices in the
Northeastern U.S.  News  Baker & McKenzie to Conduct Trade Secrets Survey for EU  European Commission has contracted with  law firm   Baker &
McKenzie  LLP to conduct a study on the economic and legal
aspects linked with the use, misappropriation and litigation on
confidential business information and trade secrets.  The firm will survey companies about how they manage their
know-how and other information of strategic value for their
competitiveness, according to a  statement  from the commission.  The survey will look at companies of all sizes throughout
the European Union. The commission said it hopes to find whether
there is a need to provide companies with better means of
redress against the economic harm from misappropriation of
proprietary information.  Any company wishing to participate in the survey can
contact the firm through a special e-mail address:
 tradesecretstudy@bakermckenzie.com . Participants will be given a
user ID, a password and a link to the webpage for the survey,
and can choose among a number of languages in which to respond
to the survey queries.  Videos  Penguin’s Lawyer Engros: Costs of E-Books Drove Deal  Uncertainty over how much book publishers will have to
invest in e-book delivery platforms -- which could be
substantial -- was a driving force behind the decision of
Pearson’s Penguin and Bertelsmann’s  Random House  to merge,
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP partner Charles Engros tells
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck.  Engros represented Penguin in the deal, which was announced
in late October. In the last year, his firm’s media mergers and
acquisitions practice has also represented  Reed Elsevier  in the
sale of the entertainment trade publication Variety and the  New
York  Times in its sales of About.com and its interest in the
 Boston Red Sox .  Fees  Dewey Collects $4.9 Million in Fees During October  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the liquidating law firm, collected
$4.9 million in fees during October, down from $11.5 million in
collections from former clients in September.  Dewey still has $218.7 million in receivables on the books,
including $173.6 million more than 90 days old.  The firm ran up $4 million of expenses in October. Since
the liquidation began in May, Dewey has collected $68.4 million
and spent $22.1 million on the liquidation, according to the
operating report filed in  bankruptcy court .  As a result of a so-called cash sweep paying down secured
debt by $2.7 million in October, cash declined by $1.6 million
to end the month at $24.2 million. The secured debt paydown was
$6.1 million in September.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. Receivables are about the same now because former
partners have been sending bills to clients during the
bankruptcy for work performed before Dewey went out of business.  The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Litigation  Abercrombie Settles Pilot Lawsuit After CEO Ordered to Testify  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  settled an age-discrimination
lawsuit brought by a former corporate jet pilot in 2010 after a
judge ordered Chief Executive Officer Michael Jeffries to give a
second deposition in the case.  “The matter has been resolved and we have no further
comment,” General Counsel Rocky Robins said Nov. 1 in a
telephone interview, declining to disclose the terms of the
agreement. Tim Kolman, a lawyer for the pilot, declined to
provide additional details in an e-mail Nov. 21. The pilot’s
lawyers rejected a six-figure settlement offer last month,
according to a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Paul Diamond ordered Jeffries, 68, to
be deposed for as long as seven hours in Philadelphia by
yesterday after Abercrombie’s “disturbingly belated production
of highly damaging evidence,” primarily a set of handwritten
notes from the teen retailer’s former director of procurement,
according to a Nov. 8 order.  Jeffries was deposed in  Ohio  two years ago as part of the
lawsuit, filed in federal court in Philadelphia by corporate jet
pilot Michael Stephen Bustin, who is now 55 and claimed he was
fired and replaced by a younger man. The suit, brought in April
2010, has uncovered Jeffries’s specifications for the airplane’s
attendants, from how they were to address him and his guests to
the Abercrombie cologne they wore. The plaintiff also sought to
determine his partner  Matthew Smith ’s involvement at Abercrombie
and flight crew selection through his role heading a limited
liability corporation called the Jeffries Family Office.  The pilot’s case is Bustin v. Abercrombie & Fitch Co., 10-
cv-01675, U.S. District, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  