-- Mexico’s Banks Target Wealthy in Booming Home Market: Mortgages
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-11-23T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/mexico-s-banks-target-wealthy-in-booming-home-market-mortgages.html
Mexican banks flush with cash are
targeting wealthier clients and women as a way to cash in on the
country’s surging mortgage market.  From Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB’s program that focuses on
lending to women to  Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB’s (SANMEXB) 
mortgages for homes worth at least 1.7 million pesos ($131,000),
the nation’s biggest lenders are tailoring products to grab
their share of the 14.6 million additional homes the nation is
expected to add between 2010 and 2040.  Mexico,  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, is poised
to grow faster than  Brazil , the region’s largest, for a second
straight year, helping the expanding middle class buy homes.
Even as some banks’ rates excluding fees have fallen to 10
percent this year from near 13 percent in 2009, government data
signals slower expansion in their mortgage holdings, as state-
affiliated lender Infonavit controls 75 percent of home loans.  “The population of middle and high incomes has gotten
stronger in recent years,” Eduardo Torres, an economist
tracking the real-estate industry for  BBVA Bancomer , as the
local unit of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  is known, said
by phone from Mexico City. “Banks haven’t developed sufficient
products for this population.”  Mexican home loans grew by 10.1 percent in the 12 months
through September to 443 billion pesos, according to the banking
and securities regulator. In Brazil, outstanding housing loans
jumped 39 percent to 256.4 billion reais ($122.1 billion) over
the same period.  Credit Cards  The growth in the Mexican mortgage market has been outpaced
by overall bank lending in the country, which expanded 12.5
percent in the 12 months through September. Credit card debt
grew at 16.3 percent, according to the regulator known as CNBV.  Infonavit, the nation’s biggest housing lender, is mostly
focused on giving credit to lower-income groups often left out
of the financial system, said Alfredo Rabell Manon, head of
credit at the state-affiliated organization. While founded in
1972 to give workers access to home financing, it also caters to
wealthier Mexicans by complementing larger mortgages with
smaller Infonavit loans.  The lender has given 64 percent of its loans this year to
borrowers who earn less than 7,579 pesos per month, according to
the Mexico City-based organization. Annual  interest rates 
charged by Infonavit range from 4 percent to 10 percent,
depending on a borrower’s salary.  Affluent Borrowers  Rabell Manon said about 30 percent of the economically
active population is served by government-affiliated
organizations such as Infonavit, providing a “growth market”
for commercial banks.  “The market is very big and little utilized,” he said in
a telephone interview from Mexico City. Increased competition
from banks hasn’t cut into Infonavit’s portfolio, as the biggest
competition is in lending to the wealthier borrowers, he said.  The Hipoteca Accesible Mujer Banorte program, which started
earlier this year, is the first in the country to cater
specifically to women, according to Cristina Porras, director of
mortgage sales at Banorte. It offers payment flexibility during
major life events, such as births, or illnesses, she said.  Banorte provides female clients extra services with their
mortgages including a program to increase affordability for
television installations and plumbing repairs. It also offers
discounts on four monthly payments if the client gets married,
graduates from college, gives birth or adopts a child. The
interest rate is the same as similar Banorte mortgages.  The program “has been a great success” and other targeted
products will “surely be coming to market” in the coming
months, Porras said by phone from  Mexico  City. The bank also
sees opportunities in boosting mortgage lending to wealthier
customers, she said.  Resilient Market  Mortgages have been a “resilient market” for banks
because it offers them the opportunity to expand into more
profitable sectors by “cross-selling” other products, said
Felipe Carvallo, an analyst with Moody’s Investors Service.  He said that offering mortgages with lower interest rates
allows banks to sell those borrowers consumer loans and
insurance.  Santander’s Mexican unit saw mortgages as one of 2012’s
biggest growth opportunities, Chief Executive Officer Marcos Martinez said in a March interview in Mexico City.  Home loans represent about 20 percent of the bank’s total
loan portfolio, Jorge Jauregui Montero, executive director of
mortgages at Santander’s Mexican unit, said in an e-mailed
statement. The bank offers higher-income mortgage holders
additional benefits such as a checking account with premium
 customer service , he said.  ‘Attractive Margins’  Shares of Banorte, Mexico’s third-biggest bank by
outstanding loans, fell 0.3 percent to 73.75 pesos at 9:38 a.m.
in Mexico City. The stock price for Santander’s local unit, the
country’s fourth largest by the same measure, declined 0.6
percent to 36.58 pesos.  While banks including Santander and Banorte have boosted
their focus on mortgage lending by targeting specific sectors to
capitalize on “attractive margins,” other banks are unlikely
to follow suit as alternative areas offer more growth, according
to Martin Lara, head equity analyst with Corp. Actinver SAB in
Mexico City.  The total amount of consumer loans outstanding jumped 23
percent in the 12 months through September to 568 billion pesos
from 462 billion pesos a year earlier, according to data from
the CNBV.  Everything Growing  “Each bank has its own strategy,” Lara said by phone.
“Everything is growing.”  Seventeen percent of Mexico’s population joined the middle
class between 2000 and 2010, earning between $10 and $50 per
day, according to the  World Bank . Bank of  Nova Scotia  plans to
take advantage of improved  credit quality  and a growing middle
class to expand lending in Mexico, Troy Wright, the head of the
bank’s local unit, said in an interview last month.  BBVA Bancomer expects mortgage lending in the country to
grow at about 10 percent in nominal terms in 2013, according to
Torres.  “Significant growth is around the corner as products are
developed that are just being conceived or designed,” he said.
“In particular in terms of what has to do with housing, the
perspective is that there’s going to be a lot of growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  