-- GE Said to Be in Talks With Cinven for Supplier Avio
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-11-23T18:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/ge-said-to-be-in-talks-with-cinven-for-supplier-avio.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is in talks to
acquire Italian defense company Avio SpA from buyout firm Cinven
Ltd., which rejected a previous offer from two private-equity
funds, according to people with direct knowledge of the talks.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Clessidra SGR SpA don’t plan
to revise their offer of about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
for Avio, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private, leaving GE to pursue the
acquisition. Cinven is also considering holding an initial
public offering of Avio next year, the people said.  Cinven, which is seeking 5 billion euros for a new fund,
began preparing Avio for a sale last year when it hired banks to
manage an IPO of the company. The stock sale was postponed amid
stock-market swings, after London-based Cinven received
approaches for the asset from suitors including France’s  Safran
SA (SAF) , which makes  jet engines  and aerospace components, and GE.  Officials for Cinven, Avio, CVC, Clessidra and GE declined
to comment.  GE rose 1.7 percent to $21.04 at the close in New York,
extending the shares’ year-to-date gain to 17 percent. That
outpaced the 11 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Avio makes components for GE’s newest engine, the GEnx,
which powers  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 jumbo jet,
according to the company’s website. It’s also a supplier to CFM
International SA, a GE-Safran joint venture that is the
exclusive engine supplier for the  Boeing 737 , the world’s most
widely flown  passenger jet .  2006 Buyout  Cinven bought Avio, based in Turin, Italy, in 2006 from
 Carlyle Group  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in a deal that valued the
company at about 2.6 billion euros.  Finmeccanica SpA, Italy’s biggest defense company, in May
agreed to sell its 15 percent stake in Avio to Fondo Strategico
Italiano SpA, the country’s 4 billion-euro investment fund. As
part of the joint offer with CVC and Clessidra, the fund was set
to own about 20 percent of Avio, and Cinven would keep about 10
percent of Avio under that plan, a person said.  An official for FSI in Rome declined to comment on the
fund’s involvement in either bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  