-- German Parliament Approves 2013 Budget Amid Risk to Deficit
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-23T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/german-parliament-approves-2013-budget-amid-risk-to-deficit.html
Germany’s lower house of parliament
passed the 2013  federal budget  that the Bundesbank said may
include an optimistic forecast for cutting the deficit.  The federal budget envisages spending of about 302 billion
euros ($390 billion) in 2013, about 10 billion euros less than
this year. Net new borrowing to fill the deficit is slated at
17.1 billion euros compared with 32.1 billion euros this year.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  is required to balance the budget
permanently from 2016 under constitutional rules.  “Only if we show we’re following a path of stability can
we be credible in recommending this for  Europe ,” Georg
Nuesslein, economy and energy parliamentary speaker of Merkel’s
Christian Union bloc, said before today’s vote. “This will give
positive impulses to economic development in  Germany  and
Europe.” The budget doesn’t require approval of the upper
house, representing the states, where Merkel lacks a majority.  The plan may be based on ambitious assumptions about growth
and leaves no margin for costs that may arise from stemming the
debt crisis, the Bundesbank said in its monthly report on Nov.
19. The euro area, which is the destination of 40 percent of
Germany’s exports, stayed in recession in the third quarter,
shrinking 0.1 percent after a 0.2 percent decline in the second
quarter, Eurostat said on Nov. 15.  Sentiment Falls  The government expects Germany’s economy to grow by about 1
percent next year, more than a forecast 0.8 percent this year.
At the same time, business sentiment fell to its lowest in 30
months in October. In the same month, the unemployment level
adjusted for seasonal swings rose by 20,000, twice the amount
expected by economists.  Germany’s  adjusted jobless rate  rose from a two-decade low
of 6.8 percent in August to a revised 6.9 percent in September
and held there in October.  Merkel can ill-afford an increase in the deficit after
championing her country’s budget record as an example to follow
in the euro area. With her parliamentary majority, Merkel’s
coalition on Nov. 20 passed legislation to anchor the European
Union’s Fiscal Pact into German law. The German-designed pact
commits signatory states to adopt automatic limits on new net
borrowing.  Crisis-fighting steps may force up  government spending  in
2013, challenging current budget assumptions. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Nov. 21 that he favors boosting the
euro’s temporary rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, by as much as 10 billion euros to help  Greece .
Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, may have to pay about a
quarter of the costs.  This year, Schaeuble had to open a second budget to pay
Germany’s share of creating the euro’s permanent rescue fund,
bumping up the deficit by doing so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  