-- German Lawmakers Reject Pact on Undeclared Swiss Accounts
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k ,   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-11-23T13:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/german-lawmakers-reject-pact-on-undeclared-swiss-accounts.html
Germany’s upper house of Parliament
rejected an accord over undeclared bank accounts in Switzerland,
dealing a blow to Swiss efforts to retain European clients
spooked by a crackdown on  tax evasion .  The Bundesrat, controlled by opposition parties after state
election losses by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats, voted to block the agreement signed by the two
nations last year. While details of today’s vote in Berlin
weren’t disclosed, the outcome had been on the cards for months
with the Social Democratic and Green parties lobbying against
the accord.  The collapse of an agreement that would have imposed a
withholding tax on offshore accounts held by Germans is a
setback for Swiss banks as they try to stem withdrawals by
customers concerned about a widening hunt for tax dodgers.
German opposition parties say the accord contains too many
loopholes for tax evaders and keeps client identities secret.  “If the  tax treaty  definitely fails, the pressure on the
Swiss banking industry will increase,” said Heiko Kubaile, a
partner and head of the German Tax & Legal Center at  KPMG  in
Zurich. “Ultimately, the reputation of Switzerland’s financial
center will be damaged.”  Mediation Committee  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he plans to
call a mediation committee with the opposition to look for a
compromise. A formal decision on the committee will be made by
Merkel’s Cabinet on Nov. 28. The Social Democrats will continue
to oppose the initiative, Steffen Rulke, a Berlin-based
spokesman for the party, said Nov. 21.  “I am disappointed that a decision was made based on party
politics and against solving a problem that has long been
simmering,” Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin today.
“Significant revenues for the federal government, the states
and the local government have been refused.”  Germany may lose 13 billion euros ($16.8 billion) in  tax
revenue  next year without the accord, Thomas Schaefer, finance
minister of the state of Hesse, said in a speech to the
Bundesrat.  “The SBA takes note of this decision with regret,” the
Basel-based  Swiss Bankers Association , which represents more
than 300 banks, said today in an e-mailed statement. We
“continue to hope that the mediation committee will be called
on and that a political solution will be found before the end of
the year.”  Secrecy Crumbles  Switzerland built the world’s biggest offshore wealth
center during an era of “black money” that started to crumble
when the U.S. sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  three years ago. The so-called Rubik
accord with Germany would have retained an element of banking
secrecy, even as a crackdown on tax evasion by the U.S. and
European authorities leads to demands for more transparent
arrangements, including automatic exchange of information.  Switzerland signed the bilateral agreements with Germany,
 Austria  and the U.K. after agreeing in March 2009 to meet
international standards and avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . The U.K. and Austrian accords were ratified earlier
this year.  “Switzerland remains prepared to bring the ratification
process with Germany to a successful conclusion,” Swiss Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said today in a statement.
“The agreement ensures implementation of  Germany ’s legitimate
tax claims and at the same time protects the privacy of bank
clients.”  U.S. Investigation  The proposed German deal involved a tax of 21 percent to 41
percent on so-called legacy assets from the past.  The Swiss Finance Ministry said it’s negotiating similar
agreements with Italy and  Greece , adding that other countries
have also shown interest in the withholding tax.  U.S. and European authorities are analyzing information
from thieves, whistle-blowers and client disclosures to probe
the alleged role of Swiss banks in fostering tax evasion by
wealthy customers.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  has investigated 10 Swiss
financial firms on suspicions they helped Americans hide money
from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss unit have
said they expect to pay a fine to the U.S. authorities to settle
the probes.  Switzerland agreed in June to implement the U.S. Foreign
Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires banks to report
information on consenting American account holders directly to
the IRS. Swiss lawmakers also voted in September to allow group
requests for information on Americans with offshore accounts in
the Alpine nation.  Stolen Data  “The way the U.S. has negotiated with Switzerland sets a
good example for Germany of how it can be done better,” Thomas
Oppermann, a parliamentary floor leader for the German Social
Democrats, said Nov. 20.  German authorities have spent 9 million euros to buy disks
with bank-account data, leading to more than 3 billion euros in
additional tax payments nationwide, North Rhine-Westphalia’s
finance ministry said in September. The ministry said this month
that more than 7,100 citizens in the German state have reported
themselves as tax evaders since 2010.  “The problem, next to the unfair treatment of past tax
evaders, is the fact that we would not have the possibility to
do our own investigations,” Norbert Walter-Borjans, finance
minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, told reporters after his
state voted against the accord.  Voluntary Disclosures  Merkel’s government views purchases of so-called tax CDs by
German states as the wrong approach and has said the accord with
 Switzerland  is a more reliable way to catch evaders than buying
Swiss bank data from intermediaries.  “A lot of German clients will use the existing voluntary
disclosure regime where they pay taxes, interest and possibly a
penalty,” said Gerd Kostrzewa, a lawyer working in Dusseldorf
and Zurich for Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek. “The government will
keep buying stolen data and may shame some VIP tax offenders. It
could also start issuing collective requests for account
holders’ identities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  