-- German Bunds Set for Weekly Drop as Greece Nears Deal
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-11-23T16:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/german-bunds-are-little-changed-before-business-confidence-data.html
Germany ’s 10-year bunds extended
their first weekly decline in more than a month as optimism
European leaders are moving toward a deal to stem Greece’s
fiscal crisis damped demand for the safest assets.  Yields on two-year German notes were within two basis
points of a three-week high, with euro-area finance ministers
set to hold a conference call tomorrow to prepare for a Nov. 26
meeting on an updated aid package for Greece. The European
Union, International Monetary Fund and  European Central Bank 
said today they also made “good progress” in talks with
Cyprus.  Spain ’s debt extended a weekly advance after slipping
earlier following a bank downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s .  “The market has taken a glass-half-full approach on the
hope that the Eurogroup will sign off on a deal for Greece,”
pushing bunds lower, said  Richard McGuire , a senior rates
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “There seems to
be a broad consensus on how to proceed.”  German 10-year  bund  yields rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.44 percent at 4:31 p.m. London time,
after rising to 1.45 percent, the highest since Nov. 7. They
were set for an 11 basis-point advance in the week. The 1.5
percent bond maturing in September 2022 fell 0.085, or 85 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,297) face amount, to 100.54.  The two-year  note yield  was little changed at zero percent
after rising to 0.017 percent yesterday, the most since Nov. 2.  Greek Negotiations  Greece, facing a sixth year of recession in 2013, has been
negotiating with the euro area and  International Monetary Fund 
over the steps needed to qualify for the release of loan
instalments frozen since June. At stake is whether the Greek
government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras can pay its bills,
recapitalize domestic banks and stay in the 17-nation euro.  The main obstacle to unlocking international loans is a
plan to reduce the  interest rates  charged by euro-area creditors
as, a Greek official told reporters late yesterday in Brussels
on the condition of anonymity.  Yields on Greece’s 10-year bonds were set for their biggest
weekly decline since Sept. 7, having fallen more than 1
percentage point to 16.47 percent.  Spanish 10-year  yields  fell four basis points today to 5.62
percent. They have fallen 25 basis points in the week.  S&P earlier today lowered the ratings on Confederacion
Espanola de Cajas de Ahorros, Ibercaja Banco SAU and  Bankinter
SA (BKT) , while affirming grades for another 12 Spanish banks. The New
York-based firm cut Spain two levels to BBB-, one step above
junk, on Oct. 10.  Spanish bonds returned 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes  compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German debt
also earned 3.4 percent and Italian securities gained 18
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  