-- German Business Confidence May Decline to Near 3-Year Low
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-23T07:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/german-business-confidence-may-decline-to-near-3-year-low.html
German business confidence probably
fell to the lowest in almost three years in November as a
recession in the euro area damped growth in  Europe ’s largest
economy.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will fall to 99.5 from 100 in
October, according to the median forecast of 48 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the seventh straight
decline and the lowest reading since January 2010. Ifo releases
the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  While German growth slowed less than forecast in the third
quarter, the euro area,  Germany ’s largest trading partner,
slipped into recession and the outlook for the global economy
has dimmed. That’s making companies more cautious, even after
the  European Central Bank ’s announcement of a new bond-purchase
program eased financial-market concerns about the sovereign debt
crisis and a potential break-up of the monetary union.  “While financial markets have calmed down, German
companies don’t fully trust the lull and are holding back on
investment,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “Because of the general global economic
weakness, there’s also a risk that the German economy will
stagnate or even shrink in the fourth quarter.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably fell to
93, the lowest since May 2009, from 93.2 in October, while a
gauge of the current situation may have slipped to 106.3 from
107.3, the survey shows.  GDP Breakdown  German growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the third quarter
from 0.3 percent in the second, the Federal Statistics Office
confirmed today. Exports, household spending and construction
were the main contributors to growth, while inventories and
company investment in plant and machinery subtracted from it, a
detailed breakdown shows.  “The economy is currently influenced by a streaky overall
picture that is likely to continue to darken by the end of the
year,” the Bundesbank said in its monthly report this week.
“The uncertainties stemming from the sovereign-debt crisis are
as much a concern as the mixed economic signals from other
regions of the world.”  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year -- the
slowest since the 2009 recession -- and 3.6 percent next year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9, cutting its
forecasts from 3.5 percent and 3.9 percent respectively. The
Washington-based lender now sees an “alarmingly high” risk of
a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-six chance of growth slipping
below 2 percent.  French Downgrade  France , Germany’s largest individual  export destination ,
lost its top  credit rating  at Moody’s Investors Services on Nov.
19. Moody’s cited France’s uncertain fiscal outlook and its
“deteriorating economic prospects.”  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that’s the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, this week
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and Asia.  “We are forecasting a further decline in demand in the
fourth quarter, which will result in a temporary adjustment to
our capacities,” Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger
said. “We currently expect the volatile and challenging
environment in key market sectors to continue.”  Draghi’s Plan  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6 unveiled details of
plan to buy  government bonds  to fight speculation of a currency
breakup and regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area.
That’s boosted financial markets and helped to ease some
concerns about the severity of the economic slowdown.  German  consumer confidence  will rise to a five-year high
this month, according to market research company GfK, as rising
wages and unemployment near a two-decade low outweigh economic
concerns. The economy will expand 0.8 percent this year and
next, the European Commission forecasts. By contrast, it
predicts a 0.4 percent contraction in the euro area this year
and growth of just 0.1 percent in 2013.  “Compared to its neighbors, Germany obviously remains the
star performer,” said  Nick Matthews , an economist at Nomura
International in London. “In absolute terms, however, it’s not
doing particularly well. There is just a general loss of
momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  