-- Germany May Abstain in EU Carbon Vote as Ministers Clash
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-11-23T16:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/germany-may-fail-to-back-eu-carbon-market-fix-as-ministers-clash.html
Germany ’s economy and environment
ministers are at odds over whether to back a European Union plan
to curb oversupply of carbon permits, raising uncertainty over
the fate of the measure aimed at supporting prices in the
world’s biggest emission market.  Environment Minister   Peter Altmaier  told reporters today he
supports a proposal by the European Commission to delay auctions
of 900 million carbon permits starting in 2013 after the price
of allowances sank to a record in April. Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler opposes such a move, saying it could threaten
Germany’s industry.  “If the environment minister is to insist on his
position,” then Germany may abstain in any voting and therefore
fail to back the proposal, Roesler’s ministry said today in an
e-mailed statement sent after Altmaier made his comments.  At stake is the price of emission permits in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade system after they plunged to a record low
of 5.99 euros ($7.75 million) in April as the economic crisis
hurt industrial output. The downturn boosted the surplus of
allowances to almost half of the average annual pollution limit
in the 27-nation EU.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  has said she aims
for a decision on the measure before the end of this year. The
next meeting of the Climate Change Committee is scheduled for
next month.  More Risk  “Until the Commission sends out an agenda for the December
meeting to member states, any opinion about whether there will
be a vote or not can only be speculation,” Matthew Cowie, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London , said today in
an e-mail. “If the Commission can see that a major member state
like Germany is still undecided, scheduling a vote may be taking
on more risk than they are game for.”  Altmaier said it’s “absolutely necessary” that Germany
backs Hedegaard’s proposal as it would strengthen a system that
is meant to incentivize investments in low-carbon technologies
and may be copied by nations including  China , Australia and
 Canada .  “This will only be the case if the Europeans can prove
that they can effectively advance climate protection with their
 emissions trading ,” Altmaier said. “That’s not the case at the
moment.”  Draft Measure  The draft measure to strengthen the region’s cap-and-trade
system needs qualified-majority from member states in the EU’s
weighted ballot system that favors larger countries.
Representatives of national governments failed to reach a
breakthrough at their Nov. 15 meeting on the proposal to curb a
glut of permits.  To pass, the so-called backloading proposal will need 255
out of 345 votes in the EU Climate Change Committee, composed of
experts from national governments. Germany has 29 votes while
 Poland , which has repeatedly said it will oppose the draft
measure, has 27 votes. A blocking minority requires 91 votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  