-- Gruner + Jahr Shuts Down Unprofitable FT Deutschland Newspaper
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-11-23T11:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/gruner-jahr-shuts-down-unprofitable-ft-deutschland-newspaper.html
Bertelsmann AG’s Gruner + Jahr AG &
Co KG unit decided to shut down its Financial Times Deutschland
newspaper after the business publication failed to generate a
profit since it was started 12 years ago.  The German-language newspaper, launched in 2000 as a joint
venture with Financial Times publisher  Pearson Plc (PSON) , will publish
its last edition on Dec. 7, Hamburg-based Gruner + Jahr said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Newspaper and magazine publishers such as Gruner + Jahr,
controlled by  Europe ’s biggest media company Bertelsmann, are
struggling as print publications are becoming less popular with
readers and advertisers amid a shift to the Internet.
 Frankfurter Rundschau , the German newspaper founded by the U.S.
Army after World War II to promote democracy in Germany, filed
for insolvency earlier this month.  “Daily newspapers are under a great deal of pressure,
particularly those in the business segment,” Gruner + Jahr
President Julia Jaekel said. “Financial Times Deutschland has
not been profitable since it was established in 2000. As a
result, we see no viable way of continuing its publication.”  The Financial Times Deutschland was the first new national
daily in  Germany  in 50 years and had a circulation of about
50,000 when it was started. Pearson sold its 50 percent stake in
the newspaper to Gruner + Jahr in 2008.  Gruner + Jahr is also in talks about a disposal of
investment magazine Boerse Online and monthly publication
Impulse or a sale to the titles’ management. The publications
will be closed if no solution can be found, Gruner + Jahr said.
The company will continue business magazines Capital and
Business Punk.  Gruner + Jahr had integrated Financial Times Deutschland
into a business news unit with Capital, Impulse and Boerse
Online to slash costs. The closure will affect more than 300
employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  