-- India’s Rupee Completes Fourth Weekly Decline on Policy Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-11-23T11:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/india-s-rupee-headed-for-fourth-weekly-decline-on-policy-concern.html
India ’s rupee completed a fourth
weekly drop as the government seeks parliament’s approval for
pro-growth policies announced this quarter.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  needs lawmakers’ support for
plans to allow more foreign investment in pension and insurance
industries. On the opening day of the winter session of
parliament yesterday, Singh survived a bid to oust his
government over its decision to permit foreign companies to open
supermarkets. The currency touched the lowest level in more than
two months, erasing gains made since the retail plan was
announced in mid-September.  “Although we have been leaning towards the optimistic side
on the currency and the reform process, we recognize that this
positivity is fraught with downside risks,” analysts at HSBC
Holdings Plc, including Hong Kong-based  Paul Mackel , wrote in a
report today. “The coming days will be pivotal for the rupee.”  The rupee declined 0.6 percent this week to 55.5150 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 55.6050 today, the weakest level since Sept. 7. The
government began announcing measures to improve public finances
and attract investment on Sept. 13.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange-rates used to price options, fell 50 basis points,
or 0.50 percentage point, this week to 9.50 percent. The rate
dropped 25 basis points today.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 56.40 per
dollar, compared with 56.11 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 56.48 versus 56.12. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  