-- Indian Stocks Pare Weekly Advance on Political Impasse
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-11-23T10:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/indian-stocks-pare-weekly-advance-on-political-impasse.html
Indian stocks dropped for the first
time in three days, paring a weekly advance, amid a political
impasse over the government’s move to allow foreign companies to
open supermarkets.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 0.1 percent
to 18,505.89, according to preliminary closing prices at 3:30
p.m. in Mumbai. The gauge rose 1.1 percent this week, snapping
two weeks of declines.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-largest tobacco
maker, was the biggest drag on the Sensex. NTPC Ltd., the top
power producer, dropped to the lowest in about three months.  The lower house of parliament was adjourned today amid
uproar over the government’s move to allow foreign retailers to
set up in India. The government has called for an all-party
meeting on Nov. 26 to solicit support for the plan, the  Press
Trust of India  reported yesterday. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
averted a no-confidence vote yesterday.  “Investors are waiting to see how uncertainties around
allowing foreign direct investment in retail are solved,”
Vaibhav Sanghvi, director at Ambit Investment Advisors Pvt. in
Mumbai, said by telephone.  Singh is reaching out to political parties to win backing
to push through reforms in the winter parliamentary session that
began yesterday, including proposals to increase overseas
investment in the insurance and pension industries. He failed to
break a logjam yesterday at a dinner hosted for leaders of the
biggest opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party , the Press Trust said,
citing people it didn’t identify.  The S&P CNX  Nifty Index (NIFTY)  on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. fell less than 0.1 percent to 5,626.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  