-- India’s 10-Year Bonds Complete Weekly Decline on Cash Squeeze
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-11-23T11:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/india-s-10-year-bonds-set-for-weekly-decline-on-cash-squeeze.html
Indian 10-year  government bonds 
completed a weekly decline on speculation declining levels of
cash in the banking system will damp demand for the notes.  Lenders borrowed an  average  905 billion rupees ($16
billion) a day from the central bank this month to meet
shortages, compared with 671 billion rupees in October, official
data show. The  Reserve Bank of India , which has purchased 820
billion rupees of debt since April 1 to boost the availability
of funds, halted open-market buying in June.  “Tight liquidity is depressing appetite for bonds,” said
Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at  Development Credit
Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “Some investors expect the central bank
will resume debt purchases to inject cash but so far that hasn’t
materialized.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government notes due June
2022 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week
to 8.23 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate was little changed today.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.77 percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The rate rose four basis points this week.  Increased withdrawal of cash during the festival season and
slower  government spending  led to the cash squeeze, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc. Hindus celebrated a string of festivals in
the past two months, including Diwali on Nov. 13.  The Indian government had a cash balance of more than 700
billion rupees yesterday, two finance ministry officials with
direct knowledge of the matter said, indicating the government
is holding back spending.  Open-market operations aimed at easing the squeeze will be
determined by the  Reserve Bank  of  India , the officials said,
asking not to be identified citing rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  