-- Indonesia Ties Banking Licenses to Capital Levels for First Time
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-11-23T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/indonesia-to-categorize-banking-licenses-according-to-capital.html
Indonesia’s central bank will tie
the services a lender can offer to its capital level, adding to
measures designed to protect the financial system from potential
crises, Governor Darmin Nasution said.  Starting January 2013, Bank Indonesia will require  lenders 
to obtain one of four licenses, which will determine the
operations they will be allowed to perform, Nasution said
yesterday at the annual Bankers Dinner in Jakarta. Current
regulations don’t tie a lender’s services to its capital level.  The monetary authority has taken steps to guard against
external shocks amid a  European debt crisis  and an uneven U.S.
recovery, such as requiring minimum capital adequacy ratios. It
has also moved to reduce the risk of a domestic property bubble
and minimize credit risk by imposing measures such as minimum
down payments for mortgages and auto loans.  “This rule is good for consolidation,” Wilianto Ie,
Nomura Indonesia’s Jakarta-based head of equity research, said
before the dinner. “Indonesia has so many banks, BI wants to
consolidate in a neutral way by looking at the risk of each bank.
This is not too controversial as other countries do the same
thing.”  Indonesia has 120 commercial banks, according to the
regulator’s website.  Under the new rules, banks holding less than 1 trillion
rupiah ($104 million) in capital won’t be allowed electronic
banking or foreign-exchange transactions, according to a
statement distributed at a pre-dinner briefing yesterday. The
central bank may grant approval to such banks in some cases,
according to the statement.  Currency Services  Those with 1 trillion to less than 5 trillion rupiah can
have electronic banking and currency services. Such banks may
also hold stakes in other financial institutions, as high as 15
percent of their capital.  The third category will be for banks with 5 trillion to
less than 30 trillion rupiah in capital, allowing them to
provide full banking services including dealing with
sophisticated structured and offshore products. These banks will
be expected to be competitive at the regional level.  The fourth license, for banks with capital of at least 30
trillion rupiah, will be similar to the third, though these
lenders will be expected to be competitive at the regional and
international level.  Effective immediately, Indonesian banks with capital of at
least 5 trillion rupiah will be allowed to provide trustee
services to manage revenue from exports in the domestic market,
according to the statement. The central bank has asked companies
to place export revenue and foreign-loan proceeds in domestic
banks.  Bank  Indonesia  expects revenue from oil and gas exports to
reach $28 billion to $34 billion a year through 2016,
Filianingsih Hendarta, director of financial system stability,
said yesterday at the briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 