-- Jets Learned Tebow Had Cracked Ribs Day Before Loss, Ryan Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-23T17:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/jets-learned-tebow-had-cracked-ribs-day-before-loss-ryan-says.html
The New York Jets learned the day
before last night’s blowout loss to the  New England Patriots 
that quarterback  Tim Tebow  had cracked two ribs 10 days earlier
and still considered him the best option as a backup to  Mark Sanchez , coach  Rex Ryan  said today.  He also said the Jets, now 4-7 on the season, are “not
dead” in the hunt for a National Football League playoff spot.  Tebow, who was injured in a Nov. 11 loss at the Seattle
Seahawks, was medically cleared to play in yesterday’s 49-19
home defeat against New England, Ryan said. He said he told
offensive coordinator  Tony Sparano  and special teams coach Mike Westhoff not to use Tebow in their game plans.  “People have played with cracked ribs and all that
stuff,” Ryan said on a conference call with reporters. “It was
told to me that he could play. I wasn’t going to play him unless
it was an absolute emergency.”  Tebow played Nov. 18 in a win against the St. Louis Rams,
rushing twice and attempting one pass. Ryan avoided questions on
why it took the team’s medical staff so long to reach the
diagnosis, and he defended his decision to activate Tebow over
third-string quarterback  Greg McElroy .  “Tim’s cleared to play and it’s obviously the biggest game
of the year,” Ryan said. “If we 100 percent had to have him,
then I would have played him.”  The need to play Tebow became unnecessary after a 52-second
second-quarter stretch in which the Patriots scored 21 points to
take a 28-0 lead.  Touchdown Surge  Holding a 7-0 advantage with about 10 minutes left in the
half, the Patriots’  Tom Brady  hit running back Shane Vereen with
a short pass that went 83 yards for another score. A Sanchez
fumble was returned for a touchdown by Steve Gregory on the
ensuing drive, and the following kickoff was fumbled by the
Jets’ Joe McKnight and picked up by  New England ’s Julian Edelman, who ran into the end zone.  “Watching the tape, it’s still hard to fathom,” Ryan
said. “I’ve never seen anything like it in all my years
coaching football or even following football.”  The loss was the Jets’ 17th in the last 23 games with the
Patriots. Ryan said he was pleased with some of the things his
team did offensively, and that he intended to turn the club’s
fortunes around over the final five games.  “We’re about as badly wounded as we can be, but we’re not
dead,” Ryan said.  The Jets are in last place in the American Football
Conference’s East Division, four games behind New England (8-3).
They don’t face a team the rest of the way that currently has a
winning record.  New York  hosts the  Arizona  Cardinals on Dec. 2 before
playing at the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Tennessee Titans, at
home against the  San Diego Chargers  and at the Buffalo Bills.
The Jaguars are 1-9 and the other teams are all 4-6.  “I never thought we’d be in this position, but we are,”
Ryan said. “I have to get better right now and we have to get
better. I’m confident we will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  