-- Killers Concerts Add Vegas Dazzle to Infectious Nonsense
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-11-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/killers-concerts-add-vegas-dazzle-to-infectious-nonsense.html
A collision of Vegas dazzle and
English indie music, the wholesome American Way hopping into bed
with British rock swagger, the Killers’ charmingly preposterous
rock is hard to resist.  The band recently released its fourth studio album, “ Battle
Born ,” and will be touring  North America  from Nov. 29, playing
 New York ’s Madison Square Garden on Dec. 14. Its London concerts
show a band at the top of its powers and aware of this fact.  To start a gig with your first and perhaps biggest hit,
“Mr. Brightside,” is confident. To do so while keeping the house
lights on is bold to the point of extravagance.  A simple trick, it makes for a tremendous opening, creating
a bond between audience and band. Any concerns that The Killers
peak too early dissipate in a slew of infectious songs.  The Killers formed under the influence of British
alternative bands like Oasis and New Order. Those influences
typically saddle it with small-town misery or a fuzz of guitar
noise. The Killers, as perhaps befits a band from  Las Vegas ,
unashamedly milk each big chorus for all it is worth.  And there are a lot of big choruses. The guitars on
“Spaceman” bounce with optimism. “Somebody Told Me” (a flashier
brother to Blur’s “Girls and Boys”) fizzles with pop-punk
exuberance.  The band’s tendency to use unreconstructed synth lines to
highlight a melody (just in case anyone at the back didn’t get
it) has exploded on “Battle Born.” “The Way It Was” takes 1970s
power rock worthy of Journey and gives it a 1980s sheen. “Here
With Me” is pure Aerosmith power balladry.  Doolally Platitudes  If the music verges on the ridiculous, the lyrics
frequently tip into the completely doolally. Unlike Coldplay,
there’s no illusion of depth among the platitudes.  “Miss Atomic Bomb” is clumsy imagery and a cheap rhyme.
“Human” (“Are we Human? Or are we dancer?”) is 100 percent
piffle. That it remains a sing-along anthem of the first degree
is largely due to the improbable charisma of lead singer Brandon Flowers.  Flowers might as well be the platonic form of the clean-cut
All-American guy. His jaw-line could sell razors to  Karl Marx .
His side-parting is fresh from a morale-boosting G.I. film from
World War II. A practicing Mormon, he is devoted to his family.  He is also a magnetic rock ‘n’ roll showman who sings every
line of twaddle as if he utterly means it. Dressed in black,
neat trousers and a fitted short-sleeved shirt, he beams with
energy and innocent enthusiasm and clearly wants everyone in the
audience to have as much fun as he is having.  Americana Twang  His three band mates, augmented by two extra musicians,
keep the songs punchy, adding touches of gloss, grunge and
Americana twang as required.  With retrospect, the show does lack danger. There is
comparatively little unbridled lust, angst or anger in The
Killers’ oeuvre. The stripped back version of U2’s “With Or
Without You” is a remarkably safe choice of cover. Some of the
songs sound labored, trying a little too hard to be liked.  When Flowers is onstage, wielding his charisma beam and yet
another mega chorus, it’s impossible not to enjoy the show. The
Killers will leave you with a rock ‘n’ roll smile on your face.  Rating: ***.  The Killers play Broomfield,  Colorado , on Nov. 29 at the
start of a tour that also includes  Vancouver ,  Seattle ,  Boston ,
 Chicago  and Las Vegas. In January 2013, the tour moves to
 Australia  and back to  Europe . There are also shows in 2013
confirmed for Brazil and  Mexico .  Information:  http://www.thekillersmusic.com/showtime   For a review of “Battle Born,” click here.  (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater and  Greg Evans  on film.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 