-- Newcastle Advances in Europa League; Liverpool, Tottenham Wait
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-23T00:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/newcastle-advances-in-europa-league-liverpool-tottenham-wait.html
Newcastle advanced to the round of
32 in soccer’s Europa League, while qualification for Tottenham
and Liverpool hinges on their final group games following draws.  Defending champion  Atletico Madrid  also was among the 13
teams last night progressing to the knockout stage of Europe’s
second-tier club competition.  The top two in each of the 12 groups qualify for the last
32, alongside the eight third-place finishers from the elite
 Champions League  group stage. The final group matches will be
played Dec. 6, with five places still up for grabs.  Newcastle’s 1-1 home draw with Maritimo was enough to send
it into the next phase along with Bordeaux from Group D.
Bordeaux leads Newcastle by a point after its 2-1 win at Bruges.  “We needed to get a result and we got that and got
through,” Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  told ESPN.  Lazio’s scoreless draw with Tottenham advanced the Italian
club from Group J. Spurs, which had a Gareth Bale goal
disallowed for offside, will progress by avoiding defeat in
their next game against Panathinaikos, which beat Maribor 1-0.  Elsad Zverotic’s goal in the 88th minute gave Young Boys a
2-2 draw at Liverpool that left the teams tied for second place
in Group A with seven points heading into the final round.  “Ideally we’d have qualified tonight but we haven’t so it
has to go to the last game and we have to control our affairs
then,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said in comments on
his team’s website. “It’s simple enough, we’ve got to get a
good result and match the result of  Young Boys .”  Group A leader Anzhi Makhachakala beat Udinese 2-0 to
advance.  Atletico Advances  Atletico Madrid qualified from Group B after a 1-0 win
against Hapoel Tel-Aviv, as Viktoria Plzen’s 1-1 draw with
Academica sent it through. Fenerbahce beat Marseille 1-0 to win
Group C and will be joined by  Borussia Moenchengladbach , which
defeated AEL 2-0, in the next round.  Sparta Prague  earned the point it needed to qualify by
drawing 1-1 with Group I winner Lyon. The match between Hapoel
Kiryat Shmona and  Athletic Bilbao  in Israel was postponed
because of the violence this week in the country.  Genk beat Videoton 1-0 to qualify from Group G, while Basel
moved up to second place with a 3-0 win against Sporting Lisbon.
Levante advanced from Group L with a 3-1 win at Helsingborg, and
Hannover, which had already qualified, drew 0-0 with FC Twente.  Napoli beat AIK 2-1 on Edinson Cavani’s penalty kick in the
third minute of stoppage time to join Dnipro, which defeated PSV
Eindhoven 2-1, in qualifying from Group F.  Both places from Group E are still open after first-place
Steaua Bucharest was routed 5-1 by Stuttgart and Copenhagen beat
Molde 2-1. Steaua has 10 points and next visits Copenhagen,
which is on seven. Stuttgart, with eight points, hosts last-
place Molde.  In matchups between qualified teams,  Rubin Kazan  beat Inter
Milan 3-0 to secure the top spot in Group H, and Metalist
Kharkiv won group K by beating  Bayer Leverkusen  2-0.  Teams qualified for the Europa League knockout stage: Anzhi
Makhachkala, Atletico Madrid, *BATE Borisov, Bayer Leverkusen,
Bordeaux, Dnipro, * Dynamo Kiev , Fenerbahce, Genk, Hannover,
Inter Milan, Lazio, Levante, Lyon, Metalist Kharkiv, Borussia
Moenchengladbach, Napoli, Newcastle, *Olympiacos, Rubin Kazan,
Sparta Prague, Viktoria Plzen.  *Qualified from Champions League group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  