-- Norway Oil Minister Signals Lofoten Ban to Last Until 2017
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-11-23T14:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/norway-oil-minister-signals-lofoten-ban-to-last-until-2017.html
Norway ’s Oil Minister Ola Borten Moe
said he would recommend keeping a restriction on oil exploration
off the northern islands of Lofoten and Vesteraalen until at
least 2017 to protect the fishing industry.  While the restricted areas will ultimately be opened to oil
producers Borten Moe said today he wouldn’t recommend starting
an impact study of the areas until at least 2017.  “I’ve noticed opposition to oil and gas activity from
fishermen in this region,” he said in a webcast presentation
from Svolvaer, northern Norway. “I take that seriously. That’s
why I don’t wish the opening of new acreage for now.”  Oil companies  such as  Statoil ASA (STL) , which operates about 80
percent of Norway’s oil and gas production, have lobbied to open
the areas before the country’s Labor-led government last year
decided to delay a decision on whether to initiate an impact
study until after September’s parliamentary elections. It opted
instead to collect information on the restricted areas, a step
short of an impact study, which is a formal step necessary
before any area can be allotted to the oil industry.  “I’m surprised by the minister’s recommendation,” said
Gro Braekken, director-general of industry lobby group Norwegian
Oil and Gas, in an e-mailed statement. “The conclusion should
be the launch of an impact study.”  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg wasn’t available to
comment, said his adviser, Sindre Fossum Beyer.  Wildlife Breeding  For the industry and labor unions the area offers
opportunity to extend Norway’s oil age, which since it started
about 40 years ago has helped build the world’s fourth-richest
nation per capita. The area may hold as much as 3.4 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, according to  KonKraft , which
represents companies and the biggest labor union, LO. The
 Norwegian Petroleum Directorate ’s estimate ranges from 500
million to 2.3 billion barrels, most of it oil.  The waters off Lofoten and Vesteraalen contain unique cold-
water coral reefs and provide breeding grounds for wildlife
ranging from cod, haddock and halibut to seals and sperm and
killer whales, according to the WWF. The archipelago is also
home to some of  Europe ’s largest seabird colonies, according to
the environmental group.  Borten Moe, a member of the Center Party, said he favored
developing open areas south of the Lofoten and Vesteraalen
islands, while the rest of the contested areas should be opened
later. At the same time, he said petroleum activity in the area
was “fully defendable” from an environmental point of view and
posed no threat to fish or fisheries.  The minister announced in September that he would not seek
re-election in September next year and had no plans other than
to manage his farm.  Limited Impact  Reports published earlier today by the Oil Ministry on the
effects of petroleum activity in the region said environmental
risks are deemed to be low and that opening the restricted areas
could generate as much 55 billion kroner ($9.7 billion) in
economic activity onshore over the next decades and create
37,000 jobs.  While the Stoltenberg government was divided over whether
to start the impact study, Norway’s main opposition party, the
 Conservative Party , has said it would seek to open the areas as
soon as possible if it wins next year.  Norway, the seventh-largest oil producer in the world, is
moving farther north in an effort to boost reserves as output
from aging North Sea deposits dwindles. While gas production
reached a record in 2010, oil output was almost halved last year
from its peak in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  