-- Oil Pares Weekly Gain as Middle East Tension Eases on Cease-Fire
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-11-23T07:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/oil-pares-weekly-gain-as-middle-east-tension-eases-on-cease-fire.html
Brent oil fell for a second day in
 London , paring a weekly gain, as a cease-fire between Israel and
Hamas eased concern that tension in the  Middle East  will disrupt
the region’s crude supplies.  Futures slid as much as 0.3 percent, matching yesterday’s
decline. The cease-fire crafted by Egypt and the U.S. halted
eight days of aerial assaults that ravaged the  Gaza Strip  and
made Tel Aviv a missile target. West Texas Intermediate futures
in  New York  have dropped since the Nov. 21 accord. There was no
floor trading in the U.S. yesterday because of the Thanksgiving
holiday, and electronic transactions will be booked with today’s
trades for settlement purposes.  “Crude prices fell because of profit taking after the
truce was announced as the tension in the Middle East eased,”
 Gordon Kwan , the head of regional energy research for Mirae
Assets Securities Ltd. who predicts Brent will trade from $105
to $120 a barrel this year, said by telephone in Hong Kong. “We
don’t think the truce will last long. The pullback in crude
prices won’t be significant.”  Brent oil for January settlement declined as much 38 cents
to $110.17 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange and was at $110.32 at 3:44 p.m. Singapore time. Prices
slipped 31 cents to $110.55 yesterday. Futures are up 1.3
percent this week and 2.7 percent this year. The European
benchmark grade traded at a premium of $23.14 to its U.S.
counterpart.  Brent has technical resistance along its 200-day moving
average, around $111.68 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have halted advances below this
indicator twice so far this month. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  All Options  WTI for January delivery was at $87.18 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 20
cents from the Nov. 21 close. The contract has gained 0.6
percent this week and dropped 12 percent this year.  Hamas and Israel are seeking to solidify the cease-fire
which took effect at 9 p.m. local time Nov. 21 and was announced
by Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr and U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton . The conflict threatens further
instability in the Middle East and North Africa after a wave of
uprisings that started last year, including one that almost
entirely halted crude exports from  Libya .  Israeli leaders have said that all options, including a
military strike, are justified to counter  Iran’s nuclear
program , which they describe as an existential threat.  Iran  is
the fifth-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  New York crude futures may decline next week because of the
cease-fire, a Bloomberg survey showed. Twelve of 27 analysts and
traders, or 44 percent, forecast prices will decrease through
Nov. 30. Nine respondents, or 33 percent, predicted a gain. Six
forecast little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  