-- Oil Caps Weekly Gain on German Business Confidence
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-23T19:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/oil-rises-on-german-business-confidence.html
Oil capped the biggest weekly gain
in more than a month as German business confidence unexpectedly
rose in November, a signal Europe’s largest economy may expand.  Futures jumped 1 percent and the euro and equities rallied
after the Munich-based Ifo institute’s  business climate index 
climbed from the lowest level in two and a half years in
October. Israeli troops fired on Palestinians near the Gaza
Strip border, spurring accusations from both Israel and Hamas
that a truce was breached.  “The economic data from Europe is increasing hopes that
things will improve in the region,” and  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “The shooting in Gaza is boosting concerns about
whether the cease-fire will hold. As a result, the geopolitical
premium isn’t leaving the market like expected.”  Crude oil for January delivery rose 90 cents to $88.28 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Nov. 6. Futures climbed 1.9 percent this week,
the biggest gain since the five days ended Oct. 12. Prices are
down 11 percent this year.  The exchange shut at 1:30 p.m. New York time today, an hour
earlier than usual. There was no floor trading yesterday because
of the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday and all electronic transactions
were booked with today’s trades for settlement purposes.  Brent for January settlement increased 83 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $111.38 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The contract gained 2.2 percent this week.  Business Confidence  German business confidence rose for the first time in eight
months. The index climbed to 101.4 from 100 in October.
Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast a drop to 99.5. French
 business confidence  advanced from the lowest level in more than
three years this month, a separate report showed today.  The euro advanced against the dollar and equities increased
on the improving outlook. The common currency rose 0.7 percent
to $1.2974. A stronger euro and weaker dollar increase the
appeal of commodities as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 1.3 percent to 1,409.15, the highest close
since Nov. 6.  “It will be hard for the price of a barrel to move lower
with the S&P at 1,400,” said Bob Yawger, director of the
futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York .  Gaza Shooting  Hamas said the Israeli fire left one dead and 25 injured.
Palestinian farmers were shot at on land they own near the
Israel-Gaza border, said Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the
Hamas-run Ministry of Health in Gaza.  Avital Leibovich, an Israeli army spokeswoman, said in a
message on Twitter that the Palestinians breached the cease-fire
by hurling stones and trying to damage the fence.  The shooting is the most serious episode of violence since
 Egypt  brokered the cease-fire, announced late on Nov. 21 after
eight days of airstrikes and missile fire in which 167
Palestinians and six Israelis were killed.  “There was a perception that crude would fall below $85
once there was a truce, but that’s not what happened,” Yawger
said. “Any truce in that region can fall apart in 15 minutes.”  Futures touched $89.80 on Nov. 19, the highest intraday
level since Oct. 22, on concern that violence in Gaza would
spread, disrupting crude shipments from the surrounding region.
The  Middle East  and North Africa accounted for 36 percent of
global oil output and held 52 percent of proved reserves in
2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  OPEC Capacity  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries have the lowest level of spare crude oil production
capacity since 2008, potentially buoying  oil prices ,  Oswald Clint , an analyst Sanford C. Bernstein and Co.in  London , said in
a report today.  OPEC has 2.4 million barrels a day of effective spare
capacity concentrated in  Saudi Arabia , Bernstein said. That
estimate excludes  Nigeria ,  Iran ,  Libya , Iraq and  Venezuela  which
may not be able to increase supply quickly enough to respond to
outages and where production has been volatile over the last
three years, according to the report.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 145,016
contracts. Volume totaled 392,684 contracts on Nov. 21, the
least since Oct. 30 and 26 percent lower than the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 