-- Thomas Cook Rises for Fifth Day Ahead of Results: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-11-23T16:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/thomas-cook-rises-for-fifth-day-ahead-of-results-london-mover.html
Thomas Cook  Group Plc, the U.K. tour
operator saved by an emergency loan last year, extended its
rising streak to the longest in a year as an analyst at Investec
raised his 12-month price prediction by 60 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Harriet Green, who joined the
170-year-old tour company in July, may indicate she aims to
make “swingeing” cost cuts when Thomas Cook reports full-year
results five days from now, analyst James Hollins said. Green is
due to present the results of her strategic review next year.  “We regard the management’s results debut as a new dawn
for the group,” Hollins said in a note to clients today. He
raised his price target to 40 pence from 25 pence and kept his
 buy recommendation  on the stock. The new target is about 73
percent higher than yesterday’s close. “The business turnaround
opportunity is tangible.”  The  shares  rose 4.4 percent, up a fifth day in the longest
series of advances since October 2011. The stock closed at
24 pence and the volume of shares traded, at 12.6 million, was
almost three times the three-month daily average.  Analysts are split over prospects for the tour operator,
which in May sold and leased back 19 aircraft for 182.9 million
pounds ($293 million) to raise cash after refinancing 1.4
billion pounds of loans.  Simon French, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., today
reiterated his view that the stock will be worth 7 pence in a
year’s time, which would imply a decline of about 70 percent.  Consensus estimates  for 2013 earnings are too high, French,
who maintained a sell rating, said in a note. The company should
sell new shares to raise cash and the U.K. retail business
should be put into voluntary administration to ensure its long-
term competitiveness, he said.  Investec’s price target is almost 40 percent higher than
the next highest of the 12 other estimates tracked by Bloomberg.
The lowest is 6 pence, set by Richard Stuber at Nomura
International Plc. Ed Birkin, an analyst at Barclays Plc, today
reiterated his 8 pence 12-month target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburg at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  