-- Tommy Tune Taps On Tiny Stage, Spars With Liza: Interview
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-11-23T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/tommy-tune-taps-on-tiny-stage-spars-with-liza-interview.html
Tommy Tune is tap-dancing on a
platform only slightly larger than his feet.  With his six-foot-six-inch frame sheathed in a valentine-
red three-piece suit and white button-down shirt, and teeth
dazzling through a broad smile, he resembles a candy cane on
uppers.  Last Sunday, and again this weekend at Feinstein’s at Loews
Regency, the director and choreographer of such musicals as
“Nine” and “Grand Hotel” is celebrating 50 years in show
business. The songs range from  Cole Porter ’s “Don’t Monkey With
Broadway” to Carole King’s “Up On the Roof,” which is in fact
where Tune -- astonishingly youthful as he nears his 74th
birthday -- lives today. We spoke at the East Side penthouse he
shares with a Yorkie named Lil’ Shubert.  Gerard: How did your show, “Taps, Tunes and Tall Tales,”
come about?  Tune: I realized this is my fiftieth year in show business
and I thought, well that’s a landmark, you should do something,
cuz nobody else is knockin’ on your door.  Gerard: But you’ve been busy, developing your musical about
Studio 54 and working on television.  Tune: I’m doing a recurring role on a sitcom called
“ Arrested Development ,” playing Liza Minnelli’s brother. We were
on a night shoot on a barge about the size of this carpet. There
were 16 of us and we rehearsed it in  Long Beach ,  California .
Then they pushed us out into the bay, it was raining, and I told
the Coast Guard, “Listen, this is important. I can’t swim.”  Tiny Stage  Gerard: At Feinstein’s, you’re tapping on the tiniest stage
I’ve ever seen.  Tune: This is really my  New York  nightclub debut. It
reminds me of when I was a little boy in Houston. My folks
entertained a lot and my father would roll back the rug and say,
“C’mon, Bo, give ’em all arms and legs.” He’d want me to dance
for everybody, which I hated. So I thought, “Well. Tommy, you’ve
done this before. In the living room.”  Gerard: You tell the very poignant story of your show-
stopping duet with the black tap dance legend Charles “Honi”
Coles in “My One and Only.” During a performance when you were
touring the show, Coles suffered a stroke. And though he
couldn’t sing, his feet carried him through the number
perfectly. Even now I see you choking up at the memory, as you
did during the show.  ‘Honi’ Coles  Tune: I was nervous to tell that story about Honi, but
that’s the heart of the show. It was the last time he ever
appeared on stage. And working with him, that was a change in my
life.  Gerard: In recent years, you’ve turned some of your
creative energy to painting, mostly at your home in  South Beach ,
 Florida . I see one work here on the wall.  Tune: I had a storage space downtown that was destroyed by
 Hurricane Sandy  and lost a lot of stuff. I don’t do cell phones
and I don’t use a computer, I’m very off the grid. But I always
have a sketchbook with me and I draw a lot.  Gerard: Your musical about the glory days of Studio 54 had
a promising tryout in Florida. What’s happening with it?  Tune: I was working with 26 kids, and I just loved them. It
was done on a 43-foot catwalk, with the audience on either side.
We’re looking for the right space to do it in. It can’t work on
a proscenium stage.  Gerard: We’re not seeing much of you on Broadway.  Tune: It’s good for me at this age to be doing stuff I
haven’t done.  Cary Grant  told me two things. He said after 40,
it’s important to take up a new activity every year. He also
said a gentleman over 40 never shows his elbows.  Tommy Tune will perform “Taps, Tunes and Tall Tales” on
Nov. 25 and 26 at Feinstein’s at Loews Regency. Information: +1-
212-339-4095;  http://www.feinsteinsatloewsregency.com .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and London  weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 