-- Hong Kong Stocks Caps Best Week Since September
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-11-23T08:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hong-kong-s-hang-seng-index-headed-for-best-week-since-september.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose, with the Hang
Seng Index capping its biggest weekly gain since September.
 China   Rare Earth  Holdings Ltd. jumped after a report that the
nation will extend subsidies to the industry.  China Rare Earth rose 4.7 percent. China Resources
Enterprise Ltd., the government-backed partner of SABMiller
Plc., gained 2.5 percent after reporting an increase in sales.
Developers gained as they lobbied the government to adjust a
property tax targeted at overseas and corporate buyers, with the
Hang Seng Property Index gaining 1.6 percent.  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.8 percent to 21,913.98 as of thr
4 p.m. local time close, with almost five stocks gaining for
each that fell in the 49-member gauge. The measure capped a 3.6
percent increase this week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in the city increased 1.1
percent to 10,606.99.  China “will be able to avoid a hard landing; we’ve seen a
much further-than-expected rebound in manufacturing and
exports,”  Norman Chan , head of investment at Calibre Asset
Management Ltd., a unit of National  Australia  Bank Ltd., said in
a Bloomberg television interview in Hong Kong. “China is a very
momentum-driven market and sometimes it takes a lot of
government policies to drive a situation.”  A Chinese manufacturing index yesterday signaled the first
expansion in 13 months, adding to signs that economic growth is
rebounding after a seven-quarter slowdown. The preliminary
reading was 50.4 for a purchasing managers’ index released by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. It compares with a final
level of 49.5 for October. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  Sustained Pickup  Gains in manufacturing bolster prospects for a sustained
pickup in economic growth that slowed last quarter to the
weakest pace in more than three years. A rebound may smooth a
once-a-decade leadership transition for the ruling Communist
Party, set to install Xi Jinping as president and  Li Keqiang  as
premier in March, and reduce the likelihood of additional
monetary stimulus.  The Hong Kong government should exempt buyers of apartments
costing more than HK$30 million ($3.9 million), and purchases by
companies whose directors or shareholders are Hong Kong
permanent residents, the Real Estate Developers Association of
Hong Kong said in a statement today. The companies say the tax
threatens the city’s “hard-earned” reputation as one of the
world’s freest markets.  Wharf (Holdings) Ltd., which gets 67 percent of its revenue
from the city, gained 3.6 percent to HK$57.60. China Resources
Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, gained 2.3 percent to
HK$20.10.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , building the world’s largest magnetite
iron-ore mine, advanced 1.7 percent to HK$9.85 after it was
granted an injunction to stop Mineralogy Pty Ltd. from
terminating mining rights and site lease agreements in
Australia.  Trading volume on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was about 13 percent
below the 30-day intraday average for the time of the day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge advanced 20
percent through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as
economic data showed China’s slowdown may be bottoming and
central banks around the globe added stimulus to spur growth.  U.S. Closed  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. Equity markets were closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  “It is looking like a fairly subdued day,” said Cameron Peacock, Melbourne-based analyst at IG Market Ltd., a provider
of trading services for equities, bonds and currencies.  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index traded at 11.5 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.4 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  slid 2.7 percent to 15.44, its
lowest level in a month, indicating traders expect a 4.4 percent
swing in the equity benchmark in the next 30 days. Futures on
the Hang Seng Index rose 0.9 percent to 21,934.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  