-- Hong Kong Builders Seek Tax Changes to Defend Free Market
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-11-23T08:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hong-kong-developers-seek-tax-changes-to-defend-freest-market.html
Hong Kong  developers are urging the
government to adjust its first property tax targeted at overseas
and corporate buyers because it threatens the city’s “hard-
earned” reputation as one of the world’s freest markets.  The government should exempt buyers of apartments costing
more than HK$30 million ($3.9 million), and purchases by
companies whose directors or shareholders are Hong Kong
permanent residents, the  Real Estate Developers Association of
Hong Kong  said in a  statement  today.  “The real estate market is now under direct government
control - a situation which we consider is unhealthy and
potentially dangerous,” Stewart Leung, chairman of the
executive committee at the association, wrote in a proposal to
the government. “We would respectfully advise against taking
any measures for the sake of short-term expediency at the cost
of risking Hong Kong’s hard-earned reputation.”  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying imposed his most stringent
set of property curbs on Oct. 26, including a 15 percent tax on
non-local and corporate homebuyers, to ease risks of a real
estate bubble after  home prices  doubled in almost four years as
 interest rates  stayed close to record lows and buyers from other
parts of China snapped up apartments.  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  and a shortage
of land supply for many years are the two “real causes” for
the present situation, according to the proposal by REDA. The
association represents the city’s developers, including  Cheung
Kong  (Holdings) Ltd.,  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , New World
Development Co. and Henderson Land Development Ltd.  More Units  The city’s de-facto central bank was forced to defend the
currency’s peg to the U.S. dollar for the first time since 2009
last month as the  Federal Reserve ’s third round of quantitative
easing sparked an inflow of cash into the city.  Secondary private residential property prices fell 0.55
percent in the week of Nov. 12-18 from a week earlier, Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. said on its website today. That was the
first decline since the week ended Sept. 16.  Leung, who took office in July, said in September that
there will be as many as 65,000 new private units available in
the next three to four years. That’s at least 30 percent more
than the average under  Donald Tsang , his predecessor, according
to estimates by  Nicole Wong , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets.  Leung has also sped up the approval of permits for private
project sales and will sell public units that were originally
intended for rent.  Helping Buyers  While it takes time for the land supply to be increased,
REDA suggests the government help first-home buyers by waiving a
stamp duty and relaxing the loan-to-value ratio of their
mortgages to as much as 90 percent.  A typical two-room, 600-square-foot apartment on  Hong Kong
Island  costs about HK$5.4 million, or HK$9,000 per square foot,
according to estimates by realtor  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)   Tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets in a
largely peaceful demonstration in July, hours after Leung
pledged to do more to address poverty and boost public housing.  Hong Kong’s Gini coefficient, which measures  income
inequality , has gained from 0.43 in 1971 to 0.537 in 2011,
according to government statistics. A reading of zero means
income equality and one complete inequality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  