-- Tony Hopkins Psyches Hitchcock; Ken Burns; L’Amour: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-11-23T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/tony-hopkins-psyches-hitchcock-ken-burns-l-amour-film.html
“ Hitchcock ,” director Sacha
Gervasi’s lively stroll through the id of a murder-obsessed
genius, is a lot more fun than “The Girl,”  HBO ’s recent portrait
of the artist as an old pervert.  It’s 1959 and the 60-year-old Hitch ( Anthony Hopkins )
is worried that he’s outlived both professional relevancy
(“Television has cheapened me,” he says) and the love of his
wife and collaborator Alma Reville ( Helen Mirren , compelling as
ever).  The Master of Suspense wants a leaner, meaner follow-up to
large-scale projects like “ North By Northwest ,” especially if it
rekindles the camaraderie of his early, experimental endeavors
with Alma.  “I just want to feel that kind of freedom again,” he tells
her.  He finds inspiration in Robert Bloch’s tawdry bestseller
“ Psycho ,” a murder novel based on real-life mummifier Ed Gein.  The horrific novel also taps into Hitchcock’s darker
impulses. Soon, Gein (Michael Wincott) is visiting the filmmaker
in nightmares and visions, and he’s happy to offer guidance when
Hitch suspects Alma of infidelity.  Too speculative and loose with facts to count as biography,
“Hitchcock” works slightly better as a loopy fever dream about
artistic creation, but even there it cuts only so deep.  Witty Mimics  Best enjoyed are its behind-the-movie “Psycho”-dramas and
witty impersonations.  Scarlett Johansson  is an engaging Janet Leigh, James D’Arcy nails the jittery tics of Anthony Perkins,
and Toni Collette makes the most of the underwritten role of
Hitchcock’s loyal assistant Peggy Robertson.  Danny Elfman’s mischievous score riffs on Bernard Herrmann’s
“Psycho” masterpiece and, like Gervasi, stops just short of
kitsch.  Hopkins, in a fanciful performance, makes an almost cuddly
Hitch, well-suited (and fat-suited) to Gervasi’s playful if
blade-thin vision of a Technicolor Hollywood heading for the
’60s.  Gervasi brings the same droll affection that made his 2008
heavy-metal documentary “ Anvil! The Story of Anvil ” such a
charmer.  That’s not to say “Hitchcock” isn’t pleased with its
cleverness. Fretting about “Psycho,” Hopkins’s Hitchcock is
haunted by an earlier flop.  “What if it’s another ’ Vertigo ?” he says.  We know it won’t be. And we know “Vertigo” will be judged a
classic. And we know to feel smart about knowing.  “Hitchcock,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , opens Friday in
select theaters. Rating: *** (Evans)  Ken Burns  Everyone remembers the “wilding,” the wolf packs, the
incomprehensible violence: The rape and beating of a Central
Park jogger in 1989 remains among New York’s most disturbing,
unforgettable crimes.  But our memories -- and the criminal case against five black
and Hispanic teenage boys -- are thoroughly dismantled in “ The
Central Park Five ,” the powerfully unsettling and angry new
documentary by Ken Burns, Sarah Burns and David McMahon.  Antron McCray, Kevin Richardson, Raymond Santana, Yusef
Salaam and Korey Wise, ages 14 to 16, falsely confessed and
served between six and 13 years for the crime, convictions that
were vacated in 2002 when a serial rapist’s confession was
corroborated by DNA evidence.  Public Accounts  Now grown, four of the five appear onscreen (McKray is
interviewed offscreen), providing their first full, public
accounts of the arrests, the coerced confessions, trials and
years of emotional devastation.  Also interviewed are family members, former mayors Ed Koch
and David Dinkins and various journalists and historians,
effectively recounting an era of massive urban crime that
contributed to the lynch-mob mentality.  “Central Park Five” is less stylistically ambitious than Amy
Berg’s upcoming, eerily similar “ West of Memphis ” (about
 Arkansas ’s wrongly accused “West  Memphis  Three”). The  New York 
story adheres to the familiar Burns’ format -- talking heads,
archival news footage and photos.  But “Central Park Five” is also more righteous and less
elegiac than we’ve come to expect from Burns. Prosecutors and
detectives who pressed the case declined to participate (a civil
lawsuit against the city is pending), and so we can only imagine
their defense against the willful ignorance and outright
corruption detailed here.  The documentary will air on PBS next April.  “The Central Park Five,” from IFC Films/Sundance Selects,
opens in New York Friday and Los Angeles November 30. Rating:
**** (Evans)  ‘Rust, Bone’  Harsh on the surface but far from mean, the French film
“ Rust and Bone ” is about two floundering souls who try to pull
each other back from the abyss.  Marion Cotillard  plays Stephanie, a recent double amputee.
The Flemish actor Matthias Schoenaerts is Ali, a down-and-out
drifter with a five-year-old son, who works in security jobs
until he finds a more lucrative outlet in extreme fighting.  Once they connect, it’s hard to see how they’ll get past
Ali’s awesome lack of emotional intelligence. (Since Stephanie
has stipulated “no obligations,” he doesn’t understand why she
bristles when they go to a club and he picks up another woman.)  But of course it’s his roughness -- his lack of pity for her
plight -- that appeals to her.  Rough Lives  The look is bleak. Though the picture takes place in
Antibes, on the Cote d’Azur, this isn’t the  France  of four-star
vacations but of low-grade food and big-box stores. Ali’s sister
(Corinne Masiero) works at one of them, sneaking home yogurt
that’s passed its expiration date to feed her family.  The director, Jacques Audiard (“ Read My Lips ”), doesn’t
underscore the horror of Stephanie’s accident; he shows her
stumps (achieved with CGI effects) matter-of-factly. He treats
the brutality of Ali’s fighting without hysteria.  Aside from a late-breaking crisis, the film is short on
melodrama. It isn’t pushy. A tough skin and a gentle heart --
that’s not a bad combination.  “Rust and Bone,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is playing in
New York. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and London
 Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 