-- Peru Bond Yields Decline on Foreign Demand; Sol Little Changed
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-23T22:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/peru-bond-yields-decline-on-foreign-demand-sol-little-changed.html
Peruvian bond yields fell to within
three basis points of a record low on speculation international
demand for the country’s assets will continue even as policy
makers seek to slow the appreciation of the local currency.  The yield on the 7.84 percent sol-denominated bonds due in
2020 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.22
percent, pushing the weekly decline to four basis points. The
record low was 4.19 percent on Sept. 21.  Peru ’s central bank is seeking to curb credit growth and
slow the appreciation of the sol, which last month touched a 15-
year high against the dollar as investors pour into Latin
America’s fastest-growing economy. The monetary authority raised
 reserve requirements  for a third straight month in October and
its research director Adrian Armas has said it may increase them
again.  Local investors bought the 7.84 percent bonds today “on
the expectation that there will be more demand from offshore,”
said Alberto Jabiles, a fixed-income trader at BBVA Banco
Continental in Lima. “Offshore investors keep coming to Peru
because of the exchange rate and low  interest rates  in the rest
of the world. Peru is a solid credit that offers carry. The
outlook for next year is good and there’s no reason for the
 exchange rate  to depreciate.”  The sol appreciated 0.7 percent this week to 2.5890 per
 U.S. dollar , according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The
currency was little changed today.  The central bank today bought $20 million in the spot
currency market at an average rate of 2.5895 soles per dollar,
it said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  