-- QPR Fire Coach Mark Hughes With Team in Last Place
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-23T12:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/queens-park-rangers-fire-coach-hughes-with-team-in-last-place.html
Queens Park Rangers , without a win
this season and in last place in English soccer’s Premier
League, fired manager  Mark Hughes  after 10 months in charge.  Hughes took over the newly promoted club in January from
 Neil Warnock , who was fired with the team in 17th place. QPR
finished the season in that spot, one point above the three-team
relegation zone.  The west London team is in its second season in England’s
top league after a 15-year absence.  Tony Fernandes , who controls
Malaysia’s AirAsia Bhd., bought the club in August last year,
and gave the former Manchester United player a 2 ½ year
contract. QPR is the only club without a win in the Premier
League this season.  “Mark has shown integrity and professionalism throughout
his time here, but ultimately the circumstances we find
ourselves in have left the board of directors with very little
choice but to make a change,” QPR said in a  statement  today on
its website.  QPR, which travels to Manchester United tomorrow, has 4
points from 12 matches, and is four points behind Southampton in
19th place. The team said Mark Bowen and Eddie Niedzwiecki will
be in charge while the board recruits a new manager.  It’s the second high-profile dismissal in  England ’s top
division this week. On Nov. 21, Chelsea fired Roberto di Matteo
as coach a day after a 3-0 loss at Juventus put the European
title holder on the brink of elimination from the  Champions
League . He’d been in charge for 262 days.  ‘Confident’  Shortly after hiring Hughes last year, the club brought in
players including midfielder Joey Barton, winger Shaun Wright- Phillips and fullback Luke Young.  Fernandes yesterday said he was “confident” he can turn
things around at QPR.  “I’ve been in worse situations before,” he told Bloomberg
in  Kuala Lumpur . “Let’s wait and see. We remain confident that
things can be sorted.”  The Daily Mirror today reported QPR has lined up  Harry Redknapp  to take over as manager from Hughes. The 65-year-old
Redknapp left Tottenham in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  