-- Ranbaxy Declines After Recall of Generic Lipitor in U.S.
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-11-23T22:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/ranbaxy-declines-after-recall-of-generic-lipitor-in-u-s-.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  fell the
most in more than three months after announcing a recall of the
company’s generic version of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s cholesterol treatment
Lipitor.  Ranbaxy is pulling the pills from the U.S. because they may
contain small particles of glass, the company said in a
statement on its website. The recall of atorvastatin will cause
a “temporary disruption” in the supply of the drug and it will
take two weeks to complete an investigation into the issue,
Ranbaxy said.  The recall by the drugmaker, based near  New Delhi , may lead
to a shortage of generic Lipitor in the U.S., Stephanie Yao, a
spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, said in an e-
mail. The agency is working with other drugmakers to help fill
the void in supply, she said.  About 1 million prescriptions a week are written in the
U.S. for generic copies of Lipitor, and Ranbaxy is the biggest
supplier of the drug, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Without Ranbaxy,  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  may
be able to pick up a larger share of the market, said Bloomberg
Industries analyst Asthika Goonewardene.  “There will be a financial loss linked to the recall,”
said Nitin Agarwal, an analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “Supplies will be out of the market for the next two
weeks and that should have an impact on their market share.”  Share Decline  Shares of Ranbaxy, a unit of Japan’s  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) ,
declined 3.1 percent to 496.95 rupees at the close in Mumbai,
its biggest single-day loss since Aug. 10. The benchmark BSE
India Sensitive Index fell 0.1 percent.  Ranbaxy, which was cleared by U.S. regulators to sell
copies of the cholesterol pill last year, agreed to make changes
at its manufacturing plants to settle allegations that its
pharmaceuticals didn’t meet FDA standards, according to a
proposed settlement filed by the  Justice Department  in January.
The company announced on Dec. 21 that it had reached an
agreement with the FDA and committed to tightening procedures
and policies to comply with industry standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  