-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Trades Close to Two-Week High on Europe Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-23T19:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/treasury-futures-remain-lower-before-greek-debt-reduction-talks.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
note yields close to two-week highs, as concern ebbed that
 Europe ’s leaders will fail to contain region’s three-year debt
crisis, reducing haven demand.  U.S. 10-year yields rose the most on a weekly basis since
September as finance ministers from the euro area prepare to
hold a meeting on Nov. 26 to discuss unlocking bailout funds for
 Greece , after failing to reach an agreement earlier this week.
The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes next week.  “We are just going to stay range-bound, barring what goes
on in Europe,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist
at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed.  The 10-year note yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.69 percent as of 1:59 p.m. in New York.
The price of the 1.625 percent security maturing in November
2022 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 of face value, to 99
13/32, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The yield rose earlier today to 1.70 percent, the  most 
since Nov. 7. It rose 11 basis points this week, the most since
Sept. 14.  Trading of U.S. government bonds closed at 2 p.m. in New
York after it was shut yesterday for Thanksgiving.  Less Expense  Treasuries traded at the least expensive levels in more
than two weeks. The 10-year  term premium , a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for interest
rates, growth and inflation, was negative 0.87 percent, the
least costly since Nov. 6. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value. The average this year is negative 0.76 percent.  Treasury trading volume dropped to $163 billion on Nov. 21,
compared with the 2012 daily average of $241 billion, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government
debt. The figure was down from $242 billion the previous day.  The U.S. government is scheduled to auction $35 billion of
two-year notes on Nov. 27. The Treasury will offer the same
amount of five-year securities on Nov. 28 and $29 billion of
seven-year debt the following day.  Spain’s Debt  Spain’s government bonds trimmed a weekly advance after S&P
said the economic risks for the nation’s banks have increased
amid greater credit risk in lending to households, corporations
and the public sector.  U.S. government securities returned investors 2.3 percent
this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  of shares has risen 12 percent during the period,
including reinvested dividends. Demand for the securities has
been sustained as European leaders struggled to resolve the
sovereign debt crisis and the U.S. approached the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  Greece is negotiating with euro-area politicians and the
International Monetary Fund over the steps needed to qualify for
the release of loan installments frozen since June.  “The Treasury market will be dictated to by events in
Europe, given the lack of data” in the U.S. today, said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “We have some more data next week. We have
the meeting on Greece and it looks increasingly likely that a
compromise will be cobbled together.”  Durable Goods  The Commerce Department may say on Nov. 27 that bookings
for  goods  meant to last at least three years fell 0.8 percent in
October from the prior month, according to the median projection
of economist surveyed by Bloomberg.  The housing revival still faces “ significant obstacles ,”
and strengthening the housing recovery remains a “critical
challenge” for policy makers, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
on Nov. 15. He unveiled a plan in September to buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing.  The Fed currently sells shorter-term notes and buys longer-
maturity bonds as part of its  Operation Twist  program due to
expire at the end of this year. The central bank will  buy  as
much as $2.25 billion of Treasuries maturing in February 2036 to
November 2042 on Nov. 26.  Fed’s Role  “You’ve still got fairly hefty buying by the Fed going
through every month taking a whole lot of stock out of the
market,” said Michael Turner, a fixed-income strategist in
Sydney at Royal Bank of  Canada . “So, you can’t be too
bearish.”  Gains by U.S. government debt securities may be limited
amid optimism that politicians will find a way to avoid the so-
called fiscal cliff.  The 10-year yield has rebounded since it reached a two-
month low of 1.55 percent on Nov. 16 when President  Barack Obama 
met with congressional leaders about the fiscal cliff. House
Speaker John Boehner and White House Press Secretary Jay Carney
both described the discussions as “constructive.”  The fiscal cliff refers to the $607 billion combination of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take
effect in January. Lawmakers are trying to avert the cliff to
prevent a short-term shock to the economy and reach an agreement
on long-term deficit reduction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  