-- RIM Jumps in U.S. Trading After Toronto Surge Yesterday
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-11-23T19:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/rim-jumps-in-u-s-trading-following-toronto-surge-yesterday-1-.html
Research In Motion (RIMM)  Ltd. jumped 14
percent in  New York  trading, following an 18 percent gain in
Toronto yesterday on rising optimism over the BlackBerry maker’s
newest smartphones.  RIM climbed $1.40 to $11.66 at 1:30 p.m. in New York. The
U.S. markets were closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving holiday.
While RIM has rallied 47 percent in November, it is still down
20 percent for the year.  RIM’s Canadian shares had their biggest gain in more than
three years yesterday after National Bank Financial lifted its
price target for U.S. shares to $15 from $12, saying new
BlackBerry 10 sales should be better than expected. It followed
a Nov. 20 report from Jefferies & Co. that said chances are
improving that the new BlackBerry 10 smartphones will revive
sales when they hit stores in February.  RIM should ship about 35.5 million BlackBerry 10 units next
fiscal year, said National Bank’s  Kris Thompson , up from a
previous estimate of 31.6 million. Most analysts had expected
sales to start in March, said Toronto-based Thompson, who rates
RIM the equivalent of a buy.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, needs a hit with
BlackBerry 10 models to start winning back market share lost to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins has been
traveling the globe in recent weeks, meeting carriers and
corporate customers to talk up BlackBerry 10’s features.  Thompson said that part of the reason he lifted his sales
estimates was the “positive sentiment building in the
industry.”  RIM Optimism  Eric Jackson , president of Naples, Florida-based Ironfire
Capital LLC, is one skeptic who has been won over. After betting
on RIM shares to fall in the past, Jackson said yesterday he
recently bought the stock because he expects a surge of upgrades
from loyal BlackBerry customers. He declined to say how many
shares he acquired.  “Most are greatly underestimating how many loyal
subscribers will upgrade to BB10 in calendar 2013,” Jackson
said. “All those pending upgrades are currently not factored
into the stock.”  In  Canada , RIM shares fell 3.6 percent to C$11.60 at 1:48
p.m. following yesterday’s rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  