-- Russia Stocks Cap Best Week in Two Months on Oil, Utility Rally
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-11-23T15:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/russia-stocks-poised-for-1st-weekly-gain-in-3-on-utilities-rally.html
Russian stocks rose, capping the
biggest weekly gain in two months, as  crude oil  climbed and
utilities rallied on President  Vladimir Putin ’s decrees to merge
and inject cash into companies in the industry.  The Micex Index increased 0.7 percent to 1,413.15 by the
close in Moscow, a 2.1 percent gain in the week and the biggest
advance for the period in two months. OAO MRSK Holding, the
nation’s largest power distributor, surged 6.1 percent, the
biggest advance since September, as 1.9 times the three-month
daily average number of shares changed hands. OAO Inter RAO UES
increased 4.4 percent.  Putin signed a decree giving MRSK Holding a majority stake
in Federal Grid Co., the country’s monopoly for high-voltage
power transmission. He also approved a cash injection for OAO
RusHydro, the country’s biggest renewable energy producer. The
MSCI  Russia  Utilities Index has climbed 9.8 percent this week,
the most since the period ending Sept. 14.  “This is definitely a good week for utilities, the
government’s decrees bring an end to uncertainty,” Ivan Manaenko, head of research at Veles Capital LLC in Moscow, said
by phone. “The oil rally this week caused by the conflict in
the  Middle East  helped boost appetite for Russia.”  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  gained 0.9 percent to
1,432.24, the highest level since Nov. 2.  Crude Oil  Crude, Russia’s main export earner, increased 0.3 percent
to $87.67, adding 1.2 percent in the week. A cease-fire between
Israel and Hamas crafted by  Egypt  and the U.S. halted eight days
of aerial assaults that ravaged the  Gaza Strip  and made  Tel Aviv 
a missile target. Russia receives about half of its budget
revenue from oil and natural gas sales.  A report showing German business confidence unexpectedly
rose from the lowest level in 2 1/2 years in November bolstered
sentiment that  Europe ’s largest economy may regain some
strength.  Federal Grid climbed 7.2 percent, with trading volume at
2.3 times the three-month daily average. The power transmission
company rose 10 percent in the week, the biggest advance on the
Micex. RusHydro added 1.3 percent today after rising 3.8 percent
yesterday as Putin approved a 50 billion-ruble ($1.6 billion)
cash injection into the company this year.  AFK Sistema gained 7.5 percent this week, the second-
biggest advancer. The holding company was granted permission to
trade 25 percent of its stock overseas, according to an e-mailed
statement from the  Federal Financial Markets Service  late
yesterday.  Fund Outflows  Russian (INDEXCF)  equity funds had $101 million of outflows in the
five trading days ended Nov. 21, a seventh week of redemptions
and up from $48 million of outflows a week earlier, according to
Sberbank CIB’s note, which cited EPFR Global data.  OAO Rosneft fell 0.7 percent to 241.55 rubles, the lowest
since Nov. 8.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-biggest oil company,
signed a binding agreement to sell its half of the TNK-BP
Russian oil venture to Russia’s largest oil producer, according
to yesterday’s statement from BP. Rosneft declined 2.7 percent
this week, leading declines this week in the Micex.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings , the
lowest valuation among 21  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.
That compares with a multiple of 10 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. Russia’s benchmark gauge has advanced 0.8 percent
this year, compared with an 8.5 percent gain for the global
index for developing markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  