-- Russia Says It’s Set to Lift a Ban on British Beef Imports
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-11-23T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/russia-says-it-s-set-to-lift-a-ban-on-british-beef-imports-1-.html
Russia  may resume imports of British
beef as it’s set to lift a ban put in place after outbreaks of
mad cow disease.  The import restrictions were first put in place in 1986,
Russia’s food safety service  Rosselkhoznadzor  said in a
statement on its website yesterday. The U.K.’s Department for
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs said in a  statement  on its
website today that the ban has been in place for 16 years.  The U.K. government expects written confirmation, that the
ban will be lifted, from Russian officials within the next few
days. The development follows negotiations led by Defra’s chief
veterinary officer Nigel Gibbens, the department said in the
statement. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy, known as BSE or mad
cow disease, has “virtually disappeared in the U.K.,” Defra
said.  The agreement is worth 80 million pounds ($127 million)
over the next three years, Defra said. There were six  cases  of
BSE diagnosed in cattle last year in the U.K., compared with
37,000 in 1992, according to the Food Standards Agency. The U.K.
is the European Union’s fourth-largest beef producer, after
France, Germany and  Italy , according to data from the 27-country
bloc.  “British food is recognized around the world for using
quality ingredients, for rigorous production standards, and for
reliable traceability,” Environment Secretary Owen Paterson
said in the statement.  British beef producers still will have to comply with
Russian sanitary norms, Aleksei Alekseenko, Rosselkhoznadzor
spokesman, said by phone in Moscow today. “We, from our side,
opened the doors.”  The move comes after two U.K. meat processors improved
their operations, following inspections in February, Alekseenko
said.  Mad cow disease is a transmissible brain disease that is
fatal for cattle, according to the  World Health Organization .
Eating meat from BSE-infected animals has been tied to
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, an incurable human illness that
destroys brain tissue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  