-- S&P Sees 33% Chance of French Debt Rating Cut Next Year
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2012-11-23T08:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/s-p-sees-33-chance-of-french-debt-rating-cut-next-year.html
Standard & Poor’s, which stripped
 France  of its top  credit rating  in January, said there’s at
least a one-in-three chance the country will be lowered again
next year.  S&P in a statement today affirmed France’s AA+ rating and
maintained its negative outlook on the country. The ratings
company’s actions come just days after Moody’s Investors Service
on Nov. 19 cut France’s top Aaa rating by one level.  “The French government remains committed to budgetary and
structural reform that would build on measures it has proposed
so far to improve the country’s growth potential,” S&P said in
the statement.  The ratings companies' actions have done little to dent the
rally in French bonds. French debt securities have handed 
investors a return of about 8.8 percent since S&P’s January 
downgrade, or more than double the 3.9 percent gain from
AAA rated sovereign bonds, according to  Bank of America  Merrill
Lynch indexes. Top-ranked German bonds returned 3.1 percent.  The gains underscore how downgrades by credit-ratings
companies are being shrugged off by investors. The U.S. has been
deemed more creditworthy by investors since S&P removed the
nation’s AAA grade in 2011, with 10-year note yields dropping to
a record this year.  The yield on French 10-year bonds was little changed after
the S&P statement at 2.175 percent as of 8:57 a.m. in Paris.  French Growth  S&P said it expects the French economy to expand 0.4
percent in 2013, or at half the government’s forecast.  The ratings company listed rigidities in the labor market,
“relatively restrained” competition in some services
industries and an overall high tax burden for France’s economic
woes.  President  Francois Hollande  is starting to take steps to
tackle France’s record trade deficit and high labor costs,
saying this month that he’ll raise sales taxes to pay for a cut
of 20 billion euros ($25.8 billion) in charges on business.  At a 2 1/2 hour press conference on Nov. 13, the Socialist
president also pledged 60 billion euros in spending cuts over
five years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  