-- Samsung Reaches Record After Sony, Panasonic Cut: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-11-23T07:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/samsung-reaches-record-after-sony-panasonic-cut-seoul-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  rose to a
record in Seoul trading a day after  Fitch Ratings  cut  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to junk, improving the chances of the
world’s biggest maker of TVs to extend its dominance.  The  stock  rose 1.4 percent to 1,437,000 won, its biggest
five-day advance since Aug. 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares have risen 36 percent this year, valuing
the Suwon, South Korea-based company at 212 trillion won ($195
billion), making it the 15th-biggest in the world by market
capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony and Panasonic, reeling from  record losses , will
struggle amid a strong yen and weakened economic conditions in
Japan and overseas, Fitch said yesterday in downgrading the
companies to junk for the first time. Unlike Samsung, which is
expanding with record spending and profits, Japanese electronics
makers are shuttering factories and firing workers after
struggling much of the past two decades without hit products to
take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   “Samsung will benefit from the crumbling of its Japanese
rivals,” Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a report today. “On top
of smartphone sales, Samsung is also boosting its market share
with tablet computers.”  Sony’s rating was cut by three levels to BB-, three steps
below investment grade, with a negative outlook, Fitch said.
Panasonic’s was lowered two levels to BB, also with a negative
outlook, the ratings company said in a separate statement. Both
companies had their short-term ratings reduced to B from F3.  Stable Outlook  Samsung is rated A+ at Fitch with a stable outlook.  Sony had 7 percent of the global TV market in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, down from 8.4 percent the previous quarter,
according to DisplaySearch. Panasonic dropped to 6.2 percent
from 6.8 percent in the same period. Samsung remained No. 1 with
25.2 percent, according to the researcher’s website.  Separately, a U.S. judge in  San Jose , California, yesterday
ordered Apple to tell Samsung about the financial terms of a
licensing agreement with  HTC Corp. (2498)   That order came after Apple won a $1.05 billion patent-
infringement verdict in a  jury trial  against Samsung as the
world’s two-biggest smartphone makers  battle in courts  across
four continents regarding technology in their mobile phones.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal ordered Cupertino,
California-based Apple to produce a copy of the agreement with
HTC under an “attorneys-eyes-only” designation, meaning it
won’t be publicly available.  HTC, which is based in Taoyuan, Taiwan, isn’t entitled to
special treatment, especially since it has recognized the
general sufficiency of the protective order and the integrity of
Samsung’s outside counsel, Grewal wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  