-- HSBC Left With EU400 Million Amadeus Stake as Sale Flops
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-11-23T10:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hsbc-left-with-eu400-million-amadeus-stake-as-sale-flops.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  owns more than 400
million euros ($515 million) of  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  shares
after failing to find buyers for a stake in the travel
reservations company.  HSBC, which attempted to place a block of Amadeus shares
last week, holds 5.4 percent of the company, the bank said in a
filing to the Spanish financial regulator this week.  HSBC  disclosed  its stake in Amadeus, a Madrid-based
operator of travel booking systems, on Nov. 20, when the shares
were valued at 447 million euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  On Nov. 14, the bank managed a block sale of 23.6 million
shares, or a 5.3 percent stake of Amadeus, on behalf of  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Societe Generale SA, which had borrowed stock
from Air-France KLM. The placing triggered HSBC’s obligations as
an underwriter, the bank told the Spanish regulator, which means
it had to keep stock on its books. Robert Baker, a spokesman for
HSBC, declined to comment on the deal.  HSBC has made no further filing to disclose its holdings to
the Spanish agency, the Comision Nacional del Mercado de
Valores, also known as the CNMV.  Spanish regulations give buyers four market working days to
disclose when they cross a 3 percent ownership threshold in a
listed company. After taking a 5 percent stake, they need to
declare each additional ownership increase of 1 percentage
point. Before the block sale, HSBC had 2.74 million shares in
Amadeus, according to the CNMV filing, meaning the bank added
21.23 million Amadeus shares to its Amadeus stake.  Amadeus shares traded at 17.7 euros at 10:43 a.m. in
 Madrid . They have fallen 8.3 percent since Nov. 14. On that day,
HSBC said the block sale was being conducted at 19 euros per
share.  The Financial Times reported the HSBC stake earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  