-- Schmallenberg Livestock Virus Reported in 16 European Countries
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-23T15:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/schmallenberg-livestock-virus-reported-in-16-european-countries.html
The Schmallenberg livestock virus,
which caused  birth defects  in thousands of sheep and cattle in
Europe this year, has been detected in 16 countries to date, the
European Food Safety Authority reported.  In addition to 14 European Union countries, Switzerland has
found the virus in domestic ruminants and  Norway  detected
Schmallenberg in biting midges trapped as part of a surveillance
program, the EFSA wrote in a  report  on its website.  The number of farms in Europe with laboratory-confirmed
cases was 5,955 as of Oct. 30, from a total of 10,124 holdings
with suspected cases, according to the Parma, Italy-based EFSA.
New cases peaked in March for sheep and in May for cattle.  “SBV is continuing to spread in new areas of  Europe , and
it is likely that new SBV cases will be observed in southern and
eastern regions of Europe in 2013,” the EFSA wrote.  The virus was first detected last year and has been
confirmed in 3,562 cattle herds, including 2,018 in  France  and
820 in  Germany , as well as 2,278 sheep flocks, about half of
them in France, the report showed. Other cases were in goats,
horses and bison.  The virus, named after the German town near where it was
first identified, is believed to be transmitted by insects and
after infecting pregnant sheep or cows causes stillbirths and
deformed, nonviable young that die after delivery.  The number of sheep flocks with confirmed cases peaked in
the week through March 5, with “very few” cases after May 13,
according to the EFSA.  “This decrease is due to the end of the lambing season in
affected countries,” the EFSA wrote. “It is likely that new
cases in sheep will be reported in spring 2013.”  Reports of infected cattle herds peaked in the week through
May 13, while reporting of new cases continued throughout the
summer, according to the regulator. Many new cases from August
to October were in adult animals in  Switzerland  as well as the
U.K., based on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  