-- Slovenia to Take Full Control of Biggest Bank as KBC Pulls Out
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-11-23T15:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/slovenia-to-take-full-control-of-biggest-bank-as-kbc-pulls-out.html
Slovenia will probably gain full
control of Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., its biggest bank, as
 Belgium ’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  is pulling out, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said.  The government increased its stake in Nova Ljubljanska to
59 percent after contributing 381 million euros ($493 million)
in its capital boost in June. KBC’s holding fell to 22 percent
as the Belgian lender, which is seeking funds to repay a state
aid, didn’t buy NLB’s new shares, according to  NLB’s website .  “The state’s holding will soon reach 100 percent as KBC
must pull out and I expect them to do that,” Sustersic told
reporters in Ljubljana today. “KBC can sell its stake to some
other party or they can just watch and see their capital rot.”  Slovenian banks are the main worry of investors as the euro
region nation may be forced to seek an international bailout to
prop up the ailing banking industry. Political bickering may
push the Adriatic nation to seek assistance, Sustersic said as
he sees no economic reasons for a bailout.  Referendum Call  Labor union and opposition leaders have initiated a
referendum call on the creation of a so-called bad bank as well
as the wealth fund that is delaying government’s plans to
recapitalize banks and overhaul the economy. A vote on these
measures will probably take place in January unless the
Constitutional Court rules otherwise.  “Referendums are the real threat that Slovenia will have
to ask for aid as there are no economic reasons to do that since
we are doing all we can to lower the budget deficit,” Sustersic
said. The gap will probably shrink to “about 4 percent,” of
gross domestic product this year from 6.4 percent in 2011,
according to Sustersic.  The bad bank legislation that was already adopted by
lawmakers foresees cleaning up banks’s balance sheets by taking
out bad loans and swapping them for government-guaranteed bonds
of as much as 4 billion euros, Sustersic has said.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and Abanka Vipa d.d. need
more capital and “we may see a smaller need for fresh funding
for NLB by the year’s end,” Sustersic said. “We will have to
think about alternative measures if the bad bank plan fails and
lenders themselves will have to accelerate asset sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  