-- South Korean Independent Ahn Withdraws From Presidency Race
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-11-24T05:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/south-korean-presidential-candidate-ahn-withdraws-from-race-1-.html
South Korean independent candidate
Ahn Cheol Soo withdrew from next month’s presidential election
and will back main opposition nominee Moon Jae In, presenting a
single challenger to the ruling New Frontier Party.  “It’s not good for the nation to have conflicts over how
to unify campaigns,” Ahn, 50, said in a live briefing on  South
Korea ’s YTN television network last night. “Moon is the unified
candidate. I’d appreciate your support for him.”  The NFP candidate, Park Geun Hye, was the front-runner in a
three-way race and has a narrow head-to-head lead over
Democratic United Party lawmaker Moon, according to an opinion
poll Nov. 22. Moon and Park, who is seeking to become the first
female leader of  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy, will have to
contend with rising household debt and have vowed to boost jobs
and reduce the  income gap .  Ahn’s decision will pose a serious threat to Park in the
Dec. 19 vote and boosts the opposition’s chances after Park’s
two opponents bickered for weeks over the conditions for joining
forces, said Sonn Ho Chul, a professor of political science at
Seoul-based Sogang University.  “This is the most dramatic merger one can expect, and it
maximizes the power of unified forces against Park,” Sonn said.
“The merger talks hadn’t been so smooth and were a little
tiring to watch, but Ahn has made a compromise for the
opposition party.”  No Title  Ahn said yesterday he and Moon “couldn’t narrow our
differences” over the method of the merger.  “I will continue my own fight for the transition of the
administration without any title,” he said, in a reference to
his future role.  Top election campaigners for Moon will give up their posts
to enable a new team to be formed, his campaign office said
today in an e-mail.  There is a need to “form a new election camp through a
people’s alliance” based on cooperation between Moon and Ahn,
Park Kwang On, a spokesman for Moon, said in the e-mail without
giving any details.  The campaign for the presidency with its single five-year
term has been marked by broad agreement on the need to expand
social welfare and confront income disparity. Park’s party has
been hurt by scandals and outgoing President  Lee Myung Bak ’s
plummeting approval ratings.  Prosecutors have indicted nearly 200 people and ordered at
least two jail sentences after uncovering illegal lending and
lax oversight among bankers, regulators, politicians and
lobbyists.  Former Lawyer  Moon, 59, is a former human-rights lawyer who was jailed in
1975 for leading street protests against the government of
Park’s father, Park Chung Hee, who ruled the country for 18
years. He later served as chief of staff to President Roh Moo Hyun, who was in office from 2003 to 2008.  In an interview last month, Moon said he was certain of a
merger with Ahn. A win by the opposition may augur tougher
regulation of chaebols, the family-run conglomerates that have
propelled the nation’s exports, as well as wider ties with North
Korea.  “Ahn made a big decision for regime change,” Moon’s team
said in an e-mailed statement. “Together with Ahn and all the
people who support him, we will work to succeed in changing the
regime in order to pioneer new politics and a new era.”  Ahn, who has a master’s in business administration from the
Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , declared his
candidacy in September having never run for office. He founded
 Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , South Korea’s biggest antivirus software maker.  Ahn’s Supporters  The question now is whether Ahn’s supporters will agree to
back Moon after months of uncertainty during which Ahn remained
noncommittal about a merger, Lee Nae Young, a political science
professor at Seoul-based Korea University, said in a phone
interview.  “The race has become an even closer call for Park,” Lee
said. “It’s hard to predict how many of Ahn’s supporters will
side with Moon.”  Park’s support rate stood at 45.5 percent, ahead of Moon’s
27 percent and Ahn’s 20.8 percent, according to the Nov. 22 poll
by Seoul-based Realmeter. In a two-way race, Moon trails her
43.6 percent to 49.4 percent. Before Ahn announced he was
leaving the race, the poll showed he led Park 46.5 percent to
43.6 percent. Realmeter surveyed 1,500 people and the poll had a
margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  Fair Trade  Moon said one of his priorities is shielding small- and
medium-sized businesses by “drastically” boosting the
authority of the Fair Trade Commission in its oversight of
transactions between chaebols and their suppliers. He supports a
return to the so-called Sunshine Policy of engagement with  North
Korea  that Lee Myung Bak abandoned.  Park, 60, served as her father’s first lady after her
mother was killed in a 1974 assassination attempt by North Korea
on her father. She has vowed to seek to meet with North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un to improve relations if she wins.  Park had tried and failed to get her party’s nomination for
president in 2007. Lee has faced mounting discontent for his
failure to deliver on election promises to boost economic growth
to an annual 7 percent and per-capita income to $40,000 by 2017.  Instead, the global slowdown cut growth to 3.6 percent last
year and South Korea’s jobless rate for those 15-29 years old
was 7.3 percent in July, more than double the national average
of 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  