-- South African Opposition DA to Re-Elect Zille as Leader
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-23T06:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/south-african-opposition-da-to-re-elect-zille-as-leader.html
Helen Zille is running unopposed for
a new term as head of South Africa’s main opposition party, the
 Democratic Alliance . Her tougher task is to win enough support
from the country’s black majority to challenge the ruling
African National Congress.  “They need to attract black leaders who will appeal to the
black masses,” Prince Mashele, executive director at the
Johannesburg-based Centre for Politics and Research, said in a
Nov. 21 interview. “They need to acknowledge that South
Africa’s racialized history has twisted the economic
circumstances in the country and they need a plan to rectify
this.”  As the only nominee, Zille, 61, is guaranteed to win a
second five-year term at a two-day congress that starts today in
Johannesburg. She’s chalked up some success, seeing the DA’s
share of the vote jump to 16.7 percent in 2009 from 12.4 percent
five years earlier. It also won a majority in Cape Town’s
Western Cape province, making her the premier there, and took
23.9 percent of the vote in municipal elections last year.  Still, 12 years after it was formed, five of her party’s
nine leaders are white. The racial group makes up 9 percent of
the population and earns on average six times more than blacks,
according to a census released by Statistics South  Africa  last
month. The party’s leader in parliament, Lindiwe Mazibuko, is
black.  The DA was formed in 2000 by a merger of the Democratic
Party and the New National Party, whose predecessor ruled under
apartheid. The two movements split the following year and NNP
leader Marthinus van Schalkwyk formed an alliance with the ANC.  Political ‘Realignment’  Zille has urged other opposition groups to unite against
the ANC, which draws most of its support from blacks after
leading the fight against white-minority rule and holds a two-
thirds majority in Parliament. The Independent Democrats, a
party led by Cape Town’s mayor Patricia de Lille that won less
than 1 percent of the vote in 2009, last year agreed to merge
with the DA.  Zille called in September for a “realignment” of South
African politics, urging those who believed in “values of non-
racialism, constitutionalism and a market-driven economy” to
unite against the ANC’s “populism.” The ruling party’s
policies will push the country into the “abyss of absolute
poverty,” she said.  South Africa’s economy is struggling, hit by three months
of mining strikes, rising unemployment and downgrades by credit-
rating companies.  Slowing Growth  The rand fell to a more than three-year low of 9.0092 per
dollar on Nov. 21 and has plunged 9.3 percent this year, the
second-worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It was trading at 8.9193 a dollar at 8:40 a.m. in
Johannesburg. The cost to protect South African debt against
non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose 20
basis points to 167 in the past month, indicating deteriorating
risk perception among investors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  last month cut the forecast
for economic growth this year to 2.5 percent, the slowest pace
since a recession in 2009.  “There’s no doubt that the DA will grow,” Mashele said.
“I don’t see them really as causing a political earthquake and
challenging the ANC in a serious way.”  The DA has won some battles against the government. The
Constitutional Court last month ruled in its favor when it
challenged President Jacob Zuma’s appointment of Menzi Simelane,
South Africa’s chief prosecutor, arguing it was invalid because
of his lack of experience and he misrepresented facts in an
inquiry into the conduct of his predecessor, Vusi Pikoli.  The ANC on Nov. 21 also agreed to schedule a parliamentary
debate on a motion of no confidence in Zuma after the DA went to
court to force lawmakers to discuss the motion. Initially, the
ANC called the request “frivolous” and “based solely on
spurious allegations rather than facts,” according to a Nov. 14
statement.  The ruling party, which is holding its own leadership
conference next month, is now suggesting that the debate be held
in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  