-- Suez Environnement Expects to Buy Assets From 2015, CEO Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-23T14:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/suez-environnement-expects-to-buy-assets-from-2015-ceo-says.html
Suez Environnement (SEV) , the world’s
second-biggest water company, may bide its time and look to buy
assets that could come up for sale in about two years.  “There will be lots of assets in 2015 and 2016 that could
come on the market and could interest us,” Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade told an investor conference today
in Paris. “If we are cautious in 2013 and 2014 we will come out
a winner.”  The utility doesn’t expect rapid growth in the next two
years and will “protect its balance sheet,” Chaussade said.
Next year’s investment could be similar to the 1.2 billion euros
($1.6 billion) the utility set aside for this year, he said.  Suez Environnement, which has pledged to maintain its
dividend this year, has taken provisions worth about 300 million
euros on a delayed Australian desalination plant. The utility,
like  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , is grappling with slower demand
for industrial waste collection in  Europe  after manufacturers
shuttered factories to survive the economic slowdown.  The utility’s revenue next year is expected to remain about
the same or a little higher than 2012, Chaussade said today. He
reiterated full-year financial targets.  Suez Environnement, which is 34 percent-owned by  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA, said earlier this year that the impairment on the Australian
desalination plant, combined with an “uncertain” economic
environment, would leave earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization unchanged in 2012.  The Melbourne plant is expected to begin commercial
operations on Dec. 18 following a test period, Chaussade said.
The utility wants to get back about half the provisions passed
for its development.  In  Spain , water prices are rising as much as 3 percent
while investment in infrastructure has slowed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  