-- Suh’s Groin Hit on Texans’ Quarterback to Be Reviewed by NFL
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-23T18:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/suh-s-groin-hit-on-texans-quarterback-to-be-reviewed-by-nfl.html
The  National Football League  will
review a play in which Detroit Lions defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh foot struck Houston Texans quarterback  Matt Schaub  in the
groin.  The play in yesterday’s game in Detroit came one year after
Suh stomped on the arm of a  Green Bay Packers ’ player in another
Thanksgiving Day game. Suh apologized publicly for that hit and
was suspended for two games.  Ray Anderson , the National Football League’s executive vice
president, announced the review today on NFL.com. He said Suh’s
prior transgressions will factor into potential discipline
should the NFL deem it necessary.  “Certainly that will be one that will be reviewed after
the weekend’s slate of games as part of normal course of
action,” Anderson said, according to NFL.com. “It drew our
attention.”  Roughly eight minutes into yesterday’s 34-31 Texans
overtime victory, Suh fell to the ground and rolled over a
Houston offensive lineman, his left foot making contact with
Schaub’s groin. The quarterback was slow to get up but remained
in the game.  “I don’t really have anything to say about that play or
that person,” Schaub told reporters after the Texans improved
to 10-1 for the season.  The 6-foot-4, 307-pound Suh had been fined three times by
the NFL prior to last year’s Thanksgiving suspension and met
with league Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in New York last year to
discuss how to better play within the rules.  Suh left the postgame locker room yesterday before the
media entered, according to NFL.com. He has 4 1/2 sacks and 20
tackles this season for Detroit (4-7).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  