-- Syria Death Toll Climbs Past 40,000 Mark, Activists Say
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-11-23T17:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/syria-death-tolls-climbs-past-40-000-mark-activists-say.html
At least 50 people were killed today
in fighting between forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al- Assad and rebels as the death toll passed 40,000, according to
activists.  Government forces shelled the towns of Hamouriya and
Arbaeen around Damascus, according to Al Arabiya television. The
channel also reported heavy clashes in the Damascus district of
Kfar Sousa. Syrian forces are bombarding towns and villages in
the provinces of Dara’a, Hama and Idlib, the opposition Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said.  The U.K.-based Observatory also said a suicide bomber
detonated a car-bomb by a checkpoint near the military
residential compound in the city of Idlib, killing three
soldiers and injuring 15 others, some seriously.  The violence came as the speaker of  Iran ’s parliament, Ali Larijani, met with Assad in the capital, according to the
Associated Press. Iran is Assad’s strongest ally in the region.  Separately, Russia warned  Turkey  not to deploy Patriot
missile batteries along its border with  Syria  after the Turkish
government asked the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the
surface-to-air defense systems. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov discussed Turkey’s plans with NATO Secretary-General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen and offered to set up a “direct line” of
communication between Ankara and Damascus to avoid incidents.  Russian Concerns  Speaking by phone today, Lavrov reiterated to Rasmussen
“Russia’s concerns over plans to build up military capacity in
the region,” according to a statement published by the Foreign
Ministry in Moscow.  More than 130 people died yesterday, bringing to more than
40,000 the number killed since the uprising against Assad began
in March 2011, the Syrian Observatory said on its  Facebook page .
More than 28,000 casualties were civilians and rebel fighters,
the group said.  Russia will host a delegation of Syrian opposition groups
in Moscow next week, the Interfax news agency reported today,
citing Lavrov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  