-- U.S. Detects N.Korea Missile-Test Preparations, Asahi Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-11-23T07:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/u-s-detects-n-korea-missile-test-preparations-asahi-says.html
The U.S. told  Japan  and  South Korea 
it detected preparations indicating  North Korea  could be
preparing to test long-range ballistic missile as early as this
month, the Asahi newspaper reported today.  A press official at South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff
said he couldn’t confirm the Asahi newspaper report. The
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to military
policy, said the army was watching North Korea as usual and
South Korea’s alert level was unchanged.  The warning comes two years after four people were killed
when North Korean artillery shelled Yeonpyeong Island near a
disputed sea border, and as South Korea prepares for
presidential elections next month. North Korea won’t “miss the
opportunity” if “warmongers perpetrate another provocation,”
an unidentified North Korean military spokesman said in a
statement published yesterday by the Korea Central News Agency.  North Korea said in October that it has developed missiles
capable of reaching the U.S., a claim disputed by academics
including Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North
Korean Studies in  Seoul . The regime in April fired a long-range
rocket that failed shortly after liftoff, an act that cost it a
food-aid deal with the U.S.  Katherine Pfaff, a press officer at the State Department in
 Washington , said she had no information on the matter. Calls to
Japan’s  Defense Ministry  went unanswered today, a national
holiday.  South Korea’s Defense Minister Kim Kwan-jin said the
communist state may carry out provocations ahead of the Dec. 19
election, Yonhap News reported yesterday.  Defense Stocks  Victek Co., a manufacturer of electronic warfare equipment,
gained 7.8 percent, most since April 23, to close at 1,520 won
in Seoul today, leading a surge for defense-related shares.
Speco Co. rose 5.8 percent and  Huneed Technologies (005870) , a maker of
military communications gear, advanced 2.2 percent.  The U.S., which has military alliances with South Korea and
Japan, last month agreed to extending the range of South Korea’s
ballistic missiles to 800 kilometers (500 miles) from 300
kilometers to protect against a possible attack from the North.
The two also agreed to target North Korea’s military facilities.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s regime has repeatedly
accused the U.S. and South Korea of military provocations, and
earlier this month said American policy has brought the
peninsula closer to nuclear war.  Kim Jong Un took over the leadership of North Korea in
December upon the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il . He inherited
an economy one-fortieth the size of South Korea’s, and a
government that has poured most of its resources into a 1.2-
million-strong military. It also has more than 250 long-range
artillery sites along the world’s most fortified border.  North Korea’s arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and Musudan
missiles. The Musudan has a range of more than 3,000 kilometers
and can carry a 650-kilogram (1,430- pound) warhead, according
to South Korean estimates. The U.S. mainland is more than 7,000
kilometers from North Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  