-- U.S. Commercial Paper Market Expands for Fourth Week, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-11-23T16:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/u-s-commercial-paper-market-expands-for-fourth-week-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  rose for a fourth straight week in the
longest streak of increases in more than three months, as
speculative-grade debt issuers favored shorter-dated IOUs.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
surged $29.3 billion to $997.9 billion outstanding in the week
ended Nov. 21, the Federal Reserve said today on its website.
It’s the longest stretch of increases since the period ended
Aug. 1 and the highest level since the market touched $1.008
trillion for the period ended Sept. 19, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Domestic non-financial issuance has increased as issuance
of corporate bonds has slowed since high-yield credit spreads
began widening a month ago,” Howard Simons, strategist at
Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.  Sales of high-yield bonds slowed to $23.3 billion this
month, compared with a record $48.3 billion in all of October,
Bloomberg data show. The extra yield investors demand to own
junk bonds rather than government debentures rose to 598 basis
points on Nov. 16, the highest since Sept. 3, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index.
Spreads fell to 572 basis points on Nov. 21, the index data
show.  The easing of disruptions to financial markets from
 Hurricane Sandy , which struck the northeastern U.S. on Oct. 29,
and a rise of asset-backed commercial paper as rising  housing
market  activity increases the amount of mortgage securities
available are also reasons for commercial paper’s expansion,
Simons said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  