-- UN Carbon Offset Daily Supply Rises Most in More Than a Year
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-11-23T13:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/un-carbon-offset-daily-supply-rises-most-in-more-than-a-year-1-.html
The United Nations  issued  today the
most Certified Emission Reduction carbon offsets in more than a
year, according to UN data compiled by Bloomberg.  The executive board of the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism, the body responsible for regulating CERs, delivered
9.3 million metric tons of credits to the market today, the UN
data show. That’s more than 10 times as many as yesterday and
the biggest issuance in a single day since Sept. 16, 2011.  Carbon offsets are generated by clean-technology projects
in developing countries that reduce pollution compared with a
business-as-usual scenario. Factories and power stations
participating in carbon markets in the European Union,  Australia 
and New Zealand may use CERs to meet part of their cap on
greenhouse-gas emissions.  Supply of CERs is set to grow by a record 58 million tons
in November as project developers and investors try to move as
many offsets into the market before the compliance cycle of the
second phase of the European Union’s emissions-trading system
ends in April.  The flow of credits in December will probably fall compared
with November, the UN data show. The CDM board is  scheduled  to
issue 43 million new credits from Dec. 1 to Dec. 22, according
to a timetable of requests for issuance on the UN website. That
includes a further 29 million CERs from hydrofluorocarbon-23 and
nitrous oxide projects, which will be banned in the EU from May.
These two project types account for more than 60 percent of all
offsets issued since the market began.  CERs for December rose as much as 5.1 percent to 83 cents
($1.07) a ton on  London ’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, and were
at 82 cents at 12:19 p.m. They’ve fallen 97 percent from a
record in July 2008 as demand fell in the wake of the debt
crisis in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  