-- Hungary Debt Rating Cut at S&P on Economic-Growth Prospects
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-11-23T18:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hungary-debt-rating-cut-at-s-p-on-economic-growth-prospects.html
Hungary ’s credit rating was lowered
to two steps below investment grade at  Standard & Poor’s , which
said the government’s policies are eroding medium-term  economic-
growth  prospects.  The country’s long-term foreign- and local-currency
sovereign ratings were reduced one level to BB, S&P said in a
statement today. The grade, on par with  Portugal  and  Turkey , has
a stable outlook, signaling the ratings company is more likely
to keep it unchanged than to cut it or raise it. Hungary’s
government said the decision is “frivolous.”  Hungary is in its second recession in four years. The
government backtracked last month on a pledge to cut a special
bank tax in half next year as part of a salvo of measures to
keep the  budget deficit  with the European Union limit of 3
percent of economic outlook. S&P said it expects the government
to meet its fiscal targets in the “short term.”  “This move in the ratings is a bit hard to justify,”
Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at  Standard Bank (SBK) 
Group Ltd. in  London  said in an e-mail. “It does kind of make
you think what planet the  ratings agencies  are on these days.”  The forint weakened 1.1 percent to trade at 282.62 per euro
at 7:45 p.m. in Budapest from 279.48 yesterday. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.925 percent by the close in Budapest.  ‘Marginal Effect’  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for Standard &
Poor’s. The data measured yields after a month relative to U.S.
Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  Hungary’s downgrade “is going to have a marginal effect on
the bonds as most of the market has been expecting a BB at some
point,” Jeremy Brewin, who helps manage more than $5 billion in
emerging-market debt at  Aviva Investors (AVGHYAU)  in London, said by
phone. “I don’t think it’s going to collapse at all. Funding is
being done effectively. I do expect them to come to market again
in the next couple of months.”  The cost of insuring Hungarian debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps fell to 302 basis
points from 304 basis points yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 281 basis points at
the beginning of November and 598 basis points a year ago.
Higher spreads indicate a worse risk perception.  Bond Sale  Hungary last tapped international markets in May 2011, when
it sold 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of bonds maturing in 2019
at 270 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate.  Poland ,
rated by S&P at A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade, sold 750
million euros of 2024 bonds at 135 basis points above mid-swaps
this month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Hungary lost its investment grade last year at  Fitch
Ratings , S&P’s and Moody’s Investors Service, while the forint
plunged 15 percent against the euro in the second half of 2011,
the most in the world. The currency has gained 11.9 percent this
year as liquidity boosting measures in the U.S. and  Europe 
helped emerging-market assets and investors bet an aid agreement
with the  International Monetary Fund  was close.  The government targets  budget deficits  of 2.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 and 2013, while the European
Commission sees the shortfall at 2.9 percent in 2013 and 3.5
percent in 2014.  ‘Increasingly Difficult’  The government’s policies, including exceptional measures
applied to the financial industry, may erode the country’s
medium-term growth potential, S&P said. Measures taken in recent
months that place the burden of fiscal adjustment on some key
services sectors may reduce banks’ willingness to lend and
companies’ propensity to invest, it said.  “This could eventually undermine the government’s efforts
to sustainably reduce general government debt,” S&P said in the
statement. “Although we expect the government’s fiscal targets
to be met in the short term, we believe that this could become
increasingly difficult if, as we expect, economic growth remains
muted.”  S&P expects Hungary’s economy to grow 0.8 percent in 2013
followed by real per capita growth of about 1.7 percent on
average in the medium term, according to the statement. The
Cabinet sees the economy expanding 0.9 percent next year.  ‘Downgrade Itself’  The downgrade is “frivolous” as the ratings agency
acknowledges the performance of the Hungarian economy while
downgrading it, the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “The time has come for S&P, a lobby institution of
speculators, to downgrade itself,” the ministry said. “Hungary
is not evaluated by the ratings companies, but by the investors
who brought direct investment to the country.”  Fiscal measures “could eventually undermine the
government’s efforts to sustainably reduce general government
debt,” S&P said in the statement. General debt will decline to
73 percent by year-end and then will probably stagnate at about
71 percent, S&P said.  The public debt level fell to 77.1 percent at the end of
the third quarter, the lowest since the last quarter of 2008,
compared with 77.7 percent at the end of July, according to data
published by the central bank today. The ratio in Portugal,
rated by S&P at the same level as Hungary, will rise to 119.1
percent by the end of the year and to 123.5 percent next year,
the European Commission said Nov. 7.  IMF Talks  Hungary turned to the IMF and the EU for financial aid a
year ago as the forint plunged to a record low against the euro
and the country’s credit rating was cut to junk. Talks for a
loan of about 15 billion euros have been delayed because of
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s resistance to meet legal and
economic terms set by the lenders.  “It seems that S&P were just as bored as the market in
waiting a year for an IMF deal,” Peter Attard Montalto,
economist at Nomura International Plc in London said in an e-
mail. “S&P now stands below the other agencies and we still see
the other agencies going further and Fitch should cut in mid-
December.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  