-- Forint Weakens Most in Three Weeks as S&P Cuts Hungary’s Rating
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-11-23T18:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hungarian-forint-pares-biggest-weekly-advance-in-four-months.html
The forint depreciated the most this
month after  Standard & Poor’s  cut Hungary’s credit rating by one
step to BB, citing a deteriorating economic outlook.  The currency of Hungary, the most indebted of the European
Union’s eastern members, weakened 1 percent to 282.30 against
the euro by 7:03 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest daily drop since
Oct. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
10-year  government bonds  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.93 percent, the data show.  S&P lowered Hungary’s rating to two steps below investment
grade, on par with  Portugal , Macedonia and Turkey, saying Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s “unorthodox” policies eroded medium-
term economic-growth prospects. Levies applied to the financial
and services industries may “eventually undermine the
government’s efforts to sustainably” reduce debt, S&P said.  “I am negative on Hungary at the moment -- short Hungarian
assets,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in a note to clients.
“But this move in the ratings is a bit hard to justify.”  While Hungary is running a fiscal deficit of around 3
percent of gross domestic product and its public debt will fall
to 73 percent of output, S&P cut its rating to a level on par
with Portugal, which has a deficit of 5 percent and debt of 120
percent, according to Ash.  Hungary’s credit-default swaps fell four basis points today
to 298, the highest among Europe’s 17  emerging markets  following
Ukraine, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra
yield on Hungary’s dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 370 basis points, according to indexes compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  