-- VW Shortens Investment-Plan Horizon on Europe Uncertainty
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-11-23T11:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/vw-shortens-investment-plan-horizon-on-europe-uncertainty.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, will spend 50.2 billion euros ($64.3 billion) in its
automotive division through 2015, shortening its investment
calendar from the usual five years as the region’s market
uncertainty makes long-term planning more difficult.  The supervisory board today approved the funding, which is
for plants, vehicles and research and development, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said in a statement. VW’s
Chinese joint ventures, which are not consolidated, will invest
another 9.8 billion euros during that time period.  “There are a number of uncertainties globally,” said
 Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based Bankhaus Metzler analyst who
recommends buying VW stock. “They may want a certain degree of
flexibility, more than in the past, because there is room for
quite dramatic changes in the market conditions.”  VW, which this year has added Porsche sports cars and
Ducati motorbikes to build a stable of 12 brands, has offset its
0.6 percent 10-month decline in European deliveries with 20
percent growth in  China . The European auto market is headed for
a 17-year low in 2012, according to the Brussels-based ACEA
industry group, which estimates 30 percent of the region’s
production capacity is unused.  While usually laying out five-year programs, the crisis
which hit the European car market in 2009 also prompted VW to
announce a three-year investment timetable that year as
forecasting became more difficult.  Peugeot Cuts  The shares  dropped  as much as 1.50 euros, or 0.9 percent,
to 159.90 euros and traded down 0.5 percent as of 12:49 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 39 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 71.6 billion euros.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, is
cutting 8,000 jobs to reduce spending. Peugeot in the last year
has been burning through 200 million euros per month in cash
reserves. The Paris-based company is more dependent on Europe
than VW, with the region accounting for 64 percent of its sales
in the nine months through September, compared with 42 percent
for its German counterpart.  After introducing a new version of its bestselling Golf
hatchback in September, VW is developing a further 40 models
based on the same framework at brands such as Seat and Skoda in
order to cut costs. The shared architecture should cut
production costs by 20 percent, manufacturing time by 30 percent
and one-time expenses by 20 percent, VW said in August.  Model Spending  VW intends to invest 24.7 billion euros in new models for
its brands, which also include luxury automaker Audi, the only
VW group marque whose sales have grown in Europe this year,
Spanish subsidiary Seat and Czech Republic-based Skoda.  Among the new models will be a line-up of trucks at MAN,
the truckmaker in which VW holds a 75 percent stake.  “Despite the challenging economic environment, we are
investing more than ever before to reach our long-term goals,”
Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said in the statement.  The five-year 62.4 billion-euro investment program
announced in 2011, which excluded brands subsequently acquired,
equated to an average of 12.5 billion euros per year. Average
annual spending in the plan announced today is 16.7 billion
euros.  VW may introduce a budget car to follow  Renault SA (RNO) ’s
successful Dacia brand and tap growing demand in  emerging
markets  for affordable transportation.  Expanding Production  The carmaker, which counts Bentley, Lamborghini and Bugatti
among its luxury nameplates, will invest 14.5 billion euros in
the next three years to expand production capacity, including a
new Audi plant in  Mexico  and extending a Porsche factory in
Leipzig,  Germany , to produce the Macan sports-utility vehicle.
Some 60 percent of the total investment program is destined for
Germany, VW said.  “The agreed investment is a clear indicator of the
security of jobs and employment at Volkswagen in the face of the
difficult industry environment,” works council head Bernd Osterloh said in the statement, adding that the funding will
allow products to be produced “flexibly according to the market
demands at each site.”  VW in China is building plants in Ningbo and Yizheng with
its joint venture partner  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , adding to factories
already operating in Nanjing and  Shanghai . It also has
production facilities run jointly with China FAW Group Corp. in
Changchun and Chengdu, while building another in Foshan and an
assembly plant in Xinjiang. China is VW’s biggest market.  Volkswagen’s global sales ranked behind General Motors
Corp. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in the first nine months. It aims
to overtake the two companies by 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  