-- Wal-Mart Union Protests Fail to Deter Bargain-Seekers
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-11-23T22:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/wal-mart-union-protests-fail-to-deter-bargain-seekers.html
Jamie Walsh faced a Black Friday
dilemma: take advantage of Wal-Mart’s deals at the Salem,  New
Hampshire , store or support union-backed protesters demanding
better pay and benefits. In the end, the deals won the day.  Walsh, 42, wearing a sweatshirt from the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 2222, where her late
brother-in-law was vice president, said she was aware of the
union protests planned at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  locations around
the country today. Still, she decided to buy an $89 electric
ride-in Jeep, a LeapPad tablet, a dollhouse, a  Sony Corp. (SNE) 
PlayStation and a $78 flatscreen television.  “It bothers me, but their prices are so good,” said
Walsh, who is from Dorchester,  Massachusetts , and works as a
medical assistant at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  The  United Food & Commercial Workers International Union 
had planned more than 1,000 demonstrations online and at Wal-
Mart stores around the country today to protest what it says are
the retailer’s manipulation of hours and benefits, efforts to
keep people from working full time and discrimination against
women and minorities.  The protests failed to reduce traffic at the world’s
largest retailer. Wal-Mart said today that it had larger crowds
than last year and drew about 22 million customers yesterday.
The retailer said in a statement that it has sold more than 1.3
million televisions, 1.3 million dolls and 250,000 bicycles
since its promotions began at 8 p.m. yesterday. Wal-Mart said
only 26 protests took place at stores last night and fewer than
50 associates participated.  Union Protests  Wal-Mart  rose  1.9 percent to $70.20 at the close in New
York. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company’s shares have
gained 17 percent this year.  About 1,000 protesters massed outside a Wal-Mart store in
Paramount,  California , after 7 a.m. and nine were arrested for
failing to follow police orders to disperse about five hours
later, Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Captain Mike
Parker said in an e-mailed statement.  The protesters had informed the 40 sheriff’s deputies at
the scene of their intention to be arrested, and the arrests
occurred without incident, Parker said. The scene returned to
normal about 20 minutes later, he said.  Activists were bused into one of the union-backed groups’
marquee events, held in Secaucus,  New Jersey . Accompanied by a
small band, more than 100 people marched with signs outside the
store’s entrance. Workers didn’t join them.  Speaking Up  “These people need their jobs,” said Dave Stump, 72, a
semi-retired Catholic priest who works in  Jersey City . “They’re
afraid for their jobs, even though they’re being treated
terribly. We’re speaking up for them.”  Marcus Blake, 37, a Boston resident shopping with his 15-
year-old son at the Wal-Mart in Salem wasn’t as sympathetic.  “They need to get with the program or get a new job,”
said Blake, who works in property management. “People work on
the holidays. I’m on call 24 hours.”  One worker walked out of the Wal-Mart in Miami Gardens,
 Florida , Muhammad Malik, a community activist connected to the
union, said in a telephone interview last night. He organized
what he estimated to be about 70 people, including what he said
was about 30 Wal-Mart employees, outside that store from about
7:45 p.m. to 9:15 p.m. yesterday.  In  Dallas , protesters had been to two stores by 8 p.m.,
Janna Pea, another union organizer, said in a telephone
interview. Pea said the group protested at the first store for
10 minutes before security kicked them off the property.  Security Presence  “We weren’t able to do much,” she said. The group began
protesting in front of the second store as shoppers began filing
in. Security forced them leave there, too. The group ended up
standing on the side of the road near the entrance to the
store’s parking lot, she said.  About a dozen activists from several unions swept through
the supercenter in Methuen, Massachusetts, to distribute OUR
Walmart leaflets to employees this morning. They left after
about 10 minutes when store management took notice.  “The point is to get them into the hands of employees,”
said D.J. Cronin, an IBEW membership development organizer.  The protests take place as the  National Labor Relations
Board  weighs a complaint Wal-Mart filed against the union Nov.
15 accusing it of violating federal  labor laws  by illegally
picketing. The company said the union has tried to force the
company to the bargaining table although it does not officially
represent its employees.  Seeking Injunction  Wal-Mart asked the board for an investigation and immediate
injunction. If the board rules in Wal-Mart’s favor, it would
seek an injunction in district court to stop the protests.  On Nov. 20, organizers from the non-profit OUR Walmart
fought back by filing their own complaint with the labor board
accusing Wal-Mart of intimidating workers. The protesters are
demanding more-predictable schedules, less-expensive health-care
plans and minimum hourly pay of $13 with the option of working
full-time.  Organizers have declined to say how many workers have been
involved with the movement. Wal-Mart has about 1.4 million
employees and more than 4,500 stores and clubs in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  