-- Wal-Mart Suspends Some Indian Workers Amid Bribery Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-11-23T13:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/wal-mart-suspends-some-indian-workers-amid-bribery-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said some workers at its joint venture in
 India  have been suspended, as it conducts inquiries into
potential violations of U.S. anti-bribery laws.  The retailer is conducting a “complete and thorough
investigation,” it said in an e-mailed statement today. The
Indian venture, Bharti Walmart Pvt., has suspended planned store
openings until the probe is completed, the Economic Times
 reported  today, citing two unidentified people.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , on Nov. 15 said
it started inquiries into potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in India, Brazil and China. The  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
are looking into allegations Wal-Mart systematically bribed
Mexican officials so it could more quickly open stores.  Wal-Mart is trying to gain a foothold in India, where the
government in September decided to allow foreign companies to
invest in multibrand store chains, a sector they had previously
been barred from. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has faced
political opposition to the rule change amid concerns that
overseas retailers would force small shop-owners out of
business.  An anti-corruption team summoned some employees and told
them two weeks ago not to enter Bharti Wal-Mart’s office until
after the investigation, the Economic Times reported.  Indian Market  Wal-Mart didn’t provide any details of the people suspended
or about the probe it is conducting, saying it would be
“inappropriate” to comment before the investigation is
complete.  “We are committed to the Indian market,” the retailer
said. “We remain excited about the opportunity to grow our
business in one of the world’s most vibrant economies.” Wal-
Mart began setting up wholesale operations in India in 2007
through its joint venture with Bharti Enterprises Pvt.  In India, Wal-Mart may open retail outlets in the world’s
second most-populous country over the next 12 to 18 months,
 Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s Asia operations, said in a Sept.
21 interview in Hong Kong. At that time, it operated 17
wholesale outlets in India with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s
Bharti Enterprises.  An Indian lawmaker wrote to Singh’s office questioning
whether Wal-Mart violated rules while making Indian investments,
a Commerce Ministry official in New Delhi said last month,
asking not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
speak on the subject.  India’s Enforcement Directorate will seek documents from
Wal-Mart relating to its financial investments and remittances
in the country,  Press Trust of India  reported Nov. 15, citing a
person it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  