-- World’s Biggest Jump in Volatility Revives Dim Sum: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-11-23T02:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/world-s-biggest-jump-in-volatility-revives-dim-sum-china-credit.html
Expectations for swings in the  yuan 
climbed the most in the world in the past three months, sparking
a rally in Dim Sum bonds as the central bank signaled a wider
limit on daily exchange-rate moves.  Three-month implied volatility for the currency offshore, a
measure used to price options, jumped to 2.1 percent, from 1.46
percent on Aug. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
onshore yuan and the  Japanese yen  had the next biggest increases
among 53 currencies against the dollar. Investors buying
renminbi bonds in Hong Kong drove the  average yield  down to an
eight-month low of 4.84 percent on Nov. 15, a Bank of China Ltd.
index shows.  China is pledging faster policy change as its economy shows
signs of recovery and the U.S. prepares its twice-yearly report
on exchange-rate manipulation by trading partners this month.
Chinese central bankers have said they will widen the yuan
trading band “at some point” and currency convertibility is
the next step.  “The market is starting to price in chances of a widening
of the band,” said Paula Chan, who helps manage $38 billion of
Asian fixed-income assets at Manulife Asset Management in  Hong
Kong . “This is something that I expect to happen. The
appreciation is coming back. The economic data is not that bad
and is picking up quite nicely.”  Yuan Gains  A separate options market gauge showed traders are the
least bearish since May. Contracts granting the right to sell
the yuan cost 0.3 percentage point more than those allowing
purchases, according to the six-month risk-reversal rate. That’s
down from as high as 1.15 percentage points on Sept. 4. Options
grant investors the right, but not the obligation, to buy or
sell an asset.  The yuan gained 0.01 percent to 6.2283 as of 9:36 a.m. in
 Shanghai , bringing this week’s advance to 0.12 percent, after a
manufacturing gauge showed output may have expanded for the
first time in 13 months. A preliminary reading of production was
50.4 in November, compared with 49.5 in October, according to
the purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  The currency, allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the daily fixing, has tested the  upper limit  most
days this month. The band may be widened to 1.5 percent and
appreciation is a “nice kicker” for investors sifting through
the creditworthiness of Dim Sum issuers, Manulife’s Chan said.  Band Widening  The PBOC widened the yuan trading band to 1 percent from
0.5 percent against the dollar on April 16. The currency is
allowed to fluctuate 3 percent on either side of the yuan’s
daily fixing rate versus the euro and the yen. A wider band is
possible in the first quarter, the Xinhua News Agency  reported 
today, citing unidentified people in the finance industry.  “They will likely go to 1.5 percent and not go straight to
3 percent because they would lose control of the market,” said
Irene Cheung, a currency strategist in  Singapore  at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group. “A wider band means a more flexible
and hence stronger yuan because the perception is that China
always tried to keep its currency undervalued.”  The yuan may appreciate to 6.16 per dollar by end-2013,
according to the median forecast of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, stronger than the 6.22 estimate at the end of
September. Twelve-month non-deliverable forward contracts for
the yuan advanced 0.9 percent this year, pricing in a discount
of 1.6 percent to the onshore spot rate.  Gradual Liberalization  The gains are driven by inflows fanned by monetary stimulus
programs in developed economies and recent improvements in
China’s economic data, according to Nikko Asset Management Co.,
the biggest asset manager based in the region with $166 billion.  “Liberalization of the  renminbi  is likely to remain
gradual, with several small steps already being taken to allow
more two-way flexibility,” John Vail, Tokyo-based chief global
strategist, wrote in a note on Nov. 16, predicting 2 to 3
percent appreciation per year in the currency.  The prospect of full convertibility is in the “distant
future” and unlikely to sway options traders as yet, according
to Dirk Gradehand, senior currency-options trader in Singapore
at DZ Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest cooperative lender.  “The Chinese want things to flow slowly, not an abrupt
revaluation,” Gradehand said in an interview on Nov. 20. “A
repeg or band widening is unlikely as the new leadership tries
to build a good relationship with the U.S., so they will play
along the rules of slight yuan appreciation.”  Yields Decline  Credit-default swaps protecting the nation’s sovereign debt
fell two basis points to 60.7 basis points yesterday, the lowest
level since November 2010, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That compares with
147 basis points at the start of 2012.  Reviving bets on the yuan appreciation are driving Dim Sum
bond yields lower, sending the average yield down six basis
points this month, according to the  Bank of China  index. The
yield had its biggest monthly increase in six months in May when
the yuan dropped 0.9 percent.  Caterpillar Inc. and Volvo AB sold Dim Sum bonds in Hong
Kong this month, each raising 1 billion yuan, following a 500
million yuan offering by Renault SA, according to Bloomberg
data.  The yield on onshore 10-year  government bonds  fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this month to 3.54
percent, according to Chinabond data. The rate compares with the
similar-maturity  U.S. Treasury  at 1.68 percent.  U.S. Pressure  The average Dim Sum sovereign  yield  has dropped 11 basis
points since September to 2.95 percent yesterday, shrinking the
gap with the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield to 128 basis points
from 143 basis points, according to data from the Bank of  China .  The Treasury Department delayed its latest currency
assessment in October after declining to name China a
manipulator in a May 25 report. Some U.S. lawmakers say a
managed yuan gives Chinese exporters an unfair edge in global
trade.  “The new leadership is apparently trying to avoid China
being named as a currency manipulator and seems to promote
liberalization quite aggressively,” said Tadashi Tsukaguchi,
chief fund manager of the global macro hedge fund in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Securities Co. “For dollar-based investors, the yuan is
attractive now with a positive currency outlook and interest-
rate differentials.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  