-- World Trade Financing Seen Down 15% as European Banks Pull Back
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-11-23T14:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/world-trade-financing-seen-down-15-as-european-banks-pull-back.html
World trade  financing fell 15
percent in this year’s first nine months as European banks
curbed lending amid the region’s debt crisis, according to
 Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)   Funding slid to $123.9 billion through September,  Edward
George , head of commodities research at Ecobank, said yesterday
in an interview at the  World Cocoa Conference 2012  in Abidjan,
Ivory Coast. European lenders’ market share dropped to 50
percent from 75 percent, he said.  “This reflects a retrenchment of French banks,” George
said. “They have to deleverage.”  French lenders such as  Societe Generale  SA and  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  have cut sovereign-debt holdings, trimmed headcount and
reduced reliance on short-term funding to help allay investor
concern that the European debt crisis will worsen. Societe
Generale, the country’s second-biggest bank, this month reported
an 86 percent plunge in third-quarter profit.  Regional banks are capitalizing on the pullback by European
competitors to add market share as emerging economies continue
to swell, according to George. Developing nations will expand
5.6 percent next year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in
October, almost four times the 1.5 pace that it projected for
advanced economies.  “Asian banks are awash with dollars,” George said.
“Economies are doing pretty well there. American banks are also
awash with dollars, but they are being very cautious about what
they are doing with their money. The Europeans have euros, but
very few people want euros.”  Ecobank, based in Lome, Togo, is boosting its trade
financing in commodities as European banks retrench, Chief
Executive Officer Thierry Tanoh said in an interview in Abidjan
on Nov. 19. The lender doubled the availability of credit lines
to finance cocoa trading to $400 million in the 2012-13 season
begun last month.  Ivory Coast  is the world’s biggest producer of
the chocolate ingredient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  