-- Hypo Alpe Eyes Bond Pricing Similar to Austrian State Agencies
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-11-23T15:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-23/hypo-alpe-eyes-bond-pricing-similar-to-austrian-state-agencies.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG said it expects to price its planned 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion), 10-year Tier 2 bond similar to securities of  Austria ’s
state railway and road operators.  The bank’s notes will have a guarantee from the Austrian
government, which will take over interest payments or
redemptions immediately when they are missed by Hypo Alpe, said
Chief Financial Officer Johannes Proksch. While Austrian 10-year
bonds yield 1.845 percent, the bank bonds will probably yield
more than 2 percent, he said.  “We can approach a group of investors” that wouldn’t
normally buy Hypo Alpe bonds, “because what they get is
Republic of Austria,” Proksch said. Other banks’ Tier 2 bonds
aren’t comparable with the one sold by Hypo Alpe because of the
state guarantee, for which the bank will pay a fee, he said.
“This instrument is a novelty.”  The nationalized bank is selling the bond to help fill a
1.5 billion-euro capital gap determined by Austrian regulators.
The state will also inject 500 million euros in cash into the
the Klagenfurt-based bank this year. The measures still need the
European Union’s approval as state aid.  Austria’s banking regulator Finanzmarktaufsicht, or FMA,
told Hypo Alpe to raise its total capital ratio, a measure that
includes supplementary capital, subordinated bonds and other
capital forms that don’t qualify as core capital, to 12.7
percent. The ratio was 9.5 percent at the end of June.  OeBB, Asfinag  Austria’s state railway Oesterreichische Bundesbahnen also
sells debt with a state guarantee. Its bond due June 2022 yields
about 11 basis points more than the Austrian government note due
November 2022. Road operator Autobahnen-Und Schnellstrassen-
Finanzierungs AG’s bond due September 2025 yields about 48 basis
points more. Hypo Alpe said it expects the notes to be ranked
similar to Austria, which is rated AAA by Moody’s and Fitch, and
AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  Hypo Alpe is meeting investors from Nov. 26 in Cologne,
Frankfurt, Munich, Vienna and  London . It has mandated Citigroup
Inc., Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  