-- .JPMorgan, .Walmart, .Cialis Sought in Domain Expansion
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-06-13T14:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/-jpmorgan-walmart-microsoft-sought-in-domain-name-expansion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are applying for Web suffixes
including .jpmorgan, .walmart, and .microsoft under a program to
expand the number of Internet domain names beyond .com.  Other proposals include .apple from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and .cialis
from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  as well as generic terms such as .book and
.love, according to a list published today by the Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, the nonprofit Web-
management group overseeing the expansion of suffixes.  The  list  of 1,930 applications, which had been kept secret,
provides a first look at potential rivals to .com and the level
of company interest in the suffixes. Icann says the program may
result in hundreds more extensions to the right of the dot.  “It is our fundamental obligation to increase competition
and consumer choice, and to foster innovation, and this program
delivers on that,” Icann Chief Executive Officer  Rod Beckstrom 
said at a news conference in London.  Icann, which operates under a U.S. Commerce Department
contract, says the new domain names will give companies and
organizations new ways to structure their online operations and
market their brands and products to consumers.  Critics including the Association of National Advertisers
say many companies that have no interest in domain names face
pressure to apply to prevent their branding from falling into
the wrong hands. Each application cost $185,000.  Objection Period  Two or more applicants are applying for 230 domain names,
according to Icann. Wal-Mart and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  are competing for
the rights to .grocery. Such cases could be resolved by
auctions.  Icann, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , started
accepting applications in January. The process was interrupted
by a technical malfunction that prompted the group to close the
online application system for more than five weeks.  Icann will allow trademark owners and others to file
objections to the proposed domain names, and will begin
evaluating applicants next month based on technical and other
requirements, according to the group’s  website . The first
approved domains may be ready early next year while others may
take longer, according to Icann.  Fraud Concerns  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission in December said a
proliferation of suffixes may create new opportunities for
online fraud. Icann should introduce the expansion as a pilot
program and reduce the number of domains created, the FTC said.  “What Icann is doing seems to us to have very little
competitive benefit and a lot of cost to consumers in terms of
easier ways for malefactors to engage in fraud,” FTC Chairman
 Jon Leibowitz  said in a June 6 Bloomberg Government interview.  There are currently 21 generic top-level domains led by
.com and 280 country-code domains such as .uk for the United
Kingdom. Icann has introduced generic suffixes such as .jobs and
.mobi in smaller rounds in previous years, with none of them
achieving registrations comparable with .com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 