-- A Growth-Stock Fund Warren Buffett Could Love
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-06-13T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/a-growth-stock-fund-warren-buffett-could-love.html
     The rub on growth stock investing is that over the long
term it always loses to a value style. Tell that to Dan
Davidowitz and David Polen, co-managers of the Polen Growth
Fund. The mutual fund, which opened in September 2010 and has
a 1.25 percent expense ratio, is run in an identical style to
Polen Capital Management’s privately managed accounts for
high-net worth investors. Those accounts have delivered a 10.2
percent annualized return over the last 15 years, well ahead
of the S&P 500’s 5.7 percent and the Russell 1000 Value’s 6.5
percent. An edited transcript of Lewis Braham's discussion of
the fund’s strategy with Davidowitz follows.  Q: If you look at the historical stats, value investing
has beaten growth. How do you explain your record?  A: The answer is in the labels. We believe we’re growth
investors, but the legacy at Polen Capital comes out of the
Ben Graham and Warren Buffett value school of investing.  One of the things key to what we do is margin of
safety, a Ben Graham teaching. The way that's been used by
most value investors is to say, "I think this company is worth
x, and I’m going to try to buy it at a big discount to x." The
way we think about it is different. The margin of safety is in
the competitive advantage of a business and its growth
prospects. If you can find a huge competitive advantage to a
growth business, that’s the margin of safety. As long as you
don’t pay too much, you can get an exceptional return. Instead
of expecting a valuation gap to close, we let earnings growth
drive performance.  Q: What kind of criteria do you use for finding
companies?  A: We invest in very high-quality companies, typically 18
or 19 stocks, and have an average holding period north of four
years. We ask, "Is this a business that is so wonderful and
has such great prospects that we would want to buy the whole
company if we could?" In 23-plus years, we’ve owned less than
100 companies.  A company has to have an exceptionally strong balance
sheet, with a ton of cash and virtually no debt. It has to be
able to generate free cash flow far in excess of what it needs
to run the business. And it has to have very high returns on
capital that are sustainable -- at least 20 percent. That
hurdle is important because very few companies can sustain
returns that high, and if you are doing that, it means you're
likely doing something that keeps competition away. We also
want strong revenue growth and stable or expanding margins.
And companies should have a market cap over $4 billion.  Q: Your largest holding is Apple?  A: It’s about 9 percent of our portfolio. We purchased it
in early 2009 at about $90 for 10 times free cash flow. We
were tracking it a few years before that. We knew we liked the
business, but until the iPhone debuted we weren’t sure of the
sustainability of Apple’s growth. The iPhone turned Apple from
a "sell a device once and hope they come back" business to a
repeat business with a recurring revenue stream. That
ecosystem of repeat customers started with iTunes earlier on
but accelerated tremendously with iPhone’s App Store.  There are still a tremendous [number] of growth
opportunities. Apple, just by maintaining its 8 percent market
share of handsets, could see a four to fivefold increase in
the iPhone business. The iPad is also a tremendous new
category Apple is dominating. We believe the tablet market
could be quite a bit larger than the PC market.  Q: One company you added to in the first quarter was CH
Robinson Worldwide. Why?  A: CH Robinson is a truckless trucking company. They are
a broker for mostly domestic North American truck freight.
They match up people who need to ship something by truck with
small truckers.  Robinson provides an advantage to the company shipping
and to the trucker that neither could get on their own. It
offers a lower price to the customer because Robinson provides
a tremendous amount of volume to these truckers. More people
are outsourcing their trucking needs because CH Robinson is
very flexible and easy to work with. Yet it doesn’t own the
trucks, so its business model isn’t capital intensive. It’s
growing a little slower than it has in the past, but we think
that will prove temporary. We bought more at $67 a share.  Q; You also bought more of FactSet Research Systems.
What’s the story there?  A. FactSet is one of our newer companies we began adding
last year. It provides software and services to professional
investors like me. FactSet’s legacy was software for analyzing
equities. They branched out into fixed income and a bunch of
contiguous areas to broaden out the number of people they
could license the software to.  FactSet is the No. 3 securities data provider behind
Bloomberg and Thomson Reuters. They’ve been No. 3 for a long
time but have been closing the gap over the last 30 years at a
steady pace. It’s an extremely profitable business with very
stable growth and high recurring revenues. The retention rate
of clients is always north of 90 percent. It’s 5 percent of
our portfolio.
 