-- Africa to Get Discount Airline on Lonrho-Stelios Tie-Up
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-06-13T13:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/africa-to-get-discount-airline-on-lonrho-stelios-tie-up.html
Africa is poised to get its first
continent-wide discount air services after industrial group
 Lonrho Plc (LAF)  engaged  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou to
help transform its aviation arm into a low-cost carrier.  Fastjet will employ operating licenses held by Lonrho’s
Fly540 unit to establish flights in Ghana,  Kenya ,  Tanzania  and
 Angola  using a fleet of Airbus SAS A319 airliners or Embraer E-
190 regional jets, Ed Winter, who will run its holding company,
 Rubicon Diversified Investments Plc (RUBI) , said in an interview.  A rise in GDP and  consumer spending  means Africa is ready
to support a discount carrier of the kind that has transformed
aviation elsewhere, said Winter, who has worked at EasyJet and
British Airways. Like carriers from Southwest Airlines Co. in
the U.S. to  Malaysia ’s AirAsia Bhd., Fastjet aims to create a
new market by offering fares low enough to persuade some people
to fly for the first time and others to travel more, he said.  “The African aviation market is significantly under-served
and there are massive opportunities,” Winter said, adding that
Fastjet will be a “low-cost, point-to-point, no-frills, all-jet
airline operating to European standards of safety and quality.”  The four markets to be targeted by Fastjet all have large-
scale oil or gas developments, from which wealth is beginning to
trickle down to a growing middle class, the executive said.  Zanzibar Weekenders  Demand will led by visits to friends and relatives, given
Africa’s highly mobile workforce, the executive said, though
short breaks of the kind that have spurred bookings at EasyJet
and  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  in Europe are becoming popular to
destinations such as Mombassa and Zanzibar on the  Indian Ocean .  Under the plan, Rubicon, an investment shell created from a
former  software company , will buy Lonrho Aviation, which runs
Fly540, in an all-stock deal valuing the unit at $85.7 million.
The reverse takeover will give Lonrho 73.7 percent of shares in
Rubicon, which began trading on  London ’s Alternative Investment
Market after a Feb. 23 suspension pending the takeover talks.  Lonrho rose as much as 9.9 percent and was priced 3.9
percent higher at 9.45 pence as of 1:11 p.m. in London, where it
is based. Rubicon, also based in the U.K. capital, was down 4.9
percent at 3.38 pence after earlier trading 16 percent higher.
Dealing in the enlarged share issue will commence July 2
following a shareholder vote on June 29, the companies said.  Discount aviation pioneer Stelios, who goes by his first
name, will join Rubicon’s board and nominate Winter as its chief
executive officer. The EasyJet founder will also get 5 percent
of Rubicon stock and 0.5 percent of its revenue for providing
consulting services and use of the Fastjet name, which he owns.  ‘Last Frontier’  The steps detailed today are “small but significant,”
Stelios said in a statement, with  Africa ’s pattern of densely
populated cities separated by great distances representing “a
potential new market of millions” and making the continent the
“last frontier” for the  airline industry .  “The deal makes strategic sense,” said Michael Campbell, an
analyst at Daniel Stewart & Co. in London, in an investor note.
“Stelios’s EasyGroup are experts in the low-cost airline
business and we expect the operational hubs built by Lonrho in
east, west and southwest Africa will benefit as a result.”  While European discount operators fly to north Africa and
there have been experiments with low-cost carriers south of the
Sahara, no pan-continental service has so far been attempted.
Air links are currently so poor that residents traveling within
the 15-nation Economic Community of West African States
sometimes need to travel via Europe, Winter said, adding that a
network of Fastjet flights from  Ghana  could obviate that need.  Bigger Planes  Lonrho’s  aviation unit  began operations in 2006 and carried
almost 525,400 people in the 15 months to Dec. 31, generating
revenue of $57 million. It suffered a loss of $19 million in the
period on costs from opening the Angola and Ghana hubs.  Fly540’s 10 turboprop aircraft are too small to form the
basis of a discount carrier, and talks with leasing companies on
establishing a fleet of Airbus or Embraer jets are at an
advanced stage, Winter said.  Rubicon had almost 9 million pounds ($14 million) in cash
as of Dec. 31, raised from investors who will be shareholders in
the new business. While fresh funds may be sought via a debt or
equity sale, there’s no need for a major injection, Winter said.  Lonrho Chairman David Lenigas will add the same role at
Rubicon following the transaction, replacing Robert Burnham, who
will remain on the board. Shares of the London-based company,
which also has interests in agriculture, hotels, ports and
support services, have risen 1.6 percent this year.  EasyJet,  Europe ’s  second-biggest  discount airline, in which
Stelios remains the No. 1 investor, has  advanced  23 percent. The
entrepreneur’s EasyGroup holding company isn’t traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  