-- Thai Ex-Leader’s Bid for Lost Fortune May Spur Unrest, Korn Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-13T10:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/thai-ex-leader-s-bid-for-lost-fortune-may-spur-unrest-korn-says.html
Thaksin Shinawatra’s bid to engineer
his return to Thailand and recoup more than $1 billion seized
after his ouster in 2006 threatens to revive political turmoil,
former Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said.  “There wouldn’t be any problems if it wasn’t for Thaksin
trying to get his money back,” Korn, deputy leader of the main
opposition Democrat party, said in an interview in Bangkok
today. “As long as he continues to try and as long as the only
way of him achieving his goal is to basically challenge the rule
of law, then he will face opposition.”  Thailand’s parliament is considering a broad amnesty for
political offenses since the coup that ousted Thaksin, a move
that could overturn a two-year jail sentence the former prime
minister has avoided by remaining overseas since 2008. It may
also undo a court ruling that led to the seizure of about $1.5
billion of Thaksin’s fortune in 2010, two weeks before his
supporters began protests that ended in a military crackdown.  The amnesty plan and parallel efforts to rewrite the post-
coup constitution have prompted Thaksin’s opponents to increase
street protests 11 months after his sister, Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra, led her party to a majority win in
parliamentary elections.  Thai Demonstrations  Since the coup, demonstrations by Thaksin’s supporters and
opponents have claimed more than 100 lives as they seized
airports and shut down areas of Bangkok.  The amnesty bill would help reconciliation efforts by
dropping the need to prosecute thousands of people involved in
the protests from both sides, Phongthep Thepkanjana, a former
justice minister who once served as Thaksin’s spokesman, told
reporters yesterday.  While the bill would do away with cases stemming from a
committee created after the coup to investigate Thaksin’s
assets, it wouldn’t prevent him from facing charges under “the
normal criminal justice system,” Phongthep said.  “That is quite reasonable,” Phongthep said, adding that
Thaksin’s opponents will resist any legislation “if he may get
any benefit, even if he deserves it.”  Vote Delayed  Thailand ’s parliament delayed a vote yesterday on changing
the constitution and consideration of the amnesty bills until
the next session, which is scheduled to start Aug. 1. The
 Constitutional Court  will hold a hearing July 5 to determine
whether the amendment plans violate Article 68 of the
 constitution , which restricts attempts “to overthrow the
democratic regime of government with the King as Head of
State.”  Thaksin, 62, has maintained his innocence, saying many
times the cases against him were politically driven, and has
said he wants to return home. The seized money has already been
put in national coffers and repaying Thaksin would require the
use of taxpayer funds, said Korn, who was finance minister at
the time of the ruling.  The amnesty bill is “very clearly stating as long as you
have majority support in parliament literally you can do
anything, break any law, and use that majority to issue a law to
allow you to break laws,” Korn said. “That’s potentially more
damaging than almost anything that protesters could achieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  