-- Thailand Holds Rate a Third Time as Risks to Growth Increase
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-06-13T08:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/thailand-holds-key-rate-a-third-time-as-risks-to-growth-increase.html
Thailand ’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged for a third straight meeting amid rising
risks from the  European debt crisis  and slowing growth in  China .  The  Bank of Thailand  held its benchmark  one-day bond
repurchase rate  at 3 percent, it said in Bangkok today, a
decision predicted by all 18 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The monetary authority cut a combined 50 basis points in
November and January to spur growth after last year’s floods.  Policy makers across the globe are grappling with the
challenges posed by  Europe  and slowing expansion, with China,
 Brazil  and  Australia  opting for rate cuts in recent weeks. Thai
 exports  unexpectedly declined in April while  inflation  is still
at a “manageable level,” the central bank said last month,
adding on May 30 that there is still room for monetary easing.  “The Thai economy is not that weak as to require an
immediate rate cut,” said Satoshi Ushijima, the Bangkok-based
vice president of the treasury division at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. “A cut is an option for them in the future if the situation
deteriorates, and as inflation is not a major issue now.”  The  Thai baht  rose 0.3 percent to 31.58 per dollar as of
2:47 p.m. in Bangkok. The one-year onshore interest-rate swap,
the fixed cost needed to receive a floating payment, declined
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.72 percent.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy unexpectedly
expanded in the first quarter as factories, including Honda
Motor Co., resumed production and local demand revived after the
nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years.  Manufacturing output 
rose for the first time in eight months in April.  ’Very Accommodative’  “There is no need for policy tightening,” Bank of Thailand
Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said in a news
conference today. “Still, we need to save our bullet to use when
it is necessary. The current rate at 3 percent is considered as
very accommodative and appropriate for economic recovery.”  The central bank will remain vigilant and stand ready to
take appropriate policy action if needed, he said. Inflation
should stay within target, he said, adding that “should the euro
zone crisis intensify, slower export growth could act as a drag
on the economic recovery.”  Inflation quickened in May to 2.53 percent on rising food
and wage costs. Still, the Commerce Ministry said on June 1
price gains are under control and should be within its forecast
range of between 3.3 percent and 3.8 percent this year.  Sri Lanka  earlier today held interest rates for a second
meeting. The Thai central bank on May 11 raised its growth
forecast for 2012 to 6 percent from 5.7 percent earlier. Still,
 consumer confidence  fell for the first time in six months last
month, and Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul has warned that
rising political tensions will be “negative” for the economy.  Thousands of protesters gathered in front of the parliament
this month to object to a draft bill which may pave the way for
an amnesty for ousted Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra . The
parliament this week delayed a vote on changing the constitution
and considering bills granting pardon for political offenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  