-- Air Mauritius Slumps to 3-Year Low After $37 Million Loss
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-06-13T12:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/air-mauritius-drops-to-week-low-after-posting-a-37-million-loss.html
Air Mauritius Ltd. (AML) , the  second-worst
performing stock  this year on the country’s bourse, fell to its
lowest in more than three years after the airline swung to a
loss in fiscal 2012.  The  stock  retreated for a second day, down 3.6 percent to
10.70 rupees a share at close in  Port Louis , the capital, the
weakest level since May 2009. Volume of shares traded was almost
four times the stock’s 3-month average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier, which is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fourth biggest
airline, posted a 29.6 million euro ($37 million)  loss  in the 12
months through March 2012, compared with a profit of 10.75
million euros a year earlier, acting Chief Executive Officer
Andre Viljoen told reporters.  “It’s clear that the stock fell because of their poor
results,” Bhavik Desai, a research analyst at the city-based
Axys Stockbroking Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Air Mauritius announced an eight-point restructuring plan
this year to return to profits by March 2014. It includes
reshuffling flights by stopping the weekly, long-overhaul routes
to  Europe , searching for a strategic partner and re-fleeting
with more fuel-efficient aircrafts, Viljoen said.  “Should the restructuring plan be successful, it would
seem that they would return to profitability within the next
couple of years, assuming that the euro doesn’t crumble,” Desai
said.  The state-owned carrier is the only listed domestic company
in the country to report its financial statements in euro terms.
The rupee has strengthened 16 percent against the euro since
June 2009 as the global economic slowdown and the region’s debt
crisis has weighed heavy on the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  