-- Talison CEO Studying Debt Funding for $250 Million Lithium Plant
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-06-13T15:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/talison-ceo-studying-debt-funding-for-250-million-lithium-plant.html
Talison Lithium Ltd. (TLH) , the world’s
largest producer of the material used to power iPads and hybrid
vehicles, said it’s studying debt funding for a proposed plant
in  Western Australia  that may cost as much $250 million.  The plant would produce 20,000 metric tons of  lithium
carbonate  a year, allowing Talison to widen its customer base,
Peter Oliver, chief executive officer of the Perth-based
company, said in an interview in London today. It plans to make
an  investment decision  on the plant by year end.  “We have quite a substantial cash balance at the moment,
we’re generating good cash and we’re out at the moment looking
at debt to fund the rest,” Oliver said. “Ultimately, there may
be an equity component. But certainly cash, cash-flow and debt
are the primary sourcing of funding.”  Talison and three South American producers dominate global
supply, controlling 94 percent of the market, according to the
company. Demand for lithium may double by 2020 to 300,000 tons a
year largely because of increasing use in hybrid-electric
vehicles and consumer electronics, Dahlman Rose & Co. analysts
 Anthony Young  and Anthony Rizzuto said in a May 16 note in which
they gave the company a buy rating.  Talison, which produces 32 percent of the world’s supply,
has existing accords with  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  and Mitsui & Co. to
discuss marketing and distribution in  Japan  and is also in talks
with potential buyers in  South Korea , Oliver said today. The
company said last week it completed an expansion at its
Greenbushes mining operation that has doubled its output
capacity.  Pharmaceuticals, Aircraft  “We are clearly looking in  Asia ,” Oliver said of possible
lenders for the debt component of the funding. “Most of our
exposure is in the U.S., but we’ve got Australian banking
support as well.”  Talison is seeking to build the plant in the Kwinana
Industrial Area of Western  Australia , close to the port of
Fremantle. It had A$85 million ($85 million) in cash at March
31, according to a corporate presentation. The cost may be $200
million to $250 million, Oliver said.  Lithium is also used in glass, ceramics, pharmaceuticals
and aerospace alloys. Talison was unchanged at C$3.37 at 11:47
a.m. in Toronto trading. The stock has dropped 23 percent in the
past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  