-- Aluminum Demand in Japan May Miss Target as Car Sales Lose Steam
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-06-13T04:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/aluminum-demand-in-japan-may-miss-target-as-car-sales-lose-steam.html
Aluminum demand in  Japan ,  Asia ’s
largest importer, may be flat this year, failing to recover from
the lowest level since 2009, as the end of a government subsidy
will hurt auto sales, a  Showa Denko K.K. (4004)  executive said.  Demand will probably stay weak after dropping to 2 million
metric tons last fiscal year, said Shunichi Shiraishi, executive
officer for the aluminum sector, who is also the chairman of the
Japan Aluminium Association. In March, the group forecast demand
growth of 2.8 percent for this fiscal year.  Shipments to domestic and overseas markets of rolled-
aluminum products expanded 1.1 percent in the first four months,
according to the association, as demand from the auto industry
was offset by a contraction in sales to electronics makers.
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  are losing customers amid the
yen’s appreciation. The LMEX index lost 2.9 percent this year,
while aluminum has dropped 2.2 percent.  “We are struggling to achieve our earnings target for this
fiscal year,” Shiraishi said in an interview yesterday. The
company forecast a gain 6 billion yen ($75.3 million) in
operating profit from aluminum sales of 105 billion yen. “Our
industry, as a whole, is in a tough situation.”  Japan’s exports of aluminum products dropped 5.4 percent in
the first four months this year as the European crisis curbed
shipments of electronics products from China, reducing demand
for Japanese components made from the light metal.  Europe, China  “Japanese demand may not grow as much as forecast because
of the deepening debt crisis in  Europe  and a slowdown in  China’s
economy ,” said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company
JSC Corp. in  Tokyo . “When the government’s rebuilding stimulus
loses effect later this year, manufacturing activity may slow
down, curbing consumption.”  Producers of aluminum foil for use in electronics
components are reducing output because of a slump in sales to
makers of television sets, air conditioners, solar cells and
batteries, Shiraishi said. Foil shipments in the first four
months tumbled 20 percent from a year earlier, according to the
aluminum association.  Japan’s machinery orders increased more than economists
expected in April, signaling that reconstruction spending is
helping companies cope with the yen’s strength and the euro
area’s debt crisis. Aluminum consumption in  China , the biggest
user, probably has risen more than 10 percent this year and may
accelerate in the second half,  Jim Lennon , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said yesterday.  Global Demand  Global aluminum demand will rise as a push in the U.S. and
Europe to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions and improve mileage
prompts carmakers to increase use of light-weight materials,
Erwin Mayr, a senior vice president and chief strategy and
commercial officer at Novelis Inc., said yesterday. Novelis
supplies more than half of all flat-rolled aluminum products
used by the auto industry, according to the company’s website.  Japanese subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient cars,
which contributed to a 66 percent jump in auto sales last month,
may expire as early as the end of August, slowing production
later this year, according to Satoshi Osanai, economist at Daiwa
Institute of Research in Tokyo.  “We can’t think of any industry that can support aluminum
demand after consumption by the  auto industry  loses steam,”
Junichi Inaizumi, general manager at Showa Denko’s aluminum
sector, said in the same interview in Tokyo.  A surge in the aluminum fee charged by producers for the
next quarter will erode the earnings of Japanese fabricators,
Inaizumi said. Premiums for the three months starting in July
will jump to $200 to $210 a ton over the London Metal Exchange’s
price of the metal for immediate delivery, the highest-ever
level, from $115 to $127 a ton this quarter.  “The increased costs are hard to pass on to customers
completely,” Shiraishi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  