-- Manchester United Said to Weigh IPO in U.S., Not Singapore
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-14T02:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/manchester-united-said-to-weigh-u-s-ipo-instead-of-singapore.html
Manchester United  Ltd., the record
19-time English soccer champion, is exploring moving its initial
public offering to the U.S. from  Asia  as it seeks to secure the
best valuation, said people with knowledge of the plans.  United, which previously planned to raise about $1 billion
in  Singapore , hasn’t made a final decision, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the deliberations are private.
Banks pitched the idea of a U.S. listing to the Glazer family,
the club’s U.S. owners, one of the people said.  “This could have negative implications for Singapore’s aim
to build a cluster of international sports names listed here,”
said Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment officer at
Nikko Asset Management Asia Ltd., which oversees about $165
billion. “Such listings would have helped broaden the breadth
of the Singapore market.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will remain
lead managers for the IPO, while Morgan Stanley, hired for the
share sale in Singapore, would no longer advise if United opts
for the U.S., said the people. While a U.S. listing would give
United access to investors worldwide, the club could fetch a
higher valuation by choosing an exchange closer to its fan base,
said Matt McCormick of Bahl & Gaynor Inc.  “Even though Manchester United is a global brand, of all
the marketplaces, the U.S. is probably the one where it’s the
least well-known,” said McCormick, who helps oversee $6.2
billion at the firm in Cincinnati. “If they’re hot in  Europe  or
in Asia, then it would give me pause that they aren’t going to
their strengths.”  Singapore Approval  A Manchester-based spokeswoman for United declined to
comment. Credit Suisse spokesman Steven Vames declined to
comment, as did JPMorgan spokeswoman Elizabeth Seymour. Phone
calls to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  weren’t immediately returned.  United received the Singapore stock exchange’s approval in
September to raise $1 billion in an IPO, but the process was
stalled as volatile stock markets roiled equity sales, people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Singapore’s benchmark stock index, the Straits Times Index,
has fallen about 13 percent since August, when United was
contemplating an IPO in the city state. The index has declined 8
percent from its high in March this year. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has gained 5 percent this year.  The club has 659 million fans, making it the world’s most
popular, United said last month, citing a study by market
research company Kantar. Its supporters have doubled in five
years, helped by 108 million fans in  China , where the team plans
to play two  exhibition matches  this summer.  Formula One  The Glazer family bought the team in 2005 for 790 million
pounds ($1.2 billion). The U.S. plans were reported earlier by
IFR.  Formula One Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said
May 31 the auto racing series’ planned initial public offering
may not take place until later this year because of time
pressures and a volatile equity market. Ecclestone said he’s
busy handling business, such as talks with the promoters for a
proposed 2013 race in  New Jersey , and can’t devote as much time
as is necessary to the IPO.  Formula One’s shareholders led by CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
plan to raise as much as $3 billion by selling stakes in the
business in Singapore and have contacted so-called cornerstone
investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  