-- Angola’s Ruling Party MPLA Names dos Santos for President
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-06-13T16:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/angola-s-ruling-party-names-dos-santos-for-president-1-.html
Angola’s ruling party nominated
President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos  to lead the southern African
country if it wins parliamentary elections set for Aug. 31,
spokesman Rui Falcao de Andrade said.  Manuel Domingos Vicente, the former chairman of the
national  oil company , Sonangol EP, is the candidate for vice
president, de Andrade told reporters today in the capital,
Luanda. Vicente, 55, was appointed minister of economic
coordination in January.  “If Dos Santos wins, and if Vicente is given a key role in
government, it will mean that the lines between state and the
national oil company Sonangol will be more blurred than
before,” Marne Beukes, an analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It
potentially opens a door to more political interference and
vested interests.”  Dos Santos, 69, has ruled Angola, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
second biggest oil producer, for 32 years. The former Marxist
state produces about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day, pumped
mainly by companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP
Plc (BP/)  and Total SA.  The choice of Vicente as dos Santos’s running mate faced
opposition from some members of the ruling Popular Movement for
the Liberation of Angola, or MPLA, according to London-based
analysts such as Sebastian Boe at IHS Global Insight and Markus
Weimer at  Chatham House . A decision on a slate of candidates was
delayed from December as the party debated the matter.  Younger Face  “The installation of Vicente in the No. 2 spot is also
potentially a maneuver to present a younger face for the
party,” Boe said today in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Dos Santos is attempting to bring a more modern, business-
friendly face to the executive, but he may face resistance from
hard-line MPLA factions,” he said.  The election will be the nation’s second since the end of a
27-year civil war in 2002. The biggest party in parliament
chooses the president of the country. With more than six million
registered members, the MPLA captured 82 percent of the votes in
a 2008 ballot.  The former Unita rebel group is the country’s biggest
opposition party. Former Unita leader Isaias Samakuva left and
set up his own party in March, the Ample Convergence for the
Salvation of  Angola , or Casa. The split will help the MPLA
maintain a majority in the 220-member parliament where it holds
181 seats compared with Unita’s 16.  “I don’t expect much to change for the oil industry, and
policies governing the sector will most likely continue,”
Beukes said. “It is a case of rather the devil you know than
the one you don’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net 
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  