-- Aprilia Superbike Outguns Bugatti, Rises to Best in Class
-- B y   M a t t h e w   O a k l e y
-- 2012-06-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/aprilia-superbike-outguns-bugatti-rockets-to-best-in-class.html
It’s a boiling hot day, I’ve been 
shrink-wrapped by a leather suit and feel like I’m breathing 
through a wet sponge. Now I’m supposed to guide a little 
machine with a power-to-weight ratio greater than a Bugatti 
Veyron around a racetrack. Suddenly motorcycling doesn’t seem
like much fun.  The angry-looking black wasp I’m perched on, feeling
horribly vulnerable, is the Aprilia Tuono V4R APRC. It’s a lot
of letters. It’s also a lot of bike, pitched by the Noale,
Italy-based manufacturer as the most powerful “supernaked”
model on the market. It’s just been released in the U.S.  I’m intimidated. On previous, twin-cylinder, incarnations
of this V4 rocket, Aprilia SPA had taken its RSV superbike of
the moment, stripped off the bodywork, stuck high handlebars on
and that was about it.  The Tuono was infamously rowdy. With two extra cylinders
and 37 more horsepower, this model sounded downright disorderly.  Five decreasingly cautious laps later, the nerves nipping
at my stomach have gone and I realize this gem of a bike isn’t
intent on embedding me into a wall after all.  In fact, it’s superb in almost every respect, starting with
the magnificent sound. From a deep, bubbling growl at low revs,
the Tuono builds through the mid-range with an addictive snarl
and peaks at a blistering scream.  This is an engine that begs you to keep twisting the
throttle, and it’s almost impossible to refuse.  Effortless Power  Power, apart from a flat spot at around 2,500 revs that
ruins standing starts a little, builds effortlessly and rapidly.
The 60 miles per hour mark comes up in 2.9 seconds.  Wisely for a bike with this kind of stupendous power,
Aprilia has given the Tuono three different engine modes --
Road, Sport and Track -- that can be switched on the fly. Road
mode cuts power 25 percent across the range, ostensibly to make
the bike safer and more manageable for city use.  If 125 horsepower sounds a bit like an Italian’s idea of
restraint, setting the eight-stage traction control system to
the highest level adds a reassuring security buffer.  I experienced its effectiveness first-hand. Cornering out
of a tunnel onto a soaking wet road, the back end slid away and
the system kicked in immediately, bringing the bike back into
line so smoothly that my guts hardly had time to lurch.  Handling, thanks to those higher bars, is very sharp and so
quick that for the first five minutes on the racetrack I kept
overcooking it, being accustomed to a heavier sports-tourer.  Traction Control  The Tuono doesn’t need much persuasion to tip into and hold
a line, and once there the traction control enables you to drive
the bike out of corners early, flicking through the gears with
the quickshifter and munching through the next straight, before
slamming on some powerful  Brembo brakes  and doing it again.  A combination of electronic brilliance and basic
engineering common sense has turned the World Superbike
Championship-winning RSV4 sportsbike into a useable roadster
that’s hardly tame, yet less maniacal than its predecessor.  The destabilizing effect of a higher, more comfortable
riding position has been tempered by reducing the center of
gravity, fitting a steering damper and pushing the steering head
forward to put more weight over the front wheel.  As a result, the Tuono is supremely stable, even in fast,
bumpy corners -- far from being the handlebar-wobbling runaway
lunatic you might expect.  Retuned Engine  The engine has been retuned, with the bottom three of the
six gears made taller for more practical real-world use. It’s
not creamy smooth like a Triumph triple or an inline four.  Neither would anyone call it refined, unless they’re idea
of refinement is Vinnie Jones in a tuxedo. Still, it doesn’t
make you work as hard as a Ducati twin at low urban speeds.  If aesthetics are as important as performance, then the
Tuono might be a non-starter, even though it’s not as
categorically unsightly as previous models.  Compared with competitors like the Triumph Street Triple,
Ducati Streetfighter or MV Agusta Brutale, this won’t open the
drool tap. Build quality seems good, if a little plasticky in
places, with fully adjustable top-notch Sachs suspension.  The seat is sculpted to let the rider climb quickly around
the bike on the racetrack. It’s also rock hard, not that you’ll
be spending long hours in the saddle, because the mileage is
almost laughable at around 200km per 17-liter tank with
moderately hard use.  With that phenomenal V4 motor under the seat, any niggles
quickly disappear in a blur of addictive velocity and it’s easy
to see how this bike has knocked the Speed Triple off its best-
in-class perch for the first time in years.  In fact, it’s so good, I went back to the dealer and bought
it.  The 2012 Aprilia Tuono V4R APRC at a Glance  Engine: 999cc V4, liquid-cooled with 167 horsepower and
82 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed, wet multiplate slipper clutch.  Speed: Top speed 165mph (266kmh)  Gas mileage per gallon: 29  Price: $14,999.  Best features: Addictive engine, sharp handling, sound.  Worst feature: Low mileage.  Target buyer: Track and daily use riders who want to arrive
at work grinning. Definitely not a novice bike.  ( Matthew Oakley  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Oakley in Singapore at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 