-- Arctic Ship Cargoes Saving $650,000 on Fuel Set for Record High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-13T10:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/arctic-ship-cargoes-saving-650-000-on-fuel-set-for-record-high.html
Cargoes of dry-bulk commodities
hauled through Arctic waters are set to rise to a record this
year as shipping companies use the route to almost halve journey
times compared with  Suez Canal  shipments.  Nordic Bulk Carriers A/S plans to transport about six to
eight 70,000 metric-ton shipments of  iron ore  to China from the
Russian port of Murmansk starting in July, according to director
Christian Bonfils. Using the so-called Northern Sea Route for
the journey instead of the canal saves 1,000 tons of fuel, or
$650,000, he said today by phone.  “We plan to use the Northern Sea Route if it makes sense
and we can rely on it,” Bonfils said. Nordic Bulk Carriers,
based in Hellerup,  Denmark , has four ships with the world’s
heaviest hull reinforcing for plying icy waters and will become
the biggest user of the route in terms of volumes transported by
year-end, he said.  Russia  is promoting the Arctic voyage as a lane to ship
oil, natural gas and minerals to the  Pacific Ocean  from the
northern Atlantic as ice melts and scientific knowledge of
marine transportation in the region advances. Any dry-bulk
cargoes to be sent to  Asia  from ports north of Rotterdam may be
able to use the route when it’s open, Bonfils said.  The route follows the Russian coast from the island
archipelago of Novaya Zemlya in the west to the Bering Strait in
the east,  according  to the website of the United Nations
Environment Programme’s GRID-Arendal affiliate. A voyage through
Arctic waters is as much as 40 percent shorter than a journey
via the Panama or Suez canals, the site showed.  23 Days  Nordic Bulk Carriers made the first Arctic voyage with a
commercial mineral cargo in 2010 and another last year,
according to its  website . The Murmansk-to- China  journey takes 23
days using the northern route, compared with 43 for the Suez
Canal, according to Bonfils. The planned ore cargoes represent
an all-time high for shipments via the passage, he said.  Arctic navigation may be limited to as little as four
summer months a year, George Economou, president of DryShips
Inc., said in a May 30 interview. Limits on voyages also stem
from a shortage of specialized ships, uncertain hire costs for
government-owned icebreaker escorts for the seven-day passage
and evolving rules as the trade develops, Bonfils said.  Ship owners can charge a daily hire rate for an Arctic
voyage that’s up to four times higher than the Suez route, yet
the dollar-per-ton cost of moving cargoes remains the same
because of the savings in time and fuel, Economou said.  DryShips (DRYS) 
in December ordered four Panamax vessels with strengthened hulls
at a cost of $34 million each and aims to start employing them
on the Arctic voyage in 2014.  Icebreaker Fees  “We know there is demand there, as long as we can provide
the ships,” Economou said. His company is based in  Athens  and
has a fleet of 58 dry-bulk carriers and tankers, according to
first-quarter results released May 29.  While icebreaking fees exceed Suez Canal tolls, shippers
using the northern route avoid elevated insurance costs
associated with passing through areas of higher risk for piracy,
according to Bonfils.  Fifty-five Panamaxes out of the global fleet of 2,005 have
reinforced hulls,  Nick Brown , a spokesman for Lloyd’s Register,
said by e-mail yesterday. Only three have the top classification
of  1A Finnish Swedish  class, he said. Nordic Bulk Carriers owns
two of those ships, its website shows.  1A-class vessels are the only ones permitted by Russia’s
government to use the Arctic route, Bonfils said. Including
orders at yards, six of the ships will be available for service
in the next three years, he said.  Commercial passage through the Arctic has become easier
since 2007 as ice retreats in the region’s northeast, partly
because of  climate change , Rudiger Gerdes, a professor at the
Alfred Wegener Institute for polar and marine research in
Bremerhaven,  Germany , said by phone yesterday.  Panamaxes are the largest ships that can navigate the
Panama Canal. Lloyd’s Register ranks second globally among so-
called classification societies that monitor compliance with
structural rules for building and maintaining ships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  