-- Are You With the Dumb Money or the Smart Money?
-- B y   J a m e s   H e a t o n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-13T22:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/are-you-with-the-dumb-money-or-the-smart-money-.html
Market observers often divide
investors into “smart money” and “dumb money.” Our  research 
shows there may be a way to figure out which group you are in.  The first place to look is prices, which reflect the
interaction of smart money and dumb money and may contain
valuable information about the proportion of either in the
 market . In other words, the price knows which category we belong
to. The trick is to extract that information.  Consider a simple example of a simple market: betting on a
horse race. Say there are two horses, A and B. And there are two
types of bettors, smart money and dumb money. We place our bet
on horse A because we think it is more likely to win. It turns
out that 75 percent of the money is on horse B, and 25 percent
is on A. These “prices” can help us learn whether we are more
likely to be the dumb money or the smart money.  We want to compare the probability that we are the dumb
money given the market price to the probability that we are the
smart money given the market price. We can write this as
P(dumb|market)/P(smart|market). If this ratio is greater than
one, then it is more likely that we are the dumb money. Less
than one, we are more likely to be the smart money.  Horse Race  Bayes’ Rule  tells us how to figure this out.
P(dumb|market)/P(smart|market) =
[P(market|dumb)/P(market|smart)] x [P(dumb)/P(smart)]. In words,
the odds in favor of us being the dumb money given the market
price is the relative likelihood of the market price if we are
the dumb money multiplied by the prior odds that we are the dumb
money. Notice how we are using the market price -- in this case,
the amount bet on each horse -- to help us figure out where we
belong. We do this by asking if these prices are more likely to
occur if we are dumb or if we are smart.  Suppose we believe that there is much more dumb money than
smart money at the track today. If we are dumb money, we’d
expect to be betting in the direction of the relatively larger
group. Yet we’re in the minority. That’s pretty unlikely to be
the case if we’re the dumb money, given our beliefs about the
proportion of each type of bettor at the track.  By contrast, if we are smart money, we’d expect to be
betting with the minority. And that’s exactly what we see.  So
[P(market|dumb)/P(market|smart)] <1, which pushes us in the
direction of thinking we are the smart money.  Now, turn to the prior odds. Let’s say we are pretty
confident that we are smart money. That means [P(dumb)/P(smart)]
<1.  Overall, combining the two, we think it is more likely that
we are the smart money than the dumb money. The market prices
helped us figure it out.  We wish we could say that it is this easy to determine in
circumstances other than this hypothetical race between two
horses. It isn’t.  We need to have pretty accurate beliefs about how much dumb
money is in the  market . If there is actually much more smart
money at the track than dumb money, then these prices are much
more likely if we are the dumb money.  Also, it may be hard for us to even consider the
possibility that we are the dumb money. Often, the identifying
characteristic of members of the dumb group is thinking too
strongly that they are the smart money. Are we making that
mistake here? If so, it may prevent us from learning that we are
the dumb money.  Costanza Rule  There is an episode of the television comedy “Seinfeld” in
which George Costanza complains: “My life is the opposite of
everything I want it to be. Every instinct I have, in every
aspect of life, be it something to wear, something to eat ...
It’s all been wrong.”  Jerry Seinfeld  persuades George that the
answer to his predicament is to do the opposite of everything
he’d normally do. By doing so, George enjoys great success.  Can dumb money also learn that it is dumb and by doing the
opposite enjoy the benefits of being smart? The awareness that
we are part of the dumb money can lead us to change the
direction of our bets: We might go long instead of going short,
bet on no default instead of a default, sell  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
shares instead of buying them.  Unfortunately, deciding to do the opposite of what one
normally does is difficult. After all, George only pulled it off
for a single episode.  ( James B. Heaton  is a partner at the law firm Bartlit Beck
Herman Palenchar and Scott LLP in  Chicago . Nicholas G. Polson is
professor of econometrics and statistics at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor to  Business
Class . The opinions expressed are their own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks  and
 Putin’s attack helicopters in Syria ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
Federal Reserve’s next move ;  Michael Kinsley  on  why you’re even
poorer than you thought ; William D. Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s day
in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture For America ; Amar Bhide and
Christopher Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual funds ;
Jonathan Reiss on  improving regional Fed boards .  To contact the writers of this article:
James Heaton at  jbheaton3@gmail.com ;
Nicholas Polson at  ngp@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  