-- Marfrig Sees Lower Debt, Higher Margin on New Units
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-06-13T20:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/marfrig-sees-lower-debt-higher-margin-on-new-units.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s
second-largest food company, expects the purchase of BRF - Brasil
Foods  SA brands and processing units will cut debt to less than
four times earnings and boost margins, a top executive said.  The debt-to-earnings ratio, at a five-year high of 4.5, may
fall further to as low as 2.5 if Marfrig manages to sell
logistics assets and a stake in its Seara unit,Joao Sampaio,
vice president of institutional affairs, said in an interview
today at the Bloomberg office in  Sao Paulo . Marfrig will make a
July interest payment on 2.5 billion reais ($1.2 billion) of
convertible bonds held by the state-owned  development bank  as
scheduled, Sampaio said.  Marfrig, which has shifted from beef to TV dinners, frozen
pizzas and other meat products since 2010, is seeking to reduce
debt after 20 acquisitions in five years to compete with Brasil
Foods for processed products. Marfrig spent $2 billion in 2010
to buy Seara from Cargill Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  supplier
Keystone Foods, causing debt to quadruple in two years.  “We want to be increasingly seen as a food company not a
meatpacker,” said Sampaio, who was Sao Paulo state’s
agriculture secretary for four years until May 2011.  The Sao Paulo-based company expects to sell its logistics
assets this year after a deal with  JSL SA (JSLG3)  fell through in March,
Sampaio said. Now Marfrig is considering separating the assets
into three businesses to make a sale easier, he said. A plan to
sell a stake in Seara is also in place, Sampaio said.  Profit Margins  Marfrig rose 0.7 percent to close at 9.55 reais in Sao
Paulo. The shares have climbed 12 percent this year, compared
with a 1.9 decline in  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Marfrig expects profit margins to grow after buying 10
processing plants, 12 brands and eight distribution centers from
Brasil Foods, the nation’s biggest food company.  The incorporation of all the Brasil Foods assets into Seara
by August means the unit’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization, or Ebitda, will double to
between 12 percent and 13 percent of sales in the third quarter
from about 6 percent in the first, Sampaio said.  Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico had reported on
May 25 that the company was in talks to postpone coupon payments
of as much as 270 million reais on the bonds held by the
development bank, known as BNDES.  Asset Sales  Chief Executive Officer and founder Marcos Molina dos Santos, who opened his first slaughterhouse in 2000, is seeking
to sell assets this year after acquisitions to turn Marfrig into
a food processor led debt to surge.  In April, Marfrig concluded the sale of U.S. and European
distribution units to Illinois-based Martin-Brower Co. for $400
million.  In March, Brazilian logistics company JSL canceled plans to
buy Marfrig’s distribution centers and fleets of refrigerated
trucks and vans that transport goods to clients and between
plants.  Brasil Foods is also the world’s largest poultry exporter.
Marfrig is  Latin America ’s biggest beef producer after  JBS SA. (JBSS3)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  