-- Argentine Bonds Rally on Fernandez Pledge for Dollar Repayment
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-06-13T20:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/argentine-bonds-rally-on-fernandez-pledge-for-dollar-repayment.html
Argentine local-law bonds posted
their biggest two-day gain in three years after President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said the government won’t renege
on paying back dollar-denominated bonds in greenbacks.  The comments eased investors’ concern after Argentine
assets plunged two days ago on speculation dollar bonds and  bank
deposits  would be converted into pesos in a bid to save foreign 
reserves needed to defend the currency.  Yields on notes due in 2015, known as Bodens and subject to
local law, fell 128 basis points, or 1.28 percentage point, to
17.86 percent. The yields extended their two-day drop to 303
basis points, the biggest since June 2009. They rose 319 basis
points on June 11.  “We are repaying the holders of these bonds in dollars as
we should,” Fernandez said last night in a Buenos Aires speech.  A draft bill sent to the Senate on June 8 says debtors may
pay foreign currency obligations with the equivalent in pesos at
the official  exchange rate . The proposal doesn’t specify what
type of debt would be affected under the measure and doesn’t say
whether it includes existing or only new contracts.  Justice Minister Julio Alak said yesterday Argentina won’t
convert existing contracts denominated in U.S. dollars or other
foreign currencies into pesos.  “It’s important to clarify that there won’t be a
pesofication of existing foreign currency contracts or of
foreign currency savings,” he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
 government bonds  over U.S. Treasuries fell 28 basis points to
1,103 basis points, the biggest drop among Latin American
countries in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  