-- Arizona Voters Pick Former Aide to Fill Giffords’ Seat
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-06-13T06:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/arizona-voters-pick-former-aide-to-fill-giffords-seat.html
Democrat Ron Barber, an aide to
former U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , won a special
election to fill the remaining term of the congresswoman who
resigned after being shot in the head last year.  Barber, Giffords’ district director from 2007 through
January, led Republican Jesse Kelly 52 percent to 45 percent,
with 100 percent of precincts reporting, according to the
Arizona  Secretary of State ’s website. Green Party candidate
Charlie Manolakis collected 2 percent of the vote.  “We say no to extreme politics,” Barber said in remarks
prepared for delivery at a victory celebration in Tucson. “We
say yes to working across party lines to secure a strong future
for Arizona.”  The Republican-leaning 8th Congressional District elected
Democrat Giffords to a third term in 2010 over Kelly, an Iraq
war veteran. Giffords won by less than 2 percentage points, or
4,000 votes.  The election to fill the six months remaining in Giffords’s
term is considered a test -- following a contest on June 5 in
which  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, beat back a
recall attempt -- of trends that may influence the race between
President  Barack Obama  and former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney .  “After Wisconsin, if Kelly wins, the Republicans are going
to say, ‘The wind is at our back and this is a harbinger of
what’s going to happen in the general election,’” Brint
Milward, director of the National Institute for Civil Discourse
at the  University of Arizona , said before the vote. “If Barber
wins, the Democrats are going to say ’Wisconsin was an isolated
case.’”  Social Issues  Social issues such as Social Security, Medicare and health
care reform, along with the economy, dominated the campaign.
 Arizona  posted the nation’s eighth-highest foreclosure rate in
April, according to RealtyTrac Inc. Unemployment, at 8.2 percent
in April, was higher than the national rate of 8.1 percent,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Giffords endorsed Barber, 66, who was injured in the Jan.
8, 2011, attack and still exhibits a dimple on his cheek from a
gunshot wound. The shooting during a community meeting in Tucson
left six people dead and sparked a national debate about the
incivility of politics.  Barber raised more money than Kelly for most of the
campaign, bringing in 37 percent more through May 23, or about
$1.19 million to Kelly’s $756,173, according to the Washington-
based Center for Responsive Politics.  Outside Financing  Outside groups, including the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee, the National Republican Campaign Committee,
the pro-Democratic super PAC House Majority PAC and the pro-
Republican super PAC American Crossroads, poured more than $2.2
million into the race, according to documents on the center’s
website.  The special election is for a term that lasts only through
early January. Both candidates are expected to start campaigning
now for a full two-year term in a reconfigured district known as
District 2. The primary is Aug. 28 with a Nov. 6 general
election.  District boundaries, which currently cover about 9,000
square miles in southeast Arizona and include part of Tucson and
a 114-mile border with  Mexico , will remain largely the same.
What will change is the composition of the electorate, with
District 2 shifting a bit more toward Democrats, Milward said.  Voter Registrations  The current district leans Republican, with about 159,200
Republicans registered to vote, compared with 133,751 Democrats
and 128,242 who filed as “other,” according to the Secretary
of State.  Arizona’s 8th Congressional District has long been viewed
as competitive for both parties. A Republican held the seat for
more than two decades before Giffords’s election in 2006.  With yesterday’s victory, Barber is well positioned,
through a network of contacts nurtured during his five years as
Giffords’s district director, to reach voters this fall, said
Barry Dill, a Democratic consultant who contributed to Barber’s
campaign.  “Gabby Giffords, in a large part because of Ron, was able
to put together a very strong constituent service operation and
Ron was the guy who ran that for her,” Dill said before the
vote.  Both candidates are expected to compete in the August
primary election. Kelly, 30, is set to face political newcomer
Mark Koskiniemi, who works for Pima County government, and
Martha McSally, a retired Air Force colonel who was the first
female fighter pilot to fly in combat, in the Republican
primary. Barber faces state Representative Matt Heinz, a
physician, in the Democratic contest.  Virginia, Maine, Nevada  The landscape for some of November’s Senate races took
shape in primaries in  Virginia ,  Maine  and  Nevada . All three
general-election races are potentially close and could be
crucial in determining whether Democrats retain their Senate
majority.  In Virginia, Republican George Allen won the chance to try
to regain the seat he lost six years ago. Allen defeated three
primary opponents, including Jamie Radtke, a former chairwoman
of the Federation of Virginia Tea Party Patriots.  The victory by Allen, who also served as Virginia’s
governor, sets up a November matchup with another ex-governor
and the one-time head of the  Democratic National Committee ,  Tim Kaine . Senator  Jim Webb , a Democrat who isn’t seeking re-
election this year, in 2006 ousted Allen from the Senate after
one term.  Snow Successor  In Maine, Cynthia Dill won the Democratic nomination and
Charles Summers was the Republican pick in the contest to
replace retiring Republican Senator  Olympia Snowe , according to
the  Associated Press .  The primary winners will compete in a three-way race in
November with Angus King, who served as governor for two terms
as an independent and is running for the Senate under that
label. King, though he has endorsed Obama’s re-election, hasn’t
said which party he would align with if elected.  In Nevada,  Dean Heller , appointed to the Senate last year
after Republican  John Ensign  resigned his seat amid scandal,
defeated a slate of lesser-known challengers in the Republican
primary.  His Democratic challenger is Representative Shelley Berkley,  who won her party’s primary against four opponents.
Berkley’s House district is centered in  Las Vegas .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  