-- Armstrong Says He May Be Stripped of Tour Titles in Doping Probe
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/armstrong-says-he-may-be-stripped-of-tour-titles-in-doping-probe.html
Lance Armstrong  faces accusations
from the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  four months after federal
prosecutors dropped a criminal drug probe against the seven-time
Tour de France cycling champion.  Armstrong -- who called the latest allegations “baseless”
and reiterated that he has never flunked a drug test -- has been
banned immediately from competing in triathlons because of the
investigation.  “USADA’s malice, its methods, its star-chamber practices
and its decision to punish first and adjudicate later all are at
odds with our ideals of fairness and fair play,” Armstrong said
in an e-mailed statement.  Travis Tygart, chief executive officer of USADA, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday that Armstrong, three doctors and
two officials from the cyclist’s former U.S. Postal Service team
were notified of the doping allegations a day earlier.  “USADA only initiates matters supported by the evidence,”
Tygart said. “We do not choose whether or not we do our job
based on outside pressures, intimidation or for any reason other
than the evidence.”  Armstrong won the Tour de  France , cycling’s premier event,
each year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving testicular cancer
that had spread to his brain and lungs. The Lance Armstrong
Foundation, which he founded in 1997 to help cancer survivors,
has raised $500 million, the charity’s Chief Executive Officer
Doug Ulman said.  “If he hadn’t had cancer and started the foundation, I
think he probably would lose a lot of endorsers,” Steve Herz, a
sports agent and president of New York-based IF Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “He's cloaked himself in a cape
like Superman. He's untouchable.''  ‘Halo Effect’  Armstrong, 40, who retired from cycling in February 2011,
has endorsement agreements with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Trek Bicycle Corp.
and Oakley Inc. Even if he’s found guilty, his reputation won’t
suffer unduly in the eyes of corporate backers or the public,
said Steve McDaniel, sports and entertainment marketing
professor at the  University of Maryland .  “Unlike other celebrities, he has been involved in cause-
related marketing as opposed to strictly commercial endeavors,”
McDaniel said in a telephone interview. “He’s generated so much
good will, it has a potential for more of a halo effect.”  USADA’s accusations,  first reported  by the  Washington Post (WPO) ,
come after Armstrong’s attorney said the cyclist failed to meet
with the agency by June 8, four days after receiving a letter
offering him an “opportunity to talk about drug use in
cycling.” Robert Luskin, Armstrong’s attorney, wrote in a
letter to USADA that the meeting was a “demand wrapped in a
threat” seeking Armstrong’s confession.  ‘Charade’  “We will not be party to this charade,” Luskin wrote in
the June 8 letter. “Lance has publicly and repeatedly made
clear that he never doped.”  Former U.S. Postal team manager  Johan Bruyneel , former
coach Pepe Marti and team doctors Pedro Celaya, Luis Garcia del
Moral and Michele Ferrari also were sent letters from USADA
saying they had been accused, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Cycling’s world governing body, the International Cycling
Union or UCI, said in a statement that it had been notified of
USADA’s probe. It didn’t identify any of the people involved.  USADA made previously unpublicized allegations against
Armstrong, saying it collected blood samples from him in 2009
and 2010 that were “fully consistent with blood manipulation
including EPO use and/or blood transfusions,” the Post said.
The newspaper said it had obtained a copy of a 15-page letter
that was sent to Armstrong.  Blood Booster  EPO is the abbreviation for erythropoietin, which can add
energy-boosting properties to blood. Doping authorities say the
drug and transfused blood have been used by athletes in
endurance sports such as cycling and cross-country skiing to
increase performance.  “Whether the  Tour de France  titles are stripped, some
people will still think he is an inspiration,” Herz said. “If
he’s exonerated, others will also think he’s a cheater.”  Armstrong never has been publicly identified as testing
positive for performance-enhancing drugs. On Feb. 4, the U.S.
attorney in  Los Angeles  ended a criminal drug probe involving
Armstrong and his professional bicycle racing team without
filing charges.  ‘Motivated by Spite’  “These are the very same charges and the same witnesses
that the  Justice Department  chose not to pursue after a two-year
investigation,” Armstrong said in his statement. “These
charges are baseless, motivated by spite and advanced through
testimony bought and paid for by promises of anonymity and
immunity. Although USADA alleges a wide-ranging conspiracy
extended over more than 16 years, I am the only athlete it has
chosen to charge.”  Armstrong was scheduled to race his first professional full
Ironman event June 24 in Nice, France, to try to qualify for the
Ironman World Championship in  Hawaii  on Oct. 13.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network said last week it planned to
air this year’s championship race on Oct. 27, six weeks earlier
than usual, and expand the coverage to two hours from 90 minutes.
The network said the coverage was expected to focus heavily on
Armstrong.  Armstrong finished second in his first half Ironman 70.3-
mile (113-kilometer) race on Feb. 12 in  Panama . He won his last
two half Ironman events, which feature a 1.2-mile swim, 56-mile
bike ride and 13.1-mile run. Armstrong competed as a
professional triathlete at 18 before focusing on cycling.  World Triathlon Corp., which runs the Ironman series, said
in an e-mailed statement that its rules “dictate an athlete is
ineligible to compete during an open investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 