-- LaSalle Said to Seek $700 Million for New Asia Fund
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-13T03:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/lasalle-said-to-seek-700-million-for-new-asia-opportunity-fund.html
LaSalle Investment Management , owned
by the world’s second-largest property broker, is seeking to
raise as much as $700 million for an Asia-Pacific property fund,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The unit of Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  has
already purchased an industrial asset in China and an office
property in Japan to seed the new Asia Opportunity Fund IV, said
the people, who declined to be identified as they’re not
authorized to discuss the plans. The fund will seek industrial
properties and hotels in Australia and China, retail properties
in Australia, industrial assets and offices in Japan, and
higher-return housing in select cities in China, they said.  Asian economies will expand by about 6 percent in 2012, a
similar rate to last year, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast in April. Investments in Asia-Pacific commercial
property increased by a record 13 percent in 2011, helping the
region overtake  North America  to become the world’s second
largest, a report from property broker DTZ in April showed.  “Long term, we’re big believers in the Asian growth
story,” said Louis Christopher, managing director at SQM
Research Pty in Sydney. “But the industrial  property market  in
Australia has been patchy, house prices in China have been
falling and Japanese office returns are tied to economic growth.
This is very much about taking a bottom up approach and picking
the best individual assets and the best regions within Asia.”  LaSalle Investment is also raising money for a third Japan
logistics fund after selling the assets from a previous vehicle
to Singapore-based  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , one of the
people said. Stephanie Murphy, global corporate communications
director at LaSalle, declined to comment.  Rising consumption across Asia will boost demand for retail
properties in the region from investors,  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  said in
its first-quarter Asia-Pacific  MarketView  report. Shortage of
space and retailer demand will boost growth of  industrial
properties  in China,  Hong Kong  and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  