-- Stocks Fall as Treasuries Gain on Retail Sales; Euro Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-13T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/asia-stocks-copper-gain-on-signs-of-resilience.html
Stocks fell and Treasuries rose
after a drop in American retail sales and higher borrowing costs
in Italy and  Germany  fueled concern about the global economy.
The euro gained on speculation  Greece  will stay in the currency
bloc regardless of the results of weekend elections.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.7 percent to
1,314.88 at 4 p.m. in  New York , wiping out most of yesterday’s
rally. The euro appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.2573 as it
strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers. Ten-year U.S. note
yields lost six basis points to 1.61 percent after the Treasury
auctioned debt at a record low yield. Oil slid to an eight-month
low after swinging between gains and losses during the day.  U.S. stocks opened the session  lower  as government data
showed U.S. retail sales declined 0.2 percent in May and
 interest rates  rose at auctions in Italy and Germany. Equities
turned higher, with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  leading gains in  banks 
as Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimondefended his firm’s
practices before lawmakers. The rally faded by the final two
hours of trading as a U.S. official said the Group of 20 nations
probably won’t announce significant progress on  Europe ’s crisis
and Egan-Jones Ratings Co. cut Spain’s debt.  “In a world that still has more uncertainty than we care
to count, you keep going back and forth between hope and
disappointment,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “It’s a process of taking
out excessive optimism.”  Market Leaders  American Express Co., Home Depot Inc. and Caterpillar Inc.
fell more than 2 percent for the biggest declines in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , which slid 77.42 points to 12,496.38.  JPMorgan rose 1.6 percent as Dimon spent much of his time
at a hearing firing back at the federal regulatory system that
has become “really complex” because of legislation stemming
from the 2008 financial crisis. He described a $2 billion loss
in the bank’s chief investment office as a hedge that “morphed
into something I can’t justify,” and largely blamed
subordinates for a trading strategy gone wrong.  Expedia Inc., an online travel service, and Chesapeake
Energy Corp. dropped at least 2.7 percent as analysts cut their
ratings.  Thirty-year bond yields lost five basis points to 2.72
percent. Treasuries extended gains as a U.S. sale of $21 billion
in 10-year notes drew a record-low auction yield of 1.622
percent, compared with a forecast of 1.647 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers.  Commodities Slip  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities slipped 0.7 percent,
erasing an earlier 0.4 percent advance. Corn, cattle and natural
gas fell at least 1.7 percent to lead declines in 22 of 24
materials tracked by the gauge.  Gold rose for a fourth straight day, its longest rally
since January, amid speculation the Federal Reserve will take
further steps to spur growth, boosting the appeal of the metal
as an inflation hedge. Oil fell to an eight-month low, dropping
0.8 percent to $82.62 a barrel.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated from a two-week high.
Sweden’s SKF AB, the world’s largest maker of ball bearings,
dropped 7.3 percent after it reported weakening demand for its
products in the second quarter. Renault SA led a selloff by
carmakers, sliding 4.2 percent. Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA
surged 18 percent, the most since 2003, amid takeover
speculation.  The G-20 summit next week in Los Cabos,  Mexico , will give
European leaders a chance to discuss economic concerns with
heads of other major economies. European governments are more
focused on building a consensus for a meeting of the 17-nation
 euro zone  later in the month, the official told reporters on
condition of anonymity.  G-20 Meeting  President  Barack Obama  will meet with the rest of the G-20
leaders June 18-19. Obama is likely to repeat the message he
delivered at the last G-8 summit, that Europe needs to focus on
growth and solid firewalls to keep the crisis contained, the
official said.  Greece’s  ASE Index (ASE)  climbed 2.1 percent following a report
in Financial Times Deutschland that said European leaders may
consider relaxing Greece’s austerity program after the June 17
election. Alexis Tsipras said he expects the European Union will
try to keep Greece in the currency even if his Syriza party wins
elections and repeals budget-cutting measures.  The euro rallied the most against the  Mexican peso , British
pound and Canadian dollar.  “Talk of possible bailout amendments is perceived as
positive as it makes an implosion of the euro less likely,”
saidHenrik Gullberg, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
in  London . “The market is generally very short the euro. Some
investors are unwinding those positions ahead of the election.”  Debt Sales  Europe is in an intense and crucial phase, Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said in  Rome . Yields on the nation’s 10-
year debt rose five basis points to 6.22 percent. Spain’s credit
rating was reduced two steps to CCC+ from B by Egan-Jones
Ratings Co., the firm said today in an e-mailed statement. After
U.S. markets closed, Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s
rating to Baa3 from A3 and said it may be reduced further.  Spain’s 10-year yield, which touched a euro-era record 6.83
percent yesterday before paring gains, added five basis points
to 6.75 percent.  Bond Auctions  Italy sold 6.5 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of bills and
Germany issued 4.04 billion euros in the sale of 10-year bonds.  Germany’s 10-year yield increased six basis points to 1.49
percent, adding to yesterday’s 12 point increase. Denmark’s 30-
year bond yield advanced 13 basis points to 2.08 percent as the
government agreed to ease rules for the country’s pension firms
to help reduce their liabilities as record-low bond yields
inflate the value of their obligations.  Pension companies and life insurers will be allowed to
raise the discount rate they use to calculate their liabilities
to better reflect long-term growth and inflation prospects, the
Business and Growth Ministry in Copenhagen said in a statement
yesterday.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.6 percent, poised
for its highest close this month. Russia’s Micex index added 0.6
percent as trading resumed following a two-day holiday, while
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  