-- Asian Stocks Advance on Rising Japan Machinery Orders
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-06-13T10:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/asian-stocks-advance-as-ecb-backs-bank-deposit-guarantee.html
Asian  stocks  rose as  Japan ’s
machinery orders increased more than economists expected and
South Korea’s unemployment fell, adding to evidence the region’s
economies are withstanding Europe’s debt crisis.  Hitachi Ltd., which gets about a third of sales from
industrial machinery, climbed 2.4 percent in Tokyo. Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of mobile phones,
rose 1.3 percent in Seoul.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  tumbled 21
percent in Hong Kong before trading of its shares was suspended
after the clothier’s chief executive officer resigned.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.4 percent to 113.31 as
of 7:48 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing losses of as much as 0.2 percent.
About three shares rose for every two that fell in the measure.
Trading volumes in Australia,  Hong Kong  and Japan were at least
12 percent lower than the 30-day average ahead of Greek polls
June 17 that may determine the nation’s future in the euro.  “Valuations are cheap in Asia and economies are still
fairly resilient,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer at Samsung Asset Management Co., which
manages $100 billion. “There are still a lot of uncertainties.
If Greece elections lead to a euro exit, it will be chaotic.”  The regional gauge dropped 12 percent from this year’s peak
on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern growth in the U.S. and
China is slowing and as Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  added 0.6 percent as
machinery orders increased more than economists expected in
April. Hitachi climbed 2.4 percent to 476 yen. Fanuc Corp., a
maker of industrial robots, added 0.4 percent to 13,580 yen.  Solar-Panel Makers  South Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.3 percent as the nation’s
unemployment rate fell to a four-month low in May. Samsung
Electronics added 1.3 percent to 1.271 million won.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.3 percent amid
speculation that government will ease monetary policy and
increase infrastructure spending to stem a slowdown in the
domestic economy. Separate reports released over the weekend
showed the nation’s exports and imports increasing more than
expectations, while factory output and retail sales trailed
estimates. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.8 percent.  Solar-panel makers rallied after First Solar Inc., the
world’s largest thin-film panel maker, said it will delay the
close of a German plant until the end of the year to meet the
unexpected strong demand in Europe.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , China’s largest maker of
silicon for solar panels, jumped 5.2 percent to HK$1.82 in Hong
Kong. Sino-American Silicon Products Inc., a Taiwanese supplier
of the raw material, advanced 3.5 percent to HK$50.30.  Australian Confidence  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.2 percent as a
survey showed the nation’s  consumer confidence  stagnated to near
the lowest level this year.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent
today. The gauge advanced 1.2 percent yesterday in New York as
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President Charles Evans said he
would support measures to generate faster job growth and after
the  European Central Bank  endorsed a plan to guarantee  bank
deposits .  Companies that do business in Europe declined as Italy
prepared to sell 6.5 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of bills today
and offer more debt tomorrow. The yield on the nation’s
benchmark 10-year government bond rose to as high as 6.3 percent
yesterday, a level last seen on Jan. 25.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., which operates ports in Spain and
Germany, slipped 0.9 percent to HK$64.25 in Hong Kong. Canon
Inc., a camera maker that gets about 31 percent of sales from
Europe, lost 1.1 percent to 3,215 yen in  Tokyo .  ‘Serious Blow’  Esprit, which counts Europe as its largest market, tumbled
22 percent to HK$10.54, the most since October 1997, before
trading of the stock was halted in Hong Kong. Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Van der Vis became the second top official to
quit in six months.  “The unexpected resignation is a serious blow to the
company’s transformation plan and will cast doubt on the
execution,” said Andrew Sullivan, principal trader at Piper
Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Investors may fear
that his stepping down will bring the transformation efforts
back to square one.”  The Asian benchmark dropped 0.9 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 5.3 percent advance by the  S&P 500 
and a 0.5 percent drop by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Shares on
the Asian benchmark are valued at 1.2 times book value, compared
with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the Stoxx 600,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one
means companies can be bought for less than value of their
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  