-- Australia’s Swan Implores Europe to Muster Political Courage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/australia-s-swan-implores-europe-to-muster-political-courage.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
called on  Europe ’s policy makers to stop squandering
opportunities and make potentially unpopular decisions needed to
stabilize the region’s fiscal crisis.  “In a pattern now all too familiar, European politicians
are still well behind the curve, having failed to take advantage
of the months of relative calm,” Swan said in the text of a
speech to be delivered at a Euromoney forum in Sydney today. 
“Put simply, what is required is some basic political courage.”  Swan criticized European lawmakers for failing to pursue
more aggressive policies before the latest turmoil in markets
from Athens to Madrid and said they must act now to boost growth
and support job creation. He contrasted their inaction with
 Australia ’s history of “muscling up” to challenges and said
his country, among the developed world’s fastest growing, is
“now more than ever an island of certainty in a sea of
volatility.”  European policy makers face a series of hurdles in the
coming days as bond investors spurn the 100 billion-euro ($125
billion) aid package for Spanish banks that the  European Central
Bank  said this week would bolster financial stability. Italy is
due to sell bills and bonds at auctions this week while auditors
are due to report on the extent of Spanish banking losses from
next week.  Greeks will vote in three days on whether to back Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza party wants to scrap an austerity plan
dictated by the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  as a condition of its bailout. New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, who supports the rescue conditions, said backing
Tsipras will see  Greece  effectively thrown out of the euro.  ‘No Escaping’  “There is no escaping the conclusion that Europe has a
long and painful road ahead -- with the most likely scenario
being rolling crises and volatility,” Swan, who was named as
Euromoney magazine’s finance minister of the year in 2011.
“Leaders are elected to lead, and that’s what Europe’s leaders
must do.”  Europe’s crisis poses a risk to the Australian economic
outlook because the common-currency area is the biggest export
destination for  China , Australia’s largest trading partner.
Australia’s unemployment rate last month was 5.1 percent,
compared with the most recent readings of 6.7 percent in
 Germany , 8.2 percent in the U.K. and 10 percent in  France ,
according to Bloomberg data.  Swan praised the issuance by Australian banks of covered
bonds, which are asset-backed notes that stay on a seller’s
balance sheet.  “Access to this new, more resilient issuance class -- so
far issued in five different currencies apart from our own --
has been critical in helping our financial institutions weather
heavy market turbulence,” he told the Euromoney Australasian
and Asian covered bond forum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  