-- U.S. Lawmakers Expand Probe to Chinese Companies’ Dealings
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-06-13T18:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/lawmakers-expand-probe-to-chinese-companies-business-operations.html
Two U.S. lawmakers asked Chinese
telecommunications companies Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE
Corp. (000063)  for details about their business dealings as part of an
investigation into how their expansion may affect U.S. security.  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, and the committee’s top Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland , sent  letters  dated
yesterday to high-ranking officials of both companies.  The letters, made public today, seek details about the
company’s ownership, their operations in the U.S., what funding
they receive from the Chinese government and what connections
they have with Chinese government officials.  “I remain concerned about the national security threat
posed by the potential expansion of Huawei and ZTE into our
telecommunications infrastructure,” Rogers said in a statement
today. “We must get to the bottom of these issues before the
companies have further access to our market.”  The House Intelligence Committee began an investigation
last year “to review the threat posed to U.S. national security
interests by telecommunications companies with potential ties to
the Chinese government,” according to a committee statement.  Specifically, Rogers and Ruppersberger asked for details
about Huawei’s interactions during the past 15 years with five
management consulting firms, including  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN) , and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Chinese Officials  They also asked about the company’s interactions with
Chinese government agencies and officials during the past five
years.  In a May 23 meeting, Huawei officials told the lawmakers
that the company maintains “a Party Committee,” according to
the letter. The letter asked about “the roles, responsibilities
and authorities” of the Party Committee.  The letter asked Huawei to provide details “for every
contract for goods or services provided in the  United States .”  The lawmakers asked both companies if they have “ever been
ordered by the Chinese government to perform a task or seek
information on behalf of the government?” They also asked the
companies if any employees “ever attempted to obtain private
information from an individual, company or government” through
their company’s network or equipment.  Philippines Contract  With regard to ZTE, the lawmakers asked what role, if any,
the company had “in the investigation against Philippine
officials -- including former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo
-- for accepting bribes to push through a $330 million (USD)
government contract.”  “Did ZTE provide any kickbacks?” the lawmakers asked. In
the letter, they also questioned whether ZTE sold “highly
sophisticated surveillance technology” to the Iranian
government.  Bill Plummer , Huawei’s vice president for external affairs,
said the company would cooperate in answering the lawmakers’
questions and is “committed to continuing to be open and
transparent.”  “It’s a great opportunity to once again put the facts on
the table,” Plummer said in a telephone interview. “Once the
facts are fully understood and fairly treated, we can all move
on to the real challenges we face.”  ZTE spokesman Mitch Peterson said in an e-mail that the
company “is committed to remaining transparent, candid and
cooperative throughout this inquiry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  