-- Baht Climbs as Regional Data Spur Optimism Asian Recovery Intact
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-13T08:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/baht-climbs-as-regional-data-spur-optimism-asian-recovery-intact.html
Thailand’s baht advanced as regional
data released today bolstered confidence Asian economies will
sustain growth amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Government bonds  were
steady.  Machinery orders in  Japan  rose in April at almost four
times the pace predicted by economists, while South Korea’s
unemployment rate fell to a four-month low in May. The  MSCI (MXAP) 
Asia-Pacific Index of shares rallied after the  European Central
Bank  backed proposals for a banking union that would establish a
deposit-guarantee program.  “Good data is providing temporary support to regional
currencies,” said Amonthep Chawla, a Bangkok-based analyst at
Kasikornbank Pcl. “Concern about Greece and Europe’s debt
crisis is still there and that remains a risk factor.”  The baht advanced 0.3 percent to 31.59 per dollar as of
3:03 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 4.52 percent.  The Bank of  Thailand  left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3 percent at a review today, a decision predicted
by all 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Risks to growth
outweigh inflation concern and policy makers are ready to adjust
borrowing costs if needed, the central bank said today, adding
that the current rate is “accommodative.”  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2017 was unchanged at 3.42 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “A cut is an option for them in the future if the
situation deteriorates and as inflation is not a major issue
now,” said Satoshi Ushijima, the Bangkok-based vice president
of the treasury division at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “We
don’t see any impact on the foreign-exchange rate as such a view
is already priced in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 