-- Bangladesh Rebuffs UN Call to Accept Myanmar Clash Victims
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-06-13T12:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/bangladesh-rebuffs-un-call-to-accept-victims-of-myanmar-clashes.html
Bangladesh  dismissed calls from the
United Nations refugee agency to accept people fleeing violence
that has claimed dozens of lives in neighboring Myanmar.  “It is certainly not in the best of our interests to allow
in a further influx of refugees,” Bangladesh Foreign Minister
Dipu Moni told reporters in Dhaka yesterday, responding to
reports that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees urged the
country to provide a safe haven. “We want to make sure that
refugees don’t enter Bangladesh in large numbers again.”  Myanmar declared a state of emergency on June 10 in western
Rakhine state, bordering Bangladesh, in a bid to end clashes
between Buddhists and Muslim Rohingyas that erupted a week
earlier. Bangladesh authorities have turned back boats carrying
hundreds of Rohingyas, including women and children who traveled
for as long as nine hours without food and water.  Bangladesh is seeking to avoid a repeat of influxes in
previous decades that have left more than 200,000 Rohingyas
living in or around makeshift camps. The  UNHCR  said in December
that its ability to address the issue of Rohingyas in Bangladesh
has been “particularly challenging” and the country is “not
well placed to cope with this protracted refugee situation.”  ‘Very Concerned’  The UNHCR yesterday said it was “very concerned” about
reports Bangladesh had turned away people fleeing violence and
sought a clarification from authorities. The UN agency asked
Bangladesh to allow people in need of safety and immediate
medical assistance to enter the country.  “Previously people have been allowed in to Bangladesh for
medical treatment,” the UNHCR said in a statement. “We hope
that such good practices will be maintained.”  The unrest began after an alleged rape prompted a mob of
about 300 Rakhine Buddhists to murder 10 Muslims on June 3,
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Myanmar imposed
a dusk-to-dawn curfew in four towns in Rakhine and prohibited
more than five people from gathering in public areas at a time,
according to the state-run New Light of Myanmar newspaper.  “Bangladesh is putting lives at grave risk,” Bill
Frelick, refugee program director at  Human Rights Watch , said in
a statement yesterday. “Bangladesh has an obligation under
international law to keep its border open to people fleeing
threats to their lives and provide them protection.”  The clashes killed 21 people and left 1,662 houses burned
down from June 8 to June 11, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing state media. Myanmar President  Thein Sein  said in a
national address on June 10 that uncontrolled violence may
hamper the government’s ability to proceed with democratic
reforms that prompted the U.S. and European Union to suspend
sanctions this year.  Not Recognized  Moves toward greater political freedom after about five
decades of military rule have attracted investors to Myanmar,
one of  Asia ’s poorest nations. The outbreak of violence in
Rakhine underscores the challenge of unifying the country of 64
million people, which has 135 officially recognized ethnic
groups -- a list that excludes the Rohingyas.  Bangladesh border guards and the nation’s coastguard
prevented 500 Rohingya Muslims from entering the country in 11
boats two days ago, Major Shafiqur Rahman said. Most were women
and children who lacked food and water, he said by phone on June
11.  ‘Best of Relations’  Bangladesh and Myanmar “enjoy the best of relations” and
“are maintaining close consultations to ensure that
developments in the Rakhine state do not have any trans-boundary
spillover,” Bangladesh Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad
Monirul Islam Kabir said in a statement yesterday.  Rohingyas,  Sunni Muslims  who are descended from Arab
traders, are prevented from obtaining citizenship and traveling
freely throughout Myanmar, according to Human Rights Watch.
About 800,000 Rohingyas live in Myanmar and 200,000 are in
Bangladesh, the group estimates.  Bangladesh saw influxes of about 250,000 Rohingya refugees
from Myanmar in 1978 and in the early 1990s, followed by
repatriation efforts “that were not wholly voluntary,” the
UNHCR’s policy development and evaluation service said in a
December  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  