-- Barclays’ Diamond Sees Europe Surviving Slowdown, Weak Euro
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   R u s s e l l   W a r d
-- 2012-06-13T08:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/barclays-diamond-sees-europe-surviving-slowdown-weaker-euro.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  said the euro region will survive even as the
debt crisis slows economic growth and weakens the currency.  “The underpinnings of the single currency, the
underpinnings of the integrated economy across  Europe  are very,
very strong,” Diamond said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Hong Kong  today. “We’re going to continue to see some event
risk as we, in our opinion, march toward, over the next couple
of years, closer to fiscal and political integration.”  Spain on June 9 became the fourth of the euro area’s states
to ask for a rescue, while Greece’s future in the currency bloc
may hinge on elections this weekend. The region’s debt crisis
won’t force London-based Barclays to scrap its profitability
target, Diamond said.  “Our commitment is very, very serious around creating
returns across all of Barclays that are comfortably ahead of the
cost of equity,” Diamond, 60, said. He reiterated the goal of
boosting return on equity, a measure of profitability, to 13
percent. Britain’s second-biggest bank by  assets  hasn’t set a
deadline for achieving the target as the environment, including
global  interest rates , would have an impact, he said.  Still, the bank is seeing “some  positive signs ” with all
three of its biggest units posting improvements in the first
quarter, he said. Diamond was in Hong Kong to attend an
executive committee meeting this week.  BlackRock Sold  Shares of Barclays have gained 9 percent this year in
London trading, outperforming the FTSE 100 Index’s 1.5 percent
decline. Bigger U.K. rival HSBC Holdings Plc has climbed 10.4
percent.  “We don’t think the European crisis is like a Lehman
Brothers 2008-type meltdown,” Sandy Mehta, CEO for Hong Kong-
based Value Investment Principals Ltd., said by telephone. “The
European Union will be able to muddle through,” he said, adding
that some continental banks will need more capital, while U.K.
lenders have already bolstered equity.  Diamond, who became CEO in January 2011, is selling assets
and focusing on the most profitable operations to help meet his
return-on-equity target. The lender last month raised about $5.5
billion by selling its stake in  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  before the latest
round of Basel rules stops it from counting the holding as
capital. He also sold consumer and commercial bank operations in
 Russia  in October and a private-equity unit in November.  Divesting more assets may be difficult given the global
turmoil, Diamond said. “I would say that it’s a difficult
environment to sell,” he said.  Profit Beat Estimates  The bank in April posted first-quarter profit that beat
 analysts’ estimates  as revenue at its investment banking unit
rebounded from the fourth quarter.  Pretax profit excluding losses on the valuation of the
lender’s debt rose 22 percent from a year earlier to 2.45
billion pounds ($3.8 billion). Revenue at the investment banking
unit, which generates about half of Barclays’s pretax profit,
jumped 91 percent from the fourth quarter as income from trading
fixed-income, currencies and commodities surged.  Barclays was hit by an investor protest over pay in April
as 27 percent of shareholders voted against Diamond’s 12
million-pound compensation package. He and Finance Director
Chris Lucas agreed to cut their deferred bonuses for 2011 until
the bank improves profitability. Diamond declined to talk about
 executive compensation  in the interview.  JPMorgan Trading Loss  Diamond said the bank reviewed its own operations after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. last month reported $2 billion of losses
related to derivatives trading in a unit managing the bank’s
risks.  “In every incident like this, you can imagine, that the
board audit committee is going to want a report and of course we
have done those reviews,” Diamond said. “We feel very
comfortable in terms of those activities in Barclays.”  Barclays expanded its investment bank by acquiring the
North American unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. during the
2008 financial crisis, and added 2,000 bankers in  Europe and
Asia  to build out the lender’s equities business.  The euro-area economy stalled in the first quarter as
companies cut spending to weather the debt crisis, offsetting a
gain in exports, official statistics showed last week. The
European Commission said on May 11 that the region may shrink
0.3 percent this year before returning to growth in 2013. The
euro has declined 13 percent against the dollar over the past
year, the worst performer among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “In terms of our business, of course the environment has
been very, very tough,” said Diamond, who joined the bank in
1996.  Greek Elections  Greek banks are under strain ahead of this weekend’s
elections on concern that country may move closer to abandoning
the euro, which would cut off lenders’ access to European
Central Bank funding. The June 17 ballot will determine whether
the nation abides by spending reductions imposed as part of its
two international bailouts and stays in the euro.  “It is in the best interest of  Greece  and in the best
interest of Europe that Greece stays in the euro and that is
what we would expect to happen,” Diamond said.  Spain’s benchmark borrowing costs climbed to a record
yesterday, raising the specter of sovereign bailouts for the
nation and then  Italy  that would stretch EU finances to their
limit. The region’s policy makers face a series of hurdles in
the coming days as bond investors spurn the 100 billion-euro
($125 billion) rescue package for Spanish banks that the ECB
said yesterday would bolster financial stability.  Barclays is “well placed” to take advantage of
consolidation in European markets including Spain, retail and
business banking CEO  Antony Jenkins  said last week.  “You will have seen the speculation around our interests
in  Spain ,” Jenkins said on June 7, days before the country’s
bank rescue. “We are well placed to take advantage of the
consolidation we see happening in the European markets but will
only consider these opportunities if they meet our strict
financial hurdles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  