-- Barnes & Noble Chief Said to Settle Suit for $29 Million
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-14T14:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/barnes-noble-chief-said-to-settle-suit-for-29-million.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  founder  Leonard Riggio  agreed to pay $29 million to settle investors’ claims
that he wrongfully pushed the biggest U.S. bookstore chain to
acquire his college-textbook firm, lawyers said.  Riggio, Barnes & Noble’s chairman, agreed to settle
shareholders’  Delaware Chancery Court  lawsuits alleging the $596
million buyout of the textbook seller in 2009 was designed to
unfairly reward him and amounted to a waste of company assets,
attorneys representing company shareholders said in an e-mailed
release.  The settlement, which will be paid personally by Riggio and
won’t be covered by insurance covering Barnes & Noble officers
and directors the people say, comes less than a week before a
judge was slated to hear investors’ claims at a June 18 trial in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed April 30 to invest $300 million in a
new Barnes & Noble unit set up to combine its  Nook  digital
reader with the college-textbook business. Microsoft will own
about 18 percent of the unit, company officials said.  Settlement papers also include a request from plaintiff’s
lawyers for legal fees and expenses of one-third of the
settlement amount, or about $10 million. The request must be
reviewed by a judge at a later hearing.  While Barnes & Noble operates about 700 retail locations,
its future growth lies in electronic books. The company started
its digital business in 2009 with the Nook and projected the e-
reader business may generate as much as $1.5 billion in annual
sales.  Reduced Proceeds  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for New York-based Barnes
& Noble, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that the
company doesn’t comment on litigation.  Riggio will pay the settlement out of the proceeds he is
slated to receive from the company’s purchase of the textbook
unit, which closed in 2009, investors’ lawyers said in the
release.  The company’s founder agreed to reduce the amount he was to
receive under a $150 million promissory note by $22.75 million
and cut $6.3 million in interest payments due on the note, which
matures in 2014, the people said.  Pension funds from Louisiana and  Pennsylvania  sued Riggio
and other directors after the acquisition of Barnes & Noble
College Booksellers Inc. was announced. Shareholders’ lawyers
argued the board allowed Riggio to dictate terms and timing of
the buyout and didn’t force him to seek other offers for the
company to justify the purchase price.  Chairman’s Brother  In March,  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr.
threw out investors’ claims against Barnes & Noble’s three
independent directors and Vice Chairman Stephen Riggio, the
chairman’s brother. Stephen Riggio didn’t vote on the textbook
firm’s acquisition.  Still, Strine allowed the case to go forward against
Riggio. The settlement covers both the company founder and his
wife, Louise, who both controlled the textbook unit, the people
said.  “We believe the transaction as originally structured was
unfair to the company, and are happy the company will receive
this compensation,” Michael Barry, a Wilmington, Delaware-based
lawyer for Barnes & Noble shareholders, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Since the funds filed their suits as so-called derivative
actions, the $29 million settlement will be returned to the
company’s coffers rather than to shareholders.  Takeover Target  New York-based Barnes & Noble sells the second-most number
of e-books in the U.S. after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  It was the target
of a takeover bid by billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Media
Corp. last year. Liberty invested $204 million in the company
after dropping its bid.  Barnes & Noble also fended off a bid by billionaire
investor  Ron Burkle  to invalidate its anti-takeover defenses and
clear the way for a proxy fight over board seats in 2010. Strine
concluded the chain’s so-called poison-pill defense didn’t
unfairly hamper Burkle’s effort to have his designees elected as
directors.  The case is In re Barnes & Noble Stockholder Derivative
Litigation, 4813, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  