-- BDO Seidman to Pay $50 Million in Deferred Prosecution
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/bdo-seidman-to-pay-50-million-in-deferred-prosecution.html
Accounting firm BDO USA LLP said it
will pay $50 million as part of a deferred prosecution agreement
with the government while admitting it helped U.S. citizens
evade about $1.3 billion in income taxes from 1997 to 2003.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley approved the deal,
between BDO, formerly known as BDO Seidman LLP, and U.S.
prosecutors, at a hearing yesterday in  Manhattan .  The firm was charged with one count of tax fraud
conspiracy, which may be dismissed in six months if BDO fulfills
the requirements of the agreement, including continued
cooperation with the government and implementing a compliance
and ethics program.  The deal with BDO is intended to resolve its role in what
Pauley called the biggest tax-shelter fraud investigation in
U.S. history. Last year a jury convicted former BDO Chief
Executive Officer Denis Field and three others of more than 20
criminal counts including conspiracy,  tax evasion  and attempting
to impede the  Internal Revenue Service .  Pauley threw out the convictions against three of the
defendants, including Field, on June 4 after finding that a
member of the jury had lied about her past, including that she
was an alcoholic suspended attorney with a criminal record.  ‘Latest Step’  “This is the latest step in the federal government’s
investigations of numerous national accounting, law and
financial services firms, which began almost ten years ago,”
BDO said in a statement yesterday. “BDO has cooperated with the
IRS and the United States Attorney’s office and will continue to
do so. BDO is pleased that these matters have been brought to a
resolution.”  Pauley’s June 4 ruling allows the government to retry Field
and ex-Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyers Paul Daugerdas and Donna Guerin. He let stand the conviction of a fourth defendant, David Parse, ruling that Parse’s lawyers, from the  New York  firm Brune
& Richard LLP, had facts about the juror’s background that they
failed to disclose before deliberations began.  A fifth defendant, former Alex. Brown accountant Robert
Craig Brubaker, was found not guilty at trial.  Under the agreement disclosed yesterday, BDO will pay a
civil penalty of $34.4 million to the IRS and forfeit $15.6
million to the U.S. government. BDO said that its partners and
employees helped wealthy taxpayers participate in fraudulent tax
shelter transactions, including two that were named Short Option
Strategy and Short Sale.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  