-- BlackRock’s Novick Sees ’Armageddon’ in Home-Loan Cuts
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-13T17:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/blackrock-s-novick-sees-armageddon-in-reduced-home-mortgages.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, criticized the state and federal settlement with
banks over their faulty  foreclosure  practices and other
government moves this year to increase mortgage forgiveness.  More reductions of home-loan balances in efforts to lower
defaults could backfire by encouraging “underwater” borrowers
currently paying on time to seek aid, potentially creating an
“Armageddon scenario,” BlackRock Vice Chairman Barbara Novick
said today at a press briefing.  “If you start having people who are currently paying their
underwater mortgages say, ’Oh there’s a new entitlement program:
My brother-in-law got a deal, my neighbor got a deal, my
officemate got a deal, why shouldn’t I get a deal?’ then you’ve
got a much, much bigger problem,” she said at the company’s
offices in New York. “Not to belittle the current problem, but
it would dwarf the current problem.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has sought to
expand mortgage-principal cuts this year to bolster  housing  and
consumers, through changes to its  Home Affordable Modification
Program  and via the February settlement that servicers including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reached with the
U.S. and state attorneys general. Almost 23 percent of borrowers
are underwater, meaning they owe more than their homes are
worth, according to real estate data firm CoreLogic Inc.  Robo-Signing  The so-called robo-signing accord is also unfair because it
lets banks pay for their poor practices through changes to loans
held within bonds and without writing off their own second-lien
home-equity debt, Novick said. Her comments echoed those by
investors including Pacific Investment Management Co., Angelo
Gordon & Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP.  “I don’t understand why that’s not a headline every day
until it gets reversed,” she said, referring to the credit that
banks get under the $25 billion  settlement  for changes they make
as servicers to investor-owned debt.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the overseer of Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac , has delayed deciding whether to allow the
government-supported companies to step up their use of principal
forgiveness as a result of the changes to HAMP. Edward J. DeMarco, the FHFA’s head, has cited the risk of fueling new
defaults, saying three out of every four underwater homeowners
with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans are now paying on time.  Investors Mixed  Investors have been mixed on whether more principal
reductions are warranted. Pimco and hedge fund manager Greg Lippmann have said that greater targeted use of the tactic may
be beneficial for bondholders while Amherst Securities Group LP
analyst  Laurie Goodman  says a housing recovery may be thwarted
by future defaults that could otherwise reach 9 million.  Goodman’s analysis has shown principal cuts reduce defaults
by underwater borrowers better than changes that only lower
payments, while Credit Suisse Group AG analysts say they make
little difference. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week that
underwater borrowers are defaulting less than before.  “The impact of negative equity on default decisions has
become much more muted now compared to at the height of the
housing downturn,” Goldman Sachs analyst Hui Shan wrote in a
June 4 report.  Homeowners with loan-to-value ratios between 140 percent
and 200 percent were 4 to 7 times more likely to default than
those with ratios below 70 percent in 2008 and 2009, according
to the report. That fell to 2.5 times in 2011 and 2012, all else
being equal, Shun said.  ‘Actually Benefit’  U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan
told a Senate panel last month that the efforts to expand
principal cuts will reduce defaults. For  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac loans, balance reductions would only be used “where they
actually benefit not just the homeowner but the taxpayer as well
because there is more likelihood to repay.”  BlackRock’s Novick and Randy Robertson, head of its
securitized-asset investment team, said at today’s briefing that
government interference will damage future efforts to bring
 private capital  back into the mortgage market without creating
much higher costs for borrowers. Government-backed programs
currently account for about 90 percent of new lending.  “How do I write a model based on public policy and whether
contracts are going to be adhered to,” Robertson said.  No Comfort  Officials saying the foreclosure settlement won’t hurt
investors because servicers must only take steps in bondholders’
best interest aren’t providing any comfort to investors because
they can’t trust the tests will be done right, Robertson said.  BlackRock, which is supportive of efforts to allow more
borrowers to  refinance  underwater Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
loans, is expecting a further 3 percent to 5 percent decline in
U.S. home prices, though some markets are already recovering,
according to a report by the firm released at the event.  Nationally, it will probably take 6.6 years for housing
supply and demand to reach equilibrium, and as much as 26.4
years in a “bear” case, the firm says. Negative forces include
retiring  baby boomers , consumers’ weak finances, tight mortgage
credit and the “regulatory uncertainty scaring off investors,”
according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 