-- Bloomberg Charity Offers $9 Million for Best New Governing Ideas
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-13T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/bloomberg-charity-offers-9-million-for-best-new-governing-ideas.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is
offering $9 million in prizes to U.S. cities through his
charitable foundation in a competition for ideas that local
governments can use to solve problems.  The contest, which  Bloomberg Philanthropies  calls the
Mayors Challenge, starts today when the foundation sends
invitations to compete to 1,300 mayors of U.S. cities with more
than 30,000 residents. They have until Sept. 14 to enter their
submissions, said  James Anderson , director of the charity’s
government-innovation program.  The top 20 finalists will visit New York at the
philanthropy’s expense for a so-called ideas camp, two days of
mingling with foundation-selected experts to refine proposals on
affordable housing, health, money and management. The winner, to
be announced next year, will receive $5 million, and four
runners-up will each get $1 million.  New York City  isn’t
eligible, Anderson said.  “While our cities are unique, many of the challenges we
face -- from obesity to pension costs to preparing residents for
the jobs of tomorrow to just doing more with less -- are very
similar,” Bloomberg said in a statement. “The Mayors
Challenge creates an opportunity for mayors to champion their
boldest ideas and to have them take root locally and perhaps
spread nationally.”  Future Programs  Other institutions give recognition to past accomplishments
in urban policy that have already made an impact, Anderson said.
What sets the Bloomberg prize apart is that it encourages future
programs that can transform the way government works, he said.  The  Ford Foundation’s  Metropolitan Opportunity program has
approved 51 grants totaling $31 million this year, according to
the New York-based organization’s website. It attempts to
connect low-income people with affordable housing, jobs and
transportation though regional planning and innovative  land use .  Bloomberg, 70, mayor of the most populous U.S. city and
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP, is ranked 20th on  Forbes Magazine ’s list of the world’s
wealthiest billionaires. The magazine estimates that he has a
net worth of $22 billion.  In 2011, Bloomberg Philanthropies distributed $330 million
worldwide, according to its website. The  Chronicle of
Philanthropy  ranked Bloomberg fifth among U.S. charitable
donors. The foundation has established separate core areas to
finance programs on health -- including a worldwide anti-tobacco
campaign and an effort to improve road safety in  Vietnam  -- the
environment, the arts, education and government.  ‘Real Policy’  It has committed $24 million to city governments in
Chicago,  New Orleans , Atlanta, Louisville and  Memphis  as part of
a three-year program “so that they can go out and hire somebody
to really spearhead innovation with the support of the mayor,”
Bloomberg says on a  video  posted on the philanthropy’s website.  “In a baldly political sense, he’s collecting chits,”
said Douglas Muzzio, professor of urban politics at  Baruch
College  in  Manhattan . “But the bottom line is, is this good for
the public? And the answer has to be yes. There’s real policy
being made here. And he gets the personal satisfaction of
funding a good thing and receiving praise from the five mayors
participating in it.”  The foundation’s promotional video features  Chicago  Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel  discussing the $6 million his city received. He
used the money to hire staff to evaluate and improve agencies’
customer services, and develop energy-conservation programs to
cut  carbon emissions  in residential buildings. The city has
reduced licenses and permits required of small-businesses by
about half, said Anderson.  ‘Bold and Innovative’  The foundation has twice flown and housed groups of mayors
and representatives for New York conferences, at which they
discussed strategies to deal with issues such as poverty, health
care, public safety, economic development and the streamlining
of services, Anderson said.  Prizes will be awarded for ideas that show “bold and
innovating thinking, a solid implementation plan, high
likelihood of creating a measurable impact” and an ability to
replicate the program in other cities, Anderson said in an
interview.  “Our cities are uniquely positioned to inspire and foster
the innovation, creativity and solutions needed to improve
people’s lives,” Bloomberg said. “The Mayors Challenge creates
an opportunity for mayors to champion their boldest ideas -- and
to have them take root locally and perhaps spread nationally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  