-- BofA Dropped by Sallie Mae as Barclays Wins Upromise Card
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-06-13T17:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/bofa-dropped-by-sallie-mae-as-barclays-wins-upromise-card.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, divested a $1.3 billion credit-card
portfolio after  SLM Corp. (SLM)  chose  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  for its college-
savings program.  “We thought Barclays offered us a better overall
execution,” Joe DePaulo, SLM’s chief marketing officer, said
yesterday in an interview. “This is a step up.”  Bank of America’s rivals are benefiting as the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based firm retrenches in businesses including
credit-card and mortgage lending. Outstanding card loans dropped
7.9 percent to $112.6 billion last year, the biggest decline
among the 10 largest U.S. issuers, according to the Nilson
Report, an industry newsletter. U.S. credit-card loans at
London-based Barclays jumped 17 percent to $12.2 billion.  SLM, known as Sallie Mae, had opportunities to renew with
Bank of America or explore other deals, DePaulo said. The
Newark, Delaware-based student lender has teamed with banks
since 2001 to help families fund education costs with credit-
card rewards. It offers the card through its Upromise Inc. unit,
and its Upromise Investments Inc. division is the largest U.S.
administrator of 529 college-savings plans.  Tony Allen , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the decision. The bank’s focus is on customers who
use multiple products, and that’s why it sold credit-card
portfolios affiliated with  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and Sovereign
Bank last year, Allen said.  ‘Limited Opportunity’  “These kinds of relationships are predominantly single-
service card customers with real limited opportunity for us to
deepen relationships,” he said. “That turned out to be the
case with Upromise as well.”  The move is Bank of America’s latest to shed part of its
credit-card business, most of which was acquired in the 2006
takeover of MBNA Corp. Last year, the lender agreed to sell its
Canadian unit and said it was exiting card operations in the
U.K., Ireland and  Spain . Revenue at Bank of America’s credit-
card unit slid 19 percent to $18.1 billion last year amid new
U.S. regulations limiting fee income. In April, the business was
merged with deposit and small-business units into a new division
overseen by co-Chief Operating Officer David Darnell.  Sallie Mae ’s partnership with Barclays’s U.S. payments unit
will offer customers better products, rewards and service,
DePaulo said. Upromise sent letters to cardholders this week
alerting them of the change and it announced the new product in
a statement today.  Card Rewards  “By using the card every day for household purchases,
families can accelerate their savings and really see the benefit
accumulate,” Surinder Singh, general manager of U.S. cards for
Barclaycard US, said in the statement.  Barclaycard US, which said in February that it had acquired
the $1.3 billion Upromise portfolio, will issue new cards to the
program’s Bank of America customers in September. DePaulo said
in the interview yesterday that the decision to end the
relationship with Bank of America was made by Sallie Mae.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , posted a $127
million gain in 2008 when it sold the Upromise card portfolio to
Bank of America, according to a regulatory filing. The card
portfolio had balances of about $1.2 billion at the time.  Kevin Sullivan , a Barclays spokesman, declined to say what
the company paid for the portfolio.  Tax-Free Gains  Cardholders receive cash back for college when making
purchases through the Upromise  website , 4 percent at
participating restaurants, as much as 3 percent at eligible gas
stations, 2 percent at movie theaters and 1 percent on all other
purchases, Sullivan said. There’s no annual fee or minimum
spending requirements.  Upromise Investments, with assets of $41.3 billion in 31
plans across 16 states as of March 31, generates revenue by
providing program management services for 529 accounts,
according to Deborah Hohler, a spokeswoman.  Money earned from spending with the card may be invested in
a 529 plan, deposited into a Sallie Mae savings account, used to
pay down  student loans  or redeemed for a check, Hohler said.  The 529 plans are set up by states and generally offer tax-
free gains on earnings if used to pay for eligible college
expenses. Assets in 529 savings plans totaled about $158 billion
at the end of the first quarter, according to Boston-based
Financial Research Corp.  Charges for in-state students at public four-year colleges,
including tuition, fees, room and board averaged $17,131 for the
most recent school year, according to the New York-based  College
Board . At private, nonprofit four-year schools, costs averaged
$38,589.  “You’re going to have to find multiple ways to save
because that is a big number,” DePaulo said. “This is one
component of how you save.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net 
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  