-- BofA Beating JPMorgan as BNP Leads French Lenders Retreat
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-06-14T17:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/bofa-beating-jpmorgan-after-french-lenders-retreat-commodities.html
Bank of America Corp.  overtook
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as the biggest lender to the commodities
industry in the first five months as French lenders led by  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  retreated amid the debt crisis.  Commodity loans arranged by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America totaled $14.71 billion, and New York-based
JPMorgan’s $14.41 billion ranked it second, according to
syndicated-loan data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was
the third biggest with $13.68 billion of financing, rising from
fourth last year. BNP Paribas slipped to 17th from second.  Combined lending tumbled 16 percent to $229.7 billion as
commodities fell to within a percentage point of a  bear market 
on concern that slower growth will curb demand.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, said last month it
will restrain spending. European banks are selling assets and
trimming loans to bolster their capital as the region’s debt
crisis worsens and economies slide back into recession.  “We’ve seen commodity prices come down and this does
affect the companies’ capital plans,” said Peter Archbold, the
London-based head of basic materials at Fitch Ratings Ltd. “The
mining sector, as many others, is also suffering from a general
pullback in lending, in particular by the French banks. Banks
aren’t able to offer the same volume of lending.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 19
percent from a nine-month closing high on Feb. 24, led by
natural gas, coffee and sugar. The index gained 0.6 percent
today. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated 9
percent as the 152-member Bloomberg Banks Index declined 14
percent and the Bloomberg World Mining Index of 140 companies
slid 21 percent. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent, a Bank of
America index shows.  Credit Lines  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, fell to
24th through the end of May, from 11th a year earlier. The
figures, compiled at 8 a.m. in London yesterday, reflect
transactions involving more than one bank and include credit
lines, project or term loans and trade finance. Officials from
 Societe Generale  and JPMorgan declined to comment.  Banks in the 17-nation euro region are lending less after
pledging to cut more than 950 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) of
assets to meet new regulations including from the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , known as Basel III. BNP
Paribas, France’s biggest bank by assets, Societe Generale and
Montrouge, France-based  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are shrinking assets
by at least 300 billion euros to comply with the new rules after
writing off losses from  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Interest Payments  “Commodity companies are largely dollar-based borrowers so
European banks have a slight natural disadvantage since they
don’t have the dollar deposit base like U.S. banks,” said Ashu
Khullar, the London-based co-head of  Europe ,  Middle East  and
Africa loan structuring and syndication at Citigroup. “French
banks, which were traditionally strong in trade finance, will
probably try hard to maintain a strong presence in the sector
despite the dollar constraints.”  European banks’ share of lending to the global commodity
business has declined faster than other regions, said Charlotte
Conlan, the head of origination and sales for loan syndications
for EMEA at BNP Paribas in London.  European banks are borrowing for three to five years at an
average of 200 to 300 basis points over Euribor, the rate at
which banks say they see each other lending in euros, said Shaun
Dreyer, the head of Bank of America’s EMEA syndicated loan
capital markets in  London . A syndicated loan to a company rated
between BBB+ and BBB-, the lowest investment grade, is priced at
about a 100 basis-point premium, which only makes sense if the
bank can derive extra income from additional services, he said.  Funding Alternatives  “We do see some commodity companies willing to have banks
with less expertise in the sector as their lenders, in order to
have more funding alternatives,” said Rui Florencio, head of
energy commodities for Europe,  Commonwealth of Independent
States  and West Africa at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Nowadays you never know which banks are going to tell you they
will decrease lending,”  Banks are finding new ways of funding trade finance by
expanding the sources of capital. They plan to package loans
into securities that can be sold to investors including pension
or sovereign funds and insurance companies, according to
Jacques-Olivier Thomann, the president of the Geneva Trading and
Shipping Association. The first such transactions may come as
early as this summer, he said.  Switching Currencies  “The market is always finding new solutions,” said
Thomann, who was the global head of structured finance for BNP
Paribas’s Swiss unit until April and remains an adviser to the
company. “We’ve seen a few loans switched from dollars to
euros. We’ve seen also change to the market practices, for
example traders selling to refineries decide to shorten the
terms of payment, decreasing the need for credit line.”  Extra financing is also coming from commodity companies.
Trafigura Group, the third-biggest independent oil trader,
increases funding to commercial partners when financing gets
scarce, according to Pierre Lorinet, chief financial officer of
the Amsterdam-based company.  Vitol Group, the Swiss oil trader that had sales of almost
$300 billion in 2011, agreed in March to provide as much as $20
million of funding to Beacon Hill Resources Plc, which produces
coal in  Mozambique . RK Capital Management LLP, a London-based
hedge fund company, now has $700 million of assets in its group
of funds that provide financing to mining companies, from $300
million a year ago.  RK Capital  “With the traditional sources of financing currently of
limited utility, alternative sources are growing and offsetting
the drop in bank lending,” said Oskar Lewnowski, an RK Capital
partner based in  New York . “They are becoming more important to
the community, and a more accepted way of financing.”  The average interest rate banks charge for loans to
commodity companies has risen to 318 basis points more than
benchmark lending rates, from 275 basis points in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Noble Group Ltd.,  Asia ’s biggest publicly held commodities
trader by sales, was able to borrow a total of $2.36 billion in
May at 130 and 220 basis points over benchmark rates.  BHP said May 16 it won’t meet its five-year $80 billion
spending target for building mines and expanding operations as
commodity prices decline. The Melbourne-based producer’s gross
debt at the end of 2011 was $25 billion, including a $4 billion
credit line, according to the company’s website. Ruban
Yogarajah, a spokesman in London, declined to comment.  BHP Profit  The company will report a 22 percent decline in net income
to $18.4 billion in its fiscal year ending June 30, the mean of
20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. Shares of BHP
fell 26 percent in the past year in Australian trading.  BHP , Rio Tinto Group, Xstrata Plc, Glencore International
Plc and Anglo American Plc may spend a combined $200 billion on
building new production over the next five years, Liberum
Capital Ltd.’s London-based analysts Dominic O’Kane and  Richard
Knights  wrote in a report last month.  “Charging more for loans and lending less would inevitably
be the routes most banks choose to improve their  capital
ratio ,” said Dreyer of Bank of America. “Commodity players are
huge users of banks’ capital so European banks will have to make
some choices in terms of where they deploy their capital. Loan
pricing will have to rise even for big commodity players.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  