-- Brazil’s Rede Energia Cut to Restricted Default by Fitch
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-13T21:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brazil-s-rede-energia-cut-to-restricted-default-by-fitch-ratings.html
     June 13 (Bloomberg) --  Rede Energia SA (REDE4) ’s credit rating was
cut to restricted default by  Fitch Ratings  after the utility
extended interest payments and reserved the right to repay debt
with equity from its units in a restructuring of local bonds.  Rede Energia’s local- and foreign-currency issuer default
ratings and long-term national scale rating were cut one level,
Fitch said today in a statement. The company’s dollar-
denominated perpetual bonds and real-denominated bonds due 2014
maintain their C rating, Fitch said.  “This significant change in contractual terms
characterizes a restricted default,” Renata Pinho, an analyst
at Fitch in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview. “It was
probably done to avoid an inevitable default.”  Rede Energia, a holding company that controls power
distributors, is seeking to ease its debt burden after its
 Centrais Eletricas do Para SA  unit filed for bankruptcy and
defaulted on dollar bonds in February. Creditors holding Rede
Energia’s bonds due in 2014 approved a restructuring this month
that allows the Brazilian company to repay the securities with
shares from its units and extend the maturity by 18 months.  The notes will be repaid by June 2016 after six principal
payments are made beginning in December 2013, according to the
minutes of a June 5 bondholder meeting.  Rede Energia’s perpetual bonds gained 0.3 cent to 38.25
cents on the dollar at 5:15 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A Rede Energia spokeswoman declined a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  