-- Brazil’s Cruzeiro Seizure Drives Investors to Big Banks
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-06-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brazil-s-cruzeiro-seizure-drives-investors-to-big-banks.html
Investors are abandoning mid-size
lenders in  Brazil  on concern their financial statements can’t be
trusted after the central bank seized  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA ,
the sixth intervention in two years.  Banks including Cruzeiro do Sul with market values between
1 billion reais ($483 million) and 5 billion reais fell an
average 8.4 percent in Sao Paulo trading since the central bank
said on June 4 that it found “unsubstantiated asset items” and
had taken control of the company. The nation’s five biggest
lenders rose an average 1.1 percent in the same period. In
international markets, borrowing costs surged for smaller banks
and dropped for their bigger rivals.  “At this point we cannot rely on the financial statements
of the mid-size banks in Brazil,” said Chris Wilder, who helps
oversee about $40 billion in emerging-market assets at Stone
Harbor Investment Partners in  London , including Cruzeiro do
Sul’s bonds.  Banks that lend to consumers against their paychecks, such
as Cruzeiro do Sul, are attracting the most investor scrutiny.
The company’s seizure came 17 months after Brazil’s privately
owned deposit-insurance fund, known as the FGC, bailed out Banco
Panamericano SA, with a market value of about 2.8 billion reais,
amid a fraud investigation by the central bank. Regulators
liquidated Banco Morada SA in April 2011 after finding “serious
financial violations” at the Rio de Janeiro-based firm.  Other banks bailed out or liquidated in the past two years
were Banco Schahin SA, Banco Matone SA, and Oboe Credito
Financiamento e Investimento SA.  Yields Diverge  Since June 4, yields on dollar-denominated bonds due in
2020 for  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Brazil’s biggest bank by
market value, declined 7 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cruzeiro do Sul’s 2020 dollar bonds
soared 22.71 percentage points and Banco BMG SA’s debt with a
similar maturity rose 4.67 percentage points.  Shares of Cruzeiro do Sul have dropped 61 percent since the
intervention, while Itau’s gained 3.2 percent.  Even before the alleged accounting irregularities came to
light, mid-size lenders such as Cruzeiro do Sul were losing
market share to bigger rivals in the business of making loans
pegged to consumers’ paychecks.  BMG, whose share of the payroll market has held steady at
16 percent, said it still has lost its No. 1 ranking in that
business to  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4)  BMG has 18 billion reais in
credit provided by other financial firms in Brazil, said Clive Botelho, executive financial director at the Belo Horizonte-
based company.  ‘Very Cautious’  “The big Brazilian banks are very cautious in giving
credit to smaller ones after Panamericano, and if they buy our
loan portfolios as they did even after Cruzeiro’s seizure, this
means they believe we have good credit and reliable balance
sheets,” Botelho said. About 60 percent of BMG’s funding came
from interbank lending, he said.  BMG’s payroll-loan portfolio rose almost 14 percent to 25.5
billion reais at the end of the first quarter from a year
earlier, Botelho said. The increase, including loans originated
by the bank and taken off the balance sheet, was almost 16
percent. That’s the same as for the entire market, which climbed
to 165.6 billion reais, central bank data show.  Mid-size banks have “a lot of fundamental challenges
already, and now will have to deal with even more limited,
expensive funding because of the lack of credibility” in their
financial statements, said Luis Miguel Santacreu, an analyst at
Sao Paulo-based Austin Rating.  “The business volumes and profitability will fall, mainly
for consumer lenders,” Santacreu said in a phone interview.  ‘Seemed Seductive’  In payroll lending, known as “consignado,” the Brazilian
government allows banks to deduct loan payments directly from
employment and pension checks before consumers ever see their
money.  The business “seemed seductive for the smaller banks, with
lower delinquency rates and no big banks in the market,”
Santacreu said. “Then the big banks came with  lower funding
costs , and took clients from the smallest ones with more
attractive  interest rates .”  A Cruzeiro do Sul official declined to comment in an e-
mail, and asked not to be named in keeping with company policy.  Brazil’s central bank has been offering help to smaller
lenders after the Panamericano bailout and  Europe ’s debt crisis
reduced funding options and crimped profit. In November, the
authority slowed the implementation of new accounting standards
for booking revenue that will force them to post losses.  Booking Revenue  Payroll lenders previously could book all projected revenue
from lending at the time they sold the loan portfolio to other
banks. The anticipated revenue became a loss if it didn’t
materialize when, for example, customers paid off their loans
early. To compensate for the losses, banks made more loans and
sold portfolios. Now, revenue from new loan portfolio sales
only can be booked when it actually materializes.  The central bank in February also imposed a rule that
encourages large banks to help finance smaller ones. The
regulator set the  reserve requirements  on  time deposits  that
won’t earn interest at 27 percent unless the money is used to
buy loans or bonds from lenders with equity below 2.2 billion
reais. The threshold will increase in steps to 36 percent in
August and remain in effect until June 2014.  A central bank official declined to comment.  Brazil’s financial system is “well capitalized” and
regulated with “clear” rules, said Claudio Mauch, a former
central bank auditing director who headed the intervention of
Banco Nacional SA in 1995.  Detecting Fraud  “Internal controls aren’t designed to detect fraud, but to
detect losses,” Mauch said in a phone interview from  Porto
Alegre . “Fraud is created to cheat internal controls.”  “The central bank is doing the best it can and is
improving supervision in payroll lending, but people are
creative and always find new ways to dribble around the central
bank’s supervision,” said Carlos Gribel, director of sales at
Tradewire Securities LLC, a Miami-based boutique brokerage
specializing in  Latin America .  Cruzeiro do Sul, Brazil’s 27th-largest lender by assets, was
seized when the central bank found it didn’t provide
documentation for a 1.3 billion-real portfolio loan it owns,
Antonio Carlos Bueno, head of FGC, told reporters in Sao Paulo
on June 4. FGC said that during the intervention the bank will
meet all financial obligations and that the goal is to find a
“continuity” solution, meaning that it intends to prepare the
bank for sale.  Loan Growth  The lender, before the intervention,  reported  that payroll
lending climbed 6.4 percent to 7.3 billion reais at the end of
the first quarter from a year earlier and dropped 3.7 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2011. Cruzeiro do Sul generated 440.8
million reais in loans during the first quarter, down from 1.06
billion reais a year earlier, the lender had said.  Banco Bonsucesso SA, another mid-size Brazilian bank, said
its credit portfolio climbed 6 percent to 3.5 billion reais in
the first quarter from 3.3 billion reais a year earlier, when
the market grew 16 percent.  Bonsucesso has 1.5 million clients and has sought to
“preserve its liquidity” by focusing on more profitable
businesses such as credit cards for payroll lending, which
increased 87 percent to 300 million reais last year from 2010,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Parana Banco SA, based in Curitiba, reported its payroll-
lending portfolio was 1.73 billion reais as of March 31, a 21
percent increase from a year earlier. A Parana official declined
to comment, and asked not to be identified in accordance with
company policy.  Investment Funds  Because Cruzeiro do Sul sold many of its loans to
investment funds, including its own proprietary funds, the
spillover effects of the intervention in the  interbank market 
probably will be more manageable than the liquidity shock
experienced after Panamericano almost collapsed in 2010, Ceres Lisboa, a senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service,
said in a June 11 report.  “The seizure brings no systemic risk as the total assets
of Cruzeiro do Sul represent only 0.22 percent of the total
assets of the financial system in Brazil,” Ricardo Mollo, a
finance professor at Insper business school in  Sao Paulo , said
in a phone interview. “But the event will make investors more
cautious on buying securities issued by Brazilian mid-size
lenders, even if they offer very attractive yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  