-- Brazil Raises $1.4 Billion in 4G Wireless Auction
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-13T18:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brazil-raises-1-4-billion-in-4g-wireless-auction.html
Brazil ’s government raised 2.93
billion reais ($1.4 billion) from an auction of wireless
airwaves as the nation’s top four mobile-phone carriers bought
up assets to offer faster Internet speeds to consumers.  Brazil’s telecommunications regulator, known as Anatel,
expected to raise 3.85 billion reais if it had sold all 269
frequencies. The average premium paid for the 54 frequencies
sold in the auction was 31 percent, Joao Rezende, president of
Anatel, told reporters in Brasilia today.  The auction, which started yesterday and ended today,
includes airwaves in the 2.5-gigahertz frequency range. The
winners of the spectrum will have to construct fourth-generation
networks in host cities of soccer’s  Confederations Cup  by April,
according to Anatel. More cities must be ready by the end of the
next year as Brazil prepares to host the soccer  World Cup  in
2014.  With the airwaves, the winning companies can add services
such as high-definition video to lure customers. Brazil already
has 253 million mobile-phone subscriptions, more than its
population, forcing carriers to move beyond voice services to
expand revenue.  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, based in Mexico City, bought 19 regional
4G frequencies for 144.3 million reais today.  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3) , a unit of Milan-based  Telecom Italia (TIT) , paid 42.2 million
reais for six regional 4G frequencies today and yesterday, while
Rio de Janeiro-based  Oi SA (OIBR4)  paid 68.9 million reais for 11
regional frequencies.  National Spectrum  Telefonica Brasil SA, a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
was the biggest spender in the auction yesterday, bidding 1.05
billion reais, a 67 percent premium to the minimum price, for 20
megahertz of national spectrum. America Movil pledged 844.5
million reais for a similar block of spectrum.  Tim Participacoes yesterday also pledged to pay 340 million
reais for a 10-megahertz block of national spectrum and Oi said
it will pay 330.9 million reais to get a 10-megahertz national
swath.  All four carriers assumed obligations for increasing
coverage in rural areas as part of their 4G airwave
acquisitions.  The companies will face new competition in some markets.
Billionaire investor  George Soros ’s  Sunrise Telecomunicacoes
Ltda. , which offers pay-TV service in parts of  Sao Paulo  state,
spent 19.1 million reais for 2 airwaves in the same area. Sky
Brasil Servicos Ltda., a unit of El Segundo, California-based
 DirecTV (DTV) , also acquired 12 regional spectrum, in states including
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, for 90.6 million reais.  Fixed-Wireless  The airwaves acquired by Sunrise and Sky were for fixed-
wireless spectrum, meaning they will offer services such as
Internet access for a specific location rather than for mobile
use over a wide area.  Anatel President Joao Rezende said yesterday that it will
miss its forecast for 3.85 billion reais in proceeds from the
auction because of lower-than-expected demand for spectrum to be
used for fixed-wireless.  “The result of the auction gave evidence that the market
is attractive and growing,” Rezende said today.  The agency will consider selling the frequencies that are
left when it auctions wireless airwaves of 3.5 gigahertz, which
may take place this year or next, Rezende said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  