-- Brenneman Snares Slacker in ‘Burn’; ‘Storefront’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-13T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brenneman-snares-slacker-in-burn-storefront-review.html
Amy Brenneman plays Catherine, a
superstar academic who can’t find love in Gina Gionfriddo’s
grim, smart comedy  “Rapture, Blister, Burn.”   She tries to wrench it back by hooking up with the long-ago
love of her life.  Don (Lee Tergesen) was a bright college mate who never
burned with Catherine’s ambition. A first-class procrastinator,
he’s settled into a marriage to Catherine’s best friend from
school and an unchallenging career.  When Catherine shows up one summer evening, an affair
already seems inevitable.  We learn that she recently drunk-dialed Don and Gwen
(Kellie Overbey) in the middle of the night. As the details are
slowly revealed, the two women fight for a man who doesn’t seem,
on the evidence, worth all the fuss.  That’s clearly Gionfriddo’s point. The title comes from a
rescue-fantasy song by Courtney Love’s band, Hole, that ends:
“Ooo ooo I will follow you anytime, anywhere/Ooo ooo and I’ll
come for you, just say you don’t care.”  Unlikely Dean  Catherine offers to teach a summer seminar on cultural
feminism at the local college where Don is an unlikely
disciplinary dean.  Her only two students, conveniently, are Gwen and her
babysitter, Avery (Virginia Kull), who challenges Catherine’s
feminist catechism (porn equals violence, etc.).  Also on hand is Catherine’s mother (Beth Dixon), recovering
from a heart attack but not too ill to see that Don may be her
daughter’s last chance and his family be damned.  If the Act I set-up is too schematic, there’s plenty of
pay-off in the second.  With its sharp exchanges about second- and third-wave
feminists and exclamation points provided by a song list running
from  Arcade Fire  to the Jezebels, “Rapture, Blister, Burn”
resonates with echoes of Wendy Wasserstein’s Pulitzer Prize-
winner, “The Heidi Chronicles,” which opened in this very
theater,  Playwrights Horizons , 24 years ago. (There’s also an
odd parallel with the film “Young Adult.”)  Both plays center on women whose accomplishments appear to
have gotten in the way of finding love. Taking on face value the
idea that men don’t want to marry smart, successful women is
likely to make “Rapture” as infuriating to some as “Heidi”
was.  Ambition, Disappointment  All the performances, under Peter DuBois’s thoughtful
direction, are on target.  Brenneman is remarkably sympathetic as Catherine. Overbey
is equally memorable as Gwen, who begins the play as smugly
caustic, putting Don down at every public opportunity, but
becoming conciliatory and resigned. Anything to avoid ending up
alone.  Through June 24 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://wwww.playwrightshorizons.org .
Rating: ***  ‘Storefront Church’  The depressing focus of John Patrick Shanley’s new play at
the  Atlantic  might be called Our Lady of Diminished
Expectations.  It’s set in the Bronx, where borough president Donaldo
Calderon (Giancarlo Esposito) is forced to bend his ethical
standards by asking a banker for a favor. Tom Raidenberg (Jordan
Lage) all too happily obliges; he needs the politician’s support
for a multimillion-dollar project.  It’s the folks in Donaldo and Tom’s orbit who put the plot
in motion. Jessie Cortez (Tonya Pinkins), a friend of the
borough president’s mother, is in arrears on her mortgage,
having taken out a second loan to help a preacher (Ron Cephas
Jones), who wants to set up his ministry in her building.  To his deep discomfort, Donaldo finds out that his own
mother has co-signed the note. The play opens with a scene in
which Jessie’s husband, Ethan (Bob Dishy), meets with Tom’s
underling, Reed Van Druyten (Zach Grenier), begging the bank not
to foreclose. It’s a rich comic scene in which Ethan, faced with
the unmovable Reed, turns their confrontation into a test of
conscience in which God is clearly on his side.  Each of these characters is written and played with
compassion, none more so than Jones’s soft-spoken preacher,
paralyzed by a crisis of faith that has stopped him from opening
his doors. As they gather in the makeshift church, Shanley’s
gift for intertwining soul-searching with self-revelation
provides the play with its power.  Jones is masterly as the uncertain but soulful preacher.
Grenier is compelling as a former Master of the Universe reduced
to being a functionary. He’s the devout nonbeliever who, once in
this unlikely sacred chamber, gives testimony to a life wrecked
by emptiness and despair.  Through June 24 at 336 W. 20th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://wwww.ticketcentral.com/atlantictheater .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
 James Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 