-- Worst California Debt Slump Sends Buy Signal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brown-s-wrong-revenue-forecast-widens-state-bond-spreads.html
Even as  California  faces a $15.7
billion deficit that has grown almost 70 percent since January,
the state spells opportunity for municipal-bond investors.  Debt of the world’s ninth-biggest economy is slumping the
most in three months with a June 15 deadline for lawmakers to
pass a balanced spending plan looming. The  extra yield  on
California issuers relative to top-rated bonds rose as much as
16 percent in the past month, the steepest jump since March,
Bloomberg Fair Value data show.  “I very often find myself attracted to situations where
the noise is the loudest and the scariest,” Daniel Loughran, a
portfolio manager with OppenheimerFunds Inc., said June 7 at the
State & Municipal Finance Conference hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in
 Chicago . “Whether that’s  Illinois  or California, both states
pay a borrowing penalty because of their situations.”  The budget strain, due in part to Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
overestimate of  tax revenue , may cost California an opportunity
for a higher credit grade from  Standard & Poor’s . S&P, which
raised its outlook to positive in February, rates California A-,
six grades below AAA and lower than any state.  The extra yield helped bonds from California earn 4.9
percent in the past six months, beating the 4.2 percent gain by
the $3.7 trillion muni market, according to Barclays Capital
indexes. The state still trailed eight counterparts in the
period. It matched Illinois, which is rated two steps higher by
S&P and faced $9 billion of unpaid bills as of March 31.  Taxes Trail  Brown, 74, announced May 14 that the deficit had grown from
$9.3 billion in his January budget plan. The governor was
counting on a gain in revenue that didn’t materialize, partly as
a cooling economy depressed tax intake. Collections in April for
the most-populous state were $2 billion below estimates.  Investors demanded as much as 0.95 percentage point of
extra yield from California issuers this month, up from a three-
year low of 0.82 points in mid-May, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “During the budget process the noise gets louder and the
spreads have widened out a little bit,” said  Peter Hayes , a
managing director at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
oversees about $105 billion of munis. “You can wait for that
and buy or, if spreads tighten up once they pass the budget, you
can sell. For most investors who really want the income, it
remains a good long-term investment.”  Lawmaker Friction  When the state’s yield spread reaches about one percentage
point, “I do think it’s a buying opportunity,” said Gary Pollack, who manages $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading
at Deutsche Bank AG’s private wealth unit in New York.  California’s shortfall exceeds the total fiscal 2010
 expenditures  of more than a dozen states, including Utah and
 Kansas , according to data from the Henry J. Kaiser Family
Foundation.  The wider gap has caused friction with Brown’s fellow
Democrats in the Legislature, who have resisted his proposal to
slice more than $2 billion from health and welfare. The
lawmakers proposed an alternative that relies on a smaller rainy
day reserve than Brown wanted and pares some cuts. The Democrats
have been meeting to find a compromise, though they said they
will pass their plan if no deal is reached.  Any budget holdups fostered by legislative conflict are a
chance to add California debt, UBS AG said last month.  “For investors, we smell an opportunity,” UBS said in a
May 11 report. “Budget delays are good fodder for adverse media
coverage. For investors deploying cash, wider spreads may signal
a good entry point.”  ‘Dysfunctional Structure’  The state’s deficit is the result of a “dysfunctional”
tax structure that hasn’t kept up with changes in California’s
economy that have made it more dependent on services rather than
retail sales, S&P said in a report this week.  “California’s consistent inability to balance its budget
has, in our view, material credit implications,” Gabriel Petek,
an S&P analyst, said in the report.  California has never defaulted on its securities, in part
because it promises that debt service gets first call on
general-fund money after education.  Investors see California as having a lower risk of default
than some countries in Western Europe, including Belgium and
 Italy .  It costs the annual equivalent of about $253,000 to protect
$10 million of California debt against default for 10 years,
less than half the amount for Italy, data compiled by CMA show.  “Investors know the state’s debt is safe, it’s a yield
chase,” California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in an interview
May 30. “They all know, and they hear it from their brokers,
that they aren’t going to lose their money in this kind of
investment. So they are looking for a little bit better yield.”  Tax Vote  The cornerstone of Brown’s plan is an initiative he’s
pushing onto the November ballot to temporarily boost income
taxes on top earners to the highest in the nation, and raise
sales levies that now exceed rates for all states. Without the
taxes, he said he’d cut $6 billion, mostly from schools.  He also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health care for
the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and assistance for the
elderly and disabled and $500 million from courts. Brown is
counting on reducing personnel costs by 5 percent, mainly by
cutting workers’ hours.  California’s constitution permits legislators to pass a
budget with a simple majority vote. Democrats control the Senate
and the Assembly, though they don’t hold enough seats to pass a
tax increase, which requires two-thirds approval.  A voter initiative passed in 2010 strips lawmakers of their
pay for every day they’re late. Brown has until July 1 to enact
the plan.  Following are pending sales:  MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY plans to borrow
$750 million of revenue bonds as soon as June 19 to refund debt,
according to bond documents. The state has dedicated one penny
from its 6.25-cent  sales tax  to repay the bonds. Citigroup Inc.
is the underwriter. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale
Aa1, its second-highest grade. (Added June 13)  HAMILTON COUNTY, OHIO, is set to issue $315.2 million of
health-care revenue debt as soon as June 19 on behalf of The
Christ Hospital in Cincinnati. Bond proceeds will help finance a
new facility for orthopedic and spine surgery, according to bond
documents.  RBC Capital Markets  is the underwriter. (Added June
13)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  