-- Brown Says California Democrats’ Budget Plan Insufficient
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/brown-says-california-democrats-budget-plan-insufficient.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  said
an alternative budget proposed by Democratic lawmakers to reduce
welfare cuts in the most populous U.S. state, while closing a
$15.7 billion deficit, would only worsen the gap in future
years.  The Senate finance committee, facing a June 15 budget
deadline, began passing parts of the Democrats’ plan yesterday.
Their program would spare more health and welfare programs from
Brown’s cuts by reducing reserves.  The 74-year-old governor has been meeting in private with
his fellow Democrats to negotiate a compromise spending plan for
the world’s ninth-biggest economy. The Assembly and the Senate,
both dominated by Democrats, announced plans to vote on a budget
before the deadline even if a deal with Brown hasn’t been
reached.  “The Legislature has agreed to some tough cuts, but the
budget before the committees today is not structurally balanced
and puts us into a hole in succeeding years,” Brown said
yesterday in a statement. “Balancing the budget is critical to
protecting education for the long term. We’re not there yet.”  The deficit ballooned almost 70 percent since January
because Brown overestimated how much tax revenue the most
indebted state would collect. California lawmakers have trimmed
spending and temporarily raised taxes to combat deficits
totaling more than $100 billion in the past four years.  A voter initiative passed in 2010 strips lawmakers of their
pay for every day the budget is late. Brown has until July 1 to
sign it into law.  Tax Increases  The cornerstone of the governor’s deficit plan is a ballot
measure in November that would boost income taxes on top earners
to the highest in the nation, and raise sales levies that are
now the highest of any state. Without the revenue, he said he’d
cut $6 billion, most of it from schools, in midyear.  The governor also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health
care for the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help
for the elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts. He
is counting on reducing the state’s personnel costs by 5
percent, mainly by cutting workers’ hours.  While the Democratic lawmakers likewise rely on the tax
increases as well as the cuts if the ballot measure fails,
they’ve said steeper reductions in welfare programs would shred
safety nets. Democrats, for instance, want to limit reductions
to CalWorks, the state’s welfare-to-work program, to about $350
million instead of the $880 million Brown wants.  ‘Structural Reforms’  “We need additional structural reforms to cut spending on
an ongoing basis, including welfare reform that’s built on
President Clinton’s framework and focused on getting people back
to work,” Brown said, referring to welfare changes under former
President  Bill Clinton .  To trim the deficit while maintaining some of the welfare
cuts, Democrats would reduce the rainy-day fund to around $600
million for the fiscal year beginning July 1, instead of the $1
billion reserve Brown proposed.  “The governor is committed to a prudent reserve,”  Michael
Cohen , Brown’s chief deputy budget director, told the Senate
committee yesterday. “Given the level of uncertainty and risks
that are part of our budget realities, we think that remains
prudent.”  The Democrats also would use $100 million more than the
$292 million Brown proposed to siphon from the state’s share of
a $25 billion national mortgage-relief settlement reached with
 Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other banks to
end a probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the
collapse of the housing bubble.  No Gimmicks  “I assure you the Legislature will pass not only an on-
time budget Friday, but it will be balanced and it will be
honest,” said Senate Budget Committee chairman Mark Leno, a
Democrat from  San Francisco . “There will be no additional
borrowing beyond what the governor has already proposed and
there will be no gimmicks. It will be an honest, solid budget.”  California’s constitution requires legislators to pass a
budget by June 15 with a simple majority vote.  Democrats control the Senate and the Assembly, though they
don’t hold enough seats to pass a tax increase, which requires
two-thirds approval. Unlike years past, Republicans have been
left out of the closed-door negotiations since their votes
aren’t needed to pass the budget.  “This whole process is a mess,” said Senator Bill Emmerson, a Republican from Riverside County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  