-- Buffett Courtship Gives Bombardier Stock Boost
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-13T21:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/buffett-courtship-for-jets-gives-bombardier-market-boost.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  hailed last year’s
$6.7 billion order from  Warren Buffett ’s jet-leasing company as
the start of long-term collaboration. The proof came this week.  Almost as soon as  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s NetJets bought
big private planes in March 2011, talks got under way that led
to the June 11 deal for as many as 275 smaller jets, said Steve Ridolfi, president of Bombardier’s business-aircraft unit.  The result was a record order for Montreal-based
Bombardier, valued at $7.3 billion. While  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna
got the rest of a deal worth $9.6 billion at list prices,
Bombardier enjoyed a second boost from NetJets in 15 months amid
an industrywide slump in luxury aviation.  “This was a yearlong campaign,” Ridolfi said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “After we concluded the large-segment
transaction, they told us they would be looking at the medium-
sized marketplace. We worked really hard to define a
configuration for them, they liked what we did with our product
strategy, and that carried over to cementing a close-knit
relationship between our management teams.”  Business aircraft are the biggest product segment within
Bombardier’s  aerospace unit . They accounted for $643 million, or
43 percent of first-quarter aerospace revenue, almost four times
the $168 million generated by sales of commercial planes such as
the CRJ regional jets.  With 46 percent of all 2011 revenue from  Europe , Bombardier
also is the Canadian industrial company most dependent for sales
in a region now racked by a sovereign debt crisis, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Secure Client’  “NetJets can be a very secure client for Bombardier,”
said Denis Durand, a partner at Montreal-based Jarislowsky
Fraser Ltd., which has about $38 billion in assets under
management. NetJets is “the biggest player in the industry,
it’s well-funded and it has a multitude of customers, so it
isn’t dependent on the financial health of a single client.”  Bombardier’s  Class B shares  rose 0.9 percent to C$3.88 at
the close in Toronto, extending the 6 percent gain yesterday
that marked the biggest advance since May 10. The company’s
5.75 percent U.S. dollar-denominated notes due March 2022 rose
0.8 cent on the dollar to 99 cents yesterday, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Industrywide private-jet deliveries plunged 29 percent in
value from a 2008 peak through 2011, market researcher Teal
Group said in an April report. Teal predicted an increase of
6 percent this year, followed by an 8 percent advance in 2013.  Order Book  Winning the NetJets business will go a long way to assuage
investor concern over Bombardier’s free cash flow and order book
for small- and medium-sized business jets, said Benoit Poirier,
an analyst at Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal .  Bombardier’s portion of the order, for two models of
Challenger jets, is equal to about four years of production for
that family of planes, said  Walter Spracklin , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. Deliveries to NetJets are
scheduled to begin in 2014, Bombardier said June 11.  While analysts including National Bank Financial’s  Cameron Doerksen  in Montreal said the deal may spur Bombardier to boost
business-jet output, Ridolfi declined to comment on the
likelihood of a production increase.  At the end of March, Bombardier had a 10-month backlog for
Challenger jets, less than the target of 15 to 18 months,
according to a May 10 filing. Last year, the planemaker
delivered 86 aircraft, including 37 of its 300 model and 43 of
the 605s, said Danielle Boudreau, a spokeswoman.  NetJets Endorsement  “This gives Bombardier visibility into their production
rates across a number of models, looking ahead a number of
years,” Doerksen said in a telephone interview. “They are
going to make consistent deliveries over several years. It’s
clearly an endorsement of Bombardier’s aircraft by NetJets.”  NetJets’ order still wasn’t enough to improve investors’
perception of Bombardier’s creditworthiness.  The cost to protect against losses on  Bombardier bonds  for
five years with credit-default swaps rose 1.3 percent to 425
basis points yesterday, according to data provider CMA in  New
York . That left the price near the highest level since late
January, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps, which typically cost more as investor
confidence deteriorates, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Delivery Outlook  Business-aircraft deliveries may total about 180 this year,
Bombardier has said. That would be in line with 2011, when
shipments grew 21 percent from 150 the year before, according to
data from the General Aviation Manufacturers Association.  Bombardier’s competition for the deal was  Brazil ’s  Embraer
SA (EMBR3) , Desjardins Capital’s Poirier wrote. Embraer landed a NetJets
order first, selling as many as 125 planes in October 2010.
NetJets hasn’t identified other bidders.  Also included in this week’s NetJets order is an
aftermarket support agreement that Bombardier said has a value
of as much as $2.3 billion if all aircraft options are
exercised.  “The long-term services and support agreement is a
significant win both strategically and financially,”  Chris Murray , an analyst at PI Financial Corp. in Toronto, said in a
note to customers yesterday. “Typically service activities
offer higher margins than manufacturing.”  Even with the discounts typical in fleet sales, the NetJets
order may be “highly profitable” because of the uniform nature
of the jets’ interiors, which are being completed by Bombardier,
and the “high-margin” aftermarket service business, according
to Scott Rattee, a Stonecap Securities Inc. analyst in Toronto.  ‘Aggressive’ Approach  Ridolfi would only say that Bombardier was “aggressive, as
we are in going after all business,” and declined further
comment on pricing.  If Ridolfi has his way, the NetJets deal will herald other
purchases by business-jet operators as demand for private planes
in regions such as Asia increases.  Canada  and the U.S. accounted for about half of all
business-jet deliveries last year, compared with about 20
percent for Europe, 14 percent for the Asia Pacific region, 10
percent for  Latin America  and 7.1 percent for the  Middle East 
and  Africa , according to data from the Washington-based General
Aviation Manufacturers Association.  “Business aviation is coming back from the recession of
2008, and we have more expansion years ahead of us,” Ridolfi
said. “For the most part, business aviation has been a North
American phenomenon. As this business becomes truly global, you
will see these airline-like entities who fly passengers for a
fee growing. Their fleets tend to be larger. As the market comes
back, we expect to see more orders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  