-- Business Inventories in U.S. Increased in April as Sales Cooled
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/business-inventories-in-u-s-increased-in-april-as-sales-cooled.html
Companies in the U.S. boosted
 inventories  in April as sales cooled, indicating orders to
factories may slow.  The 0.4 percent increase in stockpiles followed a 0.3
percent gain in March, Commerce Department data showed today in
Washington. The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted a 0.3 percent advance. Sales climbed 0.2 percent for a
second month.  Some of the increase in inventories may be unintended as
demand in the world’s largest economy slows, signaling companies
will place fewer orders. Another report today showed  retail sales 
dropped in May for a second month, the first back-to-back
decrease since 2010.  “Retail sales are going to continue to grow sluggishly, and
the inventories are going to grow sluggishly,” Michael
Montgomery, a U.S. economist with IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts , said before the report. At the same
time, “inventories compared to sales are in fantastic shape.”  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 40 economists. Estimates ranged from gains of
0.1 percent to 0.7 percent. March’s figure was unrevised.  Another Commerce Department report today showed  retail sales 
fell 0.2 percent in May as slower employment and subdued wage
gains damped demand, a sign the economy is cooling. The decrease
followed a similar decline in April that was previously reported
as a gain.  Retailer Inventories  Retailer stockpiles, the only part of today’s inventory
report not previously reported, increased 0.6 percent in April
while sales dropped 0.3 percent.  Businesses had enough goods on hand to last 1.26 months at
the current sales pace, the same as in March.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.9 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, down from a 3 percent pace in the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures show.  Part of the slowdown reflected less support from
inventories. Stockpiles added 0.2 percentage points to growth in
the first three months of 2012, compared with 1.8 points in the
prior period.  Wholesale inventories, which make up about 30 percent of all
stockpiles, rose 0.6 percent in April, the Commerce Department
reported June 8, following a 0.3 percent increase in March.
Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of total
stockpiles, were unchanged in April, the government said June 4.  “In the environment where these distributors are still very
cautious, they are basically still living hand to mouth,” Emeka
Chukwu, senior vice president and chief financial officer of
Semtech Corp., said during a June 6 conference call. “I haven’t
seen the restocking yet. So hopefully, that is something that is
still ahead of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  