-- HTC Drops Appeal of U.S. Patent Ruling Loss to Apple
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-13T17:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/htc-drops-appeal-of-u-s-patent-ruling-loss-to-apple.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  dropped its appeal of a
U.S. International Trade Commission patent case over mobile-
phone technology that it lost against  Apple Corp. (AAPL) , according to
a notice posted on the court’s website.  The trade agency in February said that Apple wasn’t
violating HTC’s patent rights over a way to control how mobile
phones manage power supply. HTC sought the dismissal of its
appeal May 31 and the request was  granted  today, according to
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington.  “We respect the ruling and have made the decision to focus
on other pending cases at this time,” HTC said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The companies have other cases against each other pending
at the trade agency, and HTC is appealing a finding that it
infringed an Apple patent, according to court and trade agency
dockets. In the case won by Apple, some of HTC’s phones were
held up at the U.S. border last month to ensure the company had
removed a feature for data detection that was found to violate
Apple’s patent.  Android Cases  In a separate case Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC filed against
Apple, an ITC judge on June 8 threw out five of the patents,
leaving three remaining. HTC had obtained the five patents from
Google Inc., whose Android operating system is the most popular
platform for mobile devices.  “We believe the judge’s decision is erroneous as a matter
of law and will appeal the ruling to the Commission,” HTC said
today. “We are confident in our ownership of the patents, and
that Apple infringes our intellectual property. We look forward
to presenting our case on the remaining patents to the judge at
trial later this year.”  Cupertino, California-based Apple, which developed its own
operating system for the iPhone and iPad, is trying to curtail
the growth of Android. Apple has patent-infringement disputes at
the trade agency with Android-device makers Samsung Electronics
Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings, now a unit of Google, as
well as HTC.  The HTC case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices, 337-721 and the newer HTC case is In the
Matter of Electronic Devices with Communication Capabilities,
337-721. Both cases are filed at the U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  