-- California Democrats Say Brown’s Welfare Cuts Too Much
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-13T20:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/california-democrats-say-brown-s-welfare-cuts-too-much.html
Democrats who control  California ’s
Legislature, with less than 72 hours until the deadline to pass
a budget, said they’ll stand their ground against the extent of
welfare cuts that Governor  Jerry Brown  seeks to help close a
$15.7 billion deficit.  The members of Brown’s own party propose an alternative to
his budget that rejects about $1 billion of spending cuts in
welfare, childcare subsidies, in-home  health services  and
college grants for the poor. They’d pay for it by cutting
reserves, shifting funds and making accounting changes.  “We are not looking for a fight with the governor,”
Senate President Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento ,
told reporters at a Statehouse briefing. “But we will not shy
from a fight if it is necessary to stand for the middle class,
the poor and the struggling.”  Lawmakers in the most populous U.S. state must pass a
budget no later than June 15 or lose their pay for each day
they’re late. Democrats said they intend to vote before the
deadline even if no deal with Brown is reached. That would allow
them to keep their pay notwithstanding a Brown veto of their
plan.  The 74-year-old governor has been meeting in private with
top Democrats to negotiate a compromise spending plan for the
world’s ninth-biggest economy. In a statement yesterday, he said
the Democrats’ plan would only worsen the spending gap in future
years.  Few Differences  Democratic leaders sought to play down the differences,
saying they and the governor agree on 99 percent of the budget.  “The differences between the governor’s proposal and our
proposal are bridgeable,” Assembly Speaker John Perez, a
Democrat from  Los Angeles , told reporters. “We’re not only on
the same page as the governor -- we’re in the same paragraph.”  An impasse over welfare might imperil the governor’s
chances of persuading voters in November to temporarily raise
income and sales taxes to prevent $5 billion in cuts to schools.  The ballot measure would boost income taxes on top earners
to the most in the nation, and raise sales levies that are now
the highest of any state. Without the revenue, Brown threatens
to cut $6 billion, most of it from education.  The governor also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health-
care for the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help
for the elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts. He’s
also counting on lowering personnel costs by 5 percent, mainly
by trimming workers’ hours.  Rainy Day Reserve  The Democrats’ plan builds a $544 million rainy day reserve
into the budget, about half of what Brown proposed. They would
reduce school funding by $330 million by using a different
method of calculating how much schools are due and take $250
million more than Brown from tax money that formerly flowed to
the state’s now-abolished redevelopment agencies.  The Democrats reject half of the $880 million in cuts Brown
proposed to the welfare-to-work program known as CalWorks. The
governor would require those receiving welfare to find work
within two years instead of four, or forgo the aid. He’d also
reduce by almost 30 percent the amount of money provided to
families with children who are no longer eligible for welfare
payments because of the time limit.  Democrats want to exempt families with young children from
some of the welfare-to-work rules.  “We need additional structural reforms to cut spending on
an ongoing basis, including welfare reform that’s built on
President Clinton’s framework and focused on getting people back
to work,” Brown said yesterday in a statement, referring to
welfare changes under former President  Bill Clinton . “Balancing
the budget is critical to protecting education for the long
term. We’re not there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  