-- Canada Natural Gas Rises as Forecasters Limit U.S. Heat Outlook
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-06-13T17:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/canada-natural-gas-rises-as-forecasters-limit-u-s-heat-outlook.html
Canadian natural gas rose as
forecasters tempered heat forecasts for the U.S. Midwest and
Northeast prior to tomorrow’s report on inventory levels.  July gas in  Alberta  advanced 0.6 percent after MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said slightly lower
temperatures than previously forecast will move more quickly
than expected across the northern U.S. from June 18 to June 22.  “We are looking at a cooler outlook, weather-wise, for
much of the U.S. for the next week or two,” Eric Bickel, an
analyst at Summit Energy Services in Louisville,  Kentucky , said
by telephone. “We’ll continue to see builds in injections and
until we see a material increase in that heat, we could see
prices remain at this $2.20-level just because supply is so
strong right now.”  Alberta gas for July delivery gained 1 cent to C$1.705 a
gigajoule ($1.58 per million British thermal units) as of 1:25
p.m. New York time. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to
users in  Canada  and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Alberta system. NGX gas is down 35 percent this year.  Natural gas for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  slid 3 cents to $2.202 per million Btu.  “The market is going to be very range-bound between this
level and maybe a little lower,”  Kyle Cooper , director of
research with IAF Advisors in Houston, said in a telephone
interview. “Until we get a more definitive look at what the
summer is going to look like in terms of the heat in July and
August, that remains the trading for the balance of June.”  Weather Outlook  The high in Toledo, Ohio, on June 18 is forecast to be 91
degrees Fahrenheit, 9 degrees above normal, before easing to 75
degrees on June 22, 8 below normal, according to  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1 billion cubic
feet at 1 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.03 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2 billion cubic feet.  The available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia
system at  Kingsgate  was 516 million cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 2.03 billion cubic feet today, or 80 percent
of normal capacity of 2.55 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.78
billion cubic feet at 12:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  