-- Canadian Real Estate Posing Risks to Economy, OECD Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/canadian-real-estate-posing-risks-to-economy-oecd-says.html
Canada’s growing household
indebtedness and rising real-estate prices are posing risks to
the world’s 10th-largest economy that may require additional
measures to rein in the market, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  The Paris-based group of developed nations, in a report on
Canada released today in Ottawa, said there are signs of
“imbalances” in the Vancouver and Toronto real-estate markets
as well as the condominium segment. The report said steps by
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  to tighten mortgage insurance
rules in recent years have helped.  Historically high levels of indebtedness are “making
households vulnerable to a possible decline in real-estate
prices,” according to the report. “Further measures may be
needed, possibly targeted on certain market segments, if
imbalances persist.”  Flaherty has shortened amortization rules for government-
insured mortgages twice since 2008, lowering the limit to 30
years in January 2011. He’s also cut the maximum amount
homeowners can borrow against the value of their homes,
withdrawn government insurance on home-equity lines of credit,
and introduced legislation that prevents lenders from using
government-insured mortgages as collateral for debt known as
covered bonds.  The absence of a real-estate collapse in the country is one
reason  Canada  has had relatively good economic performance,
according to the OECD, which estimates  growth  of 2.2 percent
this year and 2.6 percent in 2013.  Low Rates  Still, a “prolonged period” of low  interest rates  that
have helped fuel the recovery may have increased risks to the
financial system, the OECD said. While the central bank can
afford to keep “highly accommodative” rates given moderate
inflation, it will have to consider raising borrowing costs if
“downside risks fail to materialize.”  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept the  benchmark
rate  unchanged at 1 percent for 21 months, even amid signs the
economy is approaching full capacity.  The OECD also said the government’s plan to erase its
 budget deficit  by 2015 is “reasonable,” while the country’s
strong fiscal outlook gives it scope to respond to any
deterioration in the economy.  “Canada’s low indebtedness and well-earned reputation for
fiscal probity allow it room to respond by slowing the pace of
consolidation as needed,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  