-- Canadian Dollar Weakens Against Major Peers on Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-13T21:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/canadian-dollar-weakens-against-major-peers-on-growth.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as equities declined on
deepening concern growth in the economy of the U.S., the
nation’s biggest trading partner, is slowing.  The Canadian currency weakened after a report showed retail
sales in the U.S. declined in May for a second month. The
currency extended losses after  Spain ’s credit rating was cut
three steps by Moody’s Investors Service before Greek elections
on June 17. Canada’s industrial companies are forecast to report
tomorrow that their use of production capacity held steady,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s been pretty much tracking equities,”  Shane Enright ,
 executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC
World Markets unit in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Flows have been very light. We’ve been stuck very much in
familiar territory the last couple of days. The market is
watching for the Greek election.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, decreased 0.4 percent to C$1.0303
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
97.06 U.S. cents.  Yields on the nation’s two-year government securities
gained one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.03
percent. They reached 0.86 percent on June 1, the  lowest  this
year, as investors sought refuge in top-rated sovereign debt.  The government sold C$2.9 billion ($2.8 billion) of three-
year securities with a 1.153 percent yield, the central bank
said on its website. The 1.5 percent securities mature in August
2015.  ‘Disappointing Numbers’  The loonie erased a gain versus the U.S. dollar after the
Commerce Department reported a 0.2 percent decrease in retail
sales last month, following a similar decline in April that was
previously reported as a gain. May’s drop matched the median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The currency slid earlier in the day as borrowing costs
rose after Italy and  Germany  sold debt.  “The retail-sales numbers were disappointing,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, said in a telephone
interview. “I think a lot of people expected disappointing
numbers, so from that point of view it wasn’t really a big
shocker. It’s something to think about, but the market has its
attention focused elsewhere.”  Appreciation Period  The Canadian dollar is in a period of appreciation after
strengthening below C$1.0355 on June 6,  George Davis , chief
technical analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit,
wrote in a note today.  The currency’s initial resistance level is at $1.0208,
which it has tested but held over the past four trading days,
according to Davis. Secondary resistance levels are at C$1.0159
and C$1.0105, the 200-day moving average, he said. Resistance
refers to an area on a chart where sell orders may be clustered.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent after
declining as much as 1 percent. Crude oil, Canada’s largest
export, fell 1.1 percent after sliding as much as 1.4 percent
and adding as much as 0.8 percent.  The 30-day correlation coefficient between the Canadian
dollar and the  S&P 500  rose to 0.89 today, from 0.76 at the end
of May, Bloomberg data show. A coefficient of 1 means the
measures move in lockstep. The correlation has averaged 0.35
over the past decade, and this year ranged between 0.87 in April
and 0.58 in March.  The loonie’s correlation with crude-oil futures was 0.72.  Canada’s net international debt rose in the first quarter
as a stronger currency curbed the value of foreign assets,
government figures showed.  Less Bearish  The book value of the country’s shortfall grew by C$15.7
billion to C$230 billion,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa
today. Canada’s net foreign debt has grown since the end of 2008
as the global financial crisis brought a rise in foreign demand
for Canadian bonds.  Options traders are becoming less bearish on the Canadian
dollar. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at
2.7 percentage points, down from 2.8 percentage points at the
end of last week and 3.2 percentage points at the end of May. It
averaged 1.9 percentage points this year.  ‘Very Nervous’  Canada’s industrial companies are expected to report that
their use of production  capacity  in the first quarter held
steady at 80.5 percent, according to the the median estimate of
11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors are paring their positions and abstaining from
taking on new risk ahead of the economic data,  Dean Popplewell ,
chief strategist at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a telephone interview. The headline-dominated
market is “very nervous,” he said.  The loonie is down 1.4 percent over three months against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has gained 2.7 percent and the
yen is up 8.9 percent. The euro has slumped 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  