-- Canada to Announce Bridge Deal With Michigan, Group Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-06-13T15:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/canada-to-announce-michigan-bridge-deal-manufacturers.html
Canada  and  Michigan  may be poised to
announce a deal to build a second bridge between Detroit and
Windsor as early as this week, according to a manufacturing
lobby group.  “Ottawa and Michigan have reached a deal for the
construction of a second bridge between Detroit and Windsor, a
popular trade route between the world’s two most integrated
economies,” according to a statement from the Ottawa-based
 Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters . It didn’t say how it
obtained the information.  The Globe and Mail reported yesterday an accord has been
reached between the Canadian government and Michigan Governor
 Rick Snyder . Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , declined to comment on the report. The new span
would be about 2 miles south of the privately owned Ambassador
Bridge, according to a Canadian government  plan .  Geralyn Lasher, a spokeswoman for Snyder, a Republican who
has been championing construction of a second span, declined to
comment on the Globe and Mail story or any developments on the
bridge issue. Talks continue, she said.  A deal would represent the latest step in a years-long
fight pitting Canadian officials and Snyder against Michigan
lawmakers and Manuel Moroun, the billionaire owner and operator
of the existing Ambassador Bridge. Moroun been fighting the
construction of a publicly financed competitor.  Busiest Crossing  The Windsor-Detroit crossing is the busiest in the world’s
largest bilateral trade relationship, with more than C$130
billion ($127 billion) in shipments and 8,000 trucks crossing
the border there each day, according to Canadian  government
data . Truck traffic is expected to triple over the next 30
years, the country’s transport department estimates.  The Canadian government expects Moroun’s company, Detroit
International Bridge Co., to sue to stop it, the Globe and Mail
said. The company is also behind a signature-gathering effort to
put a referendum on the November ballot for a constitutional
amendment requiring voter approval for such a project, the
newspaper reported.  The company has said a public project would probably put it
out of business. Moroun wants to build his own adjoining six-
lane span and has lobbied lawmakers and funded television ads
labeling the other proposal a boondoggle. Moroun bought the
controlling interest in the bridge company in 1979, outbidding
 Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)   The four-lane Ambassador was completed in 1929 by banker
Joseph Bower. At 7,490 feet, it was the world’s longest
suspension bridge at the time, according to the bridge’s
website. The crossing that carries one-quarter of the truck
commerce between the U.S. and Canada and more than 7 million
vehicles a year, according to the Public Border Operators
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  