-- Carlyle Is Said to Raise $2 Billion for Flagship Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-06-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/carlyle-is-said-to-raise-2-billion-for-flagship-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the Washington-
based private-equity firm that went public this year, has locked
in at least $2 billion in commitments for its flagship buyout
fund, according to two people familiar with the situation.  Carlyle Partners VI LP, which is seeking about $10 billion,
began formally gathering capital in February and has held an
informal close on the fund, said the people, asking not to be
identified because the information is private.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment.  Carlyle, among the last of the biggest buyout firms to
start gathering a flagship fund after the financial crisis, has
offered fee cuts to entice larger commitments as it competes for
capital in a crowded market. A record 1,858 private-equity funds
are seeking money, according to data compiled by Preqin Ltd., a
London-based research firm.  KKR & Co., Warburg Pincus LLC, Providence Equity Partners
LLC and Leonard Green & Partners LP started raising money last
year and have either wrapped up or closed on most of their
funds. Blackstone Group LP, which was the first of the large
buyout firms to enter the post-crisis market, raised more $16
billion for its buyout fund.  Advent International Corp. is nearing an initial close on
70 percent of the 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion) target for its
flagship fund, said one of the people. Chuck Dohrenwend, an
outside spokesman for Advent at Abernathy MacGregor Group,
declined to comment on the fundraising.  Fee Discounts  A successful fundraising of Carlyle Partners VI, or CP VI,
is important to the firm as it seeks to convince public market
investors that it can keep increasing fee-generating assets.  Carlyle is offering backers who put up $500 million or more
for CP VI a discounted management fee of 1.1 percent on
committed capital, compared to smaller investors who will be
charged as much as 1.5 percent, depending on the size of their
commitment, two people familiar with the fund said in February.  Co-founded by  David Rubenstein ,  William Conway  and  Daniel D’Aniello , Carlyle went public in May. It is at least the fifth
buyout firm to go public since Fortress Investment Group LLC
held an IPO in February 2007, followed by Blackstone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  