-- Chesapeake CEO Pledges Mementos for Billionaire Kaiser’s Debt
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-06-13T22:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/chesapeake-ceo-pledges-mementos-for-billionaire-kaiser-s-debt.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  pledged his personal “oil
and gas memorabilia” against a loan from billionaire  George Kaiser , according to a filing last week.  The document filed June 8 in the  clerk’s office  in  Oklahoma 
County, Oklahoma, doesn’t say how much debt is secured by the
property. McClendon is being stripped of his chairmanship of
Chesapeake amid criticism of the entanglement of his personal
interests with those of the company, including getting loans
from Chesapeake financing sources.  Kaiser is among the company’s financers. His investment
firm, Argonaut Private Equity, bought rights to future
production from some Chesapeake wells for $412 million in 2008.
The bank he controls, Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  BOK Financial Corp. (BOKF) ,
has done “nominal” business with Chesapeake, according to a
securities filing, and a former senior BOK executive, Burns Hargis, serves on Chesapeake’s board.  The loan from Kaiser has been in place since at least 2009,
and last week’s filing is to show that it has been secured with
new collateral, said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  In 2009, Kaiser filed notice in Oklahoma County that
McClendon and his wife were his debtors, secured by their
interests in two companies they control. One of the companies
was a vehicle through which McClendon owns personal stakes in
Chesapeake wells, and the other was a venture capital company.  Map Collection  McClendon declined to comment. Kaiser is out of the country
and can’t be reached, according to an employee at his office.
Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, declined to comment.  The memorabilia is not related to McClendon’s personal
antique map collection, said the person with knowledge of the
loan. Chesapeake agreed to buy the collection, on display at the
company’s  Oklahoma City , Oklahoma, headquarters, in 2008 when
McClendon faced a cash crunch. McClendon in November agreed to
buy the maps back for $12.1 million plus interest to settle a
shareholder lawsuit that asserted the transaction was improper.  Forbes magazine  estimated  Kaiser’s fortune at $10 billion
as of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  