-- Chevron Phillips Sees Advantage in Leading Industry’s Expansion
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-13T20:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/chevron-phillips-sees-advantage-in-leading-industry-s-expansion.html
Chevron Phillips  Chemical Co. said
it’s on schedule to build one of the first new U.S. ethylene
plants in more than a decade, taking advantage of cheap natural
gas and gaining an edge in avoiding a potential  labor shortage .  Chevron Phillips will need about 10,000 engineers and
construction workers to build a new ethylene plant and two
polyethylene factories outside Houston, and another 400 workers
to operate them when they open in 2017, Chief Executive Officer
Peter Cella said today in an interview at the company’s  Cedar
Bayou facility in Baytown, Texas.  Chevron Phillips is racing competitors such as  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and Exxon Mobil Corp. to complete the factories in southeast
 Texas  as gas production from shale rock makes raw materials from
the U.S. among the cheapest globally. With so much production
capacity planned, Cella anticipates a dearth of skilled labor in
the region.  “We are first out of the gate,” Cella said. “I think
that will serve us well if the set of circumstances comes about
that there is a tight labor market.”  Cella broke ground today on another Cedar Bayou facility,
which will make 1-hexene, an ethylene-derived ingredient in
polyethylene plastic. It will be the world’s largest, capable of
producing as much as 250,000 metric tons (551 million pounds) a
year, the company said. Construction started in April and is
scheduled to be complete in the first quarter of 2014.  Rising Demand  Rising U.S. demand for plastics and other ethylene
derivatives may support three or four new projects over the next
decade, Cella said. Any additional capacity would be used to
boost exports to  South America  and  Asia , from about 15 percent
to 20 percent of U.S. ethylene production now, he said.  “Thanks to the development of this new resource base
previously locked up in shale rock, there is a new optimism that
has spread across the entire  chemical industry ,’” Cella said at
the ceremony. “I do see a resurgence in our industry.”  Chevron Phillips is spending about $5 billion on the
ethylene and polyethylene plants and Cella wouldn’t disclose the
price of the hexene project.  The company also plans to increase production capacity by
20 percent in February at its gas fractionation plant in Sweeny,
Texas. The plant separates natural gas liquids such as ethane
and propane for use by chemical makers and other customers.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  opened the last U.S. ethylene
plant in 2001 in Channelview, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  