-- Saab Auto Sold to China-Japan Group in Electric-Car Push
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-13T15:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/chinese-japanese-consortium-said-to-buy-bankrupt-saab-automobile.html
A Chinese-Japanese investment group
agreed to buy  Saab Automobile  and convert the bankrupt Swedish
manufacturer into a maker of electric cars.  The first vehicle under the plan will be based on Saab’s
9-3 car and will go on sale early in 2014, with China as the
main market, purchaser National Electric Vehicle Sweden AB and
the bankruptcy administrators for Trollhaettan-based Saab said
today in a joint  statement . The parties agreed not to disclose
the price of Saab’s sale.  “We’re striving to be a world-leading company for electric
cars,” Mattias Bergman, a spokesman for National Electric
Vehicle Sweden, said at a press conference in Trollhaettan.
“It’s not only about China being a big market for electric
cars, it’s also about  China  having the ability to make the
investments required and build the needed infrastructure.”  The purchasing group consists of Hong Kong-based renewable-
energy power-plant builder National Modern Energy Holdings Ltd.,
which owns 51 percent, and Japanese investment firm Sun
Investment. The Swedish manufacturer would be entering a market
that includes the Chevrolet Volt, made by former Saab owner
 General Motors Co. (GM) , and Fisker Automotive Inc.’s $103,000 Karma
hybrid gasoline-electric sports car, models that have been the
subject of U.S. probes following vehicle fires.  Competing Suitors  Competing suitors for Saab included Jinhua, China-based
Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile, which was in talks since at
least February and made a revised bid exceeding 4 billion kronor
($567 million) as late as June 8. Anne-Marie Pouteaux and Hans Bergqvist, Saab’s bankruptcy administrators, said early in 2012
that a half-dozen parties had shown interest in buying the
company.  Kai Johan Jiang, founder and main owner of National Modern
Energy Holdings, will become chief executive officer of National
Electric Vehicle  Sweden , spokesman Bergman said on a call with
reporters.  Saab, the maker of the 9-5 sedan and 9-4X crossover
vehicle, hasn’t built cars since last year following an initial
production halt in March 2011, and it filed for bankruptcy in
December. Saab has been unprofitable for most of two decades,
and GM, which acquired full control of the manufacturer in 2000,
sold it in February 2010 to Dutch supercar maker Spyker NV.  Targets Missed  GM’s Volt and Nissan Motor Co.’s electric Leaf model missed
U.S. sales targets for last year. The country’s  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  is looking into the safety of
lithium-ion batteries amid instances of fires involving the Volt
and the Karma.  “Electric cars are a very tough business with a lot of
risk,” and “there’s been almost no demand for them,” said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen ,  Germany . The
models are 10,000 euros to 15,000 euros more expensive than
equivalent gasoline-powered cars, and their restricted range
also makes them less attractive, he said.  Saab has hovered near bankruptcy several times, including
in 1989, the year before GM bought a 50 percent stake. The U.S.
company, seeking to stem losses, planned in late 2009 to shut
the Swedish unit, after deciding to close the Saturn, Hummer and
Pontiac divisions in the U.S., until Spyker CEO Victor Muller
persuaded it to sell the brand to him.  Deliveries Drop  After sales peaked at 133,000 deliveries in 2006, Saab sold
just 31,700 vehicles in 2010. Deliveries were hurt that year
because Saab needed longer than expected to restore production
flows after GM emptied the factory and cut the brand’s supplier
ties, Muller said in 2011.  No sales figures have been released for 2011.  Eric Geers , a
former Saab spokesman who now works for startup Chinese carmaker
Qoros Auto Ltd., estimated in February that the Swedish brand
sold 10,000 to 15,000 vehicles last year.  Saab Auto’s roots date back to the 1937 establishment of
aircraft manufacturer Svenska Aeroplan AB, which began making
cars in 1947. The auto business was split from the aerospace
operations, now called  Saab AB (SAABB) , in the 1990s. About 3,600 people
worked at Saab Auto before its bankruptcy, including 3,400 in
Trollhaettan.  ‘Key’ Recruitments  Saab Auto’s new owners have started recruitment of “key
people,” mainly engineers and designers, Bergman said,
declining to say how big its workforce will be. The investors
have the long-term financing needed to meet business-plan goals,
he said, declining to say when Saab Auto may break even.  The Swedish government may take over Saab’s spare-parts
unit, which wasn’t included in today’s purchase and was
separated in the bankruptcy process,  Bo Lundgren , head of the
country’s debt office, said June 8. The state got the components
business as collateral for backing a 2.2 billion-krona loan Saab
got from the  European Investment Bank  that the carmaker didn’t
repay.  Taking over the unit “is still one of our scenarios,”
Unni Jerndal, a debt office spokeswoman, said today by phone,
declining to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Trollhaettan via 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  