-- China Yongda Says Sales of New 3-Series BMW Top Forecasts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-13T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/china-yongda-says-sales-of-new-3-series-bmw-top-forecasts.html
China  Yongda Automobiles Services
Holdings Ltd., the nation’s largest  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
dealer, said orders for the new generation extended 3-series
sedan have surpassed expectations.  China Yongda, which runs 21 BMW outlets in the world’s
largest auto market, received between 100 and 200 orders per
outlet for the sedan, since sales started five days ago, Dong
Wei, vice president of the dealer group, said yesterday.  “Orders have definitely exceeded expectations,” Wei said
in an interview about the stretched sedan, which starts at
340,000  yuan  ($53,550). “Before the car went on sale, many
customers were unsure due to price uncertainty.” Wei declined
to elaborate on the company’s forecasts.  The stronger-than-expected uptake may reflect broader
demand for BMW’s best-selling sedan, helping the Munich-based
automaker narrow its gap with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit in their
biggest market and alleviate concern that demand for luxury
autos is waning with the economic slowdown. The world’s biggest
luxury carmaker started taking orders June 8 for five models of
the stretched and standard new generation 3-series sedan, it
said at the time.  “It’s all about  brand recognition ; BMW has always got a
premium branding in China,” said Cheam Tze Shen, Hong Kong-
based assistant vice president at CIMB Securities HK Ltd. “The
car is also designed to be very driver focused, which may
attract the younger generation, the target for the 3 series.”  Back-seat Comfort  The first deliveries of the new long wheelbase 3-series
would begin in the latter half of July, Wei said. The vehicle is
11 centimeters (4.3 inches) longer than the regular model, and
is part of a trend by Audi, BMW, and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s  Mercedes Benz 
to cater to Chinese design for back-seat comfort.  BMW’s  sales in China  rose 34 percent in the first five
months of the year to 135,026 units, and it has projected sales
this year to rise by at least 10 percent in China, offsetting a
market decline of as much as 5 percent in  Europe .  Even so, industrywide demand in China slowed earlier this
year, as economic growth moderated and fuel prices hit record
highs. An inventory glut is building at the dealerships, leading
to price cuts, the state-backed China Automobile Dealers
Association, said last week.  Yongda, a Shanghai-based auto distributor which operates 66
sales outlets for brands ranging from Porsche to  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Buick, expects demand to improve in the second half of the
year.  Revisit Share Sale  China’s auto market will pick up as the macro-economic
environment improves and carmakers adjust production to reflect
market demand, Zhigao Wang, Yongda’s vice chairman, said.
Carmakers are also likely to introduce some buying incentives
then, he said.  Yongda sold 20,586 BMW and Mini-branded vehicles last year,
according to the company’s prospectus. This makes it the largest
BMW dealer by volume in China, according to industry analyst
 Roland Berger .  The company plans to revisit a delayed Hong Kong initial
public offering again, Wang told reporters yesterday, declining
to be specific on the timing.  On May 28, the dealer group postponed a plan to raise as
much as $430 million, citing deterioration in equity markets.  “When we first decided we wanted to list, the slumping
investor sentiment was like a light rain shower. By the time we
started marketing, the shower had turned into a downpour,” Wang
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  