-- Chinese Solar Stocks Fall on Forecast for Slower European Demand
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-13T20:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/chinese-solar-stocks-fall-on-forecast-for-slower-european-demand.html
Chinese solar companies led by  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK)  tumbled in New York after Jefferies Group Inc. said
European demand for solar panels has slowed.  LDK, the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, declined 7
percent to $1.98 in New York a day after surging 17 percent, its
biggest gain in five months.  LDK,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) 
rose yesterday after  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest maker
of thin-film panels, said it plans to increase production at its
factory in Frankfurt an der Oder, Germany. Jefferies analyst
Jesse Pichel, in a note to investors today, said First Solar’s
21 percent advance yesterday was “not warranted” as German
demand is “lower than expected” and Italy has “slowed
markedly.”  “There was optimism in the market yesterday that demand in
Germany was not so bad based on First Solar’s actions,”  David Smith , the portfolio manager of the Gabelli Green Fund, said by
phone from Purchase, New York. “Today, there’s recognition that
the demand pop is not really true, and that the reality with LDK
is that they have a very stressed balance sheet and a cash flow
problem, which was overlooked yesterday.”  Xinyu, Jiangxi province-based LDK reported a net loss of
$588.7 million in the fourth quarter, more than five times
analysts’ estimates of $109.7 million. LDK reported net debt of
$2.9 billion in the fourth quarter.  Trina, China’s third-biggest maker of solar panels, fell
6.5 percent to $6.21 a day after gaining 8.3 percent, while
Yingli, China’s second-biggest solar-panel maker, slipped 2.2
percent to $2.68 after advancing 5.4 percent yesterday. First
Solar dropped 7.4 percent, its largest decline in a month, to
$13.84.  “Until macro concerns abate in southern Europe, solar
growth can be expected to be subdued,” Pichel wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  