-- China Money-Market Rate Climbs as Quarter-End Cash Demand Rises
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-06-13T08:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/china-money-market-rate-climbs-as-quarter-end-cash-demand-rises.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a second day on speculation lenders are starting to
build cash reserves to meet quarter-end  capital requirements .  The nation’s biggest four banks lent a combined 6.6 billion
yuan ($1.04 billion) in the first week of this month and saw 272
billion yuan of deposits being withdrawn, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported today, citing unidentified data. The
People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill sales today,
suggesting it won’t drain cash from the system tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  “There’s some seasonal cash demand rising before the end
of the quarter and mid-year,” said Chen Qi, co-head of fixed-
income research at UBS Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “We see
quite a strong demand for deposits from banks during this
period, and the bigger banks are reluctant to lend.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 15 basis points to
2.70 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The monetary authority reduced its one-year lending and
deposit rates by a quarter of a percentage point on June 8 to
revive a slowing economy. It may cut banks’ reserve requirements
this month should the availability of cash tighten further, Chen
said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, increased nine basis points to
2.61 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 2.30 percent on June 8, the lowest level
since October 2010.  China’s finance ministry sold 26.9 billion  yuan  of one-year
bonds at an average yield of 2.15 percent today, according to a
statement posted on the ministry’s website. That compares with a
median estimate of 2.18 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven finance companies.  The yield on the government’s 3.51 percent bonds due
February 2022 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.38 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  