-- Ciner Said to Hire Deutsche to Weigh Soda Ash Stake Options
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-06-13T15:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ciner-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-to-weigh-soda-ash-stake-options.html
Ciner Group, the majority owner of
Turkish natural soda-ash producer Eti Soda AS, hired  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  to study options for the unit including a possible stake
sale, three people familiar with the matter said.  Ciner, an Istanbul-based conglomerate with interests in
mining, media and energy, may decide to sell part of its
controlling stake in Eti Soda, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the process is confidential. The unit has
sales of about $250 million a year, the people said.  Ciner owns 74 percent of Eti Soda, based in Beypazari, west
of Ankara, and the remainder is held by state-owned miner  Eti
Maden Isletmeleri Genel Mudurlugu , according to Eti Maden’s
website. Ciner’s options don’t include any sale of Eti Maden’s
portion, the people said. Under a shareholders’ agreement, Ciner
must offer Eti Maden the opportunity to buy any stake it wants
to sell, they said.  The asset includes future operations at a soda ash
production plant to be built near Kazan at a site the group took
over in 2011 from  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the world’s third-largest
mining company, the people said. Ciner may use proceeds from a
sale for energy investments in  Turkey  and spending on the Kazan
plant. The company may invest about $1 billion over four years
in the facility, one of the people said.  Gursel Usta, chief executive officer of Eti Soda, declined
to comment, as did Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Libby Young.  Industrial Use  Soda ash is used in the making of glass, chemicals, paper,
detergent and other industrial products. Eti Soda began
operations in 2009 after a $375 million investment by
shareholders and has a production capacity of 1.1 million tons a
year, according to its  website .  The soda ash miner aims to reach a capacity of as much as
4.5 million tons by 2016 after investments in the Beypazari and
Kazan sites are completed, Kamil Akar, general manager of Eti
Soda, said today at a soda ash conference organized by IHS Inc.
in Istanbul.  Eti Soda exports about 90 percent of its output, according
to its website. Ciner’s Kazan site has licenses for reserves of
1.65 billion metric tons of soda ash.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, has a strategic
partnership with Ciner Group in Turkish media through Bloomberg
HT television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  