-- Civil Engineers Likely to Grade U.S. Infrastructure `D'
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-13T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/civil-engineers-likely-to-grade-u-s-infrastructure-d-.html
U.S. infrastructure projects such as
roads, railways and airports will probably keep their near-
failing “D” grade when the American Society of Civil Engineers
issues its next report on public facilities in 2013, according
to the group’s president-elect and municipal-bond analysts.  Governments will need to spend an extra $2.2 trillion on
capital projects nationwide, up from  $1.6 trillion  in 2005, the
Reston, Virginia-based engineering group said in its 2009
edition of “ Report Card for America’s Infrastructure .” State
and local governments have sold about $1.3 trillion of debt
since 2007 to finance public works rather than re-issue debt at
lower  interest rates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eight analysts of infrastructure and the $3.7 trillion
municipal market discussed public works for today’s Bloomberg
Brief: Municipal Market newsletter.  Greg DiLoreto , president-elect of ASCE:  “We haven’t really invested additional money, so I would
be hard-pressed to believe that the grade would improve. Not
everything is falling apart -- you can find examples of agencies
spending money. But the D represents an overall condition of
America’s infrastructure.  The report card isn’t saying we don’t spend money on
infrastructure; it’s saying that based on what we spend and the
information we get from the public agencies themselves, we
should be spending a greater amount. As civil engineers, we feel
we are stewards of the infrastructure. It’s what we know best.
It’s just like a doctor telling you that you have a heart
condition. We’re taking it to the concrete and saying ‘America,
you have a mortar and bricks problem with your
infrastructure.’”  Howard Cure, director of municipal research at Evercore
Wealth Management LLC in  New York , which oversees $3.5 billion
of assets:  “I do think it’s that bleak. It’s just with old systems,
the more you delay taking care of them, the bigger problems you
have.  It has to be funded somehow, and issuance is one way. But
the cost is overwhelming and finances are tight. Unless there’s
a real emergency, it’s easy to defer it a year, and then
another. It eventually gets more costly and worse. I lived
through it just from the New York City subway system. Growing up
there in the 1970s when they neglected it was horrendous. That
could happen all over the country.”  Chris Mier, chief municipal strategist in Chicago at Loop
 Capital Markets , an investment banking and brokerage company:  “They’re closer to being right than to being wrong. Do I
believe the infrastructure in the U.S. should get an A or B? No.
I’d agree that there are substantial infrastructure needs, and I
probably would not give them an F. I would give them a C or D.  The reasons I think so are related to the general state of
bridges, some of the older urban sewer systems, highway
infrastructure, basic urban roadways, pothole problems, etc.
Certain states have outgrown their roadways and need to catch
up.”  Justin Hoogendoorn, a Chicago-based managing director at
BMO Capital Markets, the investment banking division of  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) :  “If they gave us a D, I have to believe there’s some
substance to it. Certainly the U.S. spends a great deal of money
on infrastructure and takes it seriously.  The reality is the need is so large and the cost is so
large that my response would be: ‘How do you get an A? Is an A
possible?’ It may be like one of those teachers who’s not
grading on a curve, but just on a scale that’s really too
difficult.”  Richard Ciccarone, managing director at McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook , Illinois, which oversees
about $8 billion in munis:  “I have to take the engineers’ word for it. It’s been in
bad shape and in that kind of situation for many years.  If you look at the average age of infrastructure, you’ll
find that the number has been tweaking up. The average age of
property, plant and equipment has been tweaking up in almost all
of the sectors. The other part of it is the resistance to get
into addressing any kind of programs that will add to debt loads
or tax loads in many parts of the country. There’s a tendency
for people not to do the appropriate maintenance, waiting for
something to completely break. That brings it to a crisis and
makes it more expensive.”  Philip Villaluz, managing director of municipal research in
New York for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., a brokerage firm based in
Birmingham, Alabama:  “As far as putting an exact letter grade on that, it
depends on the group evaluating the situation. I don’t believe
it’s a big secret that U.S. infrastructure is in sore need of
repair, maintenance and rehabilitation. The problem isn’t
deciding whether repairs need to be done, but rather how to pay
for it all.  I would not agree with putting blame on the muni market.
The decline in the quality of the U.S. infrastructure has been
going on for quite some time, probably for the better part of
the last 10 years. The willingness of the federal or state
governments to find funding or capital to support those projects
has increasingly become difficult as they face higher-priority
issues within their own finances.”  David Litvack, senior research analyst at New York-based
U.S. Trust, a unit of Bank of America Corp.:  “I can’t comment on the civil engineers’ grade, but I
would say maintaining infrastructure is a continuous need.  Municipal and state governments are fairly strapped for
cash. There’s been a general unwillingness to spend money on
anything but the most essential things. Revenues are growing
less quickly than desired and operating expenses are up. We’ve
seen that infrastructure has started to deteriorate. Economic
growth has to occur in order for governments’ budgets to become
a little more flush, and that would cause greater interest in
 long-term capital investment  and infrastructure.”  Eric Friedland, head of municipal credit research at
Schroder Investment Management  North America , which manages
about $2 billion of munis:  “I can’t answer that. Airports are functioning, water
systems are treating water, wastewater systems are treating
waste. The highways don’t have massive potholes. As a whole, the
infrastructure is functioning.  What they’re doing is pointing out that more needs to be
spent than is actually being spent. The issue is that in the
future, because there’s a lot of deferred maintenance and
deferred spending going on by kicking the can down the road,
there’s a potential problem. This report may be extreme in
saying infrastructure today is failing, but the more important
thing is highlighting that if spending doesn’t increase, you’re
going to have some more serious problems going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  