-- Colombia Minister Urges for ‘Aggressive’ Currency Action
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-13T19:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/colombia-needs-aggressive-currency-war-action-echeverry-says.html
Colombia ’s peso fell to a one-week
low after Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the
country should learn from its neighbors and take “more
aggressive” action to stem the world’s biggest currency rally.  The currency has appreciated 8.7 percent against the dollar
this year, the biggest gainer among all of the 170 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, leading to complaints from exporters such
as flower growers and coffee farmers. Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an interview today that Colombia wants a
more devalued exchange rate and that policy makers won’t rule
out bigger dollar interventions.  The peso slipped 0.4 percent to 1,784.08 per  U.S. dollar ,
the biggest decline today among a basket of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It earlier touched 1,788, the
weakest intraday level since June 6.  “The external environment calls for a peso that isn’t as
strong,” said Andres Munoz, the head currency trader in Bogota
at Corp. Financiera Colombiana, a financial services holding
company. “Echeverry’s comments bring that to light.”  Colombia has been less successful than other countries in
the region at curbing currency gains, Echeverry told lawmakers
in Bogota yesterday. Experience shows that more central bank
intervention in currency markets is compatible with low and
stable inflation, he said.  The peso’s fair value is about 1,792 per dollar, and the
currency will probably weaken to 1,805 in the next days amid
European debt turmoil, Munoz said.  Neighbors’ Policies  The Brazilian real has weakened 9.7 percent this year as
President Dilma Rousseff’s government stepped up measures
earlier this year to protect  Latin America ’s biggest economy
from what she called a “monetary tsunami” caused by stimulus
policies in rich nations.  “Since about March, the behavior of our currency has been
less than satisfactory,” Echeverry said. “Our neighbors are
pursuing currency policies that are perhaps more effective than
ours.”  Echeverry said he remains opposed to capital controls of
the kind employed by  Brazil  and said Colombia should instead
study  Peru , whose currency has gained 0.6 percent against the
dollar this year.  Colombia should buy dollars more aggressively and follow
the purchases with immediate “sterilization” in which the
central bank sells bonds to mop up the extra liquidity created,
according to Echeverry.  ‘Printing Money’  The central bank can issue bonds to reduce liquidity,
according to a resolution published on its website April 30. The
statement came after Banco de la Republica announced that day
that the bank would buy a minimum of $20 million daily in the
 spot market  until at least Nov. 2, extending the program by
three months as officials seek to ease the peso’s gains. The
central bank hasn’t said if it plans to issue bonds.  “We can buy at any moment more than $20 million per
day,” Uribe said today. The central bank could prolong its
purchases beyond November, he said.  The peso’s “excessive” appreciation is due to monetary
policy in the U.S. that is “lax almost to the point of
irresponsibility,” said Echeverry, who once worked as a
teaching assistant to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “Brazil is printing money; the  United States  is printing
money,” Echeverry said. “If you don’t fight this currency war,
you suffer.”  Dollar Purchases  The central bank bought $420 million in the  currency market 
in auctions last month, while the government is keeping abroad
dividends from state-run oil company Ecopetrol SA to avoid
strengthening the peso even further.  Colombia’s economy grew 5.9 percent last year, faster than
Brazil and  Mexico , and trailing Chile and Peru. There are signs
that the economy may now be cooling after the central bank, of
which Echeverry is a board member, raised  interest rates   nine
times  since the start of 2011 to damp demand powered by credit
growth and record foreign investment.  Industrial output  fell in March from a year earlier, the
first year-over-year contraction since 2009. Urban unemployment
rose to 11.4 percent in April, higher than all 18 forecasts of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.07 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  