-- Court Health Decision May Affect Deficit, CBO Leader Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-13T18:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/court-health-decision-may-affect-deficit-cbo-leader-says.html
To all the uncertainty over the
future of the U.S. budget add one more factor: the Supreme
Court, said Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Elmendorf.  The justices’ decision, expected this month, on whether to
strike down all or part of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul may have a significant effect on the  budget deficit ,
Elmendorf said today at a meeting with reporters. He said the
court might save the government hundreds of billions of dollars,
or add to the  deficit , though it’s impossible to predict.  “It depends on just what the Supreme Court does,” said
Elmendorf, whose agency provides Congress with nonpartisan
analysis of the budgetary effects of policy changes. “Of
course, the Supreme Court could do different sorts of things and
I don’t know what -- we’ve talking about the range of
possibilities and there seems to be a quite a wide range.”  Lawmakers already are facing an unusually large number of
major tax-and-spending events late this year -- dubbed a fiscal
cliff -- that include the expiration of the George W. Bush-era
tax cuts and $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts scheduled
to begin taking effect in January.  If the  Supreme Court  decides to strike down the health-care
law’s requirement that almost all Americans have health
insurance by 2014, it could translate to cutting a “few hundred
billion dollars” from projected spending, said Elmendorf.
That’s because if there no requirement for having health
insurance, fewer people will likely sign up for Medicaid, the
health-care program for the poor, or for newly created
government subsidies to buy private coverage.  Government Subsidies  The savings could be larger if the justices decide to
cancel those subsidies along with the insurance mandate.
Alternatively, Elmendorf said, if the court decides to throw out
the entire health-care law, the deficit would increase. That’s
because the provisions expanding coverage are financed with cuts
elsewhere in the budget as well as tax increases, which means
the projected net effect of the legislation would be to reduce
the budget shortfall.  Lawmakers’ inability to resolve their differences over what
to do about the fiscal cliff is already hurting the economy,
Elmendorf said, estimating it will hold down growth this year by
about a half percentage point.  ‘Hard to Manage’  “We think it’s an issue now and will be increasingly an
issue in the second half of the year,” he said. “It’s very
hard to manage an organization that is faced with a potential
immediate cutback of the size that would occur for many
organizations in government, and would then spill over to people
outside the government if these cuts were to take effect.”  That’s been the case in his agency, Elmendorf said, saying
officials are unsure about whether to replace workers who leave
because it’s impossible to know next year’s budget. “That must
play out on a much, much larger scale with more significant
enterprises than ours,” he said.  Elmendorf disagreed with complaints from Republicans,
including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , that the
administration’s health-care law is hurting the economy.  “We don’t think that the health-care law is having a
significant impact on the economy today,” he said. The plan
likely will reduce the  labor force  over the next decade by about
a half percent, Elmendorf said, mostly because of Americans
opting not to work because they are able to get affordable
health-care coverage outside of the workplace.  ‘Half a Percent’  “Half a percent of the labor force is not a very big share
-- that’s the only economic effect that we have tried to
estimate,” he said.  Asked what worries him most as CBO director, Elmendorf said
lawmakers’ inability to agree on how to reduce the deficit.  He said policymakers “have very different views about the
right path” and finding agreement is “made more difficult, I
think, by a lack of understanding on the part of many Americans
about where their federal dollars go.”  “Our political system needs to come to grips with this
fundamental choice about whether we’re going to let taxes rise
relative to what we’re used to in the past or cut spending on
the big, popular entitlement programs or some combination,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  