-- Credifondo Buys Peru Corporate Debt After Government Bond Rally
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-06-13T20:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/credifondo-buys-peru-corporate-debt-after-government-bond-rally.html
Credifondo SA SAF, Peru’s largest
mutual- fund manager , has scaled back holdings of government debt
as it wagers the country’s corporate bonds will provide better
returns, Chief Executive Officer Augusto Rodriguez said.  The company sold sol-denominated  government securities  as
yields fell to all-time lows, and increased purchases of
corporate notes, which have been overlooked by foreign
investors, Rodriguez said in an interview in Lima today.  Yields on the Andean nation’s bonds have fallen this year
as foreign investors move money into what the International
Monetary Fund expects to be Latin America’s fastest growing
major economy this year and next. Credifondo has bought dollar-
denominated bonds sold this year by Volcan Cia. Minera SAA, BBVA
Banco Continental SA and Banco de Credito del  Peru , which will
outperform government debt with less volatility, Rodriguez said.  “Investors’ eyes have been more fixed on  government
bonds ,” said Diego Marrero, the deputy investment manager at
the Lima-based fund manager. “They’ve been looking less at
corporates and this situation could be reversed in the coming
months.”  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.17 percent at 3 p.m. in Lima, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.14 centimo to
117.53 centimos per sol.  The yield has fallen 59 basis points this year and touched
5 percent on May 3, the lowest since at least February 2006.  Credifondo is a unit of  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) , Peru’s biggest
financial services company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  