-- Crown Undecided on Support for Echo Capital Raising
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-06-13T09:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/crown-undecided-on-support-for-echo-capital-raising.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the casino operator
controlled by billionaire James Packer, hasn’t decided whether
it will buy new stock in a planned capital raising by  Echo
Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)   Echo, based in Brisbane, will seek to raise between A$400
million ($399 million) and A$500 million in a rights offering
being managed by UBS AG and Macquarie Group Ltd., according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The details may be
announced as early as tomorrow, the person said, asking not to
be identified as the information is private.  Crown, which owns 10 percent of Echo, will wait for details
of the share sale, Chief Financial Officer Ken Barton said by
telephone from Melbourne today.  Packer agreed to cease a campaign against Echo after
Chairman John Story stepped down June 8, Acting Chairman John O’Neill said yesterday. Crown is seeking regulatory approval to
increase its holding in the operator of the only casino in
Sydney above the current 10 percent limit as  Genting Singapore
Plc (GENS)  built a stake of 4.9 percent.  “We’ll wait to see what they’re proposing,” Barton said.  Trading in Echo shares was halted yesterday, ahead of the
capital raising. Spokeswomen for UBS and Macquarie in Sydney
declined to comment.  Brad Schmitt, a Sydney-based spokesman for Echo, declined
to comment on the fundraising plan in an e-mailed statement. The
Australian Financial Review reported that Echo is planning to
raise A$400 million earlier today, without saying where it got
the information.  Genting’s stake may make it harder for Crown to take
control of Echo and increases the chances of a bidding war,
according to Gary Pinge, Macquarie Group Ltd.’s regional head of
gaming and consumer research. Though a joint bid by the two
companies is possible, Crown won’t want to see Genting
“entering its backyard,” he said.  Story resigned after Crown, which owns casinos in  Melbourne 
and Perth, called a meeting to vote on his removal and ran
advertisements in local newspapers criticizing the company’s
“underperformance” under his leadership. Packer has now
withdrawn his request for a shareholder meeting.  Echo owns the Star in Sydney as well as three casinos in
the state of Queensland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  