-- Cuomo Said to Want to Limit Fracking to 5 New York Counties
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-06-13T18:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/cuomo-said-to-want-to-limit-fracking-to-five-new-york-counties.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is
considering a plan that would allow natural-gas drilling by
hydraulic fracturing in five counties near the Pennsylvania
border, an administration official said.  Permits would be issued only where residents support
drilling, according to the official, who requested anonymity
because the proposal isn’t final. New York placed a moratorium
on the process known as fracking in 2010 so state regulators
could conduct an environmental review and develop rules. The
review is to be released in the next few months.  “No final decision has been made, and no decision will be
made until the scientific review is complete and we have all the
facts,”  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, has been under pressure from
energy companies and some localities to allow drilling so it can
spark the type of economic development seen in states from
 Wyoming  to  West Virginia  that have cashed in on fracking.
Environmentalists have pushed back, delivering thousands of
letters to his office urging him to ban the practice as the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency studies the effects on drinking
water and plans national regulations.  Marcellus Shale  New York sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale,
which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S. for two
decades, according to Terry Engelder, a geosciences professor at
 Pennsylvania State University .  Under the plan being discussed by the Cuomo administration,
drilling in New York would be allowed only in Broome, Chemung,
Chenango, Steuben and Tioga counties, if local governments agree
to it, the administration official said. The New York Times
reported the counties under consideration for permits today.  Fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically
treated water and sand are forced underground to break up shale
rock and free trapped gas, has been banned in more than 20 towns
in New York, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic
information-systems consultant in Ithaca, New York.  Anschutz Exploration Corp.  and Cooperstown Holstein Corp.,
a dairy farm, have appealed decisions by New York state judges
that upheld local bans on oil and gas drilling in two towns.  First Step  Tom West , an attorney for Anschutz and a lobbyist for the
industry in Albany, said Cuomo may be following the law as
determined by the rulings in those cases by considering a plan
that would allow local governments to block drilling.  Allowing fracking in a few specific areas would give
energy companies the opportunity to determine the quality of New
York’s gas deposits, West said today in a telephone interview.
New York law, though, requires the state to allow drilling
across all counties, he said.  “As a first step, this may be a way to get past all the
hysteria,” West said. “But if this is a permanent line in the
sand, how do you compensate the people on the wrong side of the
line?”  The counties where fracking would be allowed are probably
the most economical places to drill into the Marcellus Shale in
 New York , Engelder said. The formation moves closer to the
surface as it extends northward, and the deeper the rock, the
more gas it’s likely to hold, he said. The five counties are on
New York’s Southern Tier.  Deeper Drilling  Drilling into a deeper formation is also environmentally
safer, he said.  “The deeper the formation, the more likely it is the frack
fluid will be sequestered forever,” Engelder said. “If it’s
sequestered forever, then there is no threat to groundwater.”  A group of 76 lawmakers sent a letter to Cuomo today asking
him to ban the recycling of wastewater before allowing any
drilling in the state, among other concerns.  “The Legislature is a full partner with the governor in
safeguarding New York’s irreplaceable environment and protecting
public health, and we cannot allow any shale fracking until or
unless these concerns are resolved,” Assemblywoman Barbara Lifton, a Democrat from Ithaca in central New York, said at a
press conference today.  Emily DeSantis, a spokeswoman with the Department of
Environmental Conservation, said in an e-mail that the state
hasn’t yet determined whether it will even allow fracking.  “If high-volume hydraulic fracturing moves forward in New
York, it will do so with the strictest standards in the
nation,” DeSantis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at +1-
   jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  