-- CVC, Clessidra Said to Make Offer for Cinven’s Avio Unit
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-06-13T14:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/cvc-clessidra-said-to-make-offer-for-cinven-s-avio-unit.html
Private equity firms CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and Clessidra SGR SpA have bid for Avio SpA, the
aerospace supplier owned by U.K. buyout firm Cinven Ltd., four
people with knowledge of the process said.  CVC, whose main office is in  London , and Clessidra, based
in Milan, submitted a firm offer for Avio, valuing the company
at more than 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) including debt, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
plans are private. While Cinven prefers to list Avio, the
British firm may opt for a sale following the outcome of the
Greek elections on Sunday, people said.  Cinven, which is raising 5 billion euros for a new buyout
fund, delayed plans last year for an initial public offering of
Avio after the  European debt crisis  roiled markets. The firm
said in May that it had filed for an IPO in the coming months. A
deepening European sovereign debt crisis has further agitated
financial markets, making it harder to sell shares.  Cinven received previous approaches for Avio, including
from the French aerospace company  Safran SA (SAF) , which indicated
earlier this year that it could offer an amount greater than
CVC’s current bid, two of the people said. The Safran plan
wasn’t binding, they said.  Safran’s CEO, Jean-Paul Herteman, said in February that the
company would “carefully” consider Avio if it was for sale.
Safran remains interested in Avio though it may face political
obstacles in  Italy  as a foreign competitor, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Vanessa Maydon, a spokeswoman for Cinven in London,
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Clessidra was not
immediately available for comment.  Volatile Markets  Cinven bought Avio, based in Turin, Italy, in 2006 from
 Carlyle Group  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in a deal that valued the
company at about 2.6 billion euros. Finmeccanica, Italy’s
biggest defense company, last month agreed to sell its 15
percent stake in Avio to Fondo Strategico Italiano SpA, the
country’s 4 billion-euro investment fund. The fund would retain
the stake as part of the joint offer from CVC and Clessidra.  Europe ’s IPO markets have entered a near drought since the
Dutch cable company Ziggo NV and Zurich-based DKSH Holdings Ltd.
raised a combined $2.2 billion in February. The VStoxx Index,
which gauges the volatility of European stocks, surged 48
percent to 35 from this year’s lowest point of 23, reached in
April. IPOs typically proceed when the volatility index trades
at less than 25. Cinven was considering listing Avio at a
valuation of as much as 4 billion euros before the market’s
upheaval, one person said.  Avio, founded more than a century ago, makes gearboxes for
single-aisle  aircraft engines  used in European Aeronautic
Defence & Space Co.’s Airbus A320neo plane. In 2011, it had more
than 2 billion euros of revenue, 383 million euros of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and 1.4
billion euros of debt, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  