-- Danoff’s Contrafund Is Best of Biggest: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/danoff-s-contrafund-is-best-of-biggest-riskless-return.html
Fidelity Investments ’ William Danoff
meets with executives from as many as 1,000 companies a year,
jots down tickers in a tattered old notebook to identify what he
calls “best of breed” companies and shuns an index-tracking
approach to managing the $79.5 billion Contrafund.  That has helped Danoff’s fund produce the best risk-
adjusted return among the 10 largest actively managed U.S. stock
funds over the past decade, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS
RETURN RANKING. Danoff steered the fund to the biggest gain over
the past 10 years, and achieved that with less volatility than
all but one fund in the group, according to the Bloomberg
ranking.  “I’m like a doctor whose patients are young, healthy and
eating well,” Danoff said in a telephone interview. “That
should allow me to do a little bit better,” said the Boston-
based  fund manager , whose favorite picks include Apple Inc. and
 Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)   Danoff has beaten the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as well
as rivals by using a research-intensive approach since he took
over the fund in 1990, looking for clues about which companies
are taking market share away from competitors and which are
falling behind. Started in 1967 with the goal of finding
contrarian investment ideas, the fund has evolved into one that
invests in fast-growing, strong companies that aren’t fully
understood by investors. Danoff has said his preference for
quality stocks helps insulate the portfolio from volatile
markets, providing a smoother ride for investors.  “Seeing all those companies lets him piece together a
mosaic of the market better than anyone else,” Christopher Davis, an analyst with Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. said in a
telephone interview. “It is all about the execution, the
ability to pick stocks is what makes him unique.”  Contrafund Leads  Contrafund (FCNTX)  gained 109 percent in the 10 years ended June 11
to produce a risk-adjusted return of 5.7 percent, doing almost
twice as well as the S&P 500 by both measures. The $28 billion
Vanguard Primecap Fund had the second-best risk-adjusted return
among the 10 biggest funds, returning 93 percent over the decade
with more volatility than 70 percent of its peers. The $41
billion Dodge & Cox Stock Fund had the worst risk-adjusted
results, producing a return of the 55 percent with the highest
price swings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $55 billion Investment Company of America, run by Los
Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., had the lowest volatility
among the 10 largest funds, Bloomberg’s ranking shows. The
fund’s 54 percent gain was the second-lowest of the 10 largest
funds. Capital Group’s $114 billion Growth Fund of America, the
biggest U.S. active equity mutual fund, ranked fifth by the
risk-adjusted measure after rising 73 percent in the past decade
with the fourth-lowest price swings.  Vanguard’s Primecap  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Vanguard Primecap (VPMCX) , which has has been run since 1984 by a
team of managers from  Pasadena , California-based Primecap
Management Co., had about the same volatility as the market.  Primecap has done well over time by concentrating in
technology and health-care stocks, said Daniel Wiener, editor of
the New York-based newsletter Independent Advisers for Vanguard
Investors in a telephone interview. Its top two holdings,
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen Inc. and Weston,
Massachusetts-based Biogen Idec Inc., are both biotechnology
firms.  Danoff’s Prowess  Danoff’s stock-picking prowess stands out among active
equity managers, who have lost favor with investors because many
have struggled to beat benchmarks consistently. Danoff beat his
peers by roughly keeping pace with the U.S. benchmark  S&P 500  in
rising stock markets and outperforming peers in periods when
stocks were falling. Contrafund captured 97 percent of the gains
of the broader markets over the past decade in what Morningstar
defines as “up markets,” while experiencing 80 percent of the
losses in “down markets.”  “Danoff earns his keep on the downside,” James Lowell,
editor of the Needham, Massachusetts-based newsletter Fidelity
Investor, said in a telephone interview.  In 2002, Contrafund lost 9.6 percent compared to a drop of
22 percent for the index.  “I’m tickled that my risk metrics look good,” Danoff
said.  Wharton MBA  Danoff, 51, joined Boston-based Fidelity Investments in
1986 after earning a master’s of business administration degree
from the Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia. He received a bachelor’s degree from  Harvard
College  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Contrafund in 2005 shot past the Fidelity Magellan as its
largest stock fund as Danoff’s performance attracted a swell of
investor deposits. The Magellan fund, which in its almost half-
century history has been run by managers including Edward C.
Johnson III and  Peter Lynch , has declined at an average annual
pace of 4.1 percent over the past five years, trailing behind 95
percent of similarly managed funds, and has seen its assets
dwindle to $14.5 billion.  Too Big  Although he is a Danoff fan, Morningstar’s Davis is
concerned that the sheer amount of money the manager runs could
crimp his flexibility. In addition to Contrafund, Danoff is in
charge of the $19 billion Fidelity Advisor New Insights Fund,
which has many of the same holdings.  “Size is a negative” because it could limit Danoff to
buying only the largest stocks, Davis said.  Contrafund has also not been completely immune to market
shocks. The fund moved in tandem with the markets in 2008 after
the financial crisis, as investor fears fueled correlation among
stocks. The fund lost 37 percent in 2008, matching the overall
market’s decline.  Under Danoff, Contrafund has returned 13 percent a year
since 1990 compared with a 9.2 percent gain, including
reinvested dividends, for the S&P 500. He topped 96 percent of
peers over the past five years, with a gain of 2.5 percent.  Contrafund has also had the best risk-adjusted returns,
with among the lowest price swings, over the past five and three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Research Intensive  Fidelity, whose $1.5 trillion in assets makes it the
second-biggest U.S. mutual-fund company, is known for its
emphasis on research using its staff of industry specialists and
analysts. When Danoff speaks to Fidelity’s analysts he tells
them he wants companies with a durable advantage whose stocks he
can hold for five years. Chipotle, the Denver, Colorado-based
chain of low-priced Mexican restaurants, meets his criteria.  “They have changed the way people eat fast food,” said
Danoff. “This is not just another burrito joint.”  Chipotle and Apple rank among the top 10 companies in the
S&P 500 in terms of risk-adjusted returns over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chipotle shares are up more than 18-fold since Danoff
bought them at the initial public offering in 2006. In the first
quarter of 2012, the company’s same-store sales rose 13 percent.  Chipotle is also an example of how Danoff shuns investing
based on market benchmarks. The restaurant chain represented 1.2
percent of Contrafund’s assets as of April 30, more than 10
times its weighting in the  S&P 500 Index , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In his 2011 letter to shareholders, Danoff noted that he
had little or no exposure to some of the biggest stocks in the
index, including Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Armonk, New York-based International Business Machines Corp.  Active Manager  “This is a very actively managed fund,” said
Morningstar’s Davis. “It is not an index hugger.”  Fidelity is the largest single owner of Cupertino,
California-based  Apple, (AAPL)  according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
and within Fidelity, Contrafund is the largest holder with a 1.4
percent stake in the company.  “If the whole market went down 20 percent, which companies
would investors want to own?” Danoff asked. “Outstanding
companies like Chipotle and Apple which have good business
models.”  Danoff bought 3.4 million Apple shares in the first three
quarters of 2009 when the stock averaged $129 a share. “Apple
is one of those companies that grew right through the
slowdown,” he said. Apple closed June 12 at $576.16.  Google Position  Danoff’s second-largest position,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google Inc., has not fared as well. Shares
gained 2.3 percent a year for the past five years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Google, said Danoff, has strong free  cash flow  and remains
an innovative company. “The market just doesn’t want to give
them credit right now,” he said.  Fidelity Investor’s Lowell said Danoff has demonstrated
that he can outperform no matter how much money he manages.  “There is no question that any fund company or any hedge
fund would love to be able to have a stock picker who is as
consistently good at what he does,” said Lowell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  