-- Dell Dividend Boosts Shares as CEO Looks Beyond PC Era
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-13T20:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dell-seeks-2-billion-in-cost-cuts-over-next-three-years.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , which initiated its first
dividend yesterday, will use acquisitions to add products for
corporate customers and curb reliance on personal computers, a
business battered by competition from smartphones and tablets.  The world’s third-largest PC maker plans to boost revenue
from data-center products and technology services 45 percent to
$27.5 billion by fiscal 2016, Dell said at a meeting with
analysts today in Austin,  Texas . Over that four-year period, PC-
related revenue will climb 8.3 percent to $47 billion.  Dell’s 8-cent-a-share quarterly dividend may help retain
current shareholders and lure institutional investors as the
company works to revive sales. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  has been acquiring makers of data storage, networking
equipment and  business software  to diversify beyond PCs and will
continue to use deals to boost revenue.  “The new dividend will keep investors satisfied during
this transition period,” said  Brian White , an analyst at Topeka
Capital Markets in  New York , in a research report today. He
upgraded Dell to buy from hold and raised his price estimate to
$15.75 from $13.50. “Dell’s strategy in the enterprise market
is moving toward greater focus.”  Dell shares rose 2.6 percent to $12.28 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has dropped 16 percent this year.  ‘Good Start’  “We’ve had some nice acquisitions which are off to a good
start,” CEO Dell said. “We have a modest software business and
that’s an area where we can grow rapidly.”  The company has acquired software vendors including data-
backup maker AppAssure and network-security company SonicWall
Inc. this year. Terms of the purchases weren’t disclosed.  Dell will focus on data-center gear as well as computing
software and services while seeking to cut costs by more than $2
billion over the next three years, the company said. Costs can
be trimmed from the supply chain and sales support.  “As you think about our industry it’s constantly in
transition,” Dell said at the  meeting . “We’re focusing on a
couple of key areas.”  PC sales, while tepid, still help boost sales of software,
accessories and services. President Jeff Clarke said there’s
$3.5 billion of new sales opportunity in tablets, accessories
and desktop virtualization software by fiscal 2013.  Windows Tablets  Tablets running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 operating
system may add $1 billion in sales over the next four years.
Dell’s sales projection for the PC and device business assumes
no growth in traditional desktops and laptops the next four
years, Clarke said.  The dividend declaration came after past board proposals to
return more cash to shareholders. A shareholder proposal for a
dividend was defeated at the company’s annual meeting last July.  “It’s been something investors have asked about for years
now,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in  San Francisco . “The reaction will be positive.”  Dell may generate $2.25 a share in free cash flow this
year, or about 19 percent of its market value, according to
Noland, who has a neutral rating on the shares.  “You don’t typically see companies with free  cash flow 
yields that high, and when you do, investors are saying, ‘We
don’t think we’re ever going to see this free cash,’ ” he said.  Dividend Payouts  The company ended the fiscal first quarter with $17.2
billion in cash and investments, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said on a conference call last month.  Dell follows other large technology companies in starting
or increasing dividends after amassing cash previously earmarked
for research, development and acquisitions.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, in
March said it would pay its first dividend in 17 years, heeding
investors who urged it to return part of its cash hoard.
Microsoft, the biggest software maker, in 2003 acceded to
shareholders’ demands for a cash return by paying its first
dividend. It raised the  payout  by 25 percent last year.  Through the dividend and stock buybacks, Dell said it plans
to return 20 percent to 35 percent of free cash flow to
investors, up from a prior projection of 10 percent to 30
percent. Over the past four quarters, Dell has generated $4.9
billion in cash flow from operations, the company said.  The board has periodically considered paying a dividend,
and the company plans to continue its share repurchase program,
said  David Frink , a Dell spokesman.  Smartphones, Tablets  As smartphones and tablets siphon sales from PC makers,
Dell’s sales growth has slowed, with revenue rising just 1
percent in fiscal 2012. The company lost share in the global PC
 market  in the first three months of the year, and it now trails
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , according to market
researcher Gartner Inc. Dell is expanding in enterprise
technology to offer corporations a broader lineup of products
and services to run technology operations.  Dell’s dividend yield is 2.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hewlett-Packard’s  yield  is 2.4 percent,
while Lenovo’s is 1.9 percent.  In February, Dell projected fiscal 2013 earnings excluding
some items of at least $2.13 a share. The company in May said
revenue for the quarter ending in July would be $14.7 billion to
$15 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  