-- Denmark to Ease Pension Rules to Reduce Liability Burden
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-13T09:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/denmark-to-ease-pension-rules-to-reduce-liability-burden.html
Denmark ’s government agreed to ease
rules for the country’s pension firms to help reduce their
liabilities as record-low bond yields inflate the value of their
obligations.  Pension companies and life insurers will be allowed to
raise the discount rate they use to calculate their liabilities
to better reflect long-term growth and inflation prospects, the
Business and Growth Ministry in Copenhagen said in a statement
late yesterday. The decision sent yields on longer-maturity
bonds soaring as the industry’s need to buy up debt assets to
match their pension obligations was reduced.  “The demand for duration isn’t as strong as before,”
Henrik Henriksen, chief investment strategist at Copenhagen-
based PFA Pension A/S, Denmark’s second-largest pension fund
with about $50 billion in assets, said in an interview.
“Looking especially at the 30-year point, there’s less demand
for 30-year bonds due to the new rate curve.”  The Danish move follows similar changes in  Sweden , where
10-year yields surged 30 basis points on June 7 after the
country’s regulator put a floor on the discount rate pension
funds use to calculate liabilities. Nordic pension funds had
come under pressure to increase their asset purchases as the
region’s haven status from the debt crisis sent bond values
higher and swelled the value of their liabilities.  ‘Unusual Conditions’  “It’s key that companies have the possibility to create
the best possible returns for pensioners in the future and rules
and guidelines shouldn’t press companies to make short-term
investment decisions due to unusual conditions in the  capital
markets ,” Business and Growth Minister Ole Sohn said in the
statement.  The yield on Denmark’s 3 percent note due 2021 surged eight
basis points to 1.4 percent as of 11:51 a.m. local time.
Denmark’s 30-year yield jumped 13 basis points to 2.08 percent.
Yields on bonds sold by other governments perceived as havens
also rose. Borrowing costs on  Germany ’s 2022 bond gained nine
basis points to 1.51 percent, while similar-dated yields on
Dutch debt increased six basis points to 2.04 percent.  The rate on 30-year swaps in euros climbed 11 basis points
to 2.21 percent, widening the difference in yield, or spread,
with 10-year swaps by 10 basis points to 28 basis points.  Euro Swap  “Obviously this affects Danish rates but, it is even
affecting the much bigger and more liquid euro-swap market,”
Anders Schelde, chief investment officer at Nordea Life &
Pension, a unit of Nordea Bank AB, said in an interview. “That
is most interesting.”  Even after today’s moves, Denmark’s 10-year bonds yield
about 12 basis points less than similar-maturity German debt.
The central bank has said it is ready to cut policy rates below
zero in an effort to defend the krone’s peg to the euro and
offset a capital influx.  “Denmark is still a safe haven, but the demand from the
pension funds in Denmark, which were forced by regulation to buy
 government bonds , has eased,” Henriksen at PFA said. “Denmark
is still fundamentally a strong case and people would still
prefer to invest in Denmark compared to a lot of other eurozone
countries.”  The Nordic country will have public debt equivalent to 40.9
percent of gross domestic product this year, compared with an
average of 91.8 percent in the 17-member euro area, the European
Commission said on May 11.  More to Come  The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt on
May 25 predicted a smaller  budget deficit  for this year than
announced in December and the shortfall will shrink to 1.7
percent of GDP next year, well within the European Union’s 3
percent threshold, it said then.  The government’s decision to ease pension rules, signaled
last week, “will reduce the industry’s need to purchase long
interest-bearing assets and will lead to higher yields and a
steeper curve for maturities longer than 20 years,” Nordea
analyst Mik Jorgensen said in a note to clients today.  Other nations are also looking into easing pension rules.
In  Finland , the parliament votes today on combining pension
funds’ insurance risk and investment risk buffers into a
solvency capital buffer, meaning pension funds won’t be forced
to sell investments that drop in value to comply with solvency
rules.  In the Netherlands, the government proposed on May 31 that
retirement funds be allowed to calculate financial buffers on
expected long-term  interest rates , making them less reliant on
daily interest rates.  The changes to the Danish pension system also seek to
enable companies to phase out guarantees to their customers and
instead offer products that track market values, the government
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  