-- Denmark Touts Beer and Wind as China’s President Hu Visits
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-14T08:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/denmark-touts-beer-and-wind-as-china-s-president-hu-visits.html
Denmark  is playing to its strengths
as  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  signed deals with
the world’s second-largest economy ahead of Chinese President Hu Jintao’s visit to the Nordic nation.  Hu’s three-day visit will be the first by a Chinese head of
state. He will attend a business conference, meet with the
Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Queen Margrethe II, as well as tour Copenhagen, including a visit to the Little
Mermaid statue on the capital’s waterfront.  “It’s a signal to Chinese industry and other economic
actors that this is a kosher country in which to invest,” said
Clemens Stubbe Oestergaard, senior research fellow at the Nordic
Institute of Asian Studies. “Since China is going to invest
billions in  Europe , it indicates that Denmark is a good place to
invest and the government will back it up.”  It marks the second top-level visit by a Chinese official
to Scandinavia in less than two months. Premier  Wen Jiabao  in
April stopped by Iceland and Sweden, forging closer business and
diplomatic ties in a region that has emerged as a haven from the
debt crisis in the euro area. Denmark, which is a member of the
European Union, has opted out of the euro.  The Deals  The visit has been preceded by a flurry of deals.
Carlsberg, the world’s fourth-largest beer maker, on June 12
announced it will invest about 4 billion kroner ($670 million)
through 2025 in a brewery in  China ’s Yunnan region. The new
brewery’s peak production will be twice the size of Carlsberg’s
total output in Denmark, where it began production in 1847.  The company reported 3 percent sales growth in northern and
western Europe in the first quarter, while sales jumped 40
percent in  Asia , helped by acquisitions of stakes in breweries
in  India ,  Vietnam  and  Laos , it said May 9.  APM Terminals, which is owned by A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,
will sign a contract tomorrow to invest more than 3 billion
kroner in a new container port in China.  “The visit will cement the good relationship between China
and Denmark, also on a business level,” Maersk spokesman
Michael Storgaard said by phone. “That’s valuable for all
parties.”  Imbalance  Danish companies may sign deals worth a combined 18 billion
kroner in connection with the visit, Pia Olsen Dyhr, Denmark’s
trade minister, said in an  interview  with broadcaster DR. About
20 contracts will be signed, Karsten Dybvad, chief executive
officer of the Confederation Danish Industry, said by phone
today.  “We’re focusing on attracting investments to Denmark,”
Dybvad said. “We have more direct investments going out of
Denmark than in, and we would like to rebalance that so we get
more incoming investments, and that goes for China as well.”  Vestas will see an investment going the other way. The
world’s largest maker of wind power turbines sold a factory in
Denmark to China’s  Titan Wind Energy (002531)  (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.,
allowing 120 “green jobs” to remain in Denmark, according to a
statement from the Danish foreign Ministry. The plant had been
slated to shut. Denmark generates a quarter of its electricity
from wind, more than any other country in the world.  Normalizing Relations  Stubbe Oestergaard said the visit suggests relations are
returning to normal after a 2008 strategic partnership deal
stalled following a visit by the  Dalai Lama  in 2009.  The Chinese have now visited all Scandinavian nations this
year except  Norway . Relations between the two have been strained
since Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  was awarded the Nobel Peace
prize in 2010. The prize is handed out in Oslo.  The $311 billion Danish economy is forecast to expand 1.1
percent in 2012 and 1.4 percent next year, the European
Commission said in May. The country emerged from a recession in
the first quarter after businesses boosted investments and
exports grew, proving resilient to turmoil inside the  euro zone .  While Chinese growth is slowing, gross domestic product
still rose an annual 8.1 percent in January-to-March.  Denmark’s 2011 exports to China amounted to 15.1 billion
kroner, equal to just 2.5 percent of the nation’s total,
according to data from Statistics Danmark.  “The visit is a big opportunity for us,” Carlsberg CEO
Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said at the presentation of the Chinese
investment on June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 Jbergman@bloomberg.net  