-- Detroit Lawyer’s Suit on Budget Accord Dismissed by Judge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-06-13T20:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/detroit-lawyer-s-suit-on-budget-accord-dismissed-by-judge.html
A  Michigan  judge dismissed a lawsuit
seeking to void Detroit’s agreement with the state on a plan to
resolve the city’s budget crisis, removing an obstacle to the
deal.  Detroit’s corporation counsel, Krystal Crittendon, filed
the suit this month, asking a court to find that the city wasn’t
legally able to enter into the financial-stability consent
agreement with the state because Michigan was in default on
obligations to Detroit, including $224 million in revenue-
sharing.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette in
Mason, Michigan, ruled such suits must be brought by mayors or
city councils and Crittendon had no right to file it.  “It’s an obvious issue,” Collette said at a hearing
today. “People have to learn to live with this and move
ahead.”  The decision assures the city won’t run out of money at the
end of this week and possibly miss a bond payment. Republican
Governor Rick Snyder had threatened to withhold as much as $80
million in revenue-sharing funds from the city unless the suit
was dropped.  The end of the case will allow the consent agreement to
move forward, Snyder told reporters today in  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan.  ‘Internal Issue’  “It was a Detroit internal issue, I hope they continue to
work hard to resolve their issues so they can work better
between the mayor, city council and corporate counsel,” he
said.  Asked if the city is fiscally safe as a result of the
ruling, Snyder said, “It’s something we’re working on.”  Crittendon didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
on the ruling.  Fitch Ratings  cited the suit in reducing Detroit’s debt
rating further into junk status. Fitch cut by two steps to CCC
from B about $511 million in unlimited tax general-obligation
bonds. Fitch also lowered $453 million in limited tax general-
obligation bonds two steps to CC from B-.  A Detroit general-obligation bond issued in 2001 and
maturing in April 2019 traded today at an average yield of 5.65
percent, up from 4.9 percent on June 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The nine trades today are the most since
March 28, the data show.  Underlying Rating  The bond is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the second-
lowest investment grade. The underlying rating by S&P is B, five
levels below investment grade.  Fitch’s director of public finance, Amy Laskey, said the
ratings company will reevaluate the downgrade of pension-
obligation certificates in light of today’s ruling but not
general-obligation bonds.  Detroit officials reached the financial-stability agreement
with the state in April to empower an oversight board to monitor
the city’s finances. Detroit, Michigan’s largest city, was
facing a projected accumulated operating deficit of $265 million
this month.  The dismissal clears the way for the City Council to
appoint two members, and approve a third, for the nine-member
financial advisory board.  ‘Tough Decisions’  “We’re in favor of the consent agreement between the city
and the state because it demonstrates the city’s willingness to
make some tough decisions,” said Michael Camarella, senior
portfolio manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc., which oversees about
$33 billion in munis. “They’ve already hit the bottom and
they’re on the upswing.”  The lawsuit was a “nuisance” that was to be expected
because the decision on the agreement wasn’t unanimous, said
Camarella, who helps run the Oppenheimer Rochester Michigan
Municipal Fund, which holds  Detroit  general-obligation bonds.  “We feel that we are getting compensated for the risk when
we buy the bonds where we’ve been buying them,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Michigan officials denied the state has failed to turn over
money owed the city, putting it in default.  Detroit Mayor Dave Bing, who also opposed Crittendon’s
lawsuit and asked her to withdraw it, filed yesterday to
intervene in the case.  ‘Unfortunate Distraction’  “This legal challenge has been an unfortunate distraction,
but now it’s time for the city to move forward.”  Bing said
today in an e-mailed statement after the ruling.  Detroit officials have been “talking to the state today
about releasing the city’s escrow funds and proceeding with bond
refinancing,” Bing said.  “The City of Detroit is going to make its $34.2 million
bond debt payment by Friday,” he said.  He said he would convene the first meeting of the city’s
financial advisory board that day.  The agreement between the state and city came after Snyder
appointed a financial review board to determine whether Detroit
needed an emergency manager. The state treasurer had earlier
made a finding of “probable financial stress” for Detroit,
which gave Snyder the right to appoint the board.  Crittendon’s suit challenged the legality of the agreement.  “There is no valid contract between the parties because,
on or before the date when the contract was made, the state was
in default to the city,” Crittendon and James Noseda, a city
attorney, said in court papers.  City Charter  Detroit’s charter bars the city from entering into a
contract with any person or entity that has “failed to meet a
financial, contractual, or other obligation to the city,” the
lawyers said.  The alleged default stemmed from the state’s failure to
turn over $224 million in revenue-sharing funds, $1.2 million in
delinquent parking fees, $39.7 million from past due invoices
for electrical services, and other costs, according to
Crittendon’s complaint.  The ruling “allows the state to continue working
collaboratively with the City of Detroit on implementation of
the Financial Stability Agreement,” Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon said today in a statement.  The treasury department will continue to work with Detroit
officials “to help stabilize the city’s finances and ensure
citizens are receiving the services they deserve and expect,”
Dillon said.  The case is  City of Detroit  v.  State of Michigan , 12-66-MK,
Court of Claims, State of Michigan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in Mason, Michigan, at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net 
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan at   cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  