-- Deutsche Bank May Have $18 Billion Italy, Spain Gap
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-06-13T15:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/deutsche-bank-may-have-14-billion-euro-italy-spain-funding-gap.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  has a funding gap
of as much as 14 billion euros ($17.5 billion) at its Italian
and Spanish units which could reduce capital levels at the firm
if those countries leave the euro, according to analysts at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Deutsche Bank’s loans amount to 205 percent of deposits at
the Italian unit and 314 percent in  Spain , according to London-
based analyst Andrew Lim, who cited company filings. If those
countries exit the euro and the new currencies fall 30 percent,
the Frankfurt-based lender could lose as much as 4.2 billion
euros of equity as the value of assets at those divisions
declines while some funding remains in euros, he said.  The impact would be “quite significant for a bank which is
already very weakly capitalized,” Lim wrote in a note today,
reiterating his “sell” recommendation on shares in  Germany ’s
biggest bank. The effect of those two states leaving the euro
could be mitigated by the wholesale funding of the units, which
would also be devalued in the case of a breakup of the common
currency, the analyst said.  The prospect of a Greek exit from the single currency has
cast doubt on the euro’s survival and prompted concern about
banks’ cross-border assets and liabilities, which might be re-
denominated into legacy currencies in the event of a break-up.
If a bank’s loans and securities transformed into a depreciating
lira or peseta, while its borrowings remained in euros, the
lender would have to absorb losses.  Local Funding  Armin Niedermeier, a Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
spokesman, said the lender doesn’t generally comment on analyst
reports.  Credit Agricole SA,  France ’s third-largest bank by market
value, reduced funding, including capital, to its Emporiki Bank
unit in  Greece  to 5.2 billion euros at the end of March from
11.4 billion euros a year earlier, company reports show.  Banks have responded to the possibility of a euro break-up
by seeking to fund foreign assets with borrowings in the same
jurisdiction. Deutsche Bank SpA, the Italian unit, has about 6.5
billion euros of borrowings, including 3.5 billion euros from
the  European Central Bank  in its longer-term refinancing
operation in February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Separately, the lender’s Milan branch has borrowed about
1.13 billion euros, the data show. The Spanish unit has borrowed
5.58 billion euros, including 5.5 billion under the ECB’s three-
year loan facility.  Leaving out the LTRO borrowings, the funding gap in  Italy 
and Spain would have been as much as 23 billion euros at the end
of 2011, according to Lim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  