-- Deutsche Bahn Faces EU Cartel Probe on Rail Power Prices
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-13T10:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/deutsche-bahn-faces-eu-antitrust-probe-over-rail-power-prices.html
Deutsche Bahn  AG, Germany’s state-
owned railway, faces a European Union antitrust probe over the
prices a unit charges for power used by trains.  The European Commission will investigate whether Deutsche
Bahn’s DB Energie unit, the only supplier of traction current in
Germany, offers discounts that “lead to higher prices for
competitors of Deutsche Bahn and place them at a competitive
disadvantage on the rail freight and passenger market,” the
regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  EU regulators raided Deutsche Bahn’s offices last year to
check allegations that DB Energie was favoring the group’s rail-
freight arm over others.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU antitrust
chief, has said enforcement must give potential competitors in
industries dominated by ex-state monopolies “the opportunity to
launch their own services and compete effectively.”  Deutsche Bahn “will work with the commission to clear up
the issue,” according to a spokesman who declined to be named,
citing company policy.  Deutsche Bahn last year filed a lawsuit at the EU’s Court
of Justice in Luxembourg over the EU raid that it said was an
unjustified  “fishing expedition”  by investigators seeking
evidence of antitrust infractions. The Berlin-based company said
officials exceeded their authority with a “disproportionately
wide” inspection and should return copies of documents made
during the raid.  EU regulators can fine companies as much as 10 percent of
their yearly revenue for abusing a monopoly position.  Veolia Environnement SA’s Veolia Verkehr unit operates
local train services in six German regions, as well as  Germany ’s
first long-distance service not to be operated by Deutsche Bahn,
between Leipzig and Berlin. The business has about 4,500
employees in Germany, compared with the 193,000 staff that
Deutsche Bahn has in the country.  Regional services are also operated by Ferrovie dello Stato
SpA’s Netinera business in northern and eastern Germany. The
unit was sold to the Italian rail operator in 2011 following
parent Arriva’s acquisition by Deutsche Bahn the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 