-- Di Matteo Named Chelsea Manager After Champions League Victory
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-13T17:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/di-matteo-named-chelsea-manager-after-winning-champions-league.html
Roberto  Di Matteo  was named
permanent manager of Chelsea after leading the club to its first
Champions League soccer title.  Di Matteo, 42, signed a two-year contract, Chelsea said in
a  statement  on its website. He also guided the Blues to the F.A.
Cup title after taking over as interim manager in March.  “The manner in which he worked with us, the players and
all the staff, and the success that followed, made him the clear
choice when it came to selecting the person to take us forward
in the seasons to come,” Chelsea Chief Executive Ron Gourlay
said.  Di Matteo replaced Andre Villas-Boas, who was fired March
4. Although the Blues finished sixth in the Premier League, they
beat Liverpool for their fourth F.A. Cup in six seasons and
captured the Champions League title that owner  Roman Abramovich 
coveted.  Chelsea upset defending champion Barcelona in the Champions
League semifinals, winning the first leg 1-0 at home with its
only shot on target and drawing 2-2 in Spain with 10 men. The
Blues then beat  Bayern Munich  on its home field in a penalty
shootout in the final to become the first  London  team to win
 Europe ’s elite competition.  “We all achieved incredible success last season that made
history for this great club,” Di Matteo said. “Our aim is to
continue building on that and I’m already planning and looking
forward to the squad’s return for pre-season.”  Di Matteo is a former Chelsea midfielder who helped the
club win the UEFA Cup Winners Cup and League Cup in 1998 and the
F.A. Cup in 1997 and 2000. He also managed MK Dons and West
Brom, leading the latter to Premier League promotion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 