-- Dimon Says JPMorgan Managers May Have Misinformed Board on Risk
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-13T15:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-says-jpmorgan-managers-may-have-misinformed-board-on-risk.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said bank executives may have accidentally
misinformed its board and regulators on risks in its chief
investment office before the unit announced $2 billion in
trading losses.  “To the extent that we were misinformed, we were
misinforming them,” Dimon 56, said at a hearing today of the
Senate Banking Committee in Washington. “It’s a little
unrealistic to expect the risk committee to capture something
like this.” He was referring to a three-member panel of the
board designated to monitor risk-management.  The lack of financial expertise on New York-based
JPMorgan’s risk committee has drawn criticism from shareholder
advocates. The three directors on the panel include a museum
head who sat on  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s governance
committee in 2008, the grandson of a billionaire and the CEO of
a company that makes flight controls and work boots.  The only member with any Wall Street experience,  James Crown , hasn’t been employed in the industry for more than 25
years.  CEO Jamie Dimon was called to testify to the committee
after saying May 10 that the firm’s chief investment office
suffered a $2 billion loss trading  credit derivatives . He later
called it “a Risk 101 mistake.”  Shares of the bank fell 24 percent through yesterday since
April 5, when Bloomberg News first reported that a trader in
JPMorgan’s chief investment office was taking such large
positions in credit-derivative indexes that he was distorting
prices in the market.  Federal Probes  At least half a dozen agencies, including the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, are  investigating  the timing of the bank’s
disclosures about the losses and how risk-management systems
failed to prevent them.  Crown, 58, who is president of Chicago-based Henry Crown &
Co. and lead director of defense contractor  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) , is on the risk committee with Ellen Futter and David Cote. Futter, 62, is president of the American Museum of Natural
History in New York, and Cote, 59, is CEO of  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)   Futter’s re-election this year was opposed by Washington-
based investor group Change to Win and shareholder advocate
Glass Lewis & Co. over her previous experience on the boards of
AIG and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Futter headed the audit committee of Bristol-Myers, a New
York-based drugmaker, during an accounting scandal that began in
1999 and that the company settled for $300 million to avoid
criminal prosecution. She also served on AIG’s compliance and
governance committees, resigning in July 2008 before the insurer
took a $182.3 billion bailout from the U.S. government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  