-- Dimon Says ‘No Hiding’ in Return of MF Global Funds
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-13T18:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-says-no-hiding-in-return-of-mf-global-funds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. lender, held $168 million in collateral for seven months
before returning it to MF Global Inc. because the bank needed
court guidance, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  Dimon, 56, appearing today before the Senate Banking
Committee, was asked about the New York-based bank’s dealings
with parent  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the firm led by former New
Jersey Governor Jon S. Corzine before it filed for bankruptcy on
Oct. 31. The money represents proceeds of excess collateral that
JPMorgan held at the start of the liquidation, MF Global Inc.
trustee James Giddens said in a May 18 statement.  “The second they had problems, we immediately went to the
trustees and the courts, told them exactly what we had and what
we didn’t have, and have been waiting for them to finish their
work before we released anything,” Dimon said, responding to
questions from Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat. “There
was no hiding anything. We cooperated every step of the way.”  JPMorgan was the failed firm’s biggest lender and is
involved in discussions with trustees over whether it may be
holding money belonging to MF Global customers. Giddens has said
he may sue JPMorgan, the repository of its customer accounts.
Giddens said last week that he is in talks with the New York-
based bank about money transfers that may be “voidable or
otherwise recoverable.”  MF Global may have improperly used client money to cover
other obligations, according to Giddens. Farmers who used MF
Global for hedging purposes may lose money, Tester told Dimon.  “I hope they’re going to get all their money back,” Dimon
said. “I still believe they will, by the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  