-- Dimon in DC Preserves Wall Street’s Black Box
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-06-13T21:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-in-dc-preserves-wall-street-s-black-box.html
Did  Jamie Dimon , the chairman and
chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , put too much
blind faith in Ina Drew, the former leader of the bank’s Chief
Investment Office who was responsible for a proprietary trade
that cost the firm $3 billion and counting?  That is the central question that occurs to me after
listening to Dimon alternately deflect questions from and charm
the pants off the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday in
 Washington .  Dimon, of course, did not address that question directly.
But knowing how intently he has focused on risk-taking in
JPMorgan’s investment bank, regularly attending its risk-
committee meetings, and how indifferent he seemed to what Drew
was doing -- apparently never attending one of her group’s risk-
committee meetings -- one wonders whether he was too much in the
thrall of his $15-million-a-year chief investment officer.  “I think the first error we made,” Dimon testified, “was
that the CIO unit had done so well for so long” -- making
billions in dollars of profit over the years -- “that I think
there was a little bit of complacency about what was taking
place there, and maybe there was overconfidence.”  More Scrutiny  He told the senators that the CIO had its own risk
committee, which was “supposed to properly overview and vet all
the risks,” but clearly that did not happen in the particular
“synthetic credit portfolio” that incurred the losses. He said
the synthetic credit portfolio should have “had more scrutiny.
It was higher risk. It was marked to market. It should have had
more scrutiny and different limits right from the start.”  We now know this did not happen. When Bloomberg News  first
reported on April 6  about the so-called London Whale -- the
nickname given to Bruno Iksil, the trader in JPMorgan Chase’s
London CIO office who had constructed the fateful synthetic
credit trade -- Dimon dismissed the reporting as a “tempest in
a teapot.” At the Senate hearing, on this point he was
contrite: “Let me first say, when I made that statement, I was
dead wrong.”  It turned out that Dimon had been traveling at the time,
and called in to Drew as well as Doug Braunstein, the chief
financial officer, and  John Hogan , then the chief risk officer
at the bank, and was told that they “were looking into it.” He
told the senators, “I was assured by them, and I have a right
to rely on them, that they thought this was an isolated small
issue and that it wasn’t a big problem.”  Later in the hearing, after Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, asked Dimon whether he monitored the CIO, he replied
that generally he did. When Brown asked whether he approved of
the CIO’s trading strategy, Dimon said, incredibly, “No. I was
aware of it, but I did not approve it.”  This answer strains credulity. Dimon has a reputation as
being a hands-on manager, even going so far as canceling the
company’s use of black sedans for employees working late during
the financial crisis. He micromanaged traders at  Salomon Smith
Barney  back in the 1990s when he ran that business for his
longtime mentor  Sandy Weill , one of the architects of Citigroup.  How could Dimon not have closely monitored what Drew and
her traders were doing in this $350 billion proprietary
portfolio that was managing the firm’s excess cash on a daily
basis? Did he really have such blind faith in Drew -- or did he
actually know much more than he is admitting, especially since
Drew and two of her London traders have taken the fall for the
bad bets?  Clever Lawyers  These are questions that perhaps the House can take up on
June 19 when Dimon returns to Washington for more testimony on
the matter. In the meantime, what remains abundantly clear is
that way too much of what continues to happen on  Wall Street 
takes place in a financial black box. The Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
need to wrestle the Dodd-Frank rule making apparatus --
specifically as it pertains to derivatives and proprietary risk-
taking -- away from the clever Wall Street lawyers and lobbyists
and back to the representatives of the American people, because
we are the ones who always end up having to clean up Wall
Street’s messes.  At one point early on in the hearing, Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, asked Dimon what he had learned
from “this debacle.” The smooth-as-silk Dimon answered: “I
think no matter how good you are, how competent people are,
never get complacent in risk. Challenge everything. Make sure
people on risk committees are always asking questions.”  He added: “In the rest of the company, we have those
disciplines in place. We didn’t have it here. And that’s what
caused the problem.”  The lingering question for Dimon is why he let Ina Drew’s
CIO get away with a lower level of oversight than everyone else.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. His sister-in-law, Ellen
Futter, is on JPMorgan Chase’s board of directors. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View. Subscribe to
receive a daily e-mail highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 