-- Dimon Says Clawbacks Likely for Executives Tied to Loss
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-06-13T18:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-says-clawbacks-likely-for-executives-tied-to-trading-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the bank probably will
seek to reclaim pay from executives responsible for $2 billion
in trading losses.  “We will take proper corrective action and it is likely
there will be clawbacks,” Dimon told the Senate Banking
Committee today.  Lawmakers questioned Dimon on the trading loss amid
investor criticism of Wall Street pay practices. Dimon
encouraged his chief investment office to make bigger and
riskier trades, former employees have said, while he became one
of the highest-paid CEOs in U.S. banking, taking home more than
$1.9 million a month on average in 2010 and 2011.  “The board will review every single person involved in
this case and figure out what’s appropriate,” said Dimon, 56.
The clawbacks will be “somewhat limited” to what employees
received in the previous two years, he said.  The loss arose after trades on  credit derivatives  soured,
Dimon said May 10. Shares of the New York-based bank fell
17 percent since then through yesterday.  The JPMorgan board awarded Dimon $23 million in salary and
bonuses for his performance in 2011. Ina Drew, who oversaw the
CIO, received $14 million for 2011. The bank said May 14 that
she would retire.  Dimon’s Fate  In a subsequent interview on CNBC, Dimon did not say
whether he would have to give back any of his compensation.  “My comp is set by the board of directors,” Dimon said.
“I assume they will incorporate this in how they evaluate me.”  Dimon is chairman of the board. Lee Raymond, the former
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  CEO, is head of the board’s compensation
committee. Other members include Yum Brands Inc. CEO  David Novak , Johnson & Johnson Chairman William Weldon and Comcast
Corp. executive  Stephen Burke , according to the bank’s  website .  “For senior people, which most of these people are, you
can claw back for even bad judgment,” Dimon told the committee.
“You can claw back any unvested stock, you can claw back for
things like cash bonuses, so it’s pretty extensive.”  Soaring pay pushed traders to disregard risk and helped to
spark a global economic slump in 2008, the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission said last year. Wages in the financial sector
also limited regulators’ ability to lure top talent to police
banks, the panel found.  Walking Away  “One of the legitimate complaints was that after the
crisis, a lot of people walked away from companies that went
bankrupt with a lot of money,” Dimon said today. “Some of that
was inappropriate.”  The lender’s pay policies might offer some insight to
lawmakers, said  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund , before today’s hearing.  “What was the compensation arrangement for people in the
CIO, including traders and executives?” asked Johnson, who now
teaches at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School
of Management . “If they were paid based on firm-wide results,
they were hedging. If they were paid based on returns in CIO
itself, this is prop trading.”  Proprietary trading refers to banks’ bets with their own
money, a practice lawmakers including Senator  Jeff Merkley , a
Democrat from  Oregon , are seeking to curtail.  No Formula  “Nobody in the CIO is paid on a formula,” Dimon said
today. “They’re not allowed to just do what they want. They
were paid for what they did for the whole company.”  JPMorgan paid the 25,999 employees at its investment bank
an average of $341,552 last year, or about 34 percent of the
unit’s revenue. The salaries are necessary to compete for the
best people, Dimon said during a Feb. 28 presentation.  “We need top talent,” Dimon said at the time. “You
cannot run these businesses with second-rate talent.”  Regulators have sought to limit risk-taking at banks that
hold federally insured deposits after bad loans and wrong-way
bets on credit derivatives almost destroyed the financial system
in 2008. Dimon’s firm was among lenders that accepted bailout
funds, and has since repaid the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  