-- Dimon Says Change in Risk Model May Have Fueled Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-13T17:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-says-change-in-risk-model-may-have-fueled-trading-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the bank’s switch to a new risk model
in the first quarter may have helped fuel a $2 billion trading
loss at the chief investment office.  The new measurement of value at risk was “implemented in
January and did effectively increase the amount of risk this
unit was able to take,” Dimon told the Senate Banking Committee
today. “On April 13, we were still unaware that the model might
have contributed to the problem, so when we found out later on,
we went back to the old model.”  Dimon is under pressure from lawmakers to explain how he
was caught  off guard  by the loss as regulators seek to curtail
speculation by lenders with federally insured deposits. He said
May 10 that the loss on  credit derivatives  was the result of
“egregious mistakes” in risk management. A month earlier, he
defended the CIO as a “sophisticated” guardian of the New
York-based bank’s funds.  Dimon doesn’t believe the change in the VaR model “was
done for nefarious purposes,” he said today, telling the
senators that risk managers should rely on more than the formula
to assess the possibility of losses.  “We don’t run the business on models,” Dimon said.
“They’re one input. You should be looking at lots of other
things” to  make sure risks are managed properly.  The changes in VaR-- and the timing of the firm’s
disclosures about them -- are the focus of an inquiry by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
told the Senate panel on May 22.  ‘Backward Looking’  VaR is a formula calculated by banks to gauge the size of
their trading risks. Under JPMorgan’s methodology, the figure
represents the maximum amount that traders would expect to lose
on 95 out of 100 trading days, according to quarterly filings
with regulators. It’s calculated daily, and the average for a
quarter is reported in regulatory filings.  The chief investment office asked to change the VaR model
“sometime in 2011,” Dimon said during the hearing. An
independent group reviewed the proposed change and the new
formula “back-tested better” than the old one, he said. It was
put into use on Jan. 15 Dimon said.  “I was copied on a memo that said there was a change in
the VaR model,” Dimon said afterward in an interview with CNBC,
according to a transcript. “I paid virtually no attention to
it. I didn’t think it was significant at the time.”  The VaR at the CIO was reported as $67 million in a
regulatory filing on April 13, the day JPMorgan posted first-
quarter results. When JPMorgan reverted to the old model, it
showed the average VaR was $129 million.  “I’d just caution you that models are backward-looking,”
Dimon said. “The future isn’t the past. They never are totally
accurate in capturing changes in business, concentration,
liquidity or geopolitics or things like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washginton at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net  or @liqquidity on Twitter  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  