-- Dimon Fires Back at ‘Complex’ System in U.S. Hearing
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-13T17:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-faces-senators-over-jpmorgan-s-hedge-fund-style-trading.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  spent much of his time at a hearing where
U.S. senators aimed to put him on the defensive firing back at
the federal regulatory system.  During more than two hours before the Senate Banking
Committee, Dimon described a $2 billion loss in the bank’s chief
investment office as a hedge that “morphed into something I
can’t justify,” and largely blamed subordinates for a trading
strategy gone wrong. The bank is looking at clawing back some of
the compensation earned by those responsible, he said.  At the same time, Dimon, one of the most vocal bankers in
challenging stricter regulation, said it would be hard for
federal agencies to decide on a final version of the so-called
Volcker rule, which bans proprietary trading for a bank’s own
account.  “It’s going to be very hard to make a bright-line
distinction between proprietary trading and hedging, because you
can look at almost anything we do and call it one or the
other,” Dimon said at the hearing in  Washington .  ‘Complex’ System  The regulatory system in the wake of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
overhaul is “really complex,” he said.  “No one can
adjudicate between all the various regulatory agencies and it’s
not clear to me who has regulatory authority.”  It was the first of two appearances Dimon will make on
 Capitol Hill  to face lawmakers probing how the largest and most
profitable U.S. bank, often praised for its “fortress” balance
sheet, could have taken such risks after coming through the 2008
financial crisis largely unscathed.  The hearing didn’t answer some basic questions the Senate
has about the details of the New York-based bank’s loss, Senator
 Richard Shelby , the ranking Republican on the committee, said
afterward: “We’ll find that out in due time and we’ll be able
to tell if they were  managing risk  or just seeking profits.”  Senator  Tim Johnson , the panel’s chairman, a South Dakota
Democrat, said the hearing “is a good reminder that we can’t
let down our guard, and we must remain vigilant so we can
continue to have a sound financial system.”  Amid chants from protesters, Dimon arrived shortly before
10 a.m. and began answering questions about the causes of the
loss, which he described as part of a hedging strategy.  VaR Shift  Dimon said a new formula for estimating possible losses,
implemented in January, failed to properly account for risk. On
April 13, when he downplayed the risks of trades on a call with
analysts, “we were still unaware that the model might have
contributed to the problem,” Dimon said. “So when we found out
later on, we went back to the old model.”  The switch -- and the timing of the firm’s disclosures --
are the focus of an inquiry by the Securities and Exchange
Commission as the government examines how long senior executives
knew about the CIO’s swelling bets and losses. Dimon said May 10
that the bank had reviewed the effectiveness of a new VaR model,
deemed it “inadequate” and decided to return to the previous
version. On that basis, the unit’s VaR doubled.  The bank’s board of directors is looking into events
leading to the loss, Dimon said.  Clawbacks Expected  “When the board finishes its review, which is the
appropriate time to make those decisions, you can expect that we
will take proper corrective action and it is likely there will
be clawbacks,” Dimon said.  As Dimon, 56, took his seat in the Senate hearing room,
Tighe Barry, 50, a protester with activist group CodePink who
works handling props on movie sets in  Los Angeles , yelled,
“This man is a crook and he needs to go to jail.”  A few
minutes later, several people rose out of the audience and
started yelling, “Stop foreclosures now.” Senators delayed the
hearing for a few minutes as Capitol police removed the
protesters from the room.  Dimon told the committee that the bank let traders take
risks they didn’t understand.  [To read Dimon’s prepared testimony, click  here .]  He expressed regret over losses in the bank’s chief
investment office, saying that its trading strategy was “poorly
conceived and vetted” by senior managers who were “in
transition” and not paying adequate attention.  “This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than
protect the firm, created new and potentially larger risks,”
Dimon said. “We have let a lot of people down, and we are sorry
for it.”  Dimon said that the risk committee structures and processes
were not as robust in the CIO as they should have been. The
division’s  London  team built up a book of  credit derivatives 
that became so large that employees couldn’t unwind it without
roiling markets or incurring large losses.  London ‘Cowboys’  “I don’t want to see consumer lenders in Columbus losing
their jobs because cowboys in London make too many risky bets,”
said Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, referring to
19,000 JPMorgan employees in his state.  Dimon defended the bank by saying lawmakers needed to put
the losses “into perspective,” noting that no client, customer
or taxpayer money was impacted. He said the second quarter would
be “solidly profitable.”  Shares of JPMorgan advanced 2.3 percent to $34.55 at 11
a.m. in New York, the most in the 24-company KBW Bank Index,
which climbed 0.7 percent. Shares of the bank have dropped 17
percent from May 10, when Dimon disclosed the losses, through
yesterday, lopping about $26.5 billion from the firm’s market
value.  Capital Rules  Dimon explained that the bank instructed the CIO in
December to reduce its risk-weighted assets to prepare for new
international capital rules. Instead, the office in mid-January
“embarked on a complex strategy that entailed adding positions
that it believed would offset the existing ones,” Dimon said.
The portfolio grew and the problem got worse.  U.S. Senator  Jeff Merkley , the Oregon Democrat pushing for
stronger restrictions on banks’ bets with their own money
through proprietary trading, said JPMorgan’s hedges were too
risky.  “Portfolio hedging is just a name for saying anything
goes, and we’ll continue proprietary trading,” Merkley said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Merkley, who co-wrote the Volcker provision in the Dodd-
Frank Act along with Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , has said
that the draft rule released by regulators in 2011 had loopholes
that would allow banks to maintain much of their proprietary
trading operations.  Five U.S. agencies are working to complete the Volcker
rule, which is named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  and is
intended to reduce risky trading by banks with federally insured
deposits and access to the central bank’s discount window.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  