-- Dimon Says Fiscal Cliff May Be Reached Before Year-End
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-06-13T17:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dimon-says-fiscal-cliff-may-be-reached-before-year-end.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , testifying to a U.S. Senate panel, said the
government is risking an earlier-than-expected fiscal crisis as
policy makers stay deadlocked on taxes and the budget.  “The one thing to keep in mind about the fiscal cliff is
it may not wait until Dec. 31,” Dimon, 56, said today before
the Senate Banking Committee, which called him to answer
questions about a $2 billion trading loss. “Markets and
businesses may start taking actions before that, that create a
slowdown in the economy.”  A so-called fiscal cliff may be reached at year-end when
tax-and-spending changes are scheduled to take effect unless
Congress acts. Tax cuts enacted under then-President  George W. Bush  will expire as will a temporary reduction in the Social
Security payroll tax. About $1 trillion in automatic spending
cuts would begin, expanded jobless benefits will expire and the
government will approach the legal limit on federal borrowing.  Dimon said lawmakers’ inability to reach an agreement on
budget issues “helped cause a little downturn last year.” He
urged approval of a compromise similar to the Simpson-Bowles
plan, issued by President Barack Obama’s fiscal commission,
which includes spending cuts and tax increases to balance the
budget.  “It’d be better to do something now, so that we don’t
create additional uncertainty among businesses and consumers,”
Dimon said. “We have to get our fiscal act in order. I mean,
it’s either going to be done to us or we’re going to do it
ourselves.”  The plan named for the co-chairmen of Obama’s commission,
former Senator  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles , who was chief of
staff under President  Bill Clinton , has been rejected by the
House. Obama hasn’t publicly endorsed the plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 