-- Disney Reptile Bet Fights $1.4 Billion Interactive Losses
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/disney-reptile-bet-fights-1-4-billion-interactive-losses.html
John Pleasants, co-president of  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s interactive unit, expressed concern after passing
the crocodile exhibit at the company’s  Animal Kingdom  theme park
in  Orlando  last year.  Disney was developing an iPhone application starring a
toothy reptile named Swampy, and the crocs at the park didn’t
strike him as very endearing.  “Are you sure it’s going to be cuddly?” Pleasants asked
his mobile-games chief, Bart Decrem, in a phone call.  “Don’t worry about it,” Decrem recalled answering, saying
he was confident the character would be accessible.  The Internet has been a jungle for entertainment companies
and Disney, the world’s largest, is no exception. The Burbank,
California-based firm has lost $1.39 billion in the past five
years in its  interactive media group , which develops games and
website content. Its continuing commitment to the business was
evident at the video-game industry’s E3 trade show in Los
Angeles last week, with a booth as big as heavyweights
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s.  Disney Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  has
said the interactive unit will be profitable next year in part
because of a focus on games for social-networking sites such as
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s and for mobile devices. Both are capturing a
larger share of the $16.6 billion U.S. video-game market,
according to researcher NPD Group Inc.  “We’re targeting 2013 as a year of profitability. It’s
about time, because we’ve invested a fair amount,” Iger told
attendees at a conference sponsored by Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. on May 30. “It’s a space that we should be in because the
brands, we think, can perform well.”  ‘Not There’  In the quarter ended March 31, the interactive unit lost
$70 million, smaller than the $115 million loss a year earlier.  The division may lose $160 million in fiscal 2012,
estimates Todd Juenger, an analyst with Bernstein in  New York .
While it may turn profitable at one point next year, he
estimates a loss of $25 million for all of 2013.  “They have been able to grow their revenues and shrink
their costs,” Juenger said in a telephone interview. “But
they’re still not there yet.”  Disney’s Internet struggles began in the late 1990s, when
it acquired search engine Infoseek Corp. in transactions
totaling more than $1.5 billion. In 2001, the company recorded
$878 million in charges to close its Go.com web portal,
according to its  annual report .  Outlays during the past five years include $350 million to
buy the children’s gaming site Club Penguin in 2007 and $563.2
million for social game-maker Playdom in 2010. Pleasants, who
ran Playdom, was named  co-president  of the interactive unit,
with former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  executive James Pitaro.  Media Follies  Disney’s interactive experience mirrors that of  media
industry  rivals  Viacom Inc. (VIA) , which lost $316 million in 2010 on
Harmonix Music Systems, maker of the “Rock Band” video game,
and  News Corp. (NWSA) , which sold the social-networking site Myspace
last year for $545 million less than it paid.  “We made some obvious mistakes on the gaming side,
initially with a focus on the console space, and clearly the
whole gaming area has changed radically,” Iger told Bernstein
conference attendees. “Our goal now and our strategy is to
diversify our gaming efforts.”  Sales of mobile, social and other digital games represented
31 percent of the U.S. video game market last year, up from 20
percent in 2009, according to NPD.  “Marvel: Avengers Alliance,” a game the company launched
in March, has 9.3 million monthly users, placing it 16th among
Facebook games, according to Disney, which cited research from
AppData.  Console Retreat  The company will limit its investment in console games to
“very Disney-branded, Marvel-branded” titles, according to
Iger. This year, the interactive unit will release six
traditional video-game titles, down from 21 in 2009, according
to the company and VGChartz.com, a research site.  At E3, Disney announced a November release date for
“Disney Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two,” for  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Nintendo Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  game platforms.  Two mobile titles titles also made their debuts at E3:
“Temple Run: Brave,” tied to this month’s Pixar film
“Brave,” and “Where’s My Perry?,” which features a character
from the Disney Channel cartoon “Phineas and Ferb.”  A mobile or a social game can be developed for $50,000 to
$5 million, according to  Michael Pachter , a video game industry
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. That compares
with $20 million for a multiple-console title, plus the added
cost of distributing discs.  Design Costs  “Where’s My Water?,” the Disney game featuring Swampy the
alligator, was designed in half a year by six developers for “a
couple of hundred thousand dollars,” Decrem said in a telephone
interview. A hit mobile game such as Rovio Entertainment’s
“Angry Birds” can generate $100 million in revenue, he said,
declining to release sales numbers for “Where’s My Water?”  “You can bring a complete experience to market at a
fraction of the cost,” Decrem said of mobile technology. “It’s
real money and it’s doubling every year.”  “Where’s My Water?” was introduced last September and is
Disney’s biggest mobile hit so far. The game is sixth on the
list of  top-selling  paid iPhone applications at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes store and No. 4 for iPads. Players pay 99 cents to
download the game and can purchase additional levels of play for
$1.99.  With “Where’s My Water” showing early success, Decrem
said he added more developers to the team, creating new chapters
and incentive for players to spend on the game. Disney also
threw resources behind the title, promoting it on the Disney
Channel cable network and on the Disney.com website.  Swampy now has a line of T-shirts and stuffed animals at
retailers such as  Toys ``R'' Us Inc. (TOYS) , and an animated Web 
series rolls out this year.  “This is one of Disney’s strengths,” Decrem said,
“taking an alligator and making it adorable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  