-- ABC, NBC, Fox Said to Finish Ad Sales Orders for 2012-13
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/disney-s-abc-said-to-finish-ad-sales-ahead-of-tv-season.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC broadcast
network,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and News Corp.’s Fox finished
taking advertising commitments for the TV season starting in
September, people familiar with the situation said yesterday.  ABC collected about $2.4 billion in orders and Fox booked
$1.95 billion, both little changed from a year ago, while NBC
received $100 million more than last season’s $1.7 billion, said
the people, who weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  The four major broadcast networks are holding onto a
similar amount of advertising inventory to sell during the
season, betting the economy will improve and spur demand for TV
commercials. CBS, the most-watched network, sold about 78
percent of its inventory, less than a year ago, while ABC, NBC
and Fox were little changed, the people said.  “All the television networks are holding back a little bit
more volume, hoping they can sell those spots at higher rates
during the season,”  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak &
Co., said yesterday in an interview.  Fox, home to “ American Idol ” and “The Simpsons,” sold
about 80 percent of its advertising inventory, little changed
from a year ago, at rates that are 8 percent to 9 percent higher
than last season, said one of the people.  With Fox’s prime-time schedule an hour shorter each night
than the other major TV networks,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analyst
 Spencer Wang  estimated last month that the network would receive
about $2.03 billion in so-called upfront commitments.  Fox Leads  For the eighth straight time, Fox finished last season as
the most watched among 18- to 49-year-old viewers, a group
targeted by advertisers. Fox plans to add five new shows next
season, including “The Mindy Project” and “Ben and Kate.”
Last month, Fox said it plans to retool the “Idol” singing
competition to reverse ratings declines.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 0.7 percent to $19.57 yesterday in
New York trading. The stock has climbed 9.7 percent this year.  ABC, home to “Modern Family” and “Grey’s Anatomy,”
negotiated rate increases of 6 percent to 8 percent, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly. ABC sold about
the same volume as last year, the person said.  New Programs  ABC is adding 10 shows next season to bolster a lineup with
returning first-season dramas “Revenge” and “Once Upon a
Time.” The network tied NBC last season for third among 18-49
viewers and trailed  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , ABC said in
a June 11 e-mailed statement. Wang estimated in a May 11 report
that ABC would receive $2.35 billion.  “666 Park Avenue” and “Last Resort” are among the six
new dramas that will air next season. ABC also is adding four
comedies, including “How to Live With Your Parents (For the
Rest of Your Life)” and “Malibu Country.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , gained 0.3 percent to
$46.23 yesterday in New York trading. The stock has climbed 23
percent this year.  NBC negotiated 6 percent to 7 percent higher rates than a
year ago, one person said, based on stronger ratings from
“Smash” and singing competition “The Voice,” its most
popular show after “Sunday Night Football.” Wang estimated the
network would take in about $1.66 billion in orders.  Comedy Nights  In its second full schedule under Comcast ownership, NBC
plans to air comedies five nights a week next season, including
“Animal Practice” and “Guys With Kids” from  Jimmy Fallon .  Other comedies joining NBC’s schedule include “Go On,”
with Matthew Perry as a sportscaster, and “The New Normal”
from “Glee” creator  Ryan Murphy .  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, fell 1.5 percent to $29.98
yesterday in New York trading. The shares have climbed 26
percent this year.  CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. TV network, collected
about $2.7 billion in commitments at a rate increase of about 10
percent, a separate person said June 12. The network sold about
78 percent of its inventory, the person said. Wang forecast CBS
would gain $2.78 billion in commitments, the most among the
major networks.  Broadcast and cable networks released their 2012-2013
schedules during so-called upfront meetings with advertisers in
New York the week of May 14 before booking advance commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  