-- DNA Scans Can Spot Cause of Brain Issue in 25% of Kids
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-06-13T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dna-scans-can-spot-cause-of-brain-issue-in-25-of-kids.html
Scanning the genes of children with
inherited brain disorders pinpoints the precise cause more than
a quarter of the time, often changing the diagnosis, according
to one of the largest studies of child DNA sequencing.  The study published today in  Science Translational Medicine 
examined the genes in 118 people with child-onset brain
development disorders where obvious causes had been excluded.
Researchers found new disease-causing mutations in 22 patients.
In 10 more people, the scans found rare genetic diseases that
had been misdiagnosed because symptoms were atypical. In two
cases, the new diagnosis led to changes in treatment.  The study “is a remarkable demonstration of the power of
sequencing in the clinic -- precise, molecular, root cause
diagnosis,” said  Eric Topol , a professor of genomics at the
Scripps Research Institute in  San Diego  in an e-mail.
“Virtually all diseases” will be more precisely defined
through gene sequencing in the not-too-distant future, he wrote.  The research shows how often DNA scans can improve
diagnosis in kids with brain disorders such as autism, severe
epilepsy, or intellectual disability, said  Joseph Gleeson , a
child neurologist and study author. Brain development disorders
afflict as much as 4 percent of children and are often genetic,
yet the precise causes can be elusive, he said. Sequencing lets
researchers examine all genes for abnormalities, instead of
testing for one genetic disorder at a time as done now.  Biggest Surprise  The biggest surprise is that some children with genetic
brain disorders have diseases that have been known for a long
time, said Gleeson, of the  University of California , San Diego.
The kids weren’t diagnosed correctly because “frequently their
symptoms don’t match those in the textbook.”  As a consequence, doctors may not have thought of ordering
gene tests for those rare diseases, Gleeson said.  “This is taking the whole medical field by surprise,”
Gleeson said. “It used to be that the gray-haired professor was
the gold standard, and if patient didn’t respond to treatment
then patient was an anomaly.”  Gene sequencing eliminates the problem of misleading or
vague symptoms by testing all genes, Gleeson said. “It will
change the way we practice medicine,” he said.  The study follows research published in the June issue of
the Journal of Medical Genetics, where scientists at  Duke
University  used sequencing to diagnose six of 12 kids with
genetic disease of unknown origin. In five of the cases, the
children had had mutations in genes known to cause disease, said
 David Goldstein , the study leader and director of the Center for
Human Genome Variation at Duke’s School of Medicine in Durham,
 North Carolina . One child had been diagnosed with autism, yet
turned out to actually have Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome.  Absolutely Transformational  For diagnosing pediatric genetic disease, sequencing “is
an absolutely transformational technology,” Goldstein said in a
telephone interview.  “It is a much larger, more important application than
people were anticipating,” Goldstein said. Today’s study
confirms that sequencing can revise the diagnosis in many cases,
he said.  Gene sequencing produces huge volumes of data that can be
hard to interpret, UCSD’s Gleeson said. In the Science
Translational Medicine study released today, Gleeson and
colleagues simplified the analysis by studying sick children of
married cousins in countries in the  Middle East , North Africa,
and Central Asia, where such relationships are common. The
families had multiple relatives afflicted by genetic disease,
making it easier to find inherited mutations, he said.  Exome Sequencing  The  California  researchers worked with scientists at  Broad
Institute  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , to scan the genes in the
118 patients. This technology is called exome sequencing and
looks at the 1 percent of the DNA that contains genes that
create proteins. The researchers used equipment from San Diego-
based  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and elsewhere to perform the sequencing.  Translating the sequencing technology into everyday medical
practice will be a challenge, Gleeson said, as doctors are
“sorely prepared” for the data onslaught. “We don’t have
computational algorithms that can manage the analysis and we
don’t have doctors that can interpret the data,” he said.  Duke’s Goldstein said the technology can be applied
rapidly. ‘There is nothing that prohibits this from being done
on scale,’’ he said.  The technology may save money because the raw cost of
sequencing the 1 to 2 percent of the genome that contains genes
now cost less than $1,000, not including cost of interpreting
the data, Goldstein said.  For some patients “it is clearly less than has been spent
on gene-by-gene tests” that cost several thousand dollars per
gene, Goldstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  