-- Dollar Falls After Data on Fed Easing Speculation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-14T21:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dollar-remains-lower-against-euro-before-u-s-cpi-data.html
The dollar fell for a second day
against the yen after reports signaled a slowing U.S. economy,
boosting the case for the  Federal Reserve  to take more steps to
bolster growth.  The euro rose versus the dollar on bets its decline since
April was overdone and after Reuters reported European central
banks are preparing for coordinated action, if needed, after the
Greek elections this weekend. The U.S. currency declined versus
all of its 16 major peers after initial jobless claims rose last
week and inflation declined in May. New Zealand’s dollar gained
as the central bank gave no indication it would cut interest
rates.  “People are betting on quantitative easing at the next
meeting,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “People are
betting on the fact that the bears are too bearish, the world is
not going to end and with a little bit of luck in Greece over
the weekend, it’s not going to take a step off the cliff.”  The dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to 79.35 yen at 5 p.m.
in  New York  after falling 0.1 percent yesterday. The U.S.
currency dropped 0.6 percent to $1.2633 versus the euro. The 17-
nation currency added 0.4 percent to 100.24 yen.  European Action  The coordinated European central banks’ action would come
as an effort to provide liquidity to the markets, Reuters
reported, citing officials linked to the Group of 20. Ministers
will hold a conference call to discuss the Greek election
outcome June 17, Reuters said.  The pound extended its gain against the dollar after
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  announced two programs to increase the flow
of credit amid a deteriorating outlook in the euro area.  The U.K. central bank will activate an unused plan to
inject at least 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion) a month into the
financial system. Another plan will allow lenders to swap assets
with the central bank in return for money to be lent to
companies and households. The Treasury will indemnify the bank
for any losses.  The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.5563 and pared its loss
against the euro to 81.18 pence from as weak as 81.21 pence
earlier.  High Yield  Higher-yielding currencies, including the Australian and
Canadian dollars, rose as stocks and commodities advanced amid
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie strengthened 0.9 percent to $1.0024 and the
Canadian dollar rose 0.8 percent to C$1.0226 against the
greenback.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.1 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials gained 1
percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets on a drop in the euro against the dollar to a record high
last week, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed June
8. Futures traders increased net euro short contracts to 214,418
in the week ended June 5, the figures showed.  The shared currency closed above its 20-day moving average,
at $1.2543 yesterday, for the first time since May 1, a move
that may be helping it gain today, Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
wrote in a note to clients.  Bernanke Policy  “The situation in  Europe  poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on June
7. “As always, the Federal Reserve remains prepared to take
action as needed to protect the U.S. financial system and
economy in the event that financial stresses escalate.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from 2008 through 2011 to stimulate
growth through lower borrowing costs. The central bank meets
June 19-20.  “The dollar is susceptible to weakening because
expectations for additional easing are rising ahead of the
policy meeting next week,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in  Tokyo  at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company.
“A decline in employment and the economy is the biggest concern
for the Fed.”  Economic Data  The  consumer price index  fell 0.3 percent, more than
forecast and the biggest drop since December 2008, after no
change the prior month, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent decrease,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly climbed by 6,000
to 386,000 in the week ended June 9 from a revised 380,000 the
prior week that was more than first estimated, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. Economists projected claims
would fall to 375,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The euro fell earlier against the yen after Italy’s costs
of borrowing for three years climbed to the highest since
December at an auction. Investors were also waiting for an
election in  Greece  on June 17 that may indicate whether the
nation will remain in the euro bloc.  Oanda Corp., the New York-based operator of an online
currency-trading platform, won’t accept transactions for a nine
hour period on the day of the election because the results may
cause excessive price swings.  Volatile Decision  “There is the potential for extreme  exchange-rate 
volatility at a time when global  currency markets  are closed,”
Oanda said. “By halting trading and holding the closing prices
steady during this period, we aim to shelter traders from the
potential for price spikes.”  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Spain’s rating
three steps to Baa3, one level above junk, citing its increased
debt burden and weakening economy. The Spanish  10-year yield 
climbed as much as 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to
a euro-era record 6.998 percent.  “The global economy is definitely moderating and there’s
this fear that’s related to the weakness of things that are
happening in Europe,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. “We’re going
through some positioning, squaring up ahead of the Greek
election. There’s a lot of uncertainty with the outcome for
Greece.”  The euro has weakened 1.2 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 2.7 percent,
and the yen advanced 8.7 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar rallied against all 16 major
counterparts after the central bank gave no immediate sign it
would cut  interest rates  when it kept its benchmark at a record
low.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said the
current exchange rate is more comfortable than March and
signaled he expects to hold the 2.5 percent official cash rate
till mid-2013.  The kiwi rose 1.2 percent to 78.25 U.S. cents, touching the
strongest since May 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  