-- Dow Chemical, Aramco Said to Plan $2 Billion Sukuk Sale
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-06-13T09:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/dow-chemical-aramco-said-to-plan-2-billion-sukuk-for-venture.html
Dow Chemical (DOW)  Co. and Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. may raise at least 7.5 billion riyals ($2 billion) from
Islamic bonds as they seek $12.4 billion in financing for Sadara
Chemical Co., two bankers familiar with the deal said.  Dow Chemical and the Saudi company, also known as  Saudi
Aramco , may also sell a dollar-denominated tranche, one of the
bankers said, declining to be identified because the information
is private. The Islamic bonds, which comply with Islam’s ban on
interest, may be issued before the end of the year, the bankers
said.  Saudi Aramco and Dow Chemical hired the investment arms of
Deutsche Bank AG, Riyad Bank,  Alinma Bank (ALINMA)  and Bank Al Bilad to
manage the sale, the bankers said. Reuters reported the banks
mandated for sale yesterday.  The companies had planned to raise $1.4 billion from the
sale of Islamic bonds, two people familiar with the transaction
said in May, as well as $2.66 billion in bank loans, $6.5
billion from export credit agency financing, $1.3 billion from
Saudi’s Public Investment Fund, and $530 million from the Saudi
Industrial Development Fund.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Michael Lermer said the bank
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  Riyad Bank (RIBL) , Alinma Bank
and Bank Al Bilad’s public relations departments didn’t answer
calls from Bloomberg. Saudi Aramco declined to comment. Rebecca Bentley, a spokeswoman for Midland, Michigan-based Dow, couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted on May 30 about the $12.4
billion financing.  Sadara, Saudi Aramco and Dow Chemical’s $20 billion joint
venture, may begin production in 2015, with 40 percent of the
output being exported to Asia and as much as 35 percent to the
 Middle East  and Africa, Dow Chemical Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Liveris  said May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  