-- Drug Cartel Laundered Money Through Racehorses, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-13T16:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/drug-cartel-laundered-money-through-racehorses-u-s-says.html
The alleged leader of a Mexican drug
cartel was charged with laundering drug proceeds through an
operation that bought, bred and raced quarter horses in the U.S.  Miguel Angel Trevino Morales, 38, leader of the Los Zetas
drug cartel, and his brothers Oscar Omar Trevino Morales and
Jose Trevino-Morales were among 14 people indicted by a federal
grand jury in  Texas , U.S. prosecutors said yesterday. Seven of
the defendants were arrested, including Jose Trevino-Morales and
his wife, Zulema Trevino.  “The allegations in this indictment, if proven, would
document yet another example of the corrupting influence of
Mexican drug cartels within the  United States , facilitated by
the enormous profits generated by the illicit drug trade,” U.S.
Attorney Robert L. Pitman in San Antonio said in a statement.  Since 2008, Miguel and Oscar Trevino Morales funneled cash
from illegal drug sales to Jose Trevino-Morales and his wife to
buy, train, breed and race the horses, using front companies to
hide the cartel’s ownership, the government said. The indictment
identifies transactions valued at millions of dollars in New
Mexico,  Oklahoma ,  California  and Texas.  The defendants are charged in the May 30 indictment,
unsealed yesterday, with conspiracy to launder monetary
instruments. The crime carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in
prison.  Court Appearance  Daryl Fields, a spokesman for Pitman, said today that Jose
Trevino-Morales and his wife made an initial appearance before a
federal judge in  Oklahoma City  yesterday and will be transferred
to San Antonio shortly.  The U.S. seeks the forfeiture of quarter horses including
Tempting Dash and Mr. Piloto, as well as equipment, property in
Oklahoma and Texas, funds in bank accounts and $20 million, the
amount allegedly derived from the scheme.  The cartel bought at least $4.2 million worth of quarter
horses, which are used in  short-distance races , over a four-year
period, according to the indictment.  In 2010, for example, the alleged conspirators bought 23
horses at a  New Mexico  auction for more than $2.2 million. They
paid with a check, according to the indictment.  A year later, the conspirators bought eight horses at the
Heritage Place Fall Mixed Sales in Oklahoma City for about
$211,500. The horses, which included Blues Girl Choice and Forty
Force, were then listed as sold to members of the organization
“in order to provide the appearance of a legitimate sale,”
prosecutors said in the indictment.  As part of the case, the government is seeking to force the
conspirators to hand over their interests in the horses and the
facilities that house them because they are proceeds from drug
operations.  The case is U.S. v. Morales, A-12-cr-210-SS, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas ( San Antonio ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 