-- The Gas Is Always Greener When It Leaks Less
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/the-gas-is-always-greener-when-it-leaks-less.html
The great promise of natural gas,
we’re often told, is that it will be better for the climate than
other fossil fuels. In fact, this can come true only if very
little of the fuel is allowed to escape, unburned, into the air.  The trouble is, we don’t know how much natural gas leaks --
as it is extracted, processed, transported and used -- and some
evidence suggests the amount may be more than we have assumed.
As the U.S. gears up to use more of the fuel, not only for
electricity and home heating but also to power cars and trucks
and for export, the need to find out how much is getting away is
urgent.  This is exactly what experts convened by the  Department of
Energy   recommended  last August. So far, their call has gone
unanswered.  The reason natural gas has a reputation for being gentle on
the climate is that burning it emits almost a third less carbon
dioxide than burning oil does, and almost 45 percent less than
burning coal does.  But when methane, the  principal component  of natural gas,
floats directly into the air, it has a much stronger  greenhouse
effect  than carbon dioxide has -- 25 times stronger over the
course of a century and, over 20 years, 72 times stronger. (The
time span makes a difference because methane breaks down in the
atmosphere faster than carbon dioxide does.)  The maximum leakage we can afford is  3.2 percent  of the
total amount of natural gas used, scientists from the
Environmental Defense Fund and three universities recently
figured out. Any more than that, and using natural gas leads to
more heat being trapped in the atmosphere for some time than
using coal does.  The best guess so far on how much is leaking is just 2.4
percent. However, this number, from the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, is based not on direct measurements but on
limited data collected 20 years ago.  Recent measurements taken near a natural-gas field north of
Denver indicate that the actual amount of methane escaping there
is higher -- about 4 percent.  This study determined leakage by sampling the air in the
vicinity of natural-gas facilities, which is a more accurate way
of assessing leakage. Yet it would be better to  monitor methane 
directly at the points where it is escaping.  Environmental Defense Fund scientists are taking such
measurements now at select drilling sites in four big natural-
gas-producing regions in the U.S. Eventually, they plan to take
similar readings on leaks from transmission pipes and storage
facilities.  Careful measurements are also needed where compressed or
liquefied natural gas is being provided for cars and trucks. A
certain amount of methane leaks during fueling and use of these
vehicles. Because methane is especially potent in the short
term, converting a fleet of cars from gasoline to compressed
natural gas will, for many years, make  climate change  worse,
according to the same scientists who calculated the 3.2 percent
limit for total methane leakage.  In order for such a fleet conversion to produce net climate
benefits immediately, well-to-wheels leakage must be reduced to
at least 1.6 percent, from the current estimated 3 percent. For
heavy trucks, the leak rate would need to come down to 1
percent.  A new escape route for methane will be opened as the U.S.
begins exporting some of its natural-gas bounty. (With natural-
 gas prices  at $9 per million BTU and higher in  Europe  and  $17 in
Asia , a new  facility  in  Louisiana  to liquefy gas for export is
on the drawing board.) Methane can escape during liquefaction,
shipping and regasification at the receiving end. All these
leaks, too, have to be measured.  What’s ultimately needed is a full accounting of all
methane escaping from the  natural-gas supply chain . Such an
effort is expected to cost many millions of dollars and require
cooperation by federal agencies involved in energy, the
environment, transportation and trade. In calling for the effort
last August, the Energy secretary’s Shale Gas Production
Subcommittee wisely recommended that the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy coordinate the job and make sure
it gets funded and started immediately.  In the meantime, as the subcommittee also said, natural-gas
producers should begin their own voluntary efforts to directly
measure leaks, even as they work to reduce them.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Putin’s attack helicopters in
Syria ;  Caroline Baum  on  the Federal Reserve’s next move ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  why you’re even poorer than you thought ; William D.
Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture
For America ; Nicholas Polson on  recognizing smart money ; Amar
Bhide and Christopher Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual
funds ; Jonathan Reiss on  improving regional Fed boards .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 