-- Health Wasn’t an Issue During U.S. Commerce Chief’s Confirmation
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/health-wasn-t-an-issue-during-u-s-commerce-chief-s-confirmation.html
The health of U.S. Commerce
Secretary  John Bryson , now on leave after having a seizure,
wasn’t raised as a concern during his Senate confirmation last
year, according to the lawmaker who oversaw the process.  “I’ve never heard of” any medical issues, Democratic
Senator  Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia , chairman of the
Commerce, Science & Transportation Committee, said in an
interview. “I hope that it’s just something he can get
treatment for.” He described Bryson as “the kind of person who
works so hard that the very idea of going and getting a
checkup” might not be a top priority.  Bryson put himself on medical leave June 11 after being
treated for a seizure following a series of minor car accidents.
He is undergoing tests and will consult with doctors to
determine when he can return, said a Commerce Department
official who requested anonymity. Bryson hadn’t previously
experienced a seizure, the official said.  President  Barack Obama  spoke to the 68-year-old Bryson
yesterday and told him to focus on his health, according to  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman.  Doctors often need extensive testing to find the cause of a
seizure, and in many cases the trigger may not be found, Carl
Bazil, director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at  Columbia
University  in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  ‘Complicated Computer’  More than 2 million people in the U.S. have experienced a
seizure without an identifiable cause, according to the  National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke  website. Although
some seizures may cause violent physical symptoms, such as
muscle spasms, most are outwardly milder, lasting from half a
minute to two minutes, according to the site of the agency,
based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Normal brain function depends on coordinated electrical
activity flowing through nerve cells and the connections between
them, called synapses. Sudden, abnormal electrical outbursts in
the brain may results in a seizure, according to the web site.  “It’s like the misfiring or short circuiting of a
complicated computer,” Bazil said. “An infection, bleeding in
the brain, an abnormally high or low blood sugar, a tumor, all
sorts of things can set off a seizure.”  Bryson delivered a commencement address for the Polytechnic
School in Pasadena, California, on June 7. Some parents and
students said he made mistakes, appeared to lose his place and
mispronounced words, the Los Angeles Times reported yesterday.
All four of Bryson’s children are graduates of the private prep
school.  Heartfelt Speech  “I’m an educator, not a doctor, and I’m not qualified to
comment on any health issues,” Deborah Reed, the head of the
school, said June 11 through a spokesperson. In a statement, the
school said Bryson gave a “heartfelt and personal speech,” and
urged students to pursue their passions and serve their country.  Bryson, who leads the agency tasked with delivering on
Obama’s goal of doubling annual U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion
by the end of 2014 from 2009 levels, got off to a rocky start
when Republicans held up his confirmation for almost five
months.  Some Senate Republicans said Bryson, as co-founder of the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , was too close to the
environmental community to be an effective business advocate. He
took office in October.  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, used his
prerogative to block legislative action on Bryson’s nomination,
“because here’s a guy who wants to kill commerce.”  Solyndra Loan  Bryson’s role with a solar-energy company backed with a
U.S. loan guarantee drew scrutiny after the collapse of Solyndra
LLC, a California solar-panel maker that got a $535 million U.S.
loan guarantee.  He was chairman of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE)  when it
received a $1.6 billion loan to build a solar-panel field in
California in April 2011.  Republicans led by Representative  Darrell Issa  of
California, the panel’s chairman, have said the company had a
cozy relationship with the administration. Former White House
Chief of Staff  William Daley  served on the  Boeing Co. (BA)  board with
Bryson.  The Energy Department and the White House have said the
loan to BrightSource was made on its merits.  Bryson’s responsibilities at the agency that also runs the
Census Bureau and the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  will be handled by Deputy Commerce Secretary
 Rebecca Blank , an economist whom he named as acting secretary.
Blank represented Bryson at a U.S. India Business Council
meeting yesterday.  Bryson allegedly drove his car into the rear of a stopped
vehicle at about 5 p.m. on June 9 in Los Angeles County. Five
minutes later he struck another car two miles away, according to
police. Police said they are investigating the case as a
possible felony hit-and-run, which can result in at least a year
in prison upon conviction. Authorities tested his blood for
alcohol, and it is likely no criminal charges will be brought if
tests show he suffered a medical condition, according to police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  