-- Health-Care Spending to Reach 20% of U.S. Economy by 2021
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/health-care-spending-to-reach-20-of-u-s-economy-by-2021.html
An  aging population , improving
economy and President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul will
push spending on medical services to almost 20 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product by 2021, the government projected.  Spending on hospital visits, medications and other health
care rose an estimated 3.9 percent in 2011 and consumed about
17.9 percent of GDP, the same as the previous two years, the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  said  yesterday. The
increases in such expenditures will continue to outpace economic
growth projections, jumping 7.4 percent in 2014, when much of
the insurance expansion created by the health law begins.  With a Supreme Court decision looming this month on the
constitutionality of the health law, the Obama administration
and Republican opponents have squabbled over whether the measure
can trim medical spending while adding more than 30 million
people to  insurance rolls . The law would add  0.1 percentage
point  to average annual health spending through 2021, according
to an analysis published in the journal Health Affairs.  “The real mystery is, what happens once we get past this
projection period, when things have the real potential for
spending going way out of control?” said Joe Antos, an adviser
to the  Congressional Budget Office  who works as a health
economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington-
based research group that advocates for limited government.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said
in a blog post that the law “is helping control health costs
and expand coverage, and ensure better health and better health
care, for all Americans in the next decade and well beyond.”  Glide Path  Chris Jacobs, a health-policy aide to Republican lawmakers
on the Joint Economic Committee in Congress, said in an e-mail
that the law puts government programs “on a glide path to
becoming the majority of all health-care spending.”  Federal, state and local governments are projected to spend
$2.4 trillion on health care in 2021, half of all U.S. medical
expenditures, according to the analysis in Health Affairs by
actuaries and economists from the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services. Government accounted for about 46 percent of
health spending through 2013.  Increased rebates from drug companies selling to Medicaid
patients and limits imposed by the law on insurers’ profits had
“little overall impact” on national health spending in 2011,
the researchers said. Total U.S. health-care expenditures will
surpass $3 trillion in 2014 and reach $4.8 trillion in 2021,
according to the government data.  The government researchers may have underestimated growth
by assuming that scheduled cuts in Medicare payments to
physicians and hospitals aren’t reversed by Congress, said Antos
of the  American Enterprise Institute .  “That’s too rosy,” he said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  