-- Early Death Assured in India Where 900M Don’t Eat Enough
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-06-13T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/early-death-assured-in-india-where-900-million-go-hungry.html
The death certificate for 3-year-old
Rashid Ahmed hides more than it reveals.  It lists his name, misspells his mother’s and says he died
of malaria. What it doesn’t say is how little he weighed when he
was brought to hospital with the disease in  New Delhi  one August
night, how his ribs jutted from his chest, or how helpless his
doctor, 28-year-old Gyvi Gaurav, was in trying to save him.  “It was hunger that killed him,” said Gaurav, who worked
the night of August 15 at St. Stephen’s Hospital and was on
watch when the toddler died. “He was so weak, so  malnourished ,
that he would have died the first time he ever got really sick -
- from malaria, diarrhea, anything.”  For Rashid’s mother, Nazia, the three-decade road from her
birth to the death of her son ran alongside a slow collapse in
 India ’s elemental struggle to feed its people. More than three-quarters of the 1.2 billion population  eat less  than minimum
targets set by the government, up from about two-thirds, or 472
million people, in 1983. India’s failure to feed its people came
as the economy accelerated, with gross domestic product per
capita almost doubling in the past decade.  “I cry every night,” Nazia said on May 15, speaking
through sobs after being told her child may have lived had he
eaten better. “For my wasted life, for my dead child, for the
hunger in my stomach. What could I give him? I had nothing,
nothing to sell.”  Calories V. Nutrition  While nutritionists and economists debate the importance of
targets defined solely in calories, other data shows gains in
nourishment also stalled. In the 2005 National Family Health
Survey, when India last weighed, measured and counted its
children for signs of hunger, it found  46 percent  -- 31 million
-- weighed too little for their ages, almost an entire Canada of
malnourished under-three-year-olds. In 1999, that number was 47
percent.  Some indicators worsened: 79 percent of children had
anemia, against 74 percent in 1999; 19 percent were wasted --
weighed too little for their height -- up from 16 percent.
Anemia prevents the absorption of nutrients; as do the diarrhea
and other diseases caused by poor hygiene and sanitation.  In sheer numbers, 4 out of 10 malnourished children in the
world are Indian, more than in all of  Africa . War-torn  Sudan  and
famine-struck Eritrea had smaller percentages of malnourished
children, at about 32 percent, according to the Washington-based
 International Food Policy Research Institute .  Cognitive Deficit  India’s hungry children are likely to have lower cognitive
skills, grow up to be weakened workers, suffer from chronic
illnesses and die prematurely, according to the  United Nations
Children’s Fund . Hunger stalks them into adulthood too: 21
percent of all Indians are undernourished, according to Ifpri,
up from 20 percent a decade ago. All of which costs the country
about $68 billion a year, or almost 4 percent of GDP, according
to  Veena S. Rao , who heads nutrition initiatives for the
government of Karnataka, the Indian state that encompasses the
city of Bangalore.  “The problem of malnutrition is a national shame,” Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in January, in one of about 50
public speeches where he has mentioned the subject. “Despite
impressive growth in our gross domestic product, the level of
under-nutrition in the country is unacceptably high.”  India has collected reliable and consistent national data
on nutrition since 1972, soon after setting minimum daily
intakes of about 2,100 calories a day for city residents, who
are assumed to be less physically active. The level for rural-dwellers was pegged at 2,400 calories on the basis that tilling
fields, harvesting crops and drawing water require greater
exertion.  Counting Error  Only in 1999-2000 did the average urban Indian meet the
target -- and that may have been due to a counting error,
according to the  National Sample Survey Office , a branch of the
statistics ministry. Rural Indians never have, and have seen
their intake slide to 2,020 calories in 2010, from a high of
2,266 calories in 1973, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on data from the office.  A National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau study in nine states
that make up the majority of India’s malnourished population
showed a steeper decline, with average rural calorie counts
falling to about 1,900 in 2005 from 2,340 in 1979. Daily protein
intake dropped to 49 grams (1.5 ounces) from 63 grams.  The global average is 77 grams, according to the UN’s Food
and Agricultural Organization. The worldwide  average  daily
caloric intake is about 2,800 calories a day.  Neither the diets of Nazia nor her two surviving children
meet the averages.  Hard Life  A hard life outside Nagpur city in central India, where her
husband died of tuberculosis and a failing cotton crop meant
work dried up in the fields, was followed by a hard life in a
New Delhi slum. After arriving in the Indian capital 10 years
ago, Nazia begged on the streets before landing work as a day
laborer on construction sites. Her third son, Rashid, was
fathered by a different man.  At 5 feet and 3 inches (1.6 meters), Nazia weighs 43
kilograms (95 pounds). Her hands, rough and torn from years of
lifting bricks and balancing them on a small turban over her
head, move feverishly as she rolls wheat dough into a type of
unleavened bread called rotis for dinner on a recent weeknight.  Sitting on the floor in their 7-foot by 8-foot home, she
and her sons, Aslam, 12, and Akbar, 14, eat a hurried dinner, a
bare lamp providing the only light. The brick-built room, topped
with a patchwork corrugated metal roof in a small, illegal
shanty-town between the Old Delhi  railway station  and the
tourist spots of the Jama Masjid and the Red Fort, smells of old
sweat and fresh sewage.  Daily Diet  Three rotis each, a gruel of potatoes and curry powder, an
onion and a chili make up a typical dinner. Once a week in
summer, they share two mangoes, with Nazia sucking on the flesh
left around the seed after the boys eat most of the fruit. Lunch
is the same, which the boys serve themselves cold from a small
steel container, and breakfast is tea and two slices of coarse
white bread. It all adds up to a daily consumption of 1,500
calories to 1,600 calories of mostly carbohydrates.  That places the family in the poorest quarter of Indians in
terms of nutrition, with the group averaging 1,624 calories a
day, according to Bloomberg calculations based on National
Sample Survey data. The poorest 10th on average consume 1,485
calories -- a little more than a McDonald’s  Big Mac with large
Coke and large fries .  ‘Blunt Tool’  Calories are a blunt tool for understanding malnourishment,
according to Angus Deaton, a Princeton economist who has studied
India closely. While gains against malnourishment largely
stalled between 1999 and 2005, two earlier surveys showed
dropping calorie counts even as nourishment indicators improved,
he said.  That suggests “the real focus should be on improving
health, not just improving calorie counts,” Deaton said in a
May 21 interview.  Indian lifestyles have changed since the early 1970’s, he
said. More people in rural areas own bicycles, saving energy
moving around and transporting things. Farm machinery is more
widespread, cutting down on tilling and planting by hand.
Ailments like malaria and diarrhea are less common as the supply
of potable water improved.  “If you’re doing less manual labor, if your children are
falling sick less often, then you need fewer calories,” Deaton
said. “This is a natural progression of the Indian diet.
Focusing just on calories is misleading.”  ‘Republic of Hunger’  Not everyone agrees. Utsa Patnaik, a professor at New
Delhi-based Jawaharlal Nehru University and author of “The
Republic of Hunger,” said that the decline in calorie
consumption is the result of a shortage of food availability,
and a capitalist economy that hasn’t spread the benefits of
India’s economic boom equitably.  Her research shows that per-capita availability of rice,
wheat and other food-grains in India has fallen from 177
kilograms in the early 1990s to 153 kilos in 2004 -- about what
it was in 1934. Much of the deterioration in  food security  has
come after Singh began opening  India’s economy  to free-market
competition.  “Forty years of efforts to raise how much food-grains
Indians are able to eat has been destroyed by a mere dozen years
of economic reform,” Patnaik said.  Riddled With Graft  The government has expanded subsidy programs, spending
about $11 billion in 2011 -- about 5 percent of the central
government’s $231 billion budget -- to buy and distribute food
at below-market prices to people officially designated as poor.  More than 30 investigations by the National Human Rights
Commission, the  Supreme Court  and anti-corruption agencies such
as the  Central Bureau of Investigation  have concluded that the
public distribution is riddled with graft. As much as 40 percent
of food purchased for the poor doesn’t reach them, according to
the UN’s Standing Committee on Nutrition.  “Subsidies don’t reach the poor. Trickle-down doesn’t
reach the poor. Nothing reaches the poor,” said Yogendra Alagh,
an economist in Gujarat state who first proposed in 1972 the
calorie guidelines that still govern food policy in India. “In
the past two or three decades, we’ve regressed backwards into a
country that can’t even guarantee a poor, pregnant woman a glass
of milk so the next generation isn’t born stunted.”  At the same time, the number of rich is swelling.
Households with more than $1 million in assets jumped 21 percent
in the past year alone, a May 31  Boston Consulting Group report 
shows.  Efforts to improve sanitation are struggling to keep pace
with a growing population and the spread of urban slums.  Fecal Matter  More than half of India’s population defecate daily in
fields, bushes, beaches and other open spaces, according to a
2012 report by the World Health Organization and Unicef.
Diarrhea among children younger than 5 years accounts for more
than 47 percent of the total health-related economic impact of
contaminated water and untreated fecal matter, according to a
2010 report by the  World Bank ’s Water and Sanitation Program.  Nazia’s family must pay to use a communal toilet. The
queues are often so long, the stench so overpowering, that the
boys defecate in an open sewer not far from the slum.  Every third night Nazia cooks dal, a curry of lentils
common across north India, their calorie intake increases
slightly, and the boys get some protein. On Fridays, after
visiting a nearby mosque to pray, she makes a curry of eggs.
Once a year, to mark the end of the month of day-time fasting
called Ramadan, she buys some mutton.  “You should see how happy they are that day,” she said.
“They talk about it for weeks before, and weeks after.”  Country Life  Nazia recalls when she first moved to Delhi she thought, if
nothing else, she and her children would be eating more, if not
better. Instead, recounting the meals she was able to pull
together -- with spinach from a small plot of land behind her
hut, carrots when they were in season, coarse brown rice and
yoghurt from the milk of a family goat, Nazia realizes that for
her family the escape to Delhi has been a nutritional disaster.  A detailed description of her meals in the country yields
an intake of about 1,800 calories a day, and far more nutrients
-- calcium, vitamin A and protein -- than her diet in Delhi.  “If you had told me in the village that I wouldn’t get to
eat any yoghurt in the city, I would have called you a liar,”
she said, during one of eight interviews at the family’s home.  Richer, Hungrier  Instead, her move to New Delhi made her among the country’s
biggest losers in terms of calories. The greatest drop in
consumption, on average, is for village dwellers who migrated to
the cities in the past 30 years. They’ve seen their intake fall
to about 2,000 calories a day from about 2,200 calories in a
village in the 1980s, National Sample Survey Office data show.  At the same time, Nazia’s income has doubled. She remembers
living on 20 to 30 rupees (40-50 cents) a day in the village,
where she didn’t have to pay rent. It’s a common trajectory, as
traced out by the nutrition data: Indians like Nazia have seen
measurable increases in income, with real GDP per capita almost
doubling to 48,734 rupees ($873) a year in the past decade. And
like Nazia, on average, they now consume fewer calories and less
nourishing food.  These meals eat up almost a third of the 80 cents a day
Nazia earns from her work at a construction site near the Old
Delhi railway station. Nazia said she is too weak to labor more
than four hours at a stretch. Because her children are young,
they work only around the house, sometimes helping neighbors
with chores in exchange for handfuls of uncooked rice.  The reasons behind the decline in urban calories are
unclear.  Urban Costs  One theory argues that much of the increased income from
moving to cities is spent on expenses forced upon slum-dwellers.
Their children fall sick more often from dirty water; they must
pay for transportation to work sites; they must pay rent rather
than live in huts they built themselves.  “These are the costs of participating in the urban
economy,” said Madhura Swaminathan, an economist at Kolkata’s
Indian Statistical Institute. “Your increased income is
canceled out by increased expenditure. In the end, you have even
less left for food.”  That’s what happened to Mohamed Hafiz Khan, 40, and his
family of five. In 1992, they moved to  Mumbai , joining the
economic refugees who flock to the city at a rate of one person
every eight minutes. Most end up in slums, like the one where
Khan lives with his wife Shabana and their four children.  Kerosene Prices  Khan, who works as a tailor, spends almost $90 out of the
$150 he makes each month on food and kerosene for the family’s
stove. In 1992, he paid $6.40 a month from his $38 wage for
their 12-foot by 8-foot home in the Dharavi slum. This year,
rent is $36 a month. His children fall sick almost twice a
month, and the doctor’s fees add up. Their diet deteriorated as
the price of kerosene in the slum’s black market soared.  While Singh’s government subsidizes the fuel, the Khans
said corrupt local officials are siphoning off their allotment,
forcing them to buy on the black market. Benchmark Asian prices
of Kerosene in  Singapore  have risen fivefold in the past decade.  The four children used to drink Complan or Horlicks,
enriched supplements their mother would mix with milk. They no
longer do. The Khans used to eat rice, which used up more
kerosene to cook. They no longer do. They used to eat as many
rotis as they wanted to. Now they share 12 because they can’t
afford the kerosene needed to roast them. They eat fruit maybe
once every two weeks. The few vegetables the local market
provides are withered and old.  Fresh Food  Across India, the percentage of daily calorie needs being
met by fruit and vegetables dropped between 1993 and 2010,
according to the National Sample Survey Office. Rural families
get 1.8 percent of their energy from those foods, from 2 percent
in 1993, the data show. For city-dwellers, the share fell to 2.6
percent to 3.3 percent.  In the weeks before he died, Rashid tasted his first ice
cream. Older brother Akbar was given one by a foreign tourist at
the railway station, and he ran back home before it could melt
so he could share it with Rashid.  “It was the sweetest thing I’ve ever had,” said Akbar,
describing how he and Rashid licked the inside of the cardboard
container, and then saved it as a reminder.  Immune System  Both Rashid’s brothers survived malaria, common in Delhi’s
slums during the monsoons, when rain water pools in potholes and
open sewers for the Anopheles mosquito to breed. Rashid was
weaker. Aslam, in an old picture taken for an identity card when
he was three, appears to have rounded cheeks, and his arms were
thicker than Rashid’s, his mother said. That may have been the
result of two years when he lived with his grandparents in the
village. When Akbar was 3, his father had been alive, and food
was not that scarce.  Staff at St. Stephen’s Hospital weighed Rashid when his
mother brought him in, shivering from eight hours of malaria-induced fevers. He weighed 12 kilos and his arms were “thin as
sticks,” said Gaurav, the doctor.  Malnourishment had left his immune system too weak to fight
the parasitic disease. He struggled with the richer hospital
food and wasn’t able to properly absorb the chloroquine he was
given for the malaria. A saline drip helped his condition a
little, said Gaurav, who said he recalled the night so vividly
because Rashid was the first child to die under his care. Gaurav
gave the listless toddler medicines to lower his temperature,
while mother Nazia tried to cool his skin with dampened rags.  To boost Rashid’s energy, Gaurav tried a trick that had
worked with other children in his care: he gave an orderly the
equivalent of 50 cents to buy ice cream.  “He ate three in three hours,” said Nazia.  On August 16, at about 3 a.m., Rashid died in his sleep.  In the refrigerator under the night shift nurse’s desk,
surrounded by fresh syringes and medicines, a fourth cup of
vanilla ice cream sat uneaten.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  