-- Eastern Europe May Benefit From Some Bank Deleveraging, IMF Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-06-13T17:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/eastern-europe-may-benefit-from-some-bank-deleveraging-imf-says.html
Eastern  Europe  would benefit from a
“gradual” and “orderly” reduction of financing from western
lenders that dominate the region’s banking industry,
International Monetary Fund officials said.  While the “era of generous funding” by western banks to
units in the east “is over,” the sale of assets, raising
capital and reducing loans by parent banks shouldn’t lead to a
credit crunch, Bas Bakker, head of the emerging Europe division
at the IMF’s European Department, and Christoph Klingen, his
deputy, wrote in the fund’s official blog on its website.  Eastern Europe relies on financing from western lenders
such as  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  that bankrolled
eastern Europe’s boom until the 2008 global crisis halted
capital flows. Funding from western lenders added 1.5 percentage
points of annual growth between 2003 and 2008 in the countries
that joined the European Union in 2004 and 2007, the IMF says.  “Given the tremendous credit boom many countries in
emerging Europe went through between 2003 and 2008, some gradual
and orderly deleveraging of western parent banks would not be a
bad thing,” Bakker and Klingen wrote. “It would help reduce
the still high external debt in many countries. But orderly and
gradual are the key words.”  Foreign banks have lent the equivalent of as much as 60
percent of gross domestic product to countries in the region,
the biggest recipients being Croatia, Latvia, Slovenia and
 Estonia , with the average at 27 percent of GDP, according to
 Bank for International Settlements  data cited by Bakker and
Klingen.  Funding Cuts  Western lenders, squeezed by deteriorating loan quality
and slowing economic growth as the euro-region turmoil spreads,
are cutting funding to their eastern units as stricter
regulatory requirements force them to sell assets and bolster
capital.  A credit crunch can be avoided if western lenders cut back
their exposures gradually and domestic deposits, other banks
and local financial markets “fill the void,” Bakker and
Klingen wrote.  Before the  European Central Bank ’s longer-term refinancing
operations in December and February improved liquidity
conditions, western banks reduced their funding to lenders in
the region by 8 percent in the second half of last year, they
wrote.  At the same time, eastern European banks collected
“substantial” domestic deposits, resulting in an increase of
funding across the region, except in Slovenia and  Hungary ,
according to Bakker and Klingen.  Policy makers and regulators should facilitate this trend
by maintaining high requirements for liquidity and
capitalization, finding ways to reduce “still high” non-
performing loan levels and promoting local-currency financial
markets, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  