-- ECB Could Start QE Next Week After Greek Election, Nomura Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-13T12:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ecb-could-start-qe-next-week-after-greek-election-nomura-says.html
The  European Central Bank  might have
a “window of opportunity” next week to start buying Italian
and Spanish bonds as part of a so-called quantitative easing
program if an anti-bailout party wins the Greek general election
this weekend, Nomura International Plc said.  “Markets are behaving as if we are heading toward a
breakup and this is very, very worrying for the euro area,”
Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist and a former  Bank of
England  official, told reporters in  London  today. “The ECB
should cut rates by 50 basis points and launch outright QE.”  Spain  and  Italy  appealed to European policy makers to step
up their response to the euro area’s debt crisis after a 100
billion-euro ($125 billion) lifeline for Spanish banks failed to
calm markets.  Greece ’s election on June 17 may determine whether
the country stays in the euro after an inconclusive May 6 ballot
showed gains for political parties such as Syriza that oppose
terms of the country’s international bailouts.  While the ECB has said it’s opposed to QE as it might be
seen as bailing out governments, “there might be a window of
opportunity next week if Syriza should win and the whole market
moves toward a proper Greek-euro exit,” Sondergaard said.  ‘Serious Business’  If the ECB bought about 500 billion euros of mainly Italian
and Spanish bonds over the next six to nine months, that “would
be a number markets would take as positive,” he said.  “We are in this unstable equilibrium where it’s not really
fundamentals that matter,” he said. This “should tell the ECB
that this is serious business and they should push aside all
these considerations that they’ve had so far in terms of moral
hazard, in terms of reluctance to bail out governments, and step
in as soon as possible.”  In the event of a Greek exit, authorities might also have
to consider  capital controls  to prevent the flight of money from
countries such as Spain to  Germany , the economist said.  “We’re stuck with a euro area with a too tight fiscal
policy, too tight monetary policy and a lot of regulatory
pressure on the banks and that is pushing the euro area toward
its breaking point,” Sondergaard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  