-- Edwards Won’t Be Retried on Remaining Counts, U.S. Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/edwards-won-t-be-retried-on-remaining-five-counts-u-s-says.html
John Edwards , the former U.S.
senator and presidential candidate, won’t be retried for
campaign-finance crimes after a jury deadlocked last month, the
U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Prosecutors asked a federal judge in Greensboro, North
Carolina, to dismiss the felony charges. The move came after
Edwards was found not guilty on May 31 of one count of violating
campaign finance laws. U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles
declared a mistrial on the remaining counts.  The department decided not to retry Edwards “in the
interest of justice”  Lanny Breuer , the chief of the criminal
division, said in a statement.  “We knew that this case, like all campaign finance cases,
would be challenging,” Breuer said. “But it is our duty to
bring hard cases when we believe that the facts and the law
support charging a candidate for high office with a crime.”  Edwards, a Democrat who was U.S. Senator  John Kerry ’s
running mate in the 2004 presidential election, was charged with
using illegal campaign contributions to hide an extramarital
affair while seeking the Democratic nomination for president.  Edwards is “grateful” that the Justice Department decided
to dismiss the charges, his attorney, Abbe Lowell, said in a
statement.  “While John has repeatedly admitted to his sins, he has
also consistently asserted, as we demonstrated at the trial,
that he did not violate any campaign law nor even imagined that
any campaign laws could apply,” Lowell said.  The U.S. was unlikely to retry Edwards on the five counts,
a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 