-- Egypt Government Gives Military Police Right to Detain Civilians
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-13T16:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/egypt-government-gives-military-police-right-to-detain-civilians.html
Egypt ’s military police and military
intelligence have been empowered to arrest civilians under a
decree issued by Justice Minister Adel Abdel-Hamid after the
country’s state of emergency lapsed last month.  The new guidelines go into effect from tomorrow until a new
constitution is drafted and put in place, the Justice Ministry
said in a faxed statement today.  The move comes a day after the ruling military council
warned it would not shy away from the use of force against
anyone trying to disrupt a runoff presidential vote slated to
begin on June 16. That pits the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed
Mursi against Ahmed Shafik, who briefly served as ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier.  The military, which took over after Mubarak was pushed from
office in a mass uprising last year, has vowed it will hand over
power to a civilian president by the end of June. It has also
stressed that it has a historic responsibility to protect Egypt,
especially during the transitional period.  Egypt has yet to agree a new constitution, though a new
committee charged with drafting the charter was elected
yesterday. An earlier constitutional committee was disbanded
after a court ruling against its composition. Secularists and
others had complained it was dominated by Islamists, and the
same complaints surfaced after the new panel was selected.  The military, initially hailed by activists for what many
saw as their support of the uprising, has come under attack for
what critics say are its heavy-handedness in dealing with
protesters in several demonstrations that have turned deadly.  The state of emergency had given authorities powers to
detain civilians, often without charge and for extended periods
of time without due process. The Islamist-dominated parliament
did not renew the measure, which elapsed at the end of May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  