-- Egypt’s Parliament Chooses Panel to Write New Constitution
-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-13T00:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/egypt-s-parliament-chooses-panel-to-write-new-constitution.html
Egypt ’s parliament elected a 100-
member committee to draft a new constitution for the country,
Middle East News Agency reported, as boycotts clouded the
process days before a presidential runoff.  The panel chosen last night will include former Egyptian
presidential contenders Amre Moussa and Mohammed selim el-Awa;
Major General Mamdouh Shahine, a member of the ruling military
council; and Mohammed al-Beltaji of the Freedom and Justice
Party, the political wing of the Muslim Brotherhood, according
to Cairo-based MENA.  Bickering over the makeup of the panel has delayed the
drafting of the new constitution, which is expected to lay out
the powers of the president. A previous committee on the
constitution was disbanded following a court ruling about its
composition.  Parliament speaker Mohammed Saad el-Katatni said that 85
percent of the chamber’s legislators participated in last
night’s vote, MENA reported.  Fifty-seven lawmakers, including independents and members
of political parties, withdrew from the meeting to protest the
“stubbornness” of other legislators, the state-run  news agency 
reported, citing lawmaker Ahmed Ziad Bahaa Eddin. The parties
that left include the Free Egyptians Party, co-founded by
billionaire Naguib Sawiris, according to MENA.  “Sadly, over the past few weeks we had hopes for reaching
real consensus, but this didn’t happen,” MENA cited Bahaa Eddin
as saying. “We are forced to withdraw after exhausting all
efforts to reopen discussions to realize consensus.”  Holding Power  Egypt’s  Constitutional Court  is to begin evaluating
tomorrow a law that would bar some former top officials who
served under Mubarak in his last decade in power from holding
top posts, including the presidency.  The court also will look at the law that regulated the
parliamentary elections. If the court rules against the law,
parliament could be disbanded.  A decisive second round of voting that pits the Muslim
Brotherhood’s presidential hopeful against Ahmed Shafik, who
served as  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier, is scheduled to begin on
June 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  