-- Egypt May Keep Interest Rates on Hold as Inflation Slows
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/egypt-may-keep-interest-rates-on-hold-as-inflation-slows.html
Egypt’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as pressure on the
currency offsets concerns about the economy’s slow growth.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent when
it meets today, according to all seven economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. The bank usually meets at 3 p.m. and announces
the decision two hours later.  The inflation rate is low and the economy is weak, yet
“the risk of a currency crisis is still high,” said Said Hirsh,
an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London . “We don’t think
that the central bank will cut rates yet.”  Annual inflation in urban areas, the gauge the central bank
monitors, slowed to 8.3 percent in May from 8.8 percent in April.
Economic growth has been the weakest in decades after the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  last year deterred tourists and
investors. The election of a successor is due to be completed in
a two-day runoff vote on June 16 and 17.  The pound has only fallen about 4 percent against the
dollar since the start of last year, less than most emerging-
market currencies.   The central bank raised the key interest rate by one
percentage point in November, citing inflationary pressures,
though some economists said it was intended to prevent a run on
the pound.  Runoff Vote  Egypt requested a $3.2 billion-loan from the IMF in
January. Talks have dragged on amid wrangling between the
interim government and the Islamist-dominated parliament, and
were put on hold during the presidential vote. Economists such
as Raza Agha of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc say IMF
support is necessary to rebuild investor confidence in  Egypt 
after the revolt.  The second-round election pits the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Mohamed Mursi and Ahmed Shafik, who served as premier in the
last weeks of Mubarak’s rule. The contest between an Islamist
and a figure from the old regime has already sparked protests
and a legal challenge to Shafik’s candidacy.  The election won’t “end the uncertainty,” Agha said in an
e-mailed response to questions. Investors are concerned about
public reactions to the vote results, and what policies will be
pursued by a new administration, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  