-- Egypt Vigilante Justice Shows Law Breakdown Shaping Vote
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-14T13:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/egypt-vigilante-justice-shows-law-breakdown-shaping-vote.html
When he saw two youths abducting a
young girl on a busy Cairo street while passers-by just watched,
Zakariya Serageddin said he had no choice but to take the law
into his own hands.  After he and other men captured the two assailants, they
tied them to a tree, coating their bodies with syrup to attract
ants. For Serageddin, a 33-year-old carpenter, the episode two
months ago was emblematic of what has befallen  Egypt  since the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  “The only ones who benefited from this revolution are the
criminals,” he said, shaking his head.  The breakdown of security has shaped the contest to succeed
Mubarak. Fear of crime, along with suspicion about the intention
of Islamists who dominate the parliament, helped propel Ahmed Shafik, a former Mubarak aide running on pledges to restore law
and order, into the two-man run-off vote on June 16 and 17. He
will compete against the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi.  That choice between political Islam and a figure from the
old regime has failed to satisfy many Egyptians. Many are
refusing to vote because, as Serageddin puts it, “neither one
is really interested in the problems here.” Protests and calls
for a boycott of the vote have spread, undermining the election
that was supposed to complete Egypt’s transition to civilian
rule and offer an opportunity to revive its moribund economy.  ‘Egyptian Street’  “Investors continue to have concerns about how the
Egyptian street will take the election results,” said Raza Agha, a London-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. More important than who wins next week is “political
stability, a prudent policy agenda, and one that preferably
involves an IMF program,” he said.  Talks with the  International Monetary Fund  on a $3.2
billion loan are on hold. Officials say the money is crucial to
reassure other donors and plug what the IMF says is the  Middle
East ’s largest budget gap. Borrowing costs are near record
highs, with the government paying about 16 percent on one-year
debt, and the  benchmark stock index  has slumped 11 percent since
the first round of voting ended May 24.  The military council that has run Egypt since Mubarak’s
fall says it will hand over power this month. Aware that a
boycott could delegitimize the vote, the ruling generals have
joined the Brotherhood in urging Egyptians to cast ballots.  It’s “very understandable” that Egyptians like Serageddin
feel alienated from the electoral process, and the generals are
mostly to blame, said  Shadi Hamid , head of research at Brookings
Doha Center.  ‘Divide and Conquer’  The army council has “played divide and conquer,” he said
in a phone interview. “It’s pitted one Egyptian party against
the other and has created a climate of paranoia, conspiracy
theories and endless accusations.”  Shafik, a former air force officer widely seen as the
army’s preferred candidate, has campaigned on the need to
restore law and order. While statistics on crime haven’t been
made publicly available, newspapers are filled with reports of
assaults, robberies, car-jackings and attempted rapes. Shafik
also plays on the fear of a religious takeover among some
Egyptians, promising to keep the state secular.  Mursi, who heads the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party, the largest group in parliament, casts himself as the
revolutionary candidate. He won backing from the April 6 youth
movement, one of the key forces in the January 2011 uprising
against Mubarak. The group, which has frequently criticized the
Brotherhood, said on June 12 it would put aside those
differences to endorse Mursi because “the choice now is between
the revolution and the old regime.”  ‘All These Sacrifices’  To allay concern about Islamist dominance, Mursi has
promised to include youth activists, women’s groups and the
Coptic Christian minority in his administration, even hinting he
could appoint a Christian vice president.  Mursi and Shafik won about half the first-round vote
between them, and as the most divisive figures in that contest
they are struggling to win over supporters of other candidates.
Mary Daniel, who voted for secular socialist Hamdeen Sabahi,
said she’ll sit out the second round.  “Did we have a revolution and make all these sacrifices to
end up with Shafik and Mursi,” said Daniel, wearing a pendant
with a picture of her brother, who died last October in clashes
between security forces and protesters. “Shafik is responsible
for the killings” of demonstrators last year, while the
Brotherhood has sold out for “political gains,” she said.  ‘Utter Confusion’  Adding to the confusion surrounding the election is
uncertainty over what powers the winner will exercise. Efforts
by legislators to select a committee to draft the new
constitution, which will define the roles of the president and
parliament, have been held up as secular groups quit the body,
saying Islamists are seeking to dominate it.  One potential risk to the vote was removed today when the
 Constitutional Court  overturned a law that would have barred
senior Mubarak-era officials from holding top government posts.
A ruling that the law was valid could have thrown Shafik’s
participation in the election into doubt, since he served as
premier in the last weeks of Mubarak’s rule.  Whether Shafik or Mursi wins, there is little prospect of
stability anytime soon, said Hani Sabra, an analyst at the New
York-based Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk for
investors.  “You need to have a situation where all the political
powers feel they have a stake,” he said. “It’s utter confusion
at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 