-- Melco Discount Grows as Euro Woes Spur ADR Drop: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-13T21:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/melco-discount-grows-as-euro-woes-spur-adr-drop-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S.
slid from a two-week high and  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) 
slumped as concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread outweighed
prospects of more stimulus for Asia’s biggest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (SHCOMP)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped 0.9 percent to 90.50
yesterday. Melco Crown, a Macau casino operator, traded at the
biggest discount to Hong Kong shares since June 1 after the
city’s gaming revenue outlook was cut.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  led peers
lower as Jefferies Group Inc. said European demand for panels
slowed. E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. jumped after the National
Business Daily reported a deal with Tencent Holdings Ltd.  China cut its benchmark  interest rates  last week for the
first time since 2008 as May economic data showed inflation
slowed more than economists’ forecasts and industrial production
grew less than projected. Borrowing costs increased at debt
auctions yesterday in  Germany  and Italy, and European Union data
showed Euro-area industrial production declined for a second
month in April, adding to signs of a deepening economic slump.  “For the next several months, we are still going to be
overshadowed by the macro economic background in Europe,”  Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of  emerging
markets  at F&C Asset Management Plc in  London , said by phone
yesterday. “China will roll out incremental measures to help
the economy and can manage to engineer a soft landing, while
what happens in Greece, Spain and Italy will obviously have a
very significant impact on sentiment toward emerging markets
like China.”  Melco Sinks  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, increased 0.4 percent to a
four-day high of $33.67. The Shanghai Composite Index of
mainland stocks advanced 1.3 percent to 2,318.92, the most since
May 17. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,314.88 after U.S. retail sales fell in May for a second month.  Melco’s American depositary receipts sank to $11.75,
snapping a six-day rally. The ADRs, each representing three
underlying shares in the company, traded 3.1 percent below its
Hong Kong stock, the widest  discount  since June 1.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets lowered its 2012 gaming revenue
growth forecast for Macau, the only Chinese city where casinos
are legal, to 16 percent from its previous estimate of 21
percent. CLSA also reduced Melco’s 12-month price target to $20
from $23.20.  “There’s a lot of scrutiny on MPEL because it’s a pure
play on Macau,”  David Bain ,  Newport Beach , California.-based
analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., said by phone yesterday.
“However, Melco stands to benefit from another interest rate
cut in China and will certainly be helped by getting approval
for the construction of its Studio City project. They have a
pipeline which not a lot of other players do.”  LDK, Trina Tumble  LDK, the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, tumbled 7
percent to $1.98, the biggest loss since June 1, after a 17
percent surge the previous day.  Chinese solar makers rallied June 12 after First Solar
Inc., the world’s largest maker of thin-film panels, said it
plans to increase production at its factory in  Frankfurt  an der
Oder, Germany, to meet demand in Europe for its products. First
Solar’s 21 percent advance on June 12 was “not warranted” as
German demand is “lower than expected,” and Italy has “slowed
markedly,” Jefferies analyst  Jesse Pichel  said in a research
note yesterday.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  China’s third-biggest maker of solar
panels, retreated 6.5 percent to $6.21, while  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest panel maker, lost 2.9 percent
to $1.69. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. slipped 2.2 percent to
$2.68.  Dangdang Surges  E-Commerce, China’s biggest Internet book retailer also
known as Dangdang, jumped 10 percent to $5.87 in  New York , the
strongest level since May 17.  Dangdang has reached an agreement with Tencent, China’s
biggest Internet company, to operate book and baby products
sales for Tencent’s online store, the Chinese-language National
Business Daily reported today, citing unidentified people at
both companies. Tencent plans to invest $1 billion in its e-
commerce unit, it said in a May 24 statement.  “People think Dangdang’s association with Tencent will be
good as Tencent will spend on e-commerce,” said Andy Yeung, a
New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s biggest life
insurer, advanced for a fourth day, the longest winning streak
since Feb. 3, after Capital Securities Corp., a Taipei-based
securities brokerage, said a broadening in insurers’ investment
scope may help boost their returns.  Its ADRs advanced 1.9 percent to $36.97, the highest level
in a month. The ADRs traded 1 percent lower than China Life’s
Hong Kong shares yesterday, from a 0.7 percent premium on June
12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  