-- Telefonica, Iusacell to Share Networks to Fend Off Slim
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-14T10:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/telefonica-iusacell-said-to-share-wireless-gear-to-battle-slim.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Grupo Iusacell SA,
trailing  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in  Mexico ’s phone
market, will share their networks to challenge the billionaire’s
supremacy.  The accord between the second- and third-largest Mexican
mobile-phone carriers enables them to use each other’s wireless
towers and fiber-optic cables, the companies said yesterday in
Mexico City. The five-year arrangement includes roaming
agreements across the country, and the companies will
collaborate on network expansion.  The alliance helps cut investment costs for Madrid-based
Telefonica, which is seeking to reduce 57.1 billion euros ($71.8
billion) in debt after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the company’s
 credit rating  last month. It also gives Telefonica access to
land-line assets in Mexico that the company has been unable to
buy itself because of a cap on foreign ownership.  “With alliances like this, both companies are showing
their willingness to invest in Mexico and offer lower prices and
better coverage,” Adrian Steckel, chief executive officer of
Iusacell, said yesterday at a news conference.  The agreement will enable the companies to “share without
halting competition,” Mony de Swaan, president of Mexico’s
Federal Telecommunications Commission, said at the news
conference. The accord won’t require regulatory approval, he
said.  Joint Venture  The move follows Telefonica’s deal last week to form a U.K.
network-management joint venture with  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) 
Telefonica said last month it’s also exploring the sale of
shares in its Latin American businesses and its German unit.
Telefonica is considering more network-sharing arrangements like
its Mexico and U.K. deals, said Juan Abellan, president of the
company’s Mexico unit.  Telefonica  rose  as much as 1.2 percent to 9.92 euros and
was trading up 1.1 percent at 12:31 p.m. in Madrid.  Iusacell, closely held by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , is
seeking ways to boost its market share after getting a $1.6
billion investment from broadcaster  Grupo Televisa SAB. (TLEVICPO)  Mexico
City-based Iusacell had 5.4 million mobile-phone subscribers at
the end of last year, according to Televisa’s annual report,
representing 5.7 percent of the market.  Telefonica has 20 percent of mobile-phone subscribers, and
Mexico City-based America Movil has 70 percent.  Convertible Debt  By investing in Iusacell, Televisa received debt
convertible into a 50 percent stake in the mobile-phone carrier.
The broadcaster hasn’t been able to convert the debt because
Mexico’s antitrust agency rejected the agreement in January. The
companies are awaiting word from the agency on the appeal of the
decision. Steckel declined to comment yesterday on the antitrust
case.  Televisa and Telefonica, along with cable-TV carrier
 Megacable Holdings SAB (MEGACPO) , also have a joint venture to operate
fiber-optic lines owned by the state-run electricity utility.  Televisa gained 1.4 percent to 55.03 pesos yesterday in
Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  