-- Temasek’s Tan Says Indonesia Remains Interesting Deal Market
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-06-13T05:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/temasek-s-tan-says-indonesia-remains-interesting-deal-market.html
Tan Chong Lee, chief investment
officer of Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned
investment company, comments on the outlook in  Indonesia , new
hires and market prospects.  He made the comments in a June 11 interview at the
company’s headquarters.  On Indonesia’s regulatory changes:  “We take things in our stride. The banking sector, not
only in Indonesia, is a regulated sector.  ‘‘Indonesia is broadly accepted to be an interesting market
for banking. It has one of the lowest penetration, and for that
reason, there continues to be significant interest in Indonesia,
in particular the banking market.  ‘‘If you look at many of the growth markets, countries are
going through a particular phase, an evolutionary phase. It’s
not surprising to see rules being put in place.  ‘‘Ultimately when we look at growth markets such as
Indonesia, we ask ourselves whether the fundamentals are
attractive. That is really the starting point. Like many of the
growth markets, Indonesia is very interesting. It has a very low
penetration rate in terms of banking, a fast rising middle
income population, it’s a very resource-rich country. We believe
Indonesia is an interesting investment destination and we
continue to see if there are interesting investment
opportunities for us in Indonesia.’’  On recent hires, including Boon Sim, who joined as president of
 North America  this month from Credit Suisse Group AG, where he’s
global head of mergers and acquisitions at the Swiss bank:  ‘‘It signals to the marketplace that we are reinforcing our
bench strength and building a capacity to better evaluate and
better source deals in those regions.’’  On its investing strategy:  ‘‘I’m not so sure that one can actually catch the top and
the bottom. We don’t believe that we can outsmart the market on
a daily basis. When we do investments, we are guided by what we
believe is the long-term potential of the investment. Therefore,
when we look at an investment, the entry becomes quite an
important consideration.  ‘‘At the same time, in a market dislocation, in volatile
markets, we may be able to make investments which otherwise in a
normal market may not be possible. Therefore, it’s important
that we make the investment at the right point in the cycle. As
long as you have the capacity to hold investments, and your
horizon is long enough, provided you buy the right business that
rises on the right fundamentals, then over a period of time,
over the long term, your investment thesis can materialize.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  