-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 2-Week High on China Subsidies
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-13T22:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/emerging-stocks-rise-to-2-week-high-on-china-subsidies.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed to a
two-week high as signs of a pick-up in technology demand and
speculation China will take more steps to bolster economic
growth overshadowed concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.7 percent to 919.47
at the close in New York, the highest level this month. Cyrela
Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes surged 5.1
percent, while United Spirits Ltd. rose to lead the advance in
the index. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 0.6 percent on gains for
OAO Gazprom Neft. Brazil’s Bovespa advanced, led by Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA, a real estate developer.  A gauge of technology stocks rose 0.7 percent after  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest maker of
custom chips, said demand for leading-edge chip technology is
still strong.  China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  jumped
the most since October 2011 in Hong Kong after China said it
will give trade-in subsidies of as much as 18,000  yuan  ($2,826)
for the replacement of some commercial vehicles.  “The market is being held up by perceived corporate
catalysts and optimism of more subsidies at a time when Europe
is still struggling with its debt crisis,”  Jonathan Ravelas ,
chief market strategist at Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , said
by phone. “This rally won’t last until Europe takes more
concrete steps.”  Europe Crisis  The MSCI developing-nation gauge has slumped 15 percent
from this year’s peak on March 2 on concern Europe will struggle
to contain its debt crisis and growth in the U.S. and China is
slowing.  The  index  has risen 0.3 percent this year, compared with a
0.6 percent gain in the MSCI World Index. Shares in the
 emerging-markets  index are trading at 10 times estimated
earnings, cheaper than the MSCI World’s multiple of 11.8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brookfield gained 6.4 percent to the highest level this
month in Sao Paulo, lifting Brazil’s Bovespa by 1.1 percent. as
OAO Gazprom Neft added 3 percent to lead gains in the index.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.1 percent in Istanbul
and the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  gained 0.5 percent.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  jumped 0.4 percent, a second day of
gains.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the nation’s largest lender, gained for a
second day, rising 1.2 percent, after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said the government may scrap a special bank tax from next
year.  The  PX Index (PX)  in the Czech Republic rose for the first time
in four days, adding 0.4 percent as  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  climbed
0.2 percent.  Economic Data  Economic reports today showed South Korean unemployment
fell to a four-month low and machinery orders rose more than
economists estimated in Japan. Moody’s Investors Service said
Australia’s economic strength is “very high.”  Machinery orders in Japan jumped, with bookings, an
indicator of  capital spending , rising 5.7 percent on the month
in April, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo. That was more than
triple the pace estimated by economists.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 1.5 percent. The 21st Century Business
Herald reported China may relax rules on lending to local
government financing vehicles and property developers.  Equity Benchmarks  Zhongsheng Group Holdings Ltd. (881) , a retailer of automobiles,
surged 6.5 percent. The subsidies will be given for the
replacement of some trucks and buses, the Ministry of Finance
said on its website today.  Equity benchmarks advanced at least 0.2 percent in
Indonesia, South Korea and Taiwan. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
gained 0.1 percent.  Taiwan Semiconductor rose 0.8 percent in Taipei. The
company’s outlook remains unchanged, Chairman  Morris Chang  said
in a shareholders meeting yesterday.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 392, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  