-- Tepco’s Loan Said to Have ‘Strict’ Profit and Assets Covenants
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-06-13T08:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/tepco-s-loan-said-to-have-strict-profit-and-assets-covenants.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s new loan
that is part of the nation’s largest bailout in more than a
decade will come with “strict” covenants triggering repayment,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Banks offering the loan to Tepco, as the utility is known,
can ask for repayment in full if its profit or net assets fall
25 percent below targets stipulated in the company’s business
plan for two consecutive quarters, the people said. The
conditions will apply to a 370 billion yen ($4.6 billion)
portion of Tepco’s 1 trillion yen loan, they said.  The funds are part of  Japan ’s bailout for the owner of the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Banks, whose loans
supported Tepco after the March 11 disaster locked it out of the
 bond market , are requiring stringent repayment conditions in
exchange for offering low  interest rates  to the utility, the
people said today.  “This is a negative for bond investors,” because the
covenants mean banks will be repaid first in case of a default,
Hisayoshi Nogawa, a Tokyo-based structured credit strategist at
BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview today. “Chances
that things will get so bad for the company as to trigger these
conditions are pretty low.”  Under the business revival plan announced last month, the
utility aims for an unconsolidated profit of 106.7 billion yen
in the year ending March 2014, based on an electricity rate
increase and the gradual restart of its Kashiwazaki Kariwa
nuclear station after April 2013. Tepco forecasts  net loss  will
narrow to 201.4 billion yen this fiscal year, from a 781.6
billion yen shortfall in the period ended March 31.  “We are continuing to negotiate with financial
institutions regarding the details of financings,” Tepco’s
spokesman Masanori Suto said by telephone today.  The company has 4.25 trillion yen of bonds outstanding,
including 449 billion yen due this year, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . It also has 3.72 trillion yen of long-and
short-term loans that aren’t guaranteed, the utility said last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  