-- Merck’s Experimental Insomnia Pill Looks to Top Ambien
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-13T20:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/merck-pill-to-quell-alertness-reduces-insomnia-in-study.html
An experimental insomnia drug from
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  that’s designed to turn off wakefulness rather than
subdue the brain into slumber, helped people fall and stay
asleep, according to results from two clinical trials.  Patients taking the medicine, called suvorexant, fell
asleep faster and spent less time awake at night than those on a
placebo, according to the Merck-sponsored studies. The company
plans to seek U.S. regulatory approval of the pill this year.  About 70 million, or one-third of American adults, have
trouble falling or staying asleep, according to the American
Psychiatric Association. Suvorexant would compete with drugs
such as Ambien and Lunesta in a market expected to reach $3.5
billion by 2019, according to research firm Datamonitor. If
cleared for sale, suvorexant would be the first of a novel class
of medicines designed to aid in sleep by turning down the
systems in the brain that keep a person awake.  “The therapy of insomnia has changed from trying to
augment the power of the sleep system to trying to inhibit the
wake system,” said  Thomas Roth , director of the Sleep Disorders
and Research Center at  Henry Ford Health System  in  Detroit , in
an interview. Roth worked with Merck on the study and consults
with other drugmakers on insomnia therapies.  The  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based drugmaker released
three-month data from yearlong  studies  of about 1,000 people
each, showing that patients fell asleep faster when given the
drug than when not taking it, or when on a placebo. They also
stayed asleep longer without waking up when taking the drug,
Merck said in a statement describing the data.  Merck declined 1.2 percent to $38.40 at the close in  New
York .  Side Effects  The most reported side effect was sleepiness upon waking
up, seen in 10.7 percent of patients in one trial and 10.3
percent in the second trial; and headaches, seen in 6.8 percent
of patients in one trial and 7.5 percent in the other, according
to Merck. Suvorexant met all of both studies’ goals except for a
single measurement in one of the trials that found the time to
fall asleep didn’t differ significantly between those who took
the drug and those who got a placebo.  In an earlier study, patients also did better at a driving
test the next day, staying in their lane more than patients on
eszopiclone, the generic name for Lunesta.  The data was released today at the Annual Meeting of the
Associated Professional Sleep Societies in  Boston . Suvorexant is
in the last of three stages of clinical trials before U.S.
regulators decide on approving the drug for sale.  Potential Benefits  The drug may be beneficial in patients with addiction
problems on current sleep drugs, or who suffer from sleep apnea,
where the body briefly stops breathing, Roth said. Current sleep
therapies can suppress respiration. Clinicians are also looking
for therapies that let patients wake easier and don’t cause
dizziness and falls, he said.  “We want drugs that not only improve sleep but the
comorbid conditions associated with sleep” problems, Roth said.
“We think that it has potential.”  More study of the medicines must be done before those sorts
of benefits over existing drugs can be proven, he said.  Merck will also have to gain approval from the Drug
Enforcement Agency, because the pill is classified as a
controlled substance. That will take another six to nine months
after the FDA rules, according to the company.  Subdue Receptors  Ambien and Lunesta, the current best-selling insomnia
medications according to data compiled by Bloomberg, essentially
subdue GABA receptors, which are spread throughout the central
nervous system, putting people to sleep and acting as a muscle
relaxant, anxiety reducer and anti-convulsant. Merck’s drug
works by suppressing orexin receptors, which are only found in
the hypothalamus region of the brain, according to Merck. The
orexin receptors control wakefulness.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , based in  London , has an experimental
orexin blocker that is in the second of three phases of clinical
 development .  Merck estimates that 18 million people in the U.S.
currently get treatment for some form of insomnia, which the
 National Institutes of Health  defines as trouble either going to
sleep of falling asleep.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  