-- Merkel Gives Ground on Growth, Tax to Win Fiscal Pact Support
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-13T14:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/merkel-seeks-fiscal-pact-deal-with-opposition-as-clock-ticks.html
Germany’s opposition parties wrung
crisis-fighting concessions from Chancellor  Angela Merkel  after
threatening to withhold support for her deficit-limit accord in
a parliamentary vote.  With the timeframe narrowing for the government to pass the
fiscal pact and legislation enabling the permanent rescue fund
before the summer recess, Merkel agreed to put revised proposals
for a financial-transaction tax to European finance ministers on
June 22, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, parliamentary leader of the
 Social Democratic Party , told reporters after the talks.  Merkel “said clearly today that, for her, reducing debt in
 Europe  is directly linked to an economic-growth initiative and
employment, and that sustaining state finances also includes
taxation of financial markets,” SPD leader Sigmar Gabriel said
outside the Berlin chancellery. SPD support “depends on the
concrete proposals that we’ll discuss over the next two weeks.”  Defeat or delay of the crisis-fighting legislation would be
a setback for Merkel as she prepares for a meeting of Group of
20 leaders in  Mexico  next week followed by a European summit on
June 28-29. She needs opposition votes to pass the fiscal pact
and the permanent bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, that she has trumpeted as the mainstays of Europe’s
response to the debt crisis.  “Merkel as the champion of austerity needs to fix this
embarrassing back-yard impasse,” Thomas Costerg, an economist
at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said by phone. Not only
does “it look bad if you are trying to browbeat partners to
accept your budget philosophy without your own clear national
support,” any delay in launching the bailout fund “would be
viewed very negatively by markets.”  Hollande Meeting  SPD leaders Gabriel, Steinmeier and  Peer Steinbrueck , the
finance minister in Merkel’s first-term government, are due to
hold talks in Paris later today with French President  Francois Hollande  and Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault. The SPD supports
Hollande’s call for debt sharing and a refocus on growth rather
than Merkel’s austerity drive to tackle the crisis.  State election losses over the last two years of the debt
crisis have left German ratification dependent on the
opposition, whose demands include a pledge to boost growth in
Europe, a fund to pool part of the region’s existing debt and a
tax on trades in shares, bonds and derivatives.  “We’ve reached agreement on very many questions, while
other areas of discussion are still open,”  Volker Kauder , floor
leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, told reporters. A
further round of talks will be held on June 21, he said.  Target Date  The government is sticking to its pledge to pass the
package by parliament’s last session before the summer recess on
July 6. The European Union is targeting July 9 as the start date
for the 500 billion-euro ($627 billion) ESM, an official said
this month.  The two sides edged toward an agreement last week under
which Merkel would seek a financial-transaction tax together
with some euro-area countries. Another opposition demand to pool
part of the region’s existing debt in a so-called redemption
fund was rejected by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  today.  “This fund is a non-starter right now” because it would
breach EU treaty rules against countries assuming each other’s
debts, Schaeuble was quoted as saying in an interview with Stern
magazine. “You can’t have collective liability without a common
fiscal policy.”  Green Party co-leaders Cem Oezdemir and  Juergen Trittin ,
who also took part in the talks with Merkel, said they would
continue to press for the redemption fund. They cited a decision
by the European Parliament today that offers backing for a
similar model of debt sharing.  Ministry Proposals  Schaeuble proposed a 0.1 percent tax on share and bond
trades and a 0.01 percent burden on derivative transactions,
according to a Finance Ministry paper prepared for a previous
round of talks on June 7. The rates are the same as those
proposed by the European Commission in November, according to
the government paper.  At least nine EU countries would have to agree to set up
the levies before the tax could be introduced, the paper said.
 Germany ’s legislation would have to include rules that prevent
investors from devising products that avoid the tax, it said.  Merkel’s government, which has underwritten the biggest
share of bailouts for debt-strapped euro countries, needs a two-
thirds majority in both houses of parliament to back the fiscal
pact. Opposition parties control the upper house, which groups
delegates of Germany’s state governments, and have enough votes
in the lower house, or Bundestag, to block legislation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  