-- Esprit Plummets Second Day as Top Management Quits
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-14T06:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/esprit-plummets-most-since-97-as-top-management-quits.html
As  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) ’s chief
executive officer and chairman quit within 24 hours of each
other, investors’ biggest question was: Who’s in charge?  The fashion brand left the financial community in the dark
on the resignations and succession plans. Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Van der Vis quit June 12 and the Hong Kong-based
company reported the departure of its chairman a day later.  The exits highlight the steady decline of a once-popular
brand that has lost out to rivals including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) 
and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara. The departures, which come six months
after the chief financial officer resigned, leave Esprit with a
gap in senior management as it struggles to recover from a
 three-year  profit decline.  “The moves could lead to questions regarding whether there
are issues with the operation/accounts or there is a power
struggle among the management team and the board,” Anne Ling,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients.  The exact timing of the CEO’s departure will depend on
“how quickly we can get a replacement,” said Patrick Lau, head
of  investor relations , declining to comment further on
succession. Van der Vis is required to give 12 months’ notice,
according to Lau, and the company said he will leave on or
before July 1 next year. Chairman Hans-Joachim Koerber is being
replaced by independent director Raymond Or Ching Fai.  Top Priority  Finding a new CEO is a “top priority,” Or told Hong Kong
broadcaster Now TV today, without specifying a timeline. Or is
the  former  chief executive officer of  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)   Esprit’s stock plunged 22 percent in Hong Kong on June 13,
the most in 15 years, on news of the CEO leaving, before trading
was suspended. The chairman’s departure was reported after the
share suspension. The shares dropped 11 percent to HK$9.37 in
 Hong Kong  trading at 1:34 p.m. today.  “We see strong support at the HK$7-8 range, where private
equity should see a reasonably attractive entry point,”
Religare Capital Markets analyst Peter Williamson said in a
note.  Esprit cited personal reasons for both exits. The retailer
has also had departures from its board, reporting the
resignation of Francesco Trapani, a non-executive director, for
“other personal commitments” in February.  “Who’s going to steer the company?” said Gabriel Chan, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, after the CEO quit. “We know
nothing more than the one-page announcement, and investors hate
such kind of opaqueness.”  Competitors Gain  The drop contrasted with Arteixo, Spain-based Inditex,
which advanced 12 percent in June 13 Madrid trading after
reporting a 30 percent gain in first-quarter profit by adding
stores in  emerging markets  and expanding online offerings.  Esprit had revenue of HK$33.8 billion ($4.4 billion) for
the year ended June 2011, compared with Inditex’s 13.8 billion
euros ($17.4 billion) for the year ended January.  “The fact that Zara and H&M are doing well indicates that
the industry is in a good shape,” said Sandy Mehta, chief
investment officer at Value Investment Principals Ltd. “Esprit
is still a strong global brand, but competition is getting
tougher and it will take longer for Esprit to reposition
itself.”  Esprit board members and senior managers couldn’t be
reached after the company’s statement. Van der Vis declined to
comment when reached on his mobile phone.  San Francisco Brand  Esprit was born in 1968 in  San Francisco , when Susie and
 Doug Tompkins  started selling clothes out of the back of their
station wagon. As the brand took off, sales topped $100 million
in 1978 and international partnerships in Hong Kong and  Germany 
were formed,  according  to the company’s website. By 1996, the
brand was ranked 28th out of the 100 most recognized brands in
the U.S., the website says.  Early signs of trouble appeared in early 2009, when the
clothing retailer said first-half profit fell for the first time
in more than a decade on the recession in Europe, where it made
four-fifths of its sales.  The clothier hired Van der Vis to replace Heinz Krogner in
2009 to help revive the brand.  Van der Vis, a former CEO at optical retail group Pearle
Europe BV, came to Esprit with more than a decade’s experience
in top roles in brand-building and retail, according to the
company’s  website . At Esprit, he pushed to raise sales in  China 
and improve designs as part of his turnaround plan.  Trendy Competitors  In February, he said the clothing retailer would add
sourcing offices in  India  and  Indonesia  to cut costs and add 40
to 50 stores in China as part of its drive to boost profit.  Esprit’s earnings have fallen as it loses customers to Zara
and Stockholm-based H&M, which are seen as trendier by some
younger shoppers. An Esprit store in Hong Kong’s Tsim Sha Tsui
area was quiet on the afternoon of June 13.  “I have an 11- and a 16-year-old and after we’ve been to
the U.S., H&M, that’s what they prefer,” said Lorry Leoncie, a
tourist from  Manila , coming out of a nearby H&M store.  In September, Esprit reported that profit fell 98 percent
and, in a statement, said the brand “has gradually lost its
soul over the past few years.”  “Esprit had become too much a T-shirt company,” Van der
Vis said in the interview with Bloomberg earlier this year.
“The customers I spent a lot of time talking to said: Please
give me back the Esprit I used to know.”  Stock Declines  Esprit, which lost 73 percent of its market value last
year, reported a 74 percent drop in first-half profit in
February.  One issue: Esprit gets about 79 percent of its revenue from
Europe, which is confronting a debt crisis and high
unemployment. Hennes & Mauritz received 52 percent of its sales
in the fiscal year ended November from the euro zone excluding
 Finland , while Inditex got 37 percent from the European Union
and 27 percent from  Spain , based on data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  In February, the brand born in San Francisco said it was
closing all stores in  North America  after failing to find a
buyer for the unprofitable business. Its U.S. and Canadian
operations lost HK$1.6 billion in a four-year period, Esprit
said last year.  Turnaround Continues  While announcing Van der Vis’s departure, Esprit said it
plans to continue with the turnaround efforts. The 44-year-old
Dutchman is leaving just as Esprit started showing some
improvement in same-store sales. The retailer in May said
revenue at outlets open more than a year rose 0.5 percent in the
three months ended March after dropping 4.6 percent in the six
months to December 31.  “The new management team will face a big challenge,” said
Credit Suisse’s Chan. “Not only to revive the brand, but also
putting a team together.”  Van der Vis announced his departure after the resignation
in December of Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun. Thomas
Tang, previously CFO at  Sino Land Co. (83) , succeeded Chew last
month. Tang is at the early stages of learning about Esprit and
would find it difficult to take a temporary CEO role, Mohan Singh, an analyst at CITIC Securities International, wrote to
clients. “The company will immediately lack clear leadership,”
he said.  Key executives are new as well. China chief Holly Li,
 Adidas AG (ADS) ’s former general manager for north China, joined
Esprit on Feb. 1.  “It’s going to be very hard for the company to look for
another CEO, as there aren’t that many people out there with
that kind of experience,” said  Andrew Sullivan , principal
trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“It’s going to take much longer for the company to rebuild its
brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  