-- Esprit Plunges as CEO Quits Amid Push to Revive Earnings
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-13T11:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/esprit-plunges-as-ceo-quits-amid-push-to-revive-earnings.html
  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  reported the
resignation of its chairman a day after Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Van der Vis quit, jeopardizing the apparel retailer’s
turnaround plans.  Esprit  stock  slumped 22 percent to HK$10.54, its biggest
drop since October 1997, before trading in the shares was
suspended in Hong Kong. Hans-Joachim Koerber resigned as
chairman and Raymond Or Ching Fai takes over effective today,
Esprit said after the market closed today, after announcing
yesterday Van der Vis is leaving.  The departures are the latest hurdle for the company that
in September reported a 98 percent decline in fiscal year profit
and said its brand had “lost its soul.” Van der Vis, a 44-
year-old Dutchman, had been trying to boost China revenue and
improve designs as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara
lure customers away.  “The unexpected resignation” of Van der Vis “is a
serious blow to the company’s transformation plan and will cast
doubt on the execution,” said  Andrew Sullivan , principal trader
at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Investors
may fear that his stepping down will bring the transformation
efforts back to square one.”  Van der Vis is leaving as the company started showing some
improvement in same-store sales. The retailer in May said
revenue at outlets open more than a year grew 0.5 percent in the
three months ended March after dropping 4.6 percent in the six
months to December 31.  The resignation will be effective on or before July 1,
2013, in accordance with his service contract, Esprit said in
the statement.  Second Departure  “I am very shocked at his departure at this point in
time,” said Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The transformation plan is going quite well,
at least they had a good start with improvement in sales
growth.”  Van der Vis, who joined the company in 2009, announced his
departure a little more than six months after the resignation in
December of Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun. Thomas Tang,
previously CFO at Sino Land Co., succeeded Chew last month. The
company will continue to execute transformation efforts as
planned, it said in yesterday’s statement.  Esprit plunged 73 percent in  Hong Kong  trading last year
and reported a 74 percent drop in first-half profit in February.
The company got 79 percent of revenue from  Europe  in the 12
months ended June 2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “We still expect Esprit’s topline growth to disappoint,”
Joshua Lu, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a
note dated June 13.  “The board regrets this, but respects Mr. Van der Vis’s
decision to devote more time to his personal endeavors,” Esprit
said. “He has no disagreement with the board and there is no
matter that needs to be brought to the attention of the
shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  