-- Essar Sees $35 Billion Sales on Singh Investment Pledge
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-06-13T11:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/essar-sees-35-billion-sales-on-singh-investment-pledge.html
Essar Group, owned by billionaire
brothers Shashi and Ravi Ruia, is targeting $35 billion in
revenue in three years as it taps demand for infrastructure in
 Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Sales may rise 30 percent by 2015 from $27 billion in the
year ended March 31, Chief Executive Officer Prashant Ruia said
in an interview in Mumbai. The group also plans to exit the
telecommunications business and sell stakes in a U.S. steel unit
and a business process outsourcing company, he said.  Essar Group’s plans depend on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ability to revive construction of roads, ports and  power
plants  needed to spur an economy expanding at the slowest pace
in almost a decade. Increased spending in infrastructure may
enable Essar, which invested $18 billion in adding capacity
since 2008, to widen profit margins, Ruia said.  “Over the next two to three years, we are focusing on
sweating the assets which will result in a significant volume
and margin growth,” Ruia, 43, said in his Mumbai headquarters.
“With no major capital expenditure planned, these companies
will have significant free cash flows to redeploy.”  Essar’s investments have come at a cost lower than the
industry average, leaving the group with less debt than
competitors with similar expansion plans, Ruia said. The total
debt at  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) ,  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  and Essar Steel Ltd.
stood at $13 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Strong Earnings’  Rival  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s
largest oil-refining complex, plans to invest 1 trillion rupees
($18 billion) in India in the next five years to double
operating profit, Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  said June 7 at a
shareholder meeting in Mumbai.  India’s  gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, compared with India’s aim of 9
percent annual expansion and $1 trillion infrastructure spending
from 2012 to 2017.  Slow implementation of policy measures prompted  Standard &
Poor’s  to cut India’s credit outlook to negative from stable in
April. This week the rating company said India may become the
first BRIC nation to lose its investment-grade  credit rating .  “India has the potential to absorb a trillion dollar
investment in infrastructure and this is not an impossible task
provided the government takes proactive measures,” said U.R. Bhat, managing director at Dalton Capital Advisors India.
“While such huge investments will help big business houses, the
trickle-down effect is going to benefit many more.”  Stake Sales  Essar Group is in talks to sell a stake in outsourcing
company Aegis Ltd., Ruia said on June 11, without giving details.
The group, which bought Minnesota Steel Industries LLC for an
undisclosed price, is in talks with banks for an initial public
offering for the U.S. steel unit, he said.  The group may also acquire small iron ore and coal mines to
gain raw material supplies for its ventures, Ruia said.  Essar Oil,  India ’s second-largest non-state refiner, plans
to sell shares and borrow from banks to raise about $1.4 billion
to refinance loans and pay pending taxes on fuel sales, Chief
Executive Officer Lalit Kumar Gupta said April 17.  Essar Oil, which posted a record loss in the three months
ended Dec. 31, rose 1.1 percent to 53.95 rupees, the highest
level in a week. The shares have climbed 7 percent this year,
lagging behind a 9 percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index.
Parent Essar Energy fell as much as 4 percent to 112 pence and
traded at 114.10 pence as of 11:45 a.m. in  London .  Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and
amortization at Essar Oil may double to 46.85 billion rupees in
the year ending March 31, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
Vikas S. Jain, Nilesh Banerjee and Siddharth Banerjee said in a
May 4 report. The investment bank, which recommends a buy on the
stock, expects operating cash flows to triple to about $1.2
billion by the end of the next fiscal year.  Oil Refinery  Essar Oil spent 240 billion rupees to build an annual 20
million ton refinery at Vadinar in Gujarat, it said in a
statement on June 5. The project was set up at a capital cost of
$12,746 a barrel, half the global average, it said.  Essar Energy last year bought  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Stanlow refinery and other associated assets for $350 million in
cash and paid an additional $916 million for the oil stockpile.
The power unit of Essar Energy will raise capacity to 6,700
megawatts by the end of the next fiscal year from an estimated
4,800 megawatts, the company said last month.  The majority of the equity investments for the capital
expenditure were made without accessing the markets, Ruia said.
Essar raised 1.27 billion pounds ($2 billion) from an initial
public offering of Essar Energy in May 2010.  The group, which last year sold its 33 percent stake in
Vodafone Essar for $5.46 billion, plans to exit
telecommunications, Ruia said, without giving details. The
company operates a mobile-phone service in  Kenya , where it has
2.3 million subscribers and runs a chain of 1,000 stores selling
phones in India, according to its website.  Phone Case  The group’s executives have been embroiled in a case
involving a government minister and businessmen accused of
conspiring to award phone permits to ineligible companies.  An Indian court on May 25 charged Essar Director Vikash Saraf for cheating and conspiracy related to documents filed to
obtain mobile-phone permits. The court also charged  Ravi Ruia ,
director Anshuman Ruia and two executives of Loop Telecom Ltd.
for conspiring with Saraf in the 2008 sale of wireless licenses.  Loop was used by Essar to secure additional spectrum and
licenses in contravention of policy, according to charges filed
by India’s federal investigative agency. Essar denies the
allegations against the company and its officials.  Essar Steel , India’s largest unlisted producer of the alloy,
is expanding capacity. Demand may rise 8 percent this fiscal
year after the nation’s central bank cut  interest rates  to boost
growth, G.K. Basak, executive secretary at the steel ministry’s
joint plant committee, said April 17.  Essar Steel spent 375 billion rupees to set up a 10 million
ton factory in the western state of Gujarat, Ruia said. The
plant will produce sheets used in making cars and home
appliances.  Rail, Ports  Prime Minister Singh on June 6 outlined port projects worth
about $6.3 billion for the financial year through March 2013, an
investment target of $3.6 billion for Mumbai’s elevated rail
corridor and plans to add airports. It also set goals of
building 9,500 kilometers (5,904 miles) of roads in the 12-month
period, up 18.7 percent from last year, and adding about 18,000
megawatts of power generation capacity.  “The demand in India continues to be strong,” Ruia said.
“Majority of our assets are focused on meeting the domestic
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  