-- EU May Soften Draft Energy Savings Law, Drop CO2 Option
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-13T10:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/eu-may-soften-draft-energy-savings-law-drop-co2-set-aside-call.html
The European Union may soften a
planned energy efficiency law and drop references in that
legislation to withdrawing permits from the bloc’s carbon
market, according to EU officials.  Representatives of national governments and the European
Parliament are scheduled to meet this evening in Strasbourg,
 France , for the last round of talks to iron out differences on
the draft legislation proposed by the European Commission a year
ago. The commission aimed to ensure that member states cut their
primary energy consumption by 20 percent by 2020, enforcing what
is currently a non-binding goal.  The final legislation will be less stringent because member
states are ready to deliver a “significant contribution on
energy savings” rather than close the gap between the goal and
the current efficiency projections, said an EU official who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential.  The draft law put forward a year ago by EU Energy
Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  required more energy savings
from utilities, energy distributors and public authorities.
Without additional discipline the EU will be only half-way to
the target at the end of this decade, according to the
commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  The Energy Efficiency Directive, which would require  member
states  to enact national rules in line with the provisions of
the EU law, would save the region 152 million tons of oil
equivalent by 2020, reducing the bloc’s fuel bill by about 38
billion euros ($48 billion) annually, the commission estimated.
To become law, the draft needs approval by the European
Parliament and national governments, which also have the right
to propose amendments.  Pro-Growth  In a letter to EU officials, ministers and lawmakers, the
Prince of  Wales ’s EU Corporate Leaders Group on  Climate Change ,
which includes Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer
goods company, called on negotiators to show “ambition” at
today’s meeting.  “We believe that a low-carbon economy is a pro-growth
strategy and central to avoiding locking ourselves into a high-
carbon future, or losing fast-growing markets to  China ,  India  or
the  United States ,” said the EU CLG, which also includes
 Acciona SA (ANA) , the Spanish construction firm that transformed
itself into the fifth-biggest wind-energy producer.  Deal-Breaking Issue  The key deal-breaking issue in the negotiations is the
proposed obligation on energy distributors or retail energy
companies to achieve annual energy savings equal to 1.5 percent
of their sale volumes, according to a Parliament official, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  While the Parliament insists on a more stringent target,
member states want flexibility in the measures to be introduced.
Governments are seeking options that will allow them for example
to take into account actions taken up to date when calculating
the achieved efficiency, the EU official said. Their caution is
caused by concerns that costs for energy companies may surge at
a time of an economic crisis, according to the official.  The energy-efficiency measures proposed by the commission
would require investing a total of 24 billion euros annually on
average by 2020 in areas including home insulation, energy
management or control systems, according to the commission.  Carbon Target  Another provision that will probably be relaxed in a deal
expected by the EU tomorrow is the planned requirement on public
bodies to purchase energy-efficient services and products and
refurbish at least 3 percent of their buildings to higher
efficiency standards every year, according to the officials.  Instead of the obligation to refurbish public buildings
member states can accept this requirement for central government
property, the EU official said.  Meeting the 20 percent energy-efficiency target would
enable the EU to exceed its 20 percent carbon-cut goal and
reduce  greenhouse gases  by 25 percent domestically by 2020,
according to a commission policy paper last year.  To highlight the potential impact of the new efficiencies
on demand for permits in the EU emissions market, the Parliament
voted earlier this year to enshrine in the draft law the
commission’s right to set aside a certain number of allowances.
Member states have repeatedly signaled they won’t back the
Parliament’s amendment, opposing any link to the bloc’s carbon
market in a law on a different policy area.  The final version of the legislation is unlikely to include
any clear wording calling on the commission to reform the EU
emissions trading system and the planned energy efficiency law
was never expected to regulate the emissions market, according
to the Parliament official.  The commission is planning to propose delaying sales of
some carbon allowances as of 2013 in a separate process, with a
regulatory proposal due before August, EU climate chief  Connie Hedegaard  said earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  