-- EU Nears Completion of Fiscal Straitjacket as Crisis Spreads
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-13T11:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/eu-nears-completion-of-new-fiscal-straitjacket-as-crisis-spreads.html
The European Union moved closer to
completing a framework for tougher controls on spending by euro-
area governments in a German-led bid to prevent a repeat of the
debt crisis that increasingly threatens the single currency.  The European Parliament today voted to let the EU screen
the budgets of nations earlier and monitor more closely
countries such as  Italy  where rising borrowing costs threaten
financial stability. The assembly also approved tighter EU
fiscal surveillance of nations such as Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  after they exit rescue programs.  The two pieces of draft legislation complement 2011 laws
that granted the EU stronger powers to sanction spendthrift euro
countries. The latest rules, which the EU’s national governments
must still endorse, also follow a new European treaty aimed at
limiting budget deficits.  “The serious economic and social consequences being
experienced today by certain  member states  could have been
avoided if early, targeted, action could have been taken,” said
Jean-Paul Gauzes, a French member who helped steer the new rules
through the 27-nation Parliament in Strasbourg, France.  Struggling to contain the two-year-old debt crisis,  Europe 
is wrapping up decisions on closer fiscal surveillance while
starting to examine ways to kick-start economic growth weakened
by the budget-austerity drive. A June 28-29 meeting of EU
leaders is due to address the scope for  growth-boosting
initiatives  within the deficit-cutting context.  Debt Troubles  Spain  on June 9 became the fourth euro-area nation to seek
a bailout since the start of the region’s debt troubles with a
request for as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to
rescue its banks. That followed 386 billion euros in
international loan pledges to Greece, Ireland and Portugal since
May 2010 and put Italy next in line for a possible rescue.  At the same time, risks are growing that  Greece  will be
forced out of the single currency after an inconclusive May 6
election that catapulted into second place a party opposed to
budget-austerity accords tied to the country’s emergency aid.
Another Greek poll is due on June 17.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said on June
7 that the euro area is in a “real stress moment” and national
governments in Europe must accept greater integration to
overcome the debt crisis.  “These are crucial days and weeks,” said Juncker, who
also leads the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Draft Budgets  The new package of more-intrusive EU fiscal surveillance of
countries would let the European Commission examine their draft
budgets before approval by national parliaments. Annual spending
plans would have to be submitted to the Brussels-based
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, by Oct. 15 the previous
year.  In addition, the commission would gain the right to closer
oversight of euro nations facing growing financial difficulties
through “regular review missions.” Such a step would
institutionalize an informal practice under which, for example,
the EU last year dispatched experts to  Rome  to monitor Italian
budget progress.  Furthermore, euro-area countries emerging from aid programs
would be subject to a new surveillance system under the draft
legislation.  The commission proposed the draft legislation in November,
when its president,  Jose Barroso , said that “without stronger
governance in the euro area, it will be difficult if not
impossible to sustain a common currency.”  National Governments  In giving its backing today, the EU Parliament also added
amendments that will face resistance by national governments,
which reached a tentative accord among themselves in  February . A
final EU deal requires the assembly and the governments to iron
out differences during negotiations that will take place over
the coming weeks.  One Parliament amendment would establish a European
procedure for legal protection for a country at risk of
defaulting -- a proposal that follows euro-area policy zigzags
over Greece that ended with the country carrying out the world’s
biggest writedown of privately held debt earlier this year.  Under this Parliament-drafted provision, a decision to
place a nation under legal protection would render standard
default practices inoperative, freeze loan  interest rates  and
give creditors two months to make themselves known to the
commission or forfeit their claims.  Second Amendment  A second amendment introduced by the 754-seat assembly
would move euro-area governments in the direction of debt
sharing by establishing a European redemption fund based on
joint liability. Under this proposal, countries would transfer
debt exceeding the EU’s threshold of 60 percent of gross
domestic product into the fund, with this portion being paid
back over 25 years as governments pursued budget consolidation
and took steps to boost economic growth.  “This would provide breathing space for countries to carry
out difficult structural reforms and would also help to break
the spiral of high interest rates, higher debt and less
growth,” the EU Parliament said.  The amendment is modelled on a proposal by economic
advisers to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who is
reconsidering her rejection of the idea last year amid support
for it by opposition parties in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  