-- EU Set to Scrap Most of Forced Credit-Rating Rotation Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-13T16:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/eu-set-to-scrap-most-of-forced-credit-rating-rotation-plan-1-.html
The European Union is poised to
scrap most parts of a proposal that would force businesses to
rotate the credit-ratings company they hire to assess their
debt.  The European Parliament’s largest political groups agreed
to scale back the proposed rotation requirement so that it would
apply only to securitizations and other kinds of so-called
structured finance, said Jean-Paul Gauzes, a French member
helping to craft the legislation. The stance brings the
Parliament’s position largely into line with that of EU national
governments, which must also approve the new rules proposed by
the bloc’s regulators last year.  “We are against rotation,” Gauzes told reporters today in
Strasbourg,  France . “We have a compromise that says we accept
rotation for structured products.” The assembly’s economic and
monetary affairs committee will vote on the draft law on June
19, according to the assembly’s website.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm,
proposed the obligatory rotation rule last year as part of a
draft law to toughen regulation of the ratings industry amid
concerns that some of their decisions exacerbated the euro-area
debt crisis. The commission said rotation would boost
competition and solve potential conflicts of interest.  Under the original proposal, companies would have been
obliged to change the company that they pay to rate their credit
every three years.  Parliament Deal  Under the parliament deal, rotation for rating structured
finance products would be required every five years, with a
partial exemption for companies using more than two ratings
companies, according to a copy of the agreement obtained by
Bloomberg News.  EU governments agreed last month to restrict rotation to
so-called re-securitized debt. The verdict by the Parliament’s
economic committee next week will set the stage for a vote by
the full 754-seat assembly.  Gauzes said the Parliament’s main political groups also
agreed to restrict credit-ratings companies’ right to issue
assessments of the creditworthiness of governments.  Under the Parliament’s proposed compromise, ratings
companies would have to pick two to three dates a year for
issuing assessments of sovereign debt, with the possibility
granted exceptionally at other times subject to approval by the
European Securities and Markets Authority, according to Gauzes.  Political Faction  He is a member of the European  People’s Party , the
assembly’s biggest political faction ahead of the No. 2
Socialists.  Leonardo Domenici, the Italian Socialist member chiefly
responsible for guiding the rules through the EU Parliament, had
said that unsolicited sovereign ratings should be banned.  National governments have rejected imposing such curbs on
sovereign-debt ratings in their discussions on the draft law.  Parliament lawmakers will call for the EU to begin making
its own public assessments of governments’ creditworthiness, and
to weigh the setting up of a so-called European Creditworthiness
Authority, according to the document setting out the compromise
deal.  The compromises also call for all references to credit
ratings to be removed from EU financial regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 