-- Europe May Force Bernanke to Flip the Twist
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/europe-may-force-bernanke-to-flip-the-twist.html
As the  Federal Reserve  prepares to
meet next week, policy makers are under conflicting pressure to
do more to stimulate the economy and to swear off quantitative
easing. And that’s just from inside the Fed.  In  congressional testimony  last week, Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  refused to tip his hand. His prepared remarks
highlighted both positive and negative trends in the  U.S.
economy  -- a profitable business sector at home and nasty
headwinds from  Europe  -- suggesting he’s not ready to pull the
trigger just yet.  Not so other members of his policy committee, who are
itching to do something. (Exactly what to do is secondary.)
Following a June 1 report that showed the U.S. economy adding a
paltry 69,000 jobs in May, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren ,
currently a non-voting member, recommended additional purchases
of long-term securities and offsetting sales of short-term bills
and notes. The current  maturity extension program , a reprise of
Operation Twist in 1961, ends this month.  “If you were looking for something that would promote
growth but didn’t have an impact on our balance sheet, then
certainly extending the maturity extension program would be a
viable way forward,” Rosengren said in a June 1 interview.  Half Right  He’s right about the effect on the balance sheet. He’s on
shakier ground when it comes to promoting growth.  The New York Fed maintains a  recession probability
indicator  based on the slope of the yield curve: specifically,
the difference between the monthly average yield on the
Treasury’s three-month bill and 10-year note. While recession
odds one year from now are still low -- about 8 percent -- the
risk increases as the spread narrows. An inverted curve, with
short-term rates higher than long-term rates, is a harbinger of
recession. At what point, one wonders, do lower long-term rates
stop promoting growth and start promoting recession?  The yield curve serves as an inducement for banks to create
 credit . Banks borrow short, lend long and pocket the difference.
At least they used to before they got creative. The wider the
spread, the greater the incentive to increase their earning
assets.  When the banking system is impaired, as it was in the early
1990s following the savings and loan crisis and again after the
2008 financial crisis, it takes an unusually wide spread for a
longer period of time to achieve the same result.  If policy makers believe the economy suffers from what they
call a lack of aggregate demand, there is no point in shuffling
the deck chairs. The Fed should expand its  balance sheet  --
increase the  money supply  -- by outright purchases of Treasuries
of all maturities.  I’m not advocating more QE. I’m just saying it’s a mistake
to equate a change in the makeup of the Fed’s portfolio, which
is tantamount to doing nothing, with an increase.  In fact, it might even do some harm. All it took was a
lousy employment report and news that  Spain ’s banks were in the
ICU to slice the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to a record
low of 1.43 percent on June 1, a 30-basis-point decline for the
week. The market accomplished in a matter of days what the Fed
couldn’t in nine months and $400 billion of curve-twisting
operations.  I suspect we are two events away from a 1 percent yield on
the 10-year note and a flatter curve. All it would take is
another weak employment report and a Greek exit from the  euro
zone  to send investors rushing for the safety and security of
U.S. Treasuries. And no, those buyers aren’t  expecting  to earn a
positive real return during the next 10 years.  Compromised Compass  In the old days, the spread provided a timely reading on
the economy’s health by juxtaposing a Fed-pegged short-term rate
with a market-determined long-term rate. The market rate served
as a kind of check on Fed policy.. Why would the Fed want to
compromise a good compass and reduce the incentive for banks to
lend?  The argument for additional curve-twisting rests on the
idea that lowering long-term Treasury yields brings down
 mortgage rates  and helps the ailing  housing sector .  Freddie
Mac ’s  30-year commitment rate  fell to a record low of 3.67
percent last week. It’s not the rate that’s deterring  home
purchases ; it’s the lenders, having wisely determined that a
good credit score and a 20 percent down payment are important
after all. Not to mention potential buyers’ fears that  home
prices  may fall further.  If Bernanke isn’t convinced of the need for more QE just
yet and twisting the yield curve is cosmetic, what else could
the Fed do at the conclusion of the June 19-20 meeting? More
talk therapy.  The Fed has already pledged to hold the  federal funds rate 
at near-zero at least through the  end of 2014 . Some policy
makers favor providing more explicit guidance, absent outright
action, on when the Fed will start to raise rates and under what
circumstances.  While reiterating that monetary policy is “no panacea,”
Bernanke made clear last week that the Fed is ready to do
whatever it takes to protect the financial system and economy
from renewed stress. If the outcome of the Greek election on
Sunday raises the probability of  Greece  reneging on its
obligations, the ensuing chaos could prompt central banks to
announce some sort of coordinated intervention to ensure the
adequate provision of liquidity to the markets.  Under the circumstances, U.S. long-term interest rates
would plunge and the yield curve would flatten. Who knows? One
of these days, the Fed may actually have to start twisting the
curve in the opposite direction. Operation Steeper Curve,
anyone?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks  and
 Putin’s attack helicopters in Syria ;  Michael Kinsley  on  why
you’re even poorer than you thought ; William D. Cohan on  Jamie
Dimon’s day in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture For America ;
Nicholas Polson on  recognizing smart money ; Amar Bhide and
Christopher Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual funds ;
Jonathan Reiss on  improving regional Fed boards .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  