-- Euro Crisis Deeper With Moody’s Downgrading Spain, Cyprus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-14T05:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/euro-crisis-deeper-with-moody-s-downgrading-spain-cyprus.html
The  European debt crisis  deepened as
the credit ratings of Spain and Cyprus were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s yesterday cut Spain’s rating three steps to Baa3,
one level above junk, from A3, citing the nation’s increased
debt burden, weakening economy and limited access to  capital
markets . Moody’s also lowered Cyprus’s bond rating to Ba3 from
Ba1, attributing the downgrade to the material increase in the
likelihood of a Greek exit from the euro area, and the resulting
increase in the probable amount of support that the government
may have to extend to Cypriot banks.  Moody’s is following the sentiment of financial markets
that weren’t calmed by Europe’s 100 billion-euro ($126 billion)
weekend bailout of Spanish banks, said Clay Lowery, a vice
president at Washington-based Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC and
former assistant Treasury secretary for international affairs.  For Moody’s, “it’s not whether you’re going to make money
off your investment, it’s what is the creditworthiness of the
borrower,” Lowery said. “ Spain ’s debt load has gotten larger
with much more senior debt, so at least the potential for them
to default has now gone up.”  Rifts are deepening with Greek elections on June 17 risking
the first exit from the single currency as voters buckle under
the continent’s most-severe austerity program. Spanish bond
yields reached a record after the nation’s request for aid for
its banks fueled speculation the world’s 12th-biggest economy
may need a full rescue.  Key Reason  The key reason for the downgrade “is obviously the need of
Spain’s government to ask for external help,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, a London-based senior analyst with the sovereign
group at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “In our view,
that’s not a sign of strength, it’s a sign of weakness.”  Spain is on review for further downgrade as it plans to
borrow 100 billion euros from European Union rescue funds to
recapitalize its banking system, adding to the government’s debt
load, New York-based Moody’s said yesterday in a statement.
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  requested the rescue on
June 9.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  spoke yesterday
as Spain was downgraded. Spain’s bailout “is a good, concrete
signal and illustration” of Europe’s commitment to move toward
a “broader banking union,” Geithner said. He said a more
integrated banking system is “important because of the
pressures you’re seeing from Greece and elsewhere.”  The euro rallied for a third day today, rising 0.2 percent
to $1.2586 as of 1:55 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Mexico Summit  The Group of 20 nations will meet in Los Cabos, Mexico,
June 18-19 to discuss the European debt crisis. A U.S. official
said yesterday the leaders probably won’t announce significant
progress on Europe’s debt crisis. Geithner will attend along
with President  Barack Obama .  The summit in Los Cabos will give European leaders a chance
to discuss economic concerns with heads of other major
economies. European governments are more focused on building a
consensus for a summit they are holding later in the month, the
official told reporters on condition of anonymity.  The meeting in  Mexico  comes after Greece votes on June 17.
The Syriza party, led by Alexis Tsipras, has promised to
abrogate the terms of the 240 billion-euro ($302 billion)
bailout from the European Commission, European Central Bank and
 International Monetary Fund , which calls for cuts that risk
deepening the country’s worst recession since World War II.  Spain’s Stance  Yields on Spanish debt due in 10 years climbed to 6.75
percent yesterday, compared with 5.1 percent at the end of last
year. The Spanish rate has jumped more than 50 basis points
since the nation agreed to the bailout package for its banks.
 Italy  has also seen borrowing costs surge and today will hold
its first bond auction since the rescue in Spain.  “Investors are worried about putting their money into
those markets for fear that they might eventually follow the
same path as  Greece ,”  Shane Oliver , the Sydney-based chief
economist and head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., said about Spain and Italy in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Particularly given that the Spanish bank
bailout likely entails those investors taking a subordinate
position to the bailout fund.”  Spanish Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre
said yesterday that Spain will stick to the tools it has used so
far to shore up its banks, rejecting calls from  Finland , one of
the euro region’s six AAA rated sovereigns, to break up failing
lenders.  “The Spanish government has very limited financial  market
access ,” Moody’s said in the statement, citing the nation’s
need for rescue funds and “its growing dependence on its
domestic banks as the primary purchasers of its new bond issues,
who in turn obtain funding from the”  European Central Bank .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  