-- European Steel Lobby Sees Shutdowns Inevitable as Values Tumble
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-06-13T08:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/european-steel-lobby-sees-shutdowns-inevitable-as-values-tumble.html
European steel-plant shutdowns are
inevitable as overcapacity pushes the price of the metal lower,
shrinking earnings, regional lobby group Eurofer said.  Valuations have fallen to an almost eight-year low, based
on the Bloomberg  Europe  Steel Index of shares, as the region’s
economic crisis adds to pressure from competition for sales.  “There is some capacity idled but we have not seen any
major cutbacks or shutdowns,” President Wolfgang Eder said.
“This is something that in the longer run is inevitable in
Europe. The longer there is this enormous gap, the longer the
European  steel industry  will suffer on the price side.”  Europe has capacity to produce about 210 million metric
tons of steel a year, while demand in a “normal market” is 150
million to 160 million tons, Eder, also chief executive officer
of Austria’s  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , said in an interview in  London .  Steelmakers’ share prices have tumbled 79 percent in the
past four years, the worst performing of  37 industry groups 
tracked by Bloomberg. ArcelorMittal, the biggest producer, has
shuttered or idled plants in Belgium, Spain, France and
Luxembourg in the past nine months as demand waned.  The  company ’s average price for steel at its Flat Carbon
Europe unit, its biggest business by sales, fell to $861 a ton
in the first quarter from $928 a year earlier. The unit reported
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of
$17 a ton in the quarter, down from $64 a year earlier.  Intense Competition  ArcelorMittal (MT)  said last month the industry has “room to do
better” on supply, while  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest
producer, said profits were curbed by “intense competition” in
the steel industry and discipline on prices was “weak.”  Growth in world steel demand this year is forecast to slow
to 3.6 percent from 5.6 percent, while Europe may be see a 1.2
percent contraction, according to the World Steel Association.  “Major capacities need to be closed, and the sooner the
better,” Eder said. “On the other hand one has to understand
that to close down a steel plant has enormous social and
political implications on the workforce and employment.”  Politicians and labor unions oppose closings. ArcelorMittal
plants in  Belgium  and France halted in December as the European
Metalworkers’ Federation called strikes against job losses.  Workers in Liege, Belgium, barricaded six managers in their
offices for 24 hours in October as the company planned to shut
blast furnaces. French President  Francois Hollande  ordered an
independent report on prospects for idled furnaces in Florange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  