-- Euro-Area Industrial Output Falls Second Month on Germany
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-13T09:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/euro-area-industrial-output-falls-second-month-on-germany-1-.html
Euro-area  industrial production 
declined for a second month in April, led by a drop in  Germany ,
adding to signs of a deepening  economic slump .  Output in the 17-nation euro area slipped 0.8 percent from
March, when it decreased a revised 0.1 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had projected a drop of 1.2 percent, the median of 28 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. From a year earlier,
production fell 2.3 percent.  European manufacturers are cutting spending and jobs as
global growth weakens.  China  led a slowdown in manufacturing
across Asia last month and European economic confidence slumped
to the lowest in 2 1/2 years. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said on June 6 that risks to the economic outlook
had increased and “a few” Governing Council members had called
for an  interest rate  cut.  “The latest data  clearly show  that the euro-land economy
is in free fall,” Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank
Sarasin in Zurich, said in an e-mailed note before today’s
report. “If measures to counter this development are not put in
hand soon, the euro land will slip into a  deep recession .”  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.2527 at 11:17 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent.  Banking Crisis  The statistics office had previously reported a monthly
decline of 0.3 percent in March. In the 27-nation EU, output
fell 0.4 percent in the month and 1.7 percent in the year.  The single currency has shed 4.9 percent against the dollar
over the past three months, reaching a two-year low, after an
inconclusive election in  Greece  raised the specter of a euro
breakup as  Spain  grappled with a deepening banking crisis.  The euro-region economy will probably shrink 0.1 percent
this year before expanding 1 percent in 2013, the ECB said in
its latest projections on June 6. The bank left its benchmark
interest rate at 1 percent, matching a record low. It had
previously forecast the economy to expand 1.1 percent next year.  While  Germany’s economy  helped to bolster the region’s
gross domestic product in the first quarter, indicators have
since weakened. Euro-region services and manufacturing output
contracted at the fastest pace in almost three years in May and
German  business sentiment  dropped more than economists had
forecast. The euro-area  unemployment rate  held at 11 percent in
April.  German Output  German industrial output fell 2 percent in April from the
previous month, when it rose 0.9 percent, today’s report showed.
Italy and Spain reported monthly declines of 1.9 percent and 0.7
percent, respectively.  Portugal  had a slump of 6.5 percent.
Ireland, France and Greece had a gain in the month.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Germany’s largest engineering company, said on
May 24 that it plans to eliminate 490 jobs at factories making
transformers in Germany in response to falling prices.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of  luxury
vehicles , said last month Germany’s car market won’t grow this
year as the region’s crisis erodes demand.  In China, the Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 50.4 in
May from 53.3 in the previous month, the statistics bureau and
logistics federation said on June 1. Gauges for  India ,  South
Korea  and Taiwan also fell. Business activity in the U.S.
expanded in May at the weakest paced in more than two years as
orders and production cooled.  Output of  capital goods  in the euro region dropped 2.6
percent in April from the previous month, when it rose 1.2
percent, today’s report showed. Production of durable  consumer
goods  slipped 0.9 percent, while output of intermediate goods
decreased 1.2 percent. Energy production advanced 6.9 percent
after sliding 8.1 percent in March.  The EU’s statistics office is scheduled to report euro-
region exports for April on June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  