-- F-22 Pilots Told to Stop Wearing Pressure Vest Routinely
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-13T20:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/f-22-pilots-told-to-stop-wearing-pressure-vest-routinely.html
The U.S.  Air Force  has instructed
pilots of the F-22 Raptor to stop wearing a pressure vest during
routine flights as the service continues to investigate oxygen-
deprivation incidents on the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  fighter jet.  “Recent testing has identified some vulnerability and
reliability issues in the upper pressure garment worn by F-22
pilots,” Lieutenant Colonel Edward Sholtis, a spokesman for the
Air Combat Command, said today in an e-mailed statement. He said
the Air Force is working to correct the problem.  The Air Force has been trying to figure out why F-22 pilots
have suffered from hypoxia-like symptoms that include dizziness
and disorientation. There have been 11 unexplained incidents
related to a lack of oxygen since the plane resumed flying last
year after a four-month halt for safety concerns.  “The upper pressure garment is not ‘the’ cause of
physiological incidents, and we still have other variables to
work through before we can determine what the major factors are
and how they interact to produce the number of unexplained
incidents we’ve seen,” Sholtis said.  The Air Force has been studying whether pilots are getting
enough oxygen and whether the air they breathe may be
contaminated.  The pressure vest is the upper portion of the “G suit”
worn by pilots to withstand high levels of acceleration, or
“G” forces.  ‘Tight-Fitting Garment’  Brigadier General Daniel Wyman, the Air Combat Command’s
surgeon general, said in an June 11 interview that investigators
are examining all “life-support garments” used by F-22 pilots.  While Wyman gave no hint of a flaw in the pressure vest, he
said investigators found “the life-support equipment was not
appropriately fitted” for pilots “and actually may have
restricted their ability to breathe.”  “It was like a tight-fitting garment that would not fully
allow you to expand your chest,” he said. “We’ve gone back out
to the field, insuring that everyone was wearing their equipment
appropriately.”  Sholtis said the Air Force is looking at the flight suits
worn by F-22 pilots in combination with the pressure vests.  Layering Equipment  “Testing has determined that the upper pressure garment
increases the difficulty of pilot breathing under certain
circumstances,” Sholtis said. “We’re also looking at the
layering of other aircrew flight equipment as contributing to
that difficulty.”  The Air Force isn’t ready to label the vest as a cause of
the hypoxia symptoms because officials are still gathering data,
according to a government official briefed on the latest
information.  The service is looking in particular at the flight suits,
worn in combination with the pressure vests, by F-22 pilots at
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in  Alaska  and at Joint Base
Langley-Eustis in  Virginia , according to the official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the investigation is being
handled in private.  The official said investigators suspect the combinations
may be restricting a pilot’s ability to expand his chest and
take a full breath.  The Alaska-based pilots wear an arctic survival suit
intended to protect them after an ejection over cold terrain.
Those based in Virginia wear anti-exposure suits as protection
after an ejection over cold water. While similar to a wet suit,
it doesn’t fit as tightly.  The pressure vest serves as protection against both G
forces and a rapid decompression at high altitude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  