-- Facebook to Debut Real-Time Bidding on Advertising Prices
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-06-14T20:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/facebook-to-debut-real-time-bidding-for-advertising.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  plans to introduce
real-time bidding for advertising on its site, a technology used
by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other Web companies to more effectively
target ads to consumers.  The service, Facebook Exchange, will let advertisers reach
specific types of users on the social network based on their
browsing history, Annie Ta, a company spokeswoman, said in an
interview yesterday. Prices will be based on the cost per
thousand viewers and spots will be sold via third-party
technology partners. It will debut within weeks, she said.  Facebook, operator of the world’s largest social network,
has  tumbled  26 percent since its stock market debut last month,
a decline caused in part by concern that ad revenue growth isn’t
keeping pace with surging membership. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based company, with more than 900 million users
worldwide,  brought in  $3.15 billion from advertising last year
and has introduced mobile ads and other services to boost sales.  “Facebook’s been having challenges coming up with
effective advertising,” said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst
at New York-based  EMarketer Inc.  The company “is hoping to use
that inventory on the right side of the page to deliver
advertising that is more targeted,” she said.  With Facebook Exchange, marketers will be able to target
people who have perused certain kinds of websites in the past
based on cookies, or small pieces of code, that can track
activities on the Web. For example, users who have visited
travel sites to research trips to  Hawaii  may later see a
promotion on Facebook about hotels in Hawaii.  Display Sales  An increasing portion of  display  ad sales are driven by
this type of technology. Real-time bidding will account for
about $5.08 billion, or 27 percent, of the projected $18.9
billion to be spent on U.S. online display ads in 2015,
according to researcher IDC. Last year, real-time bids generated
$1.07 billion, or 9.8 percent, of display ad sales.  Facebook’s  shares  rose 3.7 percent to $28.29 at the close
in  New York , for the biggest gain in two weeks. The stock began
trading at $38 on May 18.  The company’s technology partners for selling ads based on
user browsing patterns include TellApart Inc., Turn Inc.,
Triggit, DataXu Inc., MediaMath Inc., AppNexus Inc., The Trade
Desk Inc. and  AdRoll.com , Ta said.  Facebook  has started placing cookies on the Internet
browsers of its members, which will be used by its partners to
identify members of the social network, Ta said. While there
isn’t a way to opt out of this tracking on Facebook’s site, the
outside vendors will give users an opportunity to block cookies.  Reaching Fans  The new bidding process is designed to help advertisers
deliver more time-sensitive messages. For example, if a sports-
apparel company wanted to reach fans on Facebook in the moments
after the last game of the NBA Finals, they could prepare ads
that highlight the  Miami Heat  and the Oklahoma City Thunder and
choose which one to run depending on the outcome of the game.  Advertisers now target users on Facebook based on the
interests they list in their profiles and the pages they
“like” on the site. The company will continue to offer these
ads, and such interests won’t be used as part of the real-time
bidding exchange, Ta said.  As its stock declines amid concerns about sales growth,
Facebook has been working to show advertisers that its website
is an effective way to reach customers.  Earlier this week, the company and researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) 
said in a joint report that ads on the social network encourage
users to buy products in stores and online. Users who saw unpaid
marketing messages on the social network about  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
bought an item at the coffee chain within four weeks 38 percent
more often than those who didn’t, said  Andrew Lipsman , vice
president of industry analysis at ComScore.  In a separate study last week, a Reuters/Ipsos poll showed
a minority of users being influenced by ads. Just 1 in 5 people
on Facebook have bought products because of advertising or
comments they saw on the site, that poll found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  