-- Felda Said to Raise $3.3 Billion in Malaysian Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2012-06-13T15:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/felda-said-to-raise-3-3-billion-in-malaysian-share-sale.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGVH) ,
the world’s third-largest operator of palm oil plantations,
raised about 10.4 billion ringgit ($3.3 billion) in the biggest
initial public offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company priced shares to
institutional investors at 4.55 ringgit each, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the information is confidential.
Felda Global had marketed the shares at 4 ringgit to 4.65
ringgit. Demand for shares from fund managers exceeded supply by
more than 29 times at that price, two of them said.  A statement will be made in a few days, Felda Global
spokeswoman Izan Hussain said by phone.  Malaysia has weathered a slump in initial share sales
better than markets including  Hong Kong . The benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has withstood a global stocks selloff,
rising 3 percent this year. Companies including Graff Diamond
Corp. have scrapped or delayed IPOs in Hong Kong in the past two
weeks as  Europe ’s economic turmoil sapped demand for new equity.  “Felda is in a sweet spot because it is a large offering
in a Malaysian context with a very cash-rich base of
investors,” said Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, who helps manage $3
billion as chief executive officer of Aberdeen Islamic Asset
Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “We see other IPO markets
being weak, but Malaysia has pulled through.”  Felda Global is selling $1.1 billion of shares to 12 so-
called cornerstone investors, including the country’s biggest
pension funds, according to a term sheet for the deal. Those
buyers have pledge to hold the shares for a minimum 180 days in
return for guaranteed allocations, the document showed.  The plantations group manages estates for the  Federal Land
Development Authority , a Malaysian government agency. It has
about 355,864 hectares (878,984 acres) of plantations in
Malaysia in addition to land in  Indonesia . The company also has
palm oil refining businesses in  China , Indonesia,  Turkey  and
 South Africa , according to its share sale prospectus.  The IPO is the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest since
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8 billion
ringgit in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking company,
completed a $16 billion IPO last month. Its shares have fallen
28 percent from the offer price.  IHH Healthcare Bhd.,  Asia ’s biggest hospital operator,
secured investors including AIA Group Ltd. this week for a $2
billion IPO in Kuala Lumpur, people familiar with the matter
said June 12.  Billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan is considering a $1.5
billion offering for Malaysian pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia
Networks Plc later this year, a company official said in March.
Malakoff Bhd., the country’s largest independent power producer,
is inviting proposals from banks to raise about $1 billion, two
people with knowledge of the matter said today.  Malayan Banking Bhd., CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and Morgan
Stanley are managing Felda Global’s IPO as joint global
coordinators, according to the prospectus. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Deutsche Bank AG are also involved.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  