-- Filipinos Abroad Buying Manila Condos Buoy Peso: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n ,   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-06-14T07:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/filipinos-abroad-buying-manila-condos-buoy-peso-southeast-asia.html
Filipinos investing in the local
 property market  with money earned overseas helped make the peso
Asia’s best-performing currency of 2012, even as a global
economic slump sapped demand for riskier assets.  Euliver Dizon, a web designer in the U.S., is scouting for
a home in  Manila , praising President  Benigno Aquino  for
improving the economy. Rommel Adre, a  software developer  who
worked abroad from 2000 to 2011, bought a home in the capital
and some properties to rent. Aileen Respicio, a former domestic
helper, opened a beach resort with her Scottish husband six
years ago and is now buying more land.  The peso has gained 3.7 percent this year versus the dollar
including interest. Capital inflows aid Aquino’s drive to win an
investment-grade rating, which would allow the Philippines to
attract pension money needed to build roads, bridges and
airports. Central bank data shows  remittances  from overseas
workers rose 5.4 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier to $4.8 billion, accounting for 10 percent of the
economy. They don’t detail use of funds.  “Aquino has been working to remove corruption and other
things that used to make investors reluctant to put money into
the country,” Toshifumi Sugimoto, president and chief
investment officer in  Tokyo  at Capital Asset Management Co.,
which runs a $16 million Philippine stock-dedicated fund, said
in an interview on June 7. “The country has been moving quite
fast and, because of strong growth and solid demand, there are
many new properties going up.”  Asset Bubbles  The peso rose as much as 0.5 percent to a one-month high of
42.43 per dollar after exports rose 7.6 percent in April from a
year earlier, exceeding the estimate for a 0.5 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey. The central bank predicts remittances
will reach a record $21 billion this year and is due to report
April figures tomorrow. They are growing faster than the 5
percent target, supporting the peso, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said. He said there is no evidence of hot money driving
property prices higher.  “We are monitoring carefully the situation to make sure we
don’t create problems down the road for us in terms of asset
bubbles,” Purisima said in a June 12 interview in  New York .
“We are very far from the situation.”  Overseas Filipinos account for about 30 percent of
residential sales, as many workers have already satisfied the
food and clothing needs of their families, said Alex Pomento,
head of research at Macquarie Group’s Manila unit. About 100,000
housing units have been added per year since Aquino took office
in 2010, up from about 60,000 in 2007, he said.  Returnees Targeted  Property firms are targeting returning Filipinos, known as
balikbayan.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the nation’s largest developer, has
been holding project exhibits in places such as Milpitas,
California and Washington D.C. as well as three Canadian cities
to attract expatriates with the slogan “we’ll bring you home.”
Filipino-American actor Sam Milby sang at the opening of the
company’s first U.S. office in Milpitas on April 28.  Between 2005 through first half of 2011, prices of two-
bedroom condominiums rose at a compound annual growth rates of
between 5.5 percent to 16 percent for selected projects located
in five areas in Metro Manila, according to Richard Laneda,
analyst at CitisecOnline.com.ph.  “I’d like to have my own home in the Philippines,” Dizon,
37, said in a June 6 interview. “It’s a good investment
considering the positive developments in the economy.”  The peso may weaken as Europe’s debt crisis hurts Asia’s
export outlook, according to  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  in Manila.  “The peso is resilient but not immune to this global
volatility,” he said.  Faster Growth  So far the economy is outperforming regional peers. First-
quarter  growth  of 6.4 percent was the most among  Southeast
Asia ’s five biggest economies as Aquino increased state spending
to a record this year.  The government reported its second monthly  budget  surplus
of 2012 in April and aims to narrow the annual shortfall to 2
percent of gross domestic product by 2013 from 2.6 percent this
year. Collections made by the Bureau of Internal Revenue rose 14
percent from January to April, surpassing the 12 percent
increase in state spending, official data showed on May 21.  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the nation’s rating
outlook in May to positive, citing improving debt levels. That
followed a similar move by  Standard & Poor’s  in December. Both
companies rank the $200 billion economy at the second-highest
junk level.  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment to one step
below investment grade last year.  Budget Progress  Borrowing costs for the  Philippines  are now lower than
higher-ranked Spain, which was downgraded by Moody’s yesterday
by three steps to Baa3, the lowest investment grade. The
Philippines’ 15 percent peso-denominated  government bonds  due
March 2022 yielded 5.99 percent today, compared with 6.79
percent for Spain’s 5.85 percent bonds due 2022.  The cost of protecting Philippine five-year debt against
non-payment has fallen 19 basis points to 173 basis points this
year, while that for investment-grade  Indonesia , slid nine basis
points to 199, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a nation or
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Aquino unveiled a $16 billion infrastructure program when
he took power, including elevated highways that will link
expressways to the north and south of Manila. He succeeded in
winning Senate approval for the ouster of Renato Corona, the
country’s top judge, for illegally concealing his wealth.  Political Stability  The Philippines climbed in last year’s Transparency
International Corruption Perceptions  Index  to 129th place from
141th in 2008, below  Thailand  at 80th and Indonesia at 100th,
according to the Berlin-based watchdog’s website.  The Philippines is on track to win credit upgrades in two
or three years as “broad political stability” allows fiscal
reforms, said Chia-Liang Lian, Singapore-based head of
 investment management  for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Western Asset
Management Co., which oversees $443 billion of assets globally.  “The potential for the Philippines to unshackle itself
from its sub-par growth trajectory has never been stronger,”
said Lian, who holds more peso bonds than the benchmark used to
track performance. “Policy makers should seize the opportunity
to do the right thing. What this current administration has been
successful at is the revenue side of the equation.”  Information technology and business-process outsourcing
have also driven inflows, said Finance Secretary Purisima.
 Revenue  rose 24 percent to $11 billion in 2011, the Business
Processing Association of the Philippines said on its website.
Purisima estimates it will grow to $24 billion by 2016.  Capital Inflows  Manila’s stock market attracted a net $187 million of
 inflows  in May even as Europe’s debt crisis deepened. The boom
is helping Adre make money on his rental properties.  “My objective in working abroad was to save and it was my
intention to plow these savings back into the Philippines so I
can get more out of what I earn,” said Adre, 38.  Purisima, 52, said tourism has the potential to be the
third driver of the peso with 4.6 million visitors expected this
year. Visiting expatriate Filipinos are driving sales for
Respicio’s Punta Riviera resort in Bolinao, Pangasinan province,
which can accommodate 320 and is four-and-a half hours by car
from Manila.  “Business has progressively increased as the resort was
developed over the last six years,” her husband Ian McFeat-
Smith, 64, a Scot with a doctorate in engineering, said in an
interview on June 8. “Our main customers are the balikbayan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net . 