-- First Vein Grown From Human Stem Cells Transplanted
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/first-vein-grown-from-human-stem-cells-transplanted.html
The first vein grown from a
patient’s own  stem cells  was successfully transplanted into a
10-year-old girl, potentially offering a way for those lacking
healthy veins to undergo dialysis or heart bypass surgery.  A team led by Michael Olausson of the University of
Gothenburg took a 9-centimeter (3.5-inch) segment of vein from a
human donor and removed all living cells, the Swedish
researchers wrote in a  study  in The Lancet medical journal
today. The resulting protein scaffolding was injected with stem
cells from the girl’s bone marrow, and two weeks later was
implanted in the patient, who had a blockage in the vein that
carries blood from the spleen and intestines to the liver.  The result points to what may be a safer source of stem
cells, the building blocks of life which can grow into any type
of tissue in the body. Using cells from the patient may limit
the risk that the immune system would attack the transplant,
which can occur with tissue taken from healthy people and given
to the sick. The girl hasn’t developed signs of rejection, even
without taking drugs to suppress her immune system, the
researchers said.  The successful procedure “establishes the feasibility and
safety of a novel paradigm for treatment,” the researchers
wrote in the study. “Our work opens interesting new areas of
research, including trying to reproduce arteries for surgical
use in patients.”  The recipient had no complications from the operation, and
a year later, has grown 6 centimeters and gained 5 kilograms (11
pounds) in weight.  “Olausson and colleagues’ report suggests that tissue-
engineered vascular grafts are promising, but one-off
experiences such as the procedure they describe need to be
converted into full clinical trials in key target populations,”
Martin Birchall and George Hamilton, professors at the
 University College London , wrote in a commentary accompanying
the Lancet publication.  The study was funded by the Swedish government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  