-- Ford Sees Incentives, Inventories Rising in China
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-14T00:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ford-sees-incentives-inventories-rising-in-china.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , playing catch up in
 China , said slower growth there is boosting incentives and
inventories in the world’s largest vehicle market.  “We have seen some increase in incentives and inventories
rise in the last six months as a result of the slowing of
growth,” Joe Hinrichs, chief of Ford’s Asian operations, said
in a presentation yesterday at the Deutsche Bank Global
Industrials and Basic Materials Conference in  Chicago . “It has
gotten more competitive.”  Expansion in China is part of Chief Executive Officer  Alan
Mulally ’s push to increase annual global sales by 50 percent to
8 million vehicles by 2015 and have one-third of its deliveries
in Asia by 2020. Ford, trailing  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said it had 2.8 percent of the Chinese market
last year. It’s spending $4.9 billion on nine new factories in
Asia and introducing 15 new models in China by 2015.  “It’s going to take some time and some marketing dollars
to get Chinese consumers to look closer at Ford,” said  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of forecasting at researcher LMC
Automotive in Troy,  Michigan . “It’s still a ways down the
road.”  Ford sales in China rose 8 percent in May to 48,608
passenger cars and commercial vehicles, the company said in a
June 7 statement. That followed a 14 percent sales decline in
the first quarter to  121,393  vehicles as GM and VW made gains in
the slowing Chinese market.  Ford is debuting three sport-utility vehicles, including
the Explorer, and the Focus compact car in China this year.
Sales of almost 13,000 Focus models in May enabled Ford’s
passenger-car joint venture, Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Co.,
to achieve record sales of  34,550  Ford-brand cars last month.  Capacity Increases  Ford production capacity in the  Asia  Pacific and Africa
region will increase to 2.92 million vehicles by 2015, from 1.48
million last year, Hinrichs said. Ford expects to have 960
dealers in China by 2015, from 582 last year, he said.  “China is not only the largest market in the world, it’s
the largest growth market,” Hinrichs said. “With 2 billion
potential customers, you don’t need many of them to buy a car to
have a big industry.”  Growth has slowed in China over the last year as the
government eased incentives to avoid inflation, he said.  “Clearly, since the spring of last year, the Chinese
industry has slowed down,” Hinrichs said. “But it is a
profitable market and we believe it will continue to be.”  New Beachhead  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker said in April it’s
establishing a beachhead along China’s affluent east coast with
a $760 million assembly plant in Hangzhou that will double its
output in the country to 1.2 million vehicles annually. The
factory, set to open in 2015, probably will produce upscale
vehicles, such as SUVs, that Chinese consumers in that area
favor, Schuster said.  “They’re a bit late to the game,” said  Michael Robinet ,
managing director for industry consultant IHS Automotive in
Northville, Michigan. “But they have enough flexibility,
especially with this third facility in China, to focus resources
on the markets that are actually going to expand.”  Ford slid 1.9 percent to $10.30 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  