-- Hungarian Forint, Bonds Advance on IMF Talks, Bank Tax Change
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-06-13T15:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/forint-strengthens-first-time-in-three-days-on-bank-tax-changes.html
The forint strengthened against the
euro and government bonds gained after  Hungary  said it may start
bailout talks as early as next month and a new tax may boost
budget revenue more than initially expected.  Hungary’s currency added 0.9 percent to 295.27 per euro by
5:04 p.m. in Budapest. Rising bonds cut the yield on benchmark
2017 notes by five basis points to 8.48 percent as the cost of
credit-default swaps insuring the debt fell to a four-week low.  Talks on financial aid with the International Monetary Fund
and the European Union may start in July or August after the
government amends the disputed central bank law and the EU
decides on the country’s finances this month,  Mihaly Varga , the
minister in charge of bailout talks, told TV2 today.  “We expect that the amendments will satisfy the  European
Central Bank ’s demands” and “expect a deal to be reached by
September or October, before foreign debt repayments spike in
the fourth quarter,” Michal Dybula, an emerging-market
strategist with BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw, wrote in a report to
clients today. “As a result of the deal, we would expect the
risk premium on Hungarian assets to decline.”  Hungarian default swaps, which decline as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, fell eight basis points to 565 today,
poised for the lowest close since May 16.  The European Union’s most-indebted eastern member may scrap
an extraordinary bank tax from January, a year earlier than
planned, as a new financial-transaction levy will yield “huge
revenue, probably more than what we are counting in the current
budget,” Premier  Viktor Orban  said in Vienna yesterday.  OTP Gains  “Since they are still deciding on the exact form of the
tax, it is possible that revenues will be higher than
forecast,”  Daniel Hewitt , London-based economist for emerging
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at Barclays Capital, wrote in
e-mailed comments today. “This would be positive for the
budget.”  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the biggest lender in Hungary, climbed 1.2
percent to 3,431 forint today, pushing the country’s main BUX
equity index 0.4 percent higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  