-- G-20 Unlikely to Make Headway on Europe, Official Says
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-13T20:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/g-20-unlikely-to-make-headway-on-europe-official-says.html
The Group of 20 nations meeting in
 Mexico  next week probably won’t announce significant progress on
 Europe ’s debt crisis, a U.S. official said.  The summit in Los Cabos, Mexico, will give European leaders
a chance to discuss economic concerns with heads of other major
economies. European governments are more focused on building a
consensus for a meeting of the 17-nation  euro zone  later in the
month, according to the official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  Outside events, such as a market reaction to the results of
Greek elections scheduled for June 17, may prompt European
leaders to move up their timetable, the official said. European
officials may also confront pressure for greater clarity on how
they will approach goals such as a banking union.  Still, the official said the U.S. did not expect Europeans
to announce major new steps during the meeting and might not
disclose any additional details.  President  Barack Obama  will meet with the rest of the G-20
leaders June 18-19. Obama is likely to repeat the message he
delivered at last month’s G-8 summit, that Europe needs to focus
on growth and solid firewalls to keep the crisis contained, the
official said.  Obama, who is up for re-election in November, has
repeatedly warned that the debt crisis in Europe is putting a
drag on the U.S. recovery. He said at a White House news
conference last week that Europe’s leaders must take
“decisive” action to stimulate growth while dealing with debt.  Concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening
have helped push  yields  on 10-year Treasuries to record lows as
investors seek a haven. The yield on the 10-year note slid six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.61 percent at 2:37
p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It
reached a record low of 1.4387 percent in trading on June 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  