-- Geithner Says European Leaders Know They Must Do More
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-06-13T22:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/geithner-says-european-leaders-know-they-must-do-more.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said European leaders “recognize they’re going to have
to do a bunch more” to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “This is a very challenging crisis for them still,”
Geithner said today during a talk at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in Washington.  Spain and Italy appealed today to European policy makers to
step up their response to the crisis after a 100 billion-euro
($125 billion) lifeline for Spanish banks failed to calm
markets. Yields on Spanish debt due in 10-years climbed to 6.75
percent today, compared with 5.1 percent at the end of last
year.  As Geithner spoke, Spain’s credit rating was downgraded
three steps by Moody’s Investors Service, citing the nation’s
increased debt burden, weakening economy and limited access to
 capital markets .  Spain’s bailout “is a good, concrete signal and
illustration” of Europe’s commitment to move toward a “broader
banking union,” Geithner said. He said a more integrated
banking system is “important because of the pressures you’re
seeing from Greece and elsewhere.”  Greece votes a second time in six weeks on June 17 after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government. The Syriza party has
promised to abrogate the terms of the 240 billion-euro ($303
billion) bailout from the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund , which calls for cuts that
risk deepening the country’s worst recession since World War II.  Stocks Climb  Greece’s ASE Index climbed 2.1 percent today following a
report in Financial Times Deutschland that European leaders may
consider relaxing Greece’s austerity program after the election.  Geithner said  Europe ’s leaders have “decided that it is in
their interest to hold it together,” referring to the euro
zone. “And what they say to us privately is they will do
whatever is necessary to hold it together.”  The region’s leaders “recognize they’re going to have to
do a bunch more to sort of restore a bit of calm and to convince
people that it was necessary to make this work,” Geithner said.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations will meet in Los Cabos,
 Mexico  on June 18-19. A U.S. official said today the leaders
probably won’t announce significant progress on Europe’s crisis.
Geithner will attend along with President  Barack Obama .  The summit will give European leaders a chance to discuss
economic concerns with heads of other major economies. European
governments are more focused on building a consensus for a
meeting of the 17-nation euro zone later in the month, the
official told reporters on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  