-- Gene-Modified Cotton Aids Pest-Killing Insects, China Study Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/gene-modified-cotton-aids-pest-killing-insects-china-study-says.html
Cotton genetically modified to
resist crop-damaging insects also protects beneficial bugs,
according to a Chinese study that suggests the positive effect
may extend into neighboring farms.  Chinese cotton growers were able to cut their use of
insecticides that control bollworms after they began planting a
crop engineered to make a toxin derived from Bacillus
thuringiensis, or Bt, according to a study reported in the
journal  Nature . The use of fewer chemical sprays allowed the
proliferation of insects that feed on crop-damaging aphids, the
study said.  The research found the Bt crops also controlled bugs on
neighboring farms as more aphid-eating insects such as spiders
and ladybugs survived in soybean, peanut and corn fields. The
study, based on 20 years of data from northern  China , was led by
the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Beijing.  “The widespread adoption of Bt cotton, as a sustainable
measure to reduce insecticide use, has indirectly promoted
generalist predator abundance in Bt cotton fields but also to a
smaller extent in three common adjacent crops,” according to
the study. “Bt crops therefore might enhance biocontrol.”  Bt cotton, approved in 1997, is China’s only engineered
crop authorized for commercial planting. As of last year, about
95 percent of the cotton grown in northern China was genetically
modified, according to the report.  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, said last
month it’s in talks to expand production in China. The St.
Louis-based company, which produces Bt crop seeds, also
announced a new platform of biological products similar to Bt
insecticides that would complement or replace conventional farm
chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  