-- Genes of Human-Dwelling Germs Decoded May Aid in Medicine
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/genes-of-human-dwelling-germs-decoded-may-aid-in-medicine.html
Humans are home to more than 10,000
species of microbes, mostly bacteria that live in healthy
symbiosis in places such as the gut or behind the ears,
according to the first findings from a project to decipher the
DNA of all the species hosted by the body.  Scientists drew DNA samples from the human nose, skin,
mouth, digestive tract and vagina, according to a series of
papers on the so-called  Human Microbiome Project . The trillions
of microorganisms that live in and on the body outnumber human
cells by 10 to 1, scientists said.  The $153 million project complements the results of the
Human Genome Project, said representatives of the  National
Institutes of Health , the Bethesda, Maryland-based science
agency that first deciphered a complete copy of human DNA in
2003. The findings reveal the extent to which humans live in
harmony with bacteria from the time of birth.  “The microbial population is providing some benefit to the
human host and in turn the human host is harboring those
bacteria and enabling them to replicate and be stable and
thrive,” Phillip Tarr, one of the project’s researchers and the
director of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition at
Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, said
yesterday during a conference call with reporters.  Results from the project, begun five years ago, are
reported in two papers in the journal  Nature  and 14 in the
Public Library of Science journals.  Body’s Ecosystems  Scientists are just beginning to explore the composition of
the body’s ecosystems. These findings will serve as the baseline
for many future studies, said Curtis Huttenhower, an author on
the Nature papers and assistant professor of computational
biology at Harvard School of  Public Health .  Researchers hope to use the information from the human
genome and the microbiome together to assess disease risk and
some day treat disease, Huttenhower said. Knowing how these
organisms interact with their host can reveal more about
illnesses such as inflammatory bowel disease, obesity and
infectious ailments.  “The really important impact will be everything we haven’t
done yet,” Huttenhower said. “Everything we can do now, using
this as a definition of what’s healthy, that’s what will be
really important in the long term.”  In inflammatory bowel disease, for instance, some people
have differing severity of disease flares, Huttenhower said.
Understanding the gut organisms of these people may explain why
some go into remission from the disease and some don’t, he said.  Disease Triggers  “There have been a bunch of studies where a specific
disease is being tackled and it shows the microbiome is
different from the control,” Dirk Gevers, who was a co-author
on the Nature papers and a group leader at the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Broad Institute , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s some part of disease that can be explained
by genetic predisposition, but something must trigger that.”  The scientists sampled 242 people, 129 men and 113 women
living in  St. Louis  and Houston, to collect tissues from as many
as 15 body sites. Surprisingly, not all people carried the same
microbes and the organisms weren’t all found in the same places,
scientists said  One paper, published in PLoS Collections, showed that
pregnant women had different bacterial colonies in their vaginas
from non-pregnant women. Those changes may help prepare for the
initial colonization of a baby’s gastrointestinal tract during
birth,  Kjersti Aagaard , an associate professor at Baylor College
of Medicine and the study author, said in a telephone interview.  “Ninety-eight percent of the time, you can tell whether
someone’s pregnant just by looking at the microbiome,” Aagaard
said. Some of the changes may also help ward off infections
during pregnancy, she said.  8 Million Genes  The microbiome contains 8 million protein-coding genes or
360 times more bacterial genes than human genes, the study
found. From one-third to two-thirds of these genes’ functions
are unknown, Huttenhower said.  Information about how the bacteria interact also may be
useful for disease prevention. About a third of the population,
for example, carries Staphylococcus aureus harmlessly in their
noses, Huttenhower said. Those people are at an increased risk
of staph infections, including from methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus, or  MRSA . Studying how the other two-
thirds keep the germ out may provide clues on preventing
illness, he said.  A better understanding of how the microbiome protects the
body from harmful bacteria may also help in preventing
Clostridium difficile, a bacterial infection that can cause
severe diarrhea, Tarr said.  Predicting Infection  Deaths from C. difficile have risen, to 17,000 in 2007 from
7,000 in 1999, according to a March study from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Though some precautions are
already in place to prevent C. difficile from spreading, such as
hand washing, looking at a patient’s native bacteria may predict
who’s at risk for an infection, Tarr said. That might allow for
better prevention.  All of the sites in the study were sampled as many as three
times. The scientists then looked for a gene called 16S that is
found in bacteria and not in humans, to separate the microbes’
DNA from the hosts’. Variations on that gene were like barcodes,
allowing scientists to count and identify the bacteria in the
sequence, said Bruce Birren, co-director of the genomic
sequencing and analysis program at the Broad Institute.  About 119 microbes found in humans that are difficult to
grow in the laboratory are now on a priority list for whole-
genome sequencing, according to an announcement from the Broad
Institute, a collaboration between  Harvard University  and the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  