-- German Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Held Steady at 2.2% in May
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-13T06:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/german-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-held-steady-at-2-2-in-may.html
German inflation unexpectedly held
steady in May even as energy prices retreated and the sovereign
debt crisis in the euro area clouded the economic outlook.  Inflation, calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, stayed at 2.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today, revising up a May 29 estimate of a decline
to 2.1 percent. One of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted the revision. Prices dropped 0.2 percent in the month.  German inflation has slowed from 2.9 percent in October as
 oil prices  decrease and  Spain ’s banking woes and uncertainty
about  Greece ’s future in the euro area weigh on business and
investor confidence. Still, price pressures may develop as
unions win above-inflation wage raises and unemployment at a
two-decade low bolsters consumer spending.  “German inflation is slowing down mainly because of
decreasing energy prices,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist
at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “While the intensification of
the euro crisis damps German growth prospects in the coming
quarters, the tight labor market and rising wages mean that
underlying inflationary pressures are slowly building up.”  Non-harmonized German inflation slowed to 1.9 percent in
May from 2.1 percent in April, with prices declining 0.2 percent
in the month, today’s report showed. Excluding energy costs,
prices rose 1.5 percent in the year and remained unchanged from
April, the statistics office said.  Factory orders and industrial production fell more than
economists forecast in April and exports declined, adding to
signs that the German economy may be cooling. The country’s
economy expanded a better-than-expected 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, helping the 17-nation currency area avoid its second
recession in three years.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 1 percent last week and projected
euro-area inflation to stay above its 2 percent target this
year. While the central bank forecasts the euro economy will
shrink 0.1 percent in 2012, unchanged from a March estimate, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 that downside risks to the
economic outlook have increased and left open the possibility of
further action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  