-- Germany Defeats Netherlands 2-1 at Euro 2012; Portugal Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-13T22:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/germany-beats-netherlands-2-1-for-second-victory-at-euro-2012.html
Germany beat the Netherlands 2-1
last night to move closer to a quarterfinal spot in soccer’s
European Championship. Portugal boosted its chances with a 3-2
win against Denmark.  Mario Gomez  got both goals for Germany in Kharkiv, Ukraine,
to tie Russia’s Alan Dzagoev for the tournament lead with three.
 Robin van Persie  replied for the Netherlands, which has lost
both its matches.  Germany has a maximum six points in Group B. The record
three-time champion will be assured of a quarterfinal place if
it avoids defeat in its final pool game against Denmark on June
17. Portugal and Denmark have three points. The top two teams
advance to the next stage.  “We’ve opened the gates to the quarterfinals,” Germany
coach Joachim Loew said in comments on UEFA’s website. “It’s in
our hands after what was an intense, tight game in extreme
heat.”  Today, Italy plays Croatia in Poznan, Poland, and defending
champion Spain faces Ireland in Gdansk in the second round of
Group C games.  In the opening 11 minutes Van Persie sent a volley straight
at goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer , then put the ball wide after being
played in by Arjen Robben.  In between those attempts, Germany’s Mezut Ozil hit a post
with a 20-yard (18 meter) volley that  Maarten Stekelenburg 
gathered.  Opening Goal  The opening goal came on 24 minutes when Bastian Schweinsteiger slid a pass through for Gomez, who turned and
struck a low shot past Stekelenburg.  Holger Badstuber headed straight at the goalkeeper after 37
minutes and a minute later Gomez lifted the ball over
Stekelenburg from a tight angle to extend the lead.  The Netherlands introduced  Rafael van der Vaart  and Klaas-
Jan Huntelaar at halftime in an attempt to rescue the match.  Van Persie  tested Neuer with a volley and  Wesley Sneijder 
shot just wide, while Germany’s Mats Hummels had two
opportunities saved.  Van Persie got the first goal of the tournament for the
Netherlands, the leading scorer in qualifying, on 74 minutes as
he turned past a defender and powered a low shot into the corner
of the net.  Germany almost increased its advantage in the final minute
of injury time when  Miroslav Klose  put Stekelenburg under
pressure as he received a back pass.  Successive Losses  It’s the first time the Dutch have lost successive matches
since the 1998  World Cup . The Netherlands has reached at least
the quarterfinals for six straight European championships,
starting with its victory in 1988.  “We showed courage going forward but not in defense,”
Dutch coach  Bert van Marwijk  said.  Portugal  recovered from its opening defeat to Germany, with
Silvestre Varela scoring an 87th-minute goal in Lviv to improve
his team’s chances of reaching the knockout stage for a fifth
straight time.  Pepe and Helder Postiga also scored for 2004 runner-up
Portugal, which had only one goal in its past four matches.
Nicklas Bendtner had both of Denmark’s goals.  “We controlled most parts of the game and the only chances
they created resulted in goals,” Portugal coach Paulo Bento
told UEFA’s website. “In the second half we had a lot of
chances and if we would have made it 3-1 the game would have
been over.”  Pepe blocked an early shot from Christian Eriksen as
 Denmark , which finished above Portugal in qualifying for the
2010 World Cup and this tournament, made a positive start.  Ronald Misses  Lars Jacobsen was then forced to clear a Nani cross and
goalkeeper Stephan Andersen punched the resulting corner clear.  Cristiano Ronaldo  dragged a shot wide on 20 minutes, then
hit a free kick over the bar. Portugal scored from a set piece
in the 24th minute, Pepe heading in a corner.  Postiga doubled the advantage 12 minutes later with a
first-time shot from Nani’s cross.  Denmark replied before halftime from a rare attack with
Michael Krohn-Dehli heading a pass across goal for the unmarked
Bendtner to head in from close range.  Ronaldo twice failed to score in the second half with only
the goalkeeper to beat. Bendtner then tied it with 10 minutes
remaining with a header that went into the net off the post. It
was his 20th goal for Denmark, including six against Portugal.  Varela snatched the winner moments after replacing  Raul Meireles  when he spun around before firing a right-foot shot
into the net. Danish substitute Lasse Schone could have tied the
score in injury time but put his effort over the bar from 15
yards out.  “It’s a horrible feeling to lose so close to the end,”
Denmark coach Morten Olsen said. “I was proud of the way we
played and proud too of the way we fought back in the second
half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 