-- Germany Embraces China Buyers Once Spurned as Economy Stings
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-13T12:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/germany-embraces-china-buyers-once-spurned-as-economy-stings-1-.html
Germany ’s mid-size businesses,
considered the backbone of the country’s economy, for years
spurned advances from Chinese companies. Then the global economy
slumped and German companies stopped playing hard to get.  So far this year nine German “Mittelstand” companies,
typically family-owned with fewer than 500 employees, have
agreed to be acquired by Chinese firms, bringing the total to 21
since the beginning of 2011.  China  surpassed the U.S. last year
to become the largest foreign direct investor in Germany by
number of deals. The uptick signals that the 3 million
Mittelstand companies, accounting for roughly half of Germany’s
economic output, will put aside their wariness of China and
outside ownership in favor of growth and survival.  “Many Mittelstand companies ran into problems during the
financial crisis,” said  Christian von Stetten , a German
lawmaker in Berlin who helps oversee a Parliamentary committee
on Mittelstand firms. “A Chinese investment can make sense and
be a way out of the crisis.”  The biggest Chinese takeover came in January when
Putzmeister Holding AG, Germany’s largest cement-pump maker,
agreed to be bought by  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  for about 525
million euros ($656 million) including debt. In 2009 its sales
had plunged by half to about $547 million, prompting a
restructuring and a search for an investor, said Putzmeister
Chief Executive Officer Norbert Scheuch, 52.  “Sany was love at first sight,” Scheuch said.  German Concern  Such sentiment was scarcely heard before. German owners
said they feared that Chinese buyers would dismantle their
companies and cut or move jobs back home. That would undermine a
segment of Germany’s economy that employs 70 percent of its 42
million workers and yields technological know-how in specialized
niches, like machine building, solar power and automotive
supply.  “There were concerns that, like American companies and
some venture capitalists, the Chinese will suck a company dry,
take the filet pieces out and then dissolve it,” said Marc
Tenbieg, managing director of the DMB Deutscher Mittelstands-
Bund, which represents more than 14,000 small and mid-sized
enterprises.  The sovereign debt crisis and  Europe ’s recession softened
that kind of nationalistic thinking.  “We’re convinced the Chinese-German M&A story is gaining
traction because there’s been a sizable learning curve for both
sides,” said Kai Tschoeke, head of deals at Morgan Stanley in
Frankfurt, which advised Putzmeister, in an interview.  National Pride  Chinese executives are easing German resistance with
promises of  job security  and appeals to its national pride.  Sany (631)  plans to make Aichtal, the southwestern German town
where Putzmeister is based, its global headquarters for concrete
machinery outside of China. Sany also agreed to keep open all
German production sites until 2015 and to avoid layoffs through
2020, short of the economy tanking. It will use the German brand
in all countries excluding China, leveraging the “Made in
Germany” label. Its goal is to boost Putzmeister annual sales
to 2 billion euros by 2016 from 570 million euros in 2011.  These assurances have seemed to satisfy the 3,000 employees
at Putzmeister, which has built a reputation providing cement
pumping machines used to build the world’s tallest building in
Dubai and help quell the nuclear disaster in Fukushima,  Japan .  “We prefer the Chinese because they have a long-term
strategy, whereas Anglo-Saxon private equity firms are all about
a quick turnaround,” said Sieghard Bender, a union leader who
had organized protests against the takeover. “Sany will do
everything to make the Putzmeister deal a success.”  Distressed Companies  Private equity firms in Germany are still trying to shake
the “locusts” label, coined by former German Labor Minister
Franz Muentefering, for their focus on cutting jobs and
leveraging debt for short-term gains.  Chinese purchasers have focused on distressed companies. In
January, LDK Solar Co., China’s second-largest solar panel
maker, agreed to buy Germany’s  Sunways AG (SWW)  as domestic panel
makers struggle to cope with competition from  Asia .  Less than three months after the Sany transaction, China’s
XCMG Construction Machinery Co. agreed to buy Putzmeister’s main
domestic competitor Schwing GmbH. In March, Hebei Lingyun
Industrial Group Corporation Ltd. agreed to purchase Kiekert AG,
the world’s largest supplier of car latches that had been taken
over by its creditors.  German distrust over Chinese takeovers has its basis. SGSB
Group Co., a Shanghai-based maker of sewing machines, completed
the purchase of a majority stake in Germany’s  Duerkopp Adler AG (DKA) 
in 2005. After the takeover, the company “vastly failed” to
meet its own sales expectations, the then Chief Executive
Officer Werner Heer said in that year’s annual report. The
company has cut a third of workers since the takeover.  Bilateral Investments  There are still “some misperceptions and skepticism” to
the Chinese in the German Mittelstand, said Michael Reinert, a
senior managing director at FTI Consulting. “They are very
aware of public perception and more and more looking for
friendly, strategic transactions with a long-term perspective.”  Both German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  have promoted bilateral investments. Wen has visited
Germany six times since taking the helm in 2003 to advocate
investments in both countries.  “The approval process of the Chinese authorities for
investments in foreign companies has been eased,” Yi Sun, a
partner at Ernst & Young, said today at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  on Chinese investment. “The government wants to
promote foreign purchases in order to reach its goal set in the
last five-year plan to orientate the Chinese economy towards
more qualitative growth.”  The test for the Putzmeister and other takeovers will come
if new owners start making management changes, closing factories
or firing workers, said Tenbieg, the Mittelstand representative.  “At the moment everything looks rosy,” he said. “Now we
have to see whether promises are kept.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  