-- Get-Neutral App Seeks Cash to Highlight Climate Harm
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-06-13T14:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/get-neutral-app-seeks-cash-to-highlight-climate-hurting-products.html
Get-neutral GmbH, a startup company
with a mobile phone application displaying  carbon footprint 
information about products that allows users to offset CO2
emissions, is seeking funding to grow across  Europe .  The six-month-old company is looking to get 1.5 million
euros ($1.9 million) by the end of this year to boost operations
in  Germany , Switzerland, Austria and Luxembourg. Get-neutral
will seek as much as 6 million euros in a further round of
funding in the second quarter of next year.  “We have to make money and we want to grow fast,” co-
founder and Chief Executive Officer Holger Rupp said in a June 8
telephone interview from Reutlingen, Germany. “We can only have
an impact against  climate change  if we grow fast and reach the
mainstream population.”  Venture capital  and private equity companies put $1.15
billion into new clean energy investments last year as
innovators race to find solutions to curb climate-harming
emissions, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The mobile
apps market may reach $27 billion by 2015, according to
Constellation Research Inc., an early-start technology adviser
in  San Francisco .  Get-neutral, which allows users to view product emissions
by scanning their bar-codes, will focus its expansion initially
in the U.K., France and Scandinavia, according to Rupp, who has
started four other companies.  ‘Feel Good Trend’  “While people are concerned with climate protection, it’s
a feel-good trend,”  Ray Wang , chief executive officer of
Constellation Research, said in a June 13 telephone interview
from Paris. “So it’s a bet on how consumers act.”  Get-neutral’s application has 25,000 users since it was
made available in January, according to a document outlining the
business plan sent by e-mail to Bloomberg News.  The app generates money from advertising and the company
uses part of this revenue for climate-protection projects such
as solar cooking stoves in Nepal or tree-planting in  Mozambique ,
Rupp said. The advertisements give companies a chance to
highlight their sustainability projects, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  