-- Getco Said to Cut About 40 Jobs Amid U.S. Trading Slowdown
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-13T18:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/getco-said-to-cut-about-40-jobs-amid-u-s-trading-slowdown-1-.html
Getco LLC, a Chicago-based automated
trading firm, eliminated about 40 jobs last week amid an
industry slowdown in transactions, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the situation.  Sophie Sohn, a Getco spokeswoman, confirmed in a phone
interview that the company cut positions on June 7. Edward Boyle, hired a year-and-a-half ago from NYSE Euronext to manage
the firm’s relationships with exchanges and work on business
strategy, was among the people let go, she said.  Daniel Coleman , who became Getco’s chief executive officer
in February, is confronting a third straight annual slowdown in
American equities trading. Half the cuts, which followed the
company’s first strategic review of its businesses, were in the
U.S., according to the person with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the issue is private. The
company had about 450 employees before the layoffs.  “It’s not a huge surprise,” Sang Lee, managing partner at
Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in a phone interview. “It
doesn’t take a genius to see that volume trends in the last few
years haven’t been favorable for the marketplace, especially for
those firms that rely on volume for revenue. Most brokers have
gone through downsizing and firms like Getco certainly do thrive
under higher-volume environments.”  Minimizing Impact  While the review examined business units across the
company, job cuts weren’t made in all groups, according to the
person. Some units continue to expand including client services,
the person said. Coleman, who joined Getco in 2010 after serving
as global head of equities at Zurich-based UBS AG, has sought to
extend the company’s trading services to mutual funds and other
asset managers. The company offers a strategy, or set of
algorithms, called GETAlpha designed to help institutions save
money and minimize their impact on prices as they trade.  Getco, a high-frequency-trading specialist founded in 1999,
is a market maker on more than 50 exchanges and platforms
globally in equities and options, fixed income, commodities and
currencies. Founders Stephen Schuler and Dan Tierney remained on
the board after Coleman’s promotion.  The growth of Getco’s business servicing asset managers
followed its decision in 2010 to become a so-called designated
market maker on the  New York  Stock Exchange. The company agreed
to buy Bank of America Corp.’s NYSE market-making business last
year. It created its the Getco Execution Services dark pool, now
called GETMatched, in 2008. Dark pools are private venues that
match orders without displaying bids and offers in advance.  Stock volume has  shrunk  this year, dropping to an average
6.81 billion shares a day in the U.S. versus 7.80 billion in
2011, 8.52 billion in 2010 and 9.77 billion in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on exchange-listed securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  