-- Banker Pay Rules Aren’t Being Applied Evenly, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-14T08:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/global-bank-bonus-rules-aren-t-being-applied-evenly-fsb-says.html
International efforts to enforce a
common set of rules on banker pay may be hampered by diverging
national positions on which staff should be covered by the
measures, the Financial Stability Board said.  There are “important differences” in how nations have
implemented the curbs, which were set by regulators in 2009 to
reduce excessive risk taking, the FSB said yesterday in a report
on its website. These include a potentially “wide variation”
in the range of employees that authorities target.  “Member jurisdictions have made different choices
regarding the institutions and employees that are covered,”
according to the report, drawn up for a meeting next week of the
Group of 20 nations. Divergences exist even within the 27-nation
European Union, the FSB said.  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have forced some
banks this year to retreat from their initial pay plans. In a
bid to placate investors,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  agreed to forgo about 11 percent of his total
compensation until the bank increases profits. In a non-binding
April vote,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders voted to reject that
bank’s executive pay plan.  “It is unlikely that we will reach a globally  united front 
on this issue,”  Richard Reid , research director for the
International Centre for Financial Regulation in  London , said in
an e-mail. “Not all countries share the same enthusiasm for
such curbs, indeed some may see this as an opportunity to
attract top talent.”  Brazil, Australia  While in  Brazil  only members of the board of directors and
executive officers are covered by the curbs, the FSB said in the
report, in  Australia  they are applied to all employees whose
actions might “affect the financial soundness of the
institution” and whose pay is significantly performance-linked.  European Union lawmakers have called for the bloc to insert
tougher bonus curbs this year in legislation to implement bank-
capital rules, including a ban on awards that exceed fixed pay.  Global regulators in 2009 called for all “material risk
takers” at banks to face compensation restrictions including
deferral for at least three years of 40 percent of bonus awards,
and a requirement that over 50 percent of payouts be in shares
or similar instruments.  The measures are part of efforts to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The FSB brings together finance ministry
officials, central bankers and regulators from G-20 countries to
coordinate rule-making.  The board also said banks are still not doing enough to
link pay to performance as they “do not want to lose key
personnel.” Spanish regulators told the FSB that they had seen
evidence of banks raising their fixed salaries to get around
bonus rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 