-- GM Closing German Factory Seen Emboldening Others: Cars
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-06-14T08:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/gm-closing-factory-in-germany-seen-emboldening-others-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s move to shutter
the first German car factory since World War II addresses only a
fraction of the supply glut hobbling the European  auto industry .  “One would need to close at least one factory per volume
manufacturer in Europe, which would be about five factories in
total,” said Philippe Houchois, a UBS analyst in London,
referring to  Renault SA (RNO) ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  as the other four companies needing to shut plants.  Hamstrung by political pressure not to cut jobs, Europe’s
carmakers have balked at shutting unprofitable plants, closing
just two in the past four years: a GM facility in Belgium and a
Fiat factory in Sicily. With demand softening, overcapacity in
western  Europe  may more than double to about 2 million vehicles
in 2012, according to researcher IHS Automotive. The region’s
car market will contract 7 percent this year, the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, said last week.  GM’s announcement yesterday to shut a factory in Bochum,
Germany, reflects the difficulties that European automakers
face. The move will take until 2017 to carry out after the
Detroit-based automaker agreed to extend job guarantees.  “Even GM seems to need five years to close down its most
marginal plant,” said  David Arnold , a sales specialist with
Credit Suisse in London. The prolonged closure “highlights once
again that there will be no easy or indeed quick solution to the
European overcapacity problem.”  Peugeot Plunge  Peugeot shares  plunged to a 23-year low yesterday on
concern about the Paris-based company’s ability to reverse
slumping sales, extending losses over three months to 40 percent
and shriveling its market value to 2.7 billion euros. Renault
has declined 27 percent and Fiat 26 percent over the same
period.  Volkswagen AG (SXAP) , which isn’t suffering from excess factory
capacity, has dropped 11 percent.  Auto executives meeting in  Madrid  today will discuss how to
deal with the industry’s shrinking sales, with deliveries set to
drop in 2012 for a fifth straight year. Car sales across the
region tumbled 7.1 percent in the first four months of the year,
with the Italian, French and Greek markets all plunging 18
percent or more, according to ACEA data. Delivery figures for
May will be released tomorrow.  Opel is in negotiations with unions to keep the Bochum
plant open until GM stops making the Zafira minivan at the
factory at the end of 2016, the Ruesselsheim, Germany-based GM
unit said yesterday. Opel would extend job protections by two
years through 2016 and in exchange ask workers to delay wage
increases set for this year.  ‘No Allocation’  “Under the current economic conditions and outlook, there
will be no further product allocation for Bochum after the
Zafira goes out of production,” Doris Klose, an Opel
spokeswoman, said by telephone. “It is currently being
negotiated with the unions whether something else might be
produced there.”  The deepening crisis has some carmakers calling for
intervention. French Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg
yesterday said his government was considering financial support
for automakers after Renault Chief Operating Officer  Carlos Tavares  said he would welcome “any kind of measure of
support.” The French government owns 15 percent of Renault.  The region’s auto executives today start their annual two-
day gathering, led by current ACEA President and Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne . The CEO is pushing for an industrywide plan under
the auspices of the European Union that would draw up a
blueprint for factory shutdowns in an effort to discourage
 member states  from offering incentives to protect local jobs.  German Resistance  Thus far, his efforts have been thwarted by German
automakers, which don’t have the same capacity glut in Europe as
their French, Italian and American counterparts, because they
make vehicles in demand in markets like the U.S. and China.  “Now that GM has opened the way, other manufacturers may
find the courage to follow,” Houchois said. “The industry is
now capable of financing its own restructuring. This will be
much more difficult three years from now, especially if the
macroeconomic situation doesn’t improve.”  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , the director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen  in
 Germany , also estimated that as many as five plants should be
closed, adding that three was more likely. The Bochum closing is
the first in Germany by a still existing carmaker since 1945,
Dudenhoeffer said. Juergen Pieper, a Bankhaus Metzler analyst in
 Frankfurt , said three to four factories need to be shuttered in
Europe.  Share Drag  GM’s decision on Bochum is part of Chief Executive Officer
Dan Akerson’s pledge to stem European losses he says are
weighing on the shares. The U.S. automaker posted a first-
quarter adjusted operating loss in Europe of $256 million and
also had $590 million in writedowns.  GM Europe , which until 2010
included the Saab auto brand, has reported $16.4 billion in
losses since 1999.  GM agreed in February to buy 7 percent of Peugeot as part
of an alliance to cooperate on purchasing and vehicle
development in a bid to cut costs in Europe.  Peugeot factories in Aulnay and Rennes, both in France, are
most at risk of being shut down as cooperation with GM adds to
pressure from sluggish sales in Europe, union representatives
Franck Don of CFDT and Bruno Lemerle of CGT said. The
manufacturer assembles the Citroen C3 compact in Aulnay and the
Citroen C5 and C6 and Peugeot 508 sedans in Rennes.  Opel Adjusts  Fiat was the first European automaker to close a factory in
its home country since the 2008 financial crisis when it shut a
plant in Sicily in December. Before Fiat’s move, GM was the only
other carmaker to shut a factory in the region in the past four
years, closing a facility in Antwerp,  Belgium , in 2010.  Bochum, which produced its first Opel vehicle in 1962, has
3,100 employees, down from a peak of more than 20,100 in 1979,
according to company figures. GM’s remaining European factories
will work on a three-shift basis and may eventually produce non-
Opel vehicles, the carmaker said yesterday.  “We must work towards sustainable positive results for our
operations,” Opel CEO Karl-Friedrich Stracke said. “Opel needs
to adjust its business in a way that enables profitability even
in difficult market conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 