-- GM’s Opel Asks Union for Wage Boost Delay to Avoid Cuts
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-06-13T17:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/gm-s-opel-asks-union-for-wage-boost-delay-to-avoid-cuts.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  moved to close an
Opel factory at the end of 2016 in what would be the first
shuttering of a German auto plant since World War II.  “Under the current economic conditions and outlook, there
will be no further product allocation for Bochum after the
Zafira goes out of production,” Doris Klose, an Opel
spokeswoman, said by telephone.  Auto CEOs meeting in Madrid tomorrow will discuss how to
deal with the growing overcapacity as the region’s car sales
sink for a fifth straight year. Auto factory shutdowns in  Europe 
are rare, this would be the third one since 2008, and the first
in  Germany  among existing carmakers since 1945, according to
industry expert  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer .  ”They are trying to push back a decision which would cause
permanent damage to the perception and sales of Opel cars in
Germany,” Dudenhoeffer, the director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen , said of
the delayed closure. ”It offers very little comfort.”
Opel is in negotiations with unions to keep the plant in Bochum,
Germany, open until GM stops making the Zafira minivan at the
factory at the end of 2016, the Ruesselsheim, Germany-based GM
unit said today in an e-mailed statement. Opel would extend job
protections by two years through 2016 and in exchange ask
workers to delay wage increases set for this year.  European Losses  GM, the world’s largest automaker, is looking to
consolidate European operations to curb losses that Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said is weighing on the
company’s shares. The Detroit-based company posted a first-
quarter adjusted operating loss in Europe of $256 million and
also had $590 million in writedowns.  GM Europe  has reported
$16.4 billion in losses since 1999.  “I’ve been telling clients not to expect anything
dramatically positive for GM Europe at least for several
years,” David Whiston, an equity analyst with Morningstar Inc.
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “This doesn’t give
me any reason to be dramatically more optimistic about GM Europe
than before this news.”  GM  dropped  as much as 27 cents, or 1.2 percent to $21.90
and was down 0.9 percent as of 1:11 p.m. in  New York  trading.  Overcapacity in Western Europe may more than double to
about 2 million vehicles in 2012, according to IHS Automotive.
The region’s car market will contract 7 percent this year, the
European Automobile Manufactuers’ Association said last week.  Factory Closings  Fiat (F)  was the first European automaker to close a factory in
its home country since the 2008 financial crisis when it shut a
plant in Sicily in December. Before Fiat’s move, GM was the only
other carmaker to shut a factory in the region past four years,
closing a facility in Antwerp,  Belgium , in 2010.  Bochum, which produced its first Opel vehicle in 1962, has
3,100 employees, down from a peak of more than 20,100 in 1979,
according to company figures.  GM said May 17 that it will move production of the next
version of the Opel Astra compact car to its plant in Ellesmere
Port,  England , raising the possibility of a shutdown of the
Bochum factory. Astra output will be moved from Ruesselsheim, a
plant that will remain in full use, according to the company.  GM’s remaining European factories will work on a three-
shift basis and may eventually produce non-Opel vehicles, the
carmaker said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  