-- Goldman Sees ‘Muted’ Impact From Bank Downgrades, Analyst Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-13T13:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/goldman-sees-muted-impact-from-bank-downgrades-analyst-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar expects that Moody’s Investors
Service’s pending downgrades of major U.S. banks will have a
“muted impact” on the companies, according to an analyst.  Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York published a
research note describing a meeting he held yesterday with Viniar
and Stephen M. Scherr, Goldman Sachs’s head of financing and
Latin America.  Viniar, 56, said “the downgrades had been ‘totally
telegraphed’ (i.e. priced in) and because it was the whole
industry would have a muted impact,” Kotowski wrote.
“Financial institutions are major issuers of debt,
institutional investors need to buy it and anyone who was not
aware of the downgrades was probably in the wrong business.”  Goldman Sachs,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among companies that may be downgraded by two
levels, Moody’s said in a statement in February, adding that the
“guidance is indicative only.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  could be lowered by as much as three
notches, Moody’s said.  Viniar and James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s chief executive
officer, are among Wall Street executives who have publicly
questioned Moody’s analysis. Gorman said yesterday at an
investor conference in New York that a three-level cut of Morgan
Stanley’s rating would be “somewhat stunning” given the firm’s
increased capital.  Macro Hedges  Kotowski’s note said he also asked whether Goldman Sachs
uses “global macro hedges” to manage its risk. JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon is testifying today in the Senate
about his bank’s trading loss on derivatives that the firm has
described as designed to help offset, or hedge, the company’s
credit risks.  Viniar’s response was that “essentially they don’t use
them,” Kotowski wrote. “Philosophically they believe that risk
management should be done in the business unit, not centralized.
The business needs to own the risk, and his role as CFO is to
set limits on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 