-- Goldman Said to Hire Deutsche Bank’s Head of Distressed Sourcing
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-06-13T13:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/goldman-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-s-head-of-distressed-sourcing.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired Duane Masucci,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s head of distressed sourcing,
according to four people with knowledge of the move.  Masucci, 45, will be a so-called sourcer at Goldman Sachs,
someone who locates and purchases distressed loans, bonds or
claims for a bank’s trading group and clients, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the hire hasn’t been
announced publicly.  Masucci will probably start in New York in August, the
people said. He reports to Tom Tormey, Jerry Keefe and Dennis
Lafferty, co-heads of the distressed investing group.  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, Michael
DuVally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and Masucci, all declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has
recently made changes to its credit-sales and trading business,
including limiting private information such as corporate
financial projections that is available to employees in loan
sales and trading.  As part of the changes, earlier this year the bank named
Bryan Mix as global head of loan trading, and Jonathan Meltzer
and John Shaffer as co-heads of New York credit sales.  Mix previously ran the Asia credit business, Meltzer was
previously head of bank loan sales in New York and Shaffer was
head of high-yield and distressed distribution groups, also in
New York.  Leveraged loans, those rated below BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s and less than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service, are
usually private and investors in this debt can have access to
material non-public information that buyers of high-yield bonds
can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  