-- Goldman CEO Role Is ‘Tough Job to Leave,’ Blankfein Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-13T15:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/goldman-ceo-role-is-tough-job-to-leave-blankfein-says.html
Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and
chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for the past
six years, said it’s a “tough job to leave” and he’s unlikely
to follow his predecessors into government.  “When you think of my last five or six predecessors, five
of them left because they went to the government,” he told
reporters after participating in a discussion at the Chicago
Club. “I would say the government isn’t going to call me up. So
that means staying forever or dying at my desk.”  Blankfein, 57, was named to his current job in June 2006 to
succeed  Henry Paulson , who was nominated to serve as President
 George W. Bush ’s Treasury Secretary. During Blankfein’s tenure,
New York-based Goldman Sachs generated the highest profits in
its history and also the biggest losses since becoming a public
company in 1999.  “I’ll tell you why this is a tough job to leave,”
Blankfein said. “When things are going really well it’s the
best job in the world and you wouldn’t want to leave. And when
things are going badly you can’t leave because your sense of
responsibility won’t let you.”  Goldman Sachs converted to a bank in the aftermath of the
2008 financial crisis. The firm paid $550 million to settle a
Securities and Exchange Commission claim that it misled
investors in a 2007 mortgage-linked security, and the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations accused the company of
misleading investors.  Corzine, Rubin  Before Paulson, leaders of the firm included  Jon Corzine ,
who became a U.S. senator and New Jersey governor; Stephen Friedman, who served as director of the National Economic
Council;  Robert Rubin , Treasury secretary under President  Bill
Clinton ; John C. Whitehead, deputy secretary of state; and John L. Weinberg, who stepped down as senior partner and chairman in
1990 and died in 2006.  “I don’t know,” Blankfein said about when he’ll decide to
leave. “People who’ve done this don’t know their mood until
their mood switches.”  Gustave Levy, who preceded Weinberg and Whitehead, was
running the firm when he collapsed and died in 1976. Weinberg’s
father,  Sidney Weinberg , remained involved in the firm until his
own death in 1969, according to Bill Cohan, author of “Money
and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” and a
Bloomberg View columnist.  Blankfein made his comments at the Chicago Club, where he
participated in a discussion with Motorola Solutions Inc.
Chairman and CEO Greg Brown. Goldman Sachs is the fifth-largest
U.S. bank by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 