-- Grace’s Hula-Hoop, DeVito, Hirst’s Sale: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/grace-s-hula-hoop-devito-hirst-s-sale-london-weekend.html
Grace Jones  will be staring down
 London  fans as they go dance crazy at the Lovebox Festival.  Festival goers will get a reprise of the disco diva’s
“Slave to the Rhythm,” which she belted out at the Jubilee
Concert this month with a hula-hoop spinning around her waist
for the entire performance.  The three-day Lovebox event in Victoria Park, now going for
a decade, is becoming one of the best U.K. festivals. Hot Chip
tops the bill tonight, with the Friendly Fires and Emeli Sande
Saturday. Jones is supported by Lana Del Rey,  Chaka Khan  and
Chic on Sunday.  Lovebox, Victoria Park, Grove Road, E3. Information:
 http://www.lovebox.net  or +44-844-822-1233. Tickets cost from 29
pounds ($45) for Friday only to 185 pounds for the VIP weekend
package; some combinations are sold out.  Bistrotheque, near  Victoria Park , is one of East London’s
most enjoyable restaurants -- a relaxed and informal venue,
popular for brunch on weekends, when a pianist plays hits on a
baby grand. It’s best to book. Information:
 http://www.bistrotheque.com/  or +44 (0)20 8983 7900.  Saturday  The artist famous for cracking  Tate Modern’s  concrete floor
is back in London with a rather more delicate work.  Doris Salcedo has threaded together thousands of rose
petals to create a giant shroud. The dead petals are soft and a
rust color, with tiny visible stitches.  Equally funereal is Salcedo’s evocation of the 1,500 young
Colombian men who were promised a job in the army, then executed
and passed off as guerrillas killed in combat. Their coffins are
symbolized by pairs of stacked tables, their tabletops touching,
and thin blades of grass shooting through them.  “Doris Salcedo” is at  White Cube , 25-26 Mason’s Yard,
London SW1Y 6BU through June 30. Information:
 http://www.whitecube.com  or +44-20-7930-5373.  Hix, a short walk from White Cube, is the restaurant of
Chef Mark Hix, who counts  Damien Hirst  and Tracey Emin among his
friends. Original works by Young British Artists hang all over
the venue, which includes a clubby bar in the basement, known
for the excellence of its cocktails. Information:
 http://www.hixsoho.co.uk/  or +44-20-7292-3518.  Saturday Night  Watch Danny DeVito whinge and whine in striped pajamas.  DeVito plays the retired vaudeville actor Willie in “The
Sunshine Boys” by  Neil Simon . Long after he and his sidekick Al
(Richard Griffiths) have put their 43-year comedy act to bed,
it’s being reprised for a television special.  Old-age squabbles are also reprised for the occasion. The
mismatched duo -- one far larger than the other -- draw laughs
just standing side by side. And DeVito, who was last in a play
four decades ago, shows off his expert comic timing.  “The Sunshine Boys” is at the Savoy Theatre. Information:
 http://www.sunshineboystheplay.com  or +44-844-871-7687.  Sunday  Hirst faces his first big market test since his
retrospective opened at Tate Modern earlier this year.  You can see -- and prepare to bid for -- his work in a
 Sotheby’s (BID)  pre-auction exhibition, which also features art by
Miro, Picasso, Bacon,  Gerhard Richter  and  Jean-Michel Basquiat .
The show is open from noon to 5 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday at
Sotheby’s on 34-35 New  Bond Street .  Sunday Night  The Barbican offers classical-music fans a rare double
whammy: the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra performs Sunday night,
conducted by  Simon Rattle  (who usually waves his baton at the
Berlin Philharmonic).  On the menu are Brahms’s Symphony No. 3 and Schumann’s
Symphony No. 3. Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk , +44-20-
7638-8891.  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 