-- Graft Ravages Washington’s City Government After Boom
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/graft-ravages-washington-s-city-government-after-boom.html
Character. Integrity. Leadership.
That’s what Vince Gray promised when he ran for mayor of
 Washington  in 2010 and defeated incumbent Adrian Fenty.  Since then, two Gray aides have admitted concealing
payments to a minor candidate so he would attack Fenty, and the
investigation continues. The City Council chairman, a former
ally, admitted lying to get a loan for a $50,000 boat he named
“Bullet Proof.” Another councilman admitted stealing more than
$350,000 meant for children so he could buy an SUV, a motorcycle
and leather chaps.  The city in the U.S. Capitol’s shadow has long been ravaged
by poverty and corruption. Over the past decade, though, it grew
for the first time in a half-century and median household income
rose nearly 46 percent. A ballpark was built for  Major League
Baseball ’s Nationals and the once-shabby Chinatown neighborhood
took on a new glitz with restaurants and bars. The
investigations threaten to overshadow that progress.  “This is a throwback, a reminder of the bad old days of
D.C.,” said Terry Lynch, an activist for almost 30 years who
runs the Downtown Cluster of Congregations, a nonprofit group
providing services to the poor. “The padding of the nest and
winning at all cost, that’s not what public service is about.
It’s hurting this city badly and has set us back years.”  Grainy Images  Washington, a federal district that is not part of any
state, was governed by Congress until lawmakers granted it home
rule in 1973. The next year, voters chose their city
representatives for the first time.  Marion Barry, the second elected mayor, held office for two
decades, minus a four-year break after being convicted for
smoking cocaine in a hotel room a few blocks from the White
House in 1990. The surveillance-camera image of Barry, who now
sits on the City Council, sucking on a crack pipe came to define
Washington’s dysfunctional municipal politics -- a picture many
residents hoped was fading.  “We can’t confuse dealing with a couple of dishonest
politicians with how Washington is doing as a city,” said Peter
Rosenstein, 65, director of the  American Academy  of Orthotists
and Prosthetists and a resident of the Dupont Circle
neighborhood.  Still, in January, Harry Thomas Jr., 51, became the first
sitting member of the D.C. Council to plead guilty to a felony,
the U.S. Attorney’s office said. Thomas admitted misusing city
money he directed to a nonprofit that was supposedly teaching
children to play baseball and other sports. He resigned and was
sentenced to 38 months in prison.  Liar’s Loan  Then, on June 8, Council Chairman Kwame Brown, 41, who had
been sworn into office in January 2011 by U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder, also pleaded guilty to a felony: bank fraud.  In a federal courtroom, Brown -- known for speaking in the
third person -- mumbled into a microphone that he lied on
documents for two loans totaling more than $220,000. On the loan
for a 38-foot boat, Brown added $50,000 to his salary by
changing the “3” in $35,000 to an “8,” court documents said.  On the courthouse steps, he read a prepared statement.  “I have worked every day on behalf of the people and have
done it wholeheartedly,” Brown said in front of a bank of
cameras and microphones. “But six years ago, I made some very
serious mistakes and judgments, and I have taken full and sole
responsibility.”  His plea deal calls for six months in prison and a $5,000
fine, according to a statement from the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  ‘Drugs and Women’  “This is the first time that elected officials in D.C.
have violated the law for personal gain,” said Bill Lightfoot,
a former City Council member who was chairman of Fenty’s 2010
re-election bid. “Barry violated the law, but his was weakness
of the spirit. He did drugs and women. We’re the nation’s
capital and should set a standard to be followed by the
nation.”  The scandals chagrined a city reveling in success. Its
population increased to 601,723 in 2010 from 572,059 in 2000,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The 5.2 percent increase
was the first since the 1950 census. Median  household income 
grew to $58,526 in 2010 from $40,127 in 2000. The district was
third during that period on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States, a measure of the fiscal health of the 50 U.S. states and
Washington.  As the city battened, neighborhoods were reclaimed from
blight, sometimes displacing longtime residents, though adding
vibrancy. Neighborhoods including Logan Circle and Shaw boomed.
And this year -- after generations of hapless Washington
baseball teams -- the Nationals lead their division.  Holes and Trash  “The city is still moving forward,” said Tommy Wells, a
councilman. “There’s a long history in America, or any
democracy, in times when public officials do bad things.”  The district knows those times.  In 1985, Barry’s chief political adviser pleaded guilty to
stealing $190,000 from the city. Two years later, his deputy
mayor for finance admitted to directing more than $260,000 in
auditing contracts to a friend’s firm.  When Barry’s government projected a $722 million deficit
for its $3.2 billion budget in 1995, Congress and President  Bill
Clinton  put Washington under a control board as potholes went
unfilled and trash uncollected.  Brown and Thomas grew up in families that enjoyed political
connections. They were viewed as the future of black leadership
in a place long known as “Chocolate City.”  Dog Parks  However, blacks are now in the minority in D.C. for the
first time in more than 50 years, falling to 304,203, or 49.2
percent of the population, according to U.S. Census 2011
population estimates.  The city’s changing demographics defined the mayoral race.  Gray won with the support of 108-majority-black census
tracts and only five majority white, according a Washington Post
analysis. Fenty, who four years earlier took every precinct, won
53 majority-white tracts and 10 black.  In his term, he had pushed for dog parks and bike lanes.
Some residents said Fenty’s amenities were welcome mats for
white newcomers, and that the investigations are revenge for his
ouster.  “Why are people of color getting investigated?” said
Garry Steven, 49, who cuts hair at Joseph’s Barber Shop on
Georgia Avenue. “They want to control the city and get real
Washingtonians out, and they’re starting from the top and
working their way down.”  He described white newcomers as “the KKK in suits.”  Regular Folks  Lee Granados, a 37-year-old born, raised and still living
in wealthier Dupont Circle, said those people saw opportunities
to live closer to their jobs and send their children to schools
they believed were improving.  “The corruption just leaves residents with the perception
of a city that’s up in the air, and they wonder why they should
get involved,” said Granados, a white woman managing the
campaign of an aspiring school-board member. “People are at the
tipping point of being so disenfranchised that if things don’t
change quickly, they’ll give up and leave.”  It’s that discouragement that U.S. Attorney Ron Machen said
he’s trying to fight by prosecuting the politicians.  “Corruption creates cynicism, disengagement,” Machen said
at a June 8 press conference. “It creates and leads to a
culture of apathy, a culture of complacency and a culture of
acceptance.”  Machen said the investigation into Gray’s campaign is
continuing. Pedro Ribeiro, a Gray spokesman, didn’t return calls
for comment.  “The whole government is going to fall if we have any more
councilmembers gone or the mayor,” said D.C. Councilwoman Mary Cheh. “I mean really: eek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Washington, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  