-- Greece Canceling Bailout Would Breach Trust, Hollande Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-13T18:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/greece-canceling-bailout-would-breach-trust-hollande-says-1-.html
Greece  would breach the relationship
of trust with its European Union partners if it canceled its
bailout commitments, French President  Francois Hollande  said.  “Honoring the commitments that have been made does not
mean remaining in the same situation,” Hollande said in an
interview broadcast on Athens-based Mega TV today. “If there
isn’t growth then there can be no reduction of the deficit, and
Greece is proof of this.”  Hollande said his election to the French presidency on May
6, the same day as inconclusive parliamentary elections in
Greece, has put growth back on the EU agenda. This can benefit
Greece, as long as voters decide in repeat elections on June 17
to stand by their country’s pledges and remain in the euro, he
said.  “If the impression is given that the Greeks want to
distance themselves from their agreed commitments and to abandon
every prospect of recovery, there will be countries in the euro
zone that will prefer to terminate Greece’s presence,” Hollande
said. “I want Greece to remain in the euro zone, but Greeks
must understand that this requires a relationship of trust.”  The May 6 vote in Greece propelled the Syriza party, which
has said it wants to cancel the terms of Greece’s bailouts from
the EU and International Monetary Fund, into second place. The
latest polls on June 1 showed it vying with the New Democracy
party for first place.  As long as Greeks show that “they want to remain in the
euro zone, they should know that  Europe  will support them,”
Hollande said.  Europe’s financial crisis is not just about Greece, and
there is an urgent need to address threats arising from the
Spanish banking sector that endanger  Spain ’s ability to
refinance itself, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  