-- GSA Spent $28 Million on Taxpayer-Funded Events Since 2005
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-06-13T17:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/gsa-spent-28-million-on-taxpayer-funded-conferences-since-2005.html
The U.S. General Services
Administration, under investigation for excessive spending at a
Las Vegas conference, almost tripled its expenditures for such
events from 2005 to 2010.  Taxpayers paid $27.8 million for more than 200 overnight
gatherings attended by at least 50 GSA employees since 2005,
according to records obtained in response to a Freedom of
Information Act request. The destinations included  New Orleans ;
 Orlando ,  Florida ; and  Palm Springs ,  California .  Lawmakers have been scrutinizing the agency since an
inspector general report on April 2 revealed the 2010 Las Vegas
event had cost more than $800,000. Since then, GSA Administrator
Martha Johnson has resigned, and the inspector general has
referred the matter to the  Department of Justice .  “Starting with the  Bush administration , GSA has wanted to
be `more like business,’ but they seem to have picked up more of
the vices than the virtues,” said Charles Tiefer, a former
member of the Commission on Wartime Contracting. “These
conferences look less like learning experiences and more like
rewards for favored subordinates.”  Spending on the GSA events jumped from $2.66 million in
2005 to a high of $7.38 million in 2010, the year of the  Las
Vegas  junket in the agency’s western region. It declined to
$3.23 million in 2011, while the inspector general was working
on the report.  Canceled Conferences  Top GSA officials received a draft of the document in May
2011, according to Inspector General  Brian Miller ’s testimony to
Congress in April.  “The spending on conferences has gotten less bloated since
2010, but it could still use a period on a diet,” said Tiefer,
a professor at the University of Baltimore Law School. “There
are these guys called `auditors.’ Maybe the GSA should invite
them over for a spell.”  Dan Tangherlini, the new acting administrator for GSA, told
lawmakers in April that he had canceled 35 GSA conferences in
response to the inspector general report, saving taxpayers
$995,686. On April 15, Tangherlini issued a memorandum stating
that “all travel for internal GSA meetings, training,
conferences, seminars, leadership or management events” would
be suspended until the end of the fiscal year, with some
exceptions.  “When it came to light that conference funds were misused
on the Western Regions Conference,” Tangherlini “initiated a
comprehensive review of our agency’s operations,” Adam
Elkington, a GSA spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Going forward, all conferences will be centrally controlled
and centrally managed.”  Las Vegas  The agency spent $840,616 on the Las Vegas event, according
to the records, about $17,000 more than the inspector general
previously reported.  The conference had the second-highest cost per attendee at
$3,002, an amount surpassed by the $4,354-a-person spent at a
2009 event on child care at the  Walt Disney (DIS)  World Buena Vista
Palace Hotel in Orlando, Florida. That gathering offered
seminars and training on topics such as  childhood obesity  and
outdoor playgrounds, according to a GSA press release.  The agency helps oversee child-care facilities for federal
employees.  GSA spent the most money on conferences in Orlando, where
it hosted a dozen events at a cost of $3.55 million from 2005.
Las Vegas came in second, with 10 conferences at $3.4 million.
New Orleans was No. 3, with seven gatherings for $1.74 million.  ‘Signature Training’  Last year, the agency spent the most money in  San Diego ,
where the agency held its annual “Expo.”  GSA Expos, described on an agency website as its
“signature training” for federal, state and local government
employees, were some of the most costly events. The three-day
Expo in 2011 cost $1.02 million. Of the more than 2,900 people
registered for the event, 626 were GSA employees.  The agency broke down the costs of each conference into
travel and non-travel costs. It didn’t provide itemized
spending. Travel costs have represented about 47 percent of the
total spending since 2005.  The number of GSA employees rose less than 1 percent to
12,739 employees last year from 12,666 employees in September
2005, according to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  The GSA, which manages property and purchases goods and
services for other government agencies, held its Las Vegas
gathering at the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,  Nevada .  Bicycle Building  The event featured a mind reader, clown and a $75,000
bicycle-building exercise, according to the inspector general.
The spending also included $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for
participants and $6,325 for commemorative coins.  Breakfasts were provided at a price of $44 a person, more
than triple the $12-a-person government allowance for Las Vegas,
according to the report.  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , White House chief of staff,
said in an April 2 e-mailed statement.  Lawmakers have criticized the agency’s spending at other
events. Agency interns and executives traveled to a five-day
event in Palm Springs in May 2010, according to the House
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. A catered awards
ceremony was provided at an estimated $75 to $100 per person.  The entire event cost taxpayers $262,922, according to the
GSA records.  Under Scrutiny  Miller, the inspector general, told a congressional
subcommittee that his office had been investigating other GSA
trips and conferences. Also under scrutiny is an employee-reward
program that offered  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPods and other electronics as
prizes, he said.  Robert Burton, former acting administrator of the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy, said the amount of money GSA spent
on conferences isn’t necessarily wasteful, but the agency needs
to identify excess such as the clown hired in Las Vegas.  “The objective shouldn’t be to never to have a conference
again in the federal government,” said Burton, now a partner at
the law firm Venable LLP in  Washington . “It’s the wasteful
spending, regardless of the amount, that the government needs to
be concerned about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  