-- Gupta ’Abused’ Role, Prosecutor Says in Closing Argument
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/gupta-abused-role-prosecutor-says-in-closing-argument.html
Rajat Gupta “abused” his role as a
director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Procter & Gamble Co. by
leaking secret tips to an associate, a prosecutor told the jury
during closing arguments in Gupta’s  insider-trading  trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Tarlowe told jurors in
Manhattan federal court that there is “overwhelming evidence”
Gupta passed secret information to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
 Raj Rajaratnam , the hedge-fund manager now serving an 11-year
prison sentence for insider trading.  “Gupta abused his position as a corporate insider by
providing secret company information to his longtime business
partner and friend, Raj Rajaratnam,” Tarlowe said. These leaks
allowed “Rajaratnam and his criminal associates at Galleon” to
make millions of dollars through illicit trades, he said.  In the defense summation, attorney  Gary Naftalis  decried
the lack of “real, hard, direct evidence” in the U.S. case.  “The prosecution failed here to prove that Mr. Gupta acted
knowingly and willfully and with any specific intent to
defraud,” he said in a conversational tone that contrasted with
Tarlowe’s fiery closing.  Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for allegedly leaking secret tips to Rajaratnam, 54, about
New York-based Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  He left the Goldman Sachs board in 2010 and the P&G
board last year.  Berkshire Hathaway  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding over the
case, told jurors they will begin deliberations this morning,
after he gives them instructions on the law.  Gupta is accused of conspiracy and five counts of
 securities fraud . The most serious charge against him carries a
maximum prison sentence of 20 years.  Alleged tips by Gupta included information on a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008, and on Goldman Sachs  losses  in
the fourth quarter of 2008. Prosecutors also said Gupta told
Rajaratnam that P&G planned to sell its Folgers Coffee unit to
 J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)   Tarlowe began his presentation yesterday by focusing on
trades related to Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. He said
Galleon bought more than 200,000 Goldman Sachs shares beginning
around 3:54 p.m. on Sept. 23, 2008, after Rajaratnam received an
“urgent” call from a man Tarlowe alleged was Gupta.  There was a single call to Rajaratnam’s direct line in the
trading day’s final 10 minutes, Tarlowe said.  ‘From Gupta’  “And that call was from Gupta,” he said. “That evidence
is devastating.”  The prosecutor replayed for jurors a Sept. 24, 2008,
wiretapped phone conversation in which Rajaratnam tells an
associate that he was told at 3:58 p.m. that “something good
might happen to Goldman.”  Tarlowe assailed defense witnesses “who knew nothing about
Gupta’s relationship” with Rajaratnam or about Galleon’s stock
trades on Sept. 23, 2008.  “Those witnesses shed absolutely no light,” he said.  Tarlowe highlighted for jurors how Rajaratnam’s trading
coincided with board meetings which Gupta attended when the
government says vital company secrets were disclosed. He noted
for the jury how telephone records show that repeatedly, after
Gupta hung up on those board calls, phones that evidence shows
he used were in contact with Rajaratnam’s office numbers. He
called “devastating” the testimony from an ex-Galleon trader,
Michael Cardillo, that Rajaratnam’s brother said Rajaratnam had
a “guy” on P&G’s board.  ‘Extraordinary Profits’  Tarlowe said Gupta leaked the information because he wanted
Rajaratnam’s help with a new fund he was starting, as well as a
slice of the “extraordinary profits” at Galleon. Gupta was to
become chairman of Galleon’s international fund, according to
the prosecutor.  Rajaratnam, for instance, “bumped up” by $4 million
Gupta’s stake in a Galleon investment after Gupta told him about
a Goldman Sachs board discussion held in  Russia , he said.  “Rajaratnam offered Gupta many benefits,” Tarlowe said.
“What was good for Rajaratnam and Galleon was good for Gupta.”  Anticipating defense arguments, Tarlowe told jurors that a
case built on circumstantial evidence, like the one against
Gupta, is as strong as one based on eyewitness testimony. He
also attacked a defense claim that Gupta wouldn’t tip Rajaratnam
after he lost Gupta’s $10 million investment in a Galleon fund.
Gupta passed along tips because he wanted his money back,
Tarlowe said.  ‘Bamboozle’  Naftalis told jurors that there’s no claim that Gupta
himself traded illegally, no evidence of secret payoffs from
Rajaratnam to Gupta and no eyewitness to any illegal tip.  “Where’s the beef in this case?” the lawyer asked, saying
the U.S. tried to “bamboozle” jurors with “a parade of
meaningless witnesses.”  Before his October 16, 2009, arrest by the U.S., Rajaratnam
was viewed by the business community as honest and successful,
Naftalis said, adding that Gupta was one of those who had been
deceived.  “We don’t punish people for making mistakes, for being
negligent, for trusting people, for not being smart enough to
see through somebody that it took eight months of wiretaps for
the government to find,” he said.  Naftalis belittled phone records which prosecutors said
were proof of Gupta’s illicit tipping.  “There was no evidence of what was said in any
conversation,” he said. He pointed out that prosecutors had no
recordings of Gupta’s tips even after the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation tapped Rajaratnam’s mobile phone for eight months.  ‘None, Zero’  “There is not a single wiretap recording out of those
thousands of wiretapped calls where Rajat Gupta gave any inside
information,” he said. “None, zero.”  Naftalis told jurors that the wiretapped recordings they
heard contain the unreliable “boasting” of Rajaratnam along
with “second- or third-hand hearsay” that wasn’t subject to
cross-examination.  “That’s the vice” of the U.S. case, he said.  He reminded the jury of the testimony from Ajit Jain,
 Berkshire (BRK/B)  Hathaway’s reinsurance chief and a close friend of
Gupta’s, who testified that Gupta told him during a Jan. 12,
2009, luncheon that Rajaratnam had “gypped, swindled or
cheated” him.  The defense lawyer also cited Galleon paperwork that the
defense contends shows Rajaratnam hid from Gupta his withdrawal
of $25 million from a fund in which they both invested.  ‘Through the Heart’  He also said Gupta wanted to step down from the Goldman
Sachs board on Sept. 12, 2008, before several alleged tips were
passed. Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
testified that he talked Gupta out of resigning at the time.  “This resignation drives a stake through the heart of the
government’s case,” Naftalis said. “He resigned. They begged
him to come back. The only reason that he stayed is Goldman
Sachs panicked, because  Rajat Gupta  is a prominent and
respectable business leader. His resignation might cause panic
in investors in a volatile market.”  Naftalis assailed the credibility of Blankfein, who spent
three days on the stand and who the defense lawyer described as
“a man with no memory of anything” and “less than candid.”  3,000 People  The lawyer disputed prosecutors’ claim that Gupta told
Rajaratnam on Oct. 23, 2008, about Goldman Sachs’s losses after
Blankfein gave the information to the board earlier in the day
during what a Goldman Sachs executive called a “posting call.”  While Blankfein testified he had briefed board members
about losses during that meeting, Naftalis argued that on the
same day, Goldman Sachs had also announced it was laying off
3,250 people, which Blankfein testified he couldn’t recall.  “I suggest to you that no one could be that cold and
callous and not remember that he fired 3,000 people, as if it
happens every day,” Naftalis said. “If you can’t remember
firing 3,000 people without any kind of notice, how can you
pretend to remember anything about some posting call?”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, disputed
the defense lawyer’s characterization of Blankfein’s testimony.  “Mr. Naftalis distorts what Mr. Blankfein said last
week,” DuVally said. “Mr. Blankfein said he did not remember a
particular news article about possible layoffs in 2008. He was
never asked whether he remembered the layoffs, which of course,
he does.”  ‘Unluckiest Man’  In the government’s rebuttal, another prosecutor, Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , told jurors Blankfein was truthful
when he testified he couldn’t recall specific meetings.  Brodsky said that for anyone to believe arguments posed by
the defense, “they’d have to believe that Gupta was the
unluckiest man in the whole world.”  “He’s not a victim of unlucky coincidences,” Brodsky
said. “No one is above the law, neither his positions, power,
money or good deeds give him the right to violate the law or
give him a free pass for having violated it.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  