-- Libor Traders Said to Avoid Charges in British Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-06-13T12:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/libor-traders-said-to-avoid-charges-in-british-probe.html
Traders being investigated by U.K.
regulators for the suspected rigging of global  interest rates 
are unlikely to face criminal charges while their firms may
suffer record fines, people with knowledge of the probe said.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is scrutinizing
evidence of attempted market abuse as well as failures in banks’
systems and controls, which carry civil penalties, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the inquiry is
private. To file criminal charges in  England , the regulator
would need to show traders successfully manipulated the rate.  The FSA is among regulators looking into whether banks
tried to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, the
benchmark rate for $360 trillion of securities, to hide their
true cost of borrowing, and whether traders colluded to rig the
benchmark to profit from interest-rate derivatives.  “The FSA’s enforcement mantra is ‘credible deterrence,’
which has increasingly involved the FSA taking criminal
proceedings against individuals for market abuse,” said Owen Watkins, a financial services lawyer at Lewis Silkin LLP in
 London . “Given the size of the fines it is intending to levy
against the firms involved, the FSA feels that civil action
against the individuals is sufficient to achieve the required
deterrent effect.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Citigroup Inc., UBS AG,
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among firms that are being probed by regulators worldwide.
Spokesmen for UBS, RBS, ICAP, Deutsche Bank and Lloyds declined
to comment, while those for Citigroup didn’t immediately return
calls.  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.  EU, Canadian Probes  The European Union, Canadian and U.S. antitrust regulators
as well as the Swiss Competition Commission are probing whether
firms acted anti-competitively. The  U.S. Department of Justice 
is running a criminal investigation, according to court
documents. Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the status of its probe.  The FSA expects to levy record fines on some of the 12
banks under investigation by the year-end, one of the people
said. The FSA initially expected it wouldn’t impose penalties
before Christmas because of the case’s complexity. Firms have
been cooperating to end the probe early, the people said.  The FSA may seek to levy fines as large as those issued by
its U.S. counterparts, one of the people said. The FSA’s fines
have historically been exceeded by those levied by U.S.
regulators. The FSA’s  biggest fine to date  is the 33 million-
pound ($51 million) penalty it imposed on a unit of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in 2010 over a failure to segregate client money.  No FSA Immunity  The U.K. regulator hasn’t granted immunity to any firms or
individual traders, and those who cooperate would be entitled to
receive the regulator’s standard 30 percent discount on fines
for settling early, one of the people said.  Under its civil powers, the FSA can ban people from working
in the financial industry for life or impose fines of millions
of pounds, Watkins said.  Regulators are interviewing traders at the FSA office in
London’s Canary Wharf district and further meetings are planned
as soon as this month, four people said. Investigators from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodities Futures
Trading Commission have been present at some interviews, four
people said.  John Nester  of the SEC and  Steve Adamske , a CFTC
spokesman, declined to comment.  Lifetime Ban  One trader interviewed was warned to expect a fine or
lifetime ban if found to have attempted to influence the rate,
according to his lawyer who declined to be identified. Three
other lawyers involved in the case said they are concerned U.S.
authorities may seek to extradite British traders if they file
criminal charges, and the FSA hasn’t raised the issue with them.
They declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  Chinese Walls  Three-month dollar Libor was unchanged at 0.468 percent
today, according to the BBA. The comparable rate in euros also
held steady at 0.577 percent.  Employees responsible for Libor submissions have said in
interviews with Bloomberg they regularly discussed where to set
the measure with traders sitting near them, interdealer brokers
and counterparts at rival banks. The talks became common
practice after money markets froze in 2007, they said, making it
difficult for individual bankers to gauge the cost of borrowing
from other lenders.  Regulators are focusing on the lack of so-called Chinese
walls between traders and employees making interest-rate
submissions on behalf of their banks, and whether the banks’
proprietary trading desks exploited the information they had
about the direction of Libor to trade interest-rate derivatives.  The firms are seeking to reach a joint settlement with
regulators in the U.K. and U.S. under which they would pay fines
to end the investigation, one of the people said. That may be
difficult to reach because the regulator requires banks in the
U.K. to admit guilt in a settlement, something that could expose
them to class-action lawsuits in the U.S., the person said. The
settlement wouldn’t include antitrust authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 