-- IEA Sees Economic Growth Risks in Better-Supplied Oil Market
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-13T09:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/iea-sees-economic-growth-risks-in-better-supplied-crude-market.html
The  International Energy Agency  said
the oil market is better supplied than at the start of this year
amid concern that slowing growth will curb crude demand.  The IEA reduced its forecast for 2012 crude consumption to
89.9 million barrels a day, the Paris-based energy adviser said.
That’s revised down by 100,000 barrels from May and reflects an
increase of 820,000 barrels from last year.  Brent crude futures have lost 23 percent since March,
trading at about $97.50 a barrel today, amid rising oil
production and growing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
affect global economic recovery and dent demand for energy.  “Market fundamentals have eased since early 2012,” the
IEA said in its latest monthly oil market report. “The
springtime slump in oil markets accelerated in May in the wake
of the deepening euro zone crisis, mounting concern over a
slowdown in Chinese growth and rising global oil supplies.”  Worldwide oil production rose by 200,000 barrels to 91.1
million barrels a day in May as  Canada  and the U.S. increased
output, the agency said.  “We’re still in a pretty fragile economic situation,”
 David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s oil industry and markets division
said today by phone. “We don’t necessarily view the market
presently as oversupplied.”  Maintain Ceiling  The IEA expects the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries to maintain its 30 million barrel-a-day output ceiling
when it meets tomorrow in Vienna. The group pumped 31.86 million
barrels a day last month, down from 31.89 million in April as
 Saudi Arabia  and  Iraq  trimmed production.  OPEC should raise its output ceiling by 500,000 to 1
million barrels a day to keep prices at current levels amid
Europe’s debt crisis, two delegates from Middle Eastern member
countries said.  Opposition from other OPEC nations, such as  Iran  and
 Venezuela , will probably result in the group’s collective output
limit remaining unchanged, according to the delegates, who
declined to be identified because a final decision will be made
by ministers tomorrow.  Demand for OPEC crude is estimated to increase to 30.9
million barrels a day in the second half of this year from 29.8
million in the first six months of 2012, according to the IEA.  High Prices  “Some may be tempted to see the market as oversupplied,
and there have been calls by a number of producers for ‘over-
production’ to be reined in,” the IEA said. “Memories are
indeed short: crude prices remain very high in historical terms,
and are acting as a drag on household and government budgets in
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and
 emerging markets  alike.”  Tightening sanctions on Iran and production halts outside
of OPEC pose some risks to supply for the rest of the year, the
IEA said. Outages from producers in the  North Sea ,  Syria , Yemen
and  Sudan  and  South Sudan  will rise to 1.18 million barrels a
day in the third quarter, the agency said.  “Higher OPEC production sits against a backdrop of tight
end-2011 inventories, stubbornly high prices and persistent
uncertainty over non-OPEC and Iranian supply for this summer,”
the IEA said. A European Union ban on purchases of Iran’s oil
takes effect on July 1.  Supplies outside of OPEC are forecast to rise, even taking
into account the stoppages, to 53.4 million barrels a day this
year, growing from 52.7 million in 2011. That’s an upward
revision of 90,000 from last month’s report.  Stockpiles held by companies in the 34 OECD nations rose
17.3 million barrels in April to 2.6 billion barrels. That
equates to 59.4 days’ worth of consumption and is 1.9 days more
than the five-year norm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  