-- Impala to Release Union Membership Numbers Next Week
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-06-13T15:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/impala-to-release-union-membership-numbers-next-week-2-.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
South African producer whose main Rustenburg mine was halted by
a battle for control between labor unions, expects to say next
week how many members each of the unions now has.  The numbers will show that neither union recruited more
than 50 percent plus one of the mine’s workforce, Johan Theron,
the people’s executive at Johanhnesburg-based Impala, said by
phone today. Not all workers belong to unions.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, or
AMCU, said June 6 it recruited about half the 30,000 workforce
and were winning members daily. The  National Union of
Mineworkers , or NUM, is historically the dominant union at
Rustenburg. It’s been the only union management is allowed to
negotiate with on wages and other labor matters.  AMCU said last week Impala should have verified the union
membership numbers by May 25 and awarded the union
organizational rights. It asked the Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration to rule on the matter.  The hearing will be held June 21, Theron said. Releasing
the union membership numbers before the hearing may settle the
dispute prior to the hearing, he said.  “I think sanity will prevail,” he said. “I hope the
unions will be able to sit around a table,” Theron said today.
Impala said May 29 labor matters could be discussed in a multi-
union committee.  A six-week strike from the middle of January cost Impala
more than 120,000 ounces of platinum production and had a
“severe impact” on costs, the company said May 29. Impala
accounts for about a quarter of global platinum supply.  Impala gained 3.9 percent to 141.69 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  