-- Index Traded By Iksil Shrinks as Dimon Seeks to Stem Loss
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-06-13T19:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/index-traded-by-iksil-shrinks-as-dimon-seeks-to-stem-loss.html
Wagers in the credit derivatives
index said to contribute to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
loss dropped last week to the lowest in three months in a sign
that the biggest U.S. bank and hedge funds trading against it
may be unwinding bets.  The net  amount  of credit protection bought or sold through
Series 9 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
fell 7.5 percent to $138.4 billion in the week ended June 8, the
biggest drop since July, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. The so-called net notional outstanding surged an
unprecedented 67 percent to $150 billion in the 17 weeks ended
April 27 as JPMorgan trader Bruno Iksil was said to have amassed
a position in the index so large it distorted the market.  JPMorgan is seeking to stem losses from trades by its chief
investment office, where Iksil managed a portfolio of credit
derivatives. A strategy by the unit to reduce risks from hedges
backfired and left the bank with even bigger and harder-to-
manage exposures, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said today
before the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  “It morphed into something I can’t justify,” Dimon told
the panel. “It was just too risky for our company.”  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that London-based
Iksil had taken on positions in the index that were so large he
was driving price moves in the $10 trillion credit-default swaps
index market, earning him the nickname the London Whale among
some counterparties, according to market participants who asked
not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to discuss
the trades.  Surging Bets  Outstanding trades in the index, which was created in
September 2007 and had been decreasingly used before this year,
had never climbed above $91 billion in the three years ended
Dec. 30, DTCC data show.  The index tracks credit swaps tied to 121 companies, all of
which were investment grade more than four years ago, including
now junk-rated bond guarantor MBIA Insurance Corp. and mortgage
insurer Radian Group Inc.  At the same time Iksil was said to have been building
positions,  hedge funds  and other market participants were taking
the opposite bets, people familiar with the trades said at the
time.  Cost Rises  After Dimon disclosed the loss in a May 10 conference call
and said it may increase, the contracts on Series 9 of the index
expiring in 2017 surged as much as 45.5 basis points to 172
basis points on June 4, according to prices compiled by data
provider CMA. That’s 22 basis points more than the increase in
the current, most-active version of the index, Series 18.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Dimon declined to discuss details of the trades in his
testimony before the Senate today, saying it may expose the bank
to even bigger losses.  The chief investment office’s  credit derivatives  portfolio
had been used as a way to hedge against a financial crisis
similar to the one in 2008, providing profits to offset losses
from JPMorgan’s lending businesses.  The group was ordered to reduce positions in anticipation
of new  capital requirements , Dimon told the panel. Instead,
starting in mid-January, he said, traders in the group
“embarked on a complex strategy that entailed adding positions
that it believed would offset the existing ones.”  “It should have never gotten to this size,” Dimon told
the Senate panel, responding to a question from Senator  Kay Hagan , a North Carolina Democrat who asked the banker how large
the position had grown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  