-- India Bond Yield Drops to Three-Month Low on Rate Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-13T12:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/india-bond-yield-drops-to-three-month-low-on-rate-speculation.html
India ’s benchmark bonds rose,
driving the 10-year yield to a three-month low, as slowing
economic growth fueled speculation the central bank will reduce
borrowing costs next week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower the  repurchase  rate by
25 basis points to 7.75 percent on June 18, according to 16 of
21 economists in a Bloomberg survey before a policy review on
June 18. Three predicted the central bank will leave the rate
unchanged and the rest forecast a 50 basis point reduction. Data
published yesterday showed  industrial  production rose less than
economists estimated in April.  “Monetary measures are definitely due soon as slumping
growth is a concern,” said M. Natarajan, the Mumbai-based head
of treasury at  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “Investors will also watch
for guidance by the central bank at its policy review.”  The yield on the government’s 8.79 percent bonds due
November 2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
8.29 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That was the lowest level since March 14.  The central bank will cut the repurchase rate by 25 basis
points next week, said Natarajan. The monetary authority may
also reduce lenders’ cash reserve  requirements  by 50 basis
points to 4.25 percent over the next month, he said.  Factory output increased 0.1 percent in April from a year
earlier after a revised 3.2 percent drop in March, the  Central
Statistical Office  said in a statement yesterday. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for a 1.7 percent gain. Gross
domestic product  rose  5.3 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the least in nine years, official data showed on
May 31.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three basis
points to 7.51 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  