-- India Stock Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-06-13T10:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/india-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses.html
Most Indian stocks dropped as
heightened concern that  Europe , the nation’s largest trading
partner, will struggle to contain its debt crisis outweighed
speculation the central bank will cut rates.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
slumped 3.3 percent, pacing losses among its peers after a local
newspaper reported that the government may impose an additional
tax on diesel vehicles.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the a unit of
the world’s second-largest consumer goods company, jumped 3.3
percent.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.1 percent
to 16,883.39, according to preliminary closing prices at 3:30
p.m. in Mumbai, with 18 of the gauge’s 30 stocks ending lower.
European stocks fell as borrowing costs rose at debt auctions by
Germany and  Italy .  Official data yesterday showed  India ’s factory output grew
less than estimated in April, adding to the case for an
interest-rate cut, before a government report tomorrow that
analysts predict will show  inflation  accelerated for a second
month. The Sensex had its best weekly gain of 2012 last week on
speculation the  Reserve Bank  of India bank will join regional
policy makers in cutting borrowing costs to revive growth.  The 30-stock gauge has advanced 9.2 percent this year and
 trades  at 13.2 times estimated earnings, near the lowest level
in more than three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
 compares with  the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10 times.  Overseas  investors  were net buyers of local shares for a
fourth day on June 11, purchasing a net  $39 million  of stocks,
data from the market regulator show. Foreigners cut holdings by
$273 million in May, a second month of net sales. Still, funds
have placed a net $8.5 billion in Indian equities this year, a
record for the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  