-- Inditex Gains Most in Two Years as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-06-13T16:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/inditex-first-quarter-profit-rises-30-on-asian-store-openings.html
Inditex SA (ITX)  rose the most in more
than eight years in  Madrid , retaking the crown as  Spain ’s
largest company, after the clothing retailer reported a 30
percent gain in first-quarter profit, beating analyst estimates.  The stock advanced 12 percent to 75.40 euros, the biggest
intraday gain since March 25, 2004. That gave the owner of the
Zara chain a market value of about 47 billion euros ($59.2
billion), compared with 44.6 billion euros for  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   Net income rose to 432 million euros in the three months
through April, the Arteixo, Spain-based company said today. The
average of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 381 million
euros. Inditex, the world’s largest clothing retailer, is adding
stores in  emerging markets  and expanding its online offering to
offset weaker spending in its debt-ravaged home country.  “With what’s going on in the  euro zone , it’s amazing to
beat estimates on better like-for-like sales,” said  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London who has a
buy recommendation on the stock.  The Spanish company competes with  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) ,
which fell 22 percent in  Hong Kong  before trading was suspended.
Esprit said today that Chairman Hans-Joachim Koerber resigned,
less than 24 hours after Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der
Vis quit, jeopardizing the retailer’s turnaround plans.  Volatile Market  “In a very volatile market environment, Inditex has a very
flexible business model and is much better positioned than the
likes of H&M and Esprit,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at
Liberum Capital. “That advantage will accelerate.” Irwin also
cited rising e-commerce sales and the company’s sourcing model.  Inditex CEO Pablo Isla said today he has “full
confidence” in the future of the Spanish economy, speaking on a
conference call with analysts.  “Despite a softening market trend in Spain, we think
Inditex continues to take share from independents on account of
its newness,” Richard Chamberlain, an analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. “It should continue to
benefit from its increasing online and Asia exposure.”  Inditex has reduced its dependence on its home market.
Spain became the fourth euro member to seek a bailout since the
start of the region’s debt crisis more than two years ago, with
a request for as much as 100 billion euros to rescue its banks.
About 22 percent of the company’s sales will come from Spain
this year, compared with 45 percent from emerging markets,
 Societe Generale ’s Critchlow said.  Store Openings  First-quarter sales  rose 15 percent to 3.42 billion euros,
Inditex said. That beat the 3.3 billion-euro average of 22
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue in local
currencies from Feb. 1 to June 10 was 14 percent higher than in
the year-earlier period.  Inditex opened 91 stores in 26 markets in the quarter for a
total of 5,618 outlets globally as of April 30. The retailer
said in March it plans to open 480 to 520 shops this year,
including its first Massimo Dutti stores in the U.S.  The first-quarter gross margin increased to 60.2 percent of
sales from 58.8 percent a year earlier, beating the 59 percent
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  