-- Rupee Gains for First Time in Four Days on Rate-Cut Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-13T12:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/india-s-rupee-little-changed-before-inflation-data-tomorrow.html
India ’s rupee advanced for the first
time in four days on speculation the central bank will lower
borrowing costs at a review next week, boosting demand for the
nation’s stocks.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower the benchmark
 repurchase rate  to 7.75 percent from 8 percent on June 18,
according to 14 of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Two
expect a reduction to 7.5 percent and two predict no change. The
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares rose for a second day as
exchange data show foreign investors added $258.5 million to
 holdings  of Indian stocks in the week through June 12.  “The rupee is being boosted by an expectation that a rate
cut would increase inflows,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader
at state-run  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 55.6875 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was unchanged at 12 percent.  Traders are focused on India’s inflation data, due
tomorrow, and on the Greek election on June 17 that may signal
whether the European nation exits the euro, according to
Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd.  Wholesale prices  probably rose 7.50 percent in May,
compared with 7.23 percent in April, according to the median
estimate of 37 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial
production increased 0.1 percent from a year earlier in April,
official data showed yesterday, compared with the 1.7 percent
median estimate in another Bloomberg survey  “The market is focused on the domestic inflation data,
monetary policy and the Greece election,” analysts at Edelweiss
Financial, including Mumbai-based Vinay Khattar, wrote in a
research note today. “The Indian currency has traded in a range
of 55 to 56 per dollar in the last week and that’s expected to
continue,” according to the report.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.55 a
dollar, compared with 56.63 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.68 from 56.86. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  