-- Indonesia Plans Stimulus to Boost Consumption Amid Slowdown
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-06-13T10:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/indonesia-plans-stimulus-to-boost-consumption-amid-slowdown-1-.html
Indonesia  will implement stimulus
measures to boost consumption and infrastructure spending as a
global slowdown limits exports and an imminent election in
 Greece  threatens to deepen  Europe ’s debt turmoil.  The government will tap last year’s 24 trillion-rupiah
($2.5 billion)  budget surplus  to fund building projects, and
lift the tax-free annual income level to 24 million rupiah from
15.8 million rupiah, Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy
at the Ministry of Finance, said in Jakarta today. Indonesia
currently targets a 2012 budget deficit of 190.1 trillion rupiah,
on capital spending of 168.8 trillion rupiah.  “During this time, exports aren’t the main driver to
support our growth,” Brodjonegoro said. “As exports have
fallen, we’ll boost consumption and investment.”  Policy makers are diverging in their responses to growth
risks, with  South Korea  this month eschewing fiscal stimulus and
keeping  interest rates  unchanged while countries from  China  to
 Brazil  have lowered borrowing costs. Bank Indonesia has held off
from adding to a February rate cut, seeking to support a
currency that has fallen about 4 percent in 2012 as the European
crisis hurt exports and spurred outflows from  emerging markets .  “Right now, the engine of Indonesia’s economy is only from
consumption and investment, as we can’t expect much from exports
during the global turmoil,” Damhuri Nasution, a Jakarta-based
economist at PT Danareksa Sekuritas, said by phone today. “The
government needs to implement this stimulus soon to provide a
chance of reaching the growth target of 6.5 percent this year.”  Motorcycle Sales  Southeast  Asia ’s largest  economy  may expand at the lower
range of  Bank Indonesia ’s forecast of about 6.3 percent to 6.7
percent in 2012, Governor Darmin Nasution said this month, while
exports fell in April for the first time since 2009.  PT Astra International, Indonesia’s largest automotive
retailer, said today May motorcycle sales fell to 611,251 units
from 617,508 units a month earlier, citing data from the
Indonesian automotive industries association.  An adjustment to the tax-free income level this year and
spending on infrastructure would support domestic consumption by
increasing purchasing power amid the global slowdown, said
Nasution of Danareksa Sekuritas. The potential stimulus of as
much as 24 trillion rupiah isn’t significant compared with
Indonesia’s gross domestic product and won’t be enough to prompt
rating companies to raise Indonesia’s assessment in the short
term, he said.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s  kept Indonesia’s rating unchanged at BB+
with a positive outlook in April, refraining from joining  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service in raising the nation to
investment grade as it highlighted policy risks.  Bank Indonesia kept the benchmark  reference rate  at 5.75
percent for a fourth month yesterday, holding off from easing
policy to support a weakening currency. The rupiah is the worst
performer in Asia after India’s rupee this year.  Indonesia has taken steps to reduce excess funds in the
economy and contain inflation risks even as price gains
unexpectedly eased in May, resisting the cuts in borrowing costs
pursued by Australia and China in recent weeks.  Thailand  and Sri Lanka kept interest rates unchanged today,
while the  Philippines  and  New Zealand  are forecast to do the
same later this week, according to surveys of economists by
Bloomberg. Greece will hold elections on June 17 after an
inconclusive earlier vote, and the result could hand power to
parties that oppose the terms of the nation’s rescue package,
precipitating its exit from the 17-nation euro area.  Rupiah Falls  The rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 9,420 per dollar as of
4:51 p.m. in Jakarta today.  Bank Indonesia last month raised the rates on central bank
bills and term deposits of all tenors to absorb liquidity. It
also announced plans to start offering dollar term deposits this
month to boost supply of the currency locally and stabilize the
rupiah.  The central bank sold $550 million of seven-day dollar term
deposits at 0.16709 percent today. It also sold $150 million of
14-day deposits at 0.18000 percent, according to a statement on
its website.  Bank Indonesia will continue to take steps to maintain
liquidity in the market by strengthening monetary operations
with foreign-exchange instruments such as the dollar term
deposits, it said yesterday. The central bank will also
strengthen coordination with the government to mitigate the
negative impact from global risks, it said.  Inflation Slows  Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy unexpectedly
slowed for the first time in three months in May to 4.45 percent
as rice costs remained stable amid the harvest period and price
expectations eased after the government postponed a plan to
raise subsidized fuel prices.  Economic growth in the second quarter and full-year 2012 is
estimated to be 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent, even as downside
risk remains, Bank Indonesia said yesterday. Domestic demand,
consumption and investment remain strong while exports may slow
because of weakening global demand and commodity prices, it said.
Imports will remain high because of growing domestic consumption.  Exports in April fell 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the
first drop since 2009, as demand for coal, crude palm oil and
rubber declined, according to the statistics bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  