-- Inequality: It’s Even Worse Than We Thought
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/inequality-it-s-even-worse-than-we-thought.html
The current debate about rich and
poor -- the 1 percent versus the 99 percent -- is a bit
misleading because the evidence usually is data about income,
not wealth. Looking at wealth would make the comparison even
starker.  There are some nice deals to be had in the income tax code
these days, but most wealth accumulates and passes from
generation to generation with no tax at all.  Warren Buffett  (who
has selflessly taken on the role of all-purpose tape measure in
these matters) is worth  $45 billion or so . Do you think that all
of that $45 billion, or even most of it, has appeared on any
Form 1040 on its way to the cookie jar? Even at the special, low
15 percent rate the U.S. insanely confers on  capital gains ?  Unlikely. Much of that $45 billion is unrealized capital
gains -- increases in the value of Buffett’s stock that have
never been cashed in, and therefore have never been taxed. I’m
not saying that unrealized capital gains should be taxed
(although it’s a thought). I’m just noting that you only pay
income tax when an investment is liquidated, and very wealthy
people don’t have to liquidate until they actually need to spend
the money.  For most of the very rich, this time is never. When you
die, any unrealized capital gains disappear for tax purposes.
Your heirs, if and when they sell, pay taxes only on any
increase in value since they got the money. And there is no
estate tax at the moment on  estates of  $5.12 million or less.  Really Skewed  The  Federal Reserve   released new numbers  on Monday.
Unsurprisingly, wealth distribution is even more skewed than
 income distribution . In 2010, the median family had assets
(including their house but subtracting their mortgage) of
$77,300. The top 10 percent had almost $1.2 million, or more
than 15 times as much.  But  the headlines  -- and rightly so -- went to the dismal
fact that household wealth has been sinking for all categories
of Americans. As I said, the net worth of the median family in
2010 was $77,300. In 2007, the net worth of the median family
was $126,400. That’s a drop of almost 40 percent in just three
years. (All these numbers are corrected for inflation.)  Characteristically taking the longer view, the  New York 
Times  led with the fact  that household savings were back to
where they had been in the early 1990s, “erasing almost two
decades of accumulated prosperity.”  Most of the lost household net worth of recent years is due
to the drop in housing prices. This is comforting, in a way,
because the price of land and things built on land -- and what,
ultimately, is not? -- are different from the price of other
goods and services.  Let me tell you about my favorite economist, an indulgence
I allow myself every couple of decades. (The last time was 1989,
pre-hyperlink, unfortunately.) He was an American named  Henry
George , who died in 1897 at the age of 58. If you took economics
in college, there might have been one sentence about him in your
textbook. He once ran for mayor of New York. (Fancy that. He
lost.)  George would look at our present situation and ask: In what
sense were we richer three or four years ago, when the exact
same housing stock sold for up to twice as much? In what sense
are we poorer now? Land is special because, as Realtors like to
remind us, they aren’t making any more of it. This means that
you can get rich owning land without doing anything productive
with it. (Henry George: “You may sit down and smoke your pipe;
you may lie around like the lazzaroni of Naples or the leperos
of  Mexico ; you may go up in a balloon, or down a hole in the
ground. …”) The natural increase in population will do the
trick.  Tuna Fish  This is also true, to varying degrees, of other
investments. It is true to some extent of any product that can’t
be easily and quickly reproduced. It is somewhat true of houses,
once they are built. (As Tolstoy didn’t write, “Cans of tuna
fish are all alike, but every house is a house in its own way.”)
But it is especially true of land.  My Bloomberg View colleague Clive Crook  claimed recently  to
be a “supply-side liberal.” So was Henry George. He was as
concerned about income equality as the most bleeding-heart
liberal and as concerned about economic growth as the noisiest
supply-side conservative.  George’s solution to everything was to eliminate all taxes
on working, saving and investing, and to put the entire tax
burden on unproductive land, which can’t escape the tax by
moving. There are problems with this idea. But it’s provocative.  I don’t have room to do George justice, but take a look at
 his masterwork , “Progress and Poverty.” For an economics tract,
it’s actually a fun read. And, yes, you’re responsible for it on
the final exam.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks  and
 Putin’s attack helicopters in Syria ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
Federal Reserve’s next move ; William D. Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s
day in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture For America ; Nicholas
Polson on  recognizing smart money ; Amar Bhide and Christopher
Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual funds ; Jonathan Reiss
on  improving regional Fed boards .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 