-- ING Code-Strip Probe, FDIC Basel Vote, Gupta: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-13T12:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ing-code-strip-probe-fdic-basel-vote-gupta-compliance.html
ING Bank NV agreed to pay
$619 million to settle a probe into how financial institutions
bypass sanctions on countries including Cuba and Iran, Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said.  ING admitted violating New York law by falsifying financial
records of banks in the state, Vance and Ronald C. Machen, U.S.
Attorney for the District of Columbia, said in a statement.
Amsterdam-based ING moved billions of dollars through the
financial system on behalf of Cuban and Iranian clients,
violating U.S. sanctions by “concealing the illegal nature of
these transactions and deceiving U.S. banks into processing
illegal wire payments,” Vance said.  The announcement is part of a four-year investigation of
“stripping,” in which codes indicating the source of wire
transfers are removed.  “The violations that took place until 2007 are serious and
unacceptable,” Jan Hommen, chief executive officer of ING
Group, said in a statement. “Since starting the investigations
in 2006, ING Bank has taken decisive actions to strengthen
compliance throughout the organisation and heighten employee
awareness of compliance risks.”  Half of the $619 million will be paid to the Manhattan
District Attorney’s Office and the other half will be paid to
the U.S., Vance said in the statement.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Islamic
Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, 11-02924, Supreme Court of the
State of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  FDIC Joins Fed in Backing Rules to Implement Basel III Standards  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is seeking comment on
capital rules designed to align standards for U.S. banks with
those governing foreign competitors as part of a global effort
to reduce risk in the financial system.  The FDIC board voted 5-0 yesterday at a Washington meeting
to propose three measures for implementing parts of the Basel
III accords, developed by a panel of international regulators to
bolster banks’ ability to withstand economic stress, boost risk
management, and strengthen transparency and disclosure. The
 Federal Reserve  approved the same set of measures June 7.  The new capital standards, designed to be phased in by
2019, will affect all U.S. banks. U.S. banks would need to have
about $60 billion above the capital they now hold to meet the
standards, according to Fed estimates.  For related video, click here.  In a separate vote yesterday, the FDIC approved a final
rule increasing capital requirements for the trading books of
about 25 banks to limit risks observed during the 2008 credit
crisis.  The U.S. rules, which the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency was also scheduled to approve yesterday, closely track
the agreement crafted by the 27-nation Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  Merkel Financial Tax Talks, EU Talks Move Ahead in Nine States  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and leaders from the
opposition parties in parliament are unlikely to find common
ground today on the introduction of a financial market tax, said
 Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman in Merkel’s party caucus.  Barthle made the remarks yesterday on Deutschlandfunk
radio. “Another round of talks” will be needed before the
parliamentary summer break to win the opposition’s support for
the European Stability Mechanism and the fiscal accord for more
budgetary discipline in Europe, he said.  Merkel’s government needs a two-thirds majority in
parliament to ratify the fiscal agreement, forcing her to court
the support of the opposition Social Democrats and Greens.  Separately, the European Commission thinks that a financial
transaction tax could be passed in nine states of the European
Union this year if that number of governments agrees to it by
July,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported.  Nine states are the minimum for a common initiative in a
smaller group in case not all 27 members agree on an issue, the
newspaper said yesterday in a preview of an article for today’s
edition, citing unidentified people close to EU commissioner
Algirdas Semeta.  Compliance Action  Libor Traders Said to Avoid Criminal Charges in British Probe  Traders being investigated by U.K. regulators for the
suspected rigging of global  interest rates  are unlikely to face
criminal charges while their firms may suffer record fines,
people with knowledge of the probe said.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is scrutinizing
evidence of attempted market abuse as well as failures in banks’
systems and controls, which carry civil penalties, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the inquiry is
private. To file criminal charges in England, the regulator
would need to show traders successfully manipulated the rate.  The FSA is among regulators looking into whether banks
tried to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, the
benchmark rate for $360 trillion of securities, to hide their
true cost of borrowing, and whether traders colluded to rig the
benchmark to profit from interest-rate derivatives.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 ICAP Plc (IAP) , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among firms that are being probed by regulators worldwide.
Spokesmen for UBS, RBS, ICAP, Deutsche Bank and Lloyds declined
to comment, while those for Citigroup didn’t immediately return
calls.  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.  The European Union, Canadian and U.S. antitrust regulators
as well as the Swiss Competition Commission are probing whether
firms acted anti-competitively. The U.S. Department of Justice
is running a criminal investigation, according to court
documents. Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the status of its probe.  The FSA expects to levy record fines on some of the 12
banks under investigation by the year-end, one of the people
said.  For more, click here.  Cable Companies Led by Comcast Get Relief From Signal-Carry Rule  Regulators will let a rule lapse that allows more than
12 million U.S. cable subscribers with analog television sets to
receive signals from broadcast stations without having digital
converter boxes.  The Federal Communications Commission in an order
distributed by e-mail yesterday said it would let the rule
expire at midnight. The National Cable & Telecommunications
Association wanted an end to the rule, which requires cable
systems to offer analog and digital streams of TV broadcasts.  Since 2007 the share of U.S. households dependent on analog
equipment has dropped from 45 percent to just over 20 percent,
the Washington-based trade group said in a June 8 FCC filing.  Cable operators will provide low-cost converter boxes that
let customers view digital broadcast streams on analog sets,
according to the filing.  The  National Association of Broadcasters  in a March 12 FCC
filing said the rule should be extended for three years so
viewers don’t lose access to programming. Members of the
Washington-based trade group include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Spanish Bank Rescue Unlikely to Trip Debt Swaps, ISDA Says  The 100 billion-euro ($125 billion) bailout of Spain’s
banks is unlikely to trigger payouts on credit-default swaps
insuring the nation’s debt, according to the International Swaps
& Derivatives Association.  There’s speculation investors holding bonds issued by Spain
and its banks will rank behind official creditors in the queue
for payment after the nation asked for a  bailout . The rescue is
a response to a build-up of bad loans at the nation’s lenders
and makes Spain the fourth euro-area nation to seek help since
the crisis started almost three years ago.  ISDA’s 15-member determinations committee decides whether
 credit events  occur to trigger default swaps and no question has
been submitted to the group of dealers and traders. The votes of
12 members are needed to determine a credit event without the
decision being subject to external legal review, ISDA said.  Concern about the impact on swaps stems from speculation
the rescue package may be issued by the European Stability
Mechanism, which says its loans “will enjoy preferred creditor
status in a similar fashion” to those of the International
Monetary Fund.  For more, click here.  Courts  Rajat Gupta Defense Rests in U.S. Insider-Trading Trial  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  rested
his defense to federal insider-trading charges without
testifying or being allowed to play wiretapped recordings that
his lawyer called “substantial” to his case.  Defense attorney Gary Naftalis told U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff yesterday that Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from
1994 to 2003, had finished offering evidence. The trial began
May 21.  Summations are set to begin this morning, and Rakoff said
the jury may begin its deliberations late this afternoon.  Gupta is accused of leaking inside information to Galleon
Group LLC hedge fund co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman
Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.
He’s charged with one count of conspiracy and five counts of
securities fraud, which carries a maximum term of 20 years in
prison.  The defense, which began June 8, was based in part on a
claim that another Goldman Sachs executive, David Loeb, passed
the tips that prosecutors say came from Gupta. Rakoff barred the
defense from playing wiretapped recordings from August 2008 that
the defense claims show Loeb tipping Rajaratnam, calling the
recordings inadmissible “hearsay.” Loeb hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the decision about the wiretaps.  The defense has argued that Gupta parted ways with
Rajaratnam after he discovered the fund manager had withdrawn
money without his knowledge from the Voyager Fund, an investment
they had created together.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Hedge Fund Manager Claims Loss on RBS Ignoring Ponzi Warnings  A former hedge-fund manager sued  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s NatWest unit claiming the bank ignored evidence its
accounts were used to conduct what may be one of Britain’s
biggest Ponzi schemes, in which he lost about 19.3 million
pounds ($30 million).  He and the firm he founded, Jeremy D. Stone Consultants
Ltd., sued NatWest and one of its managers, Paul Aplin, for
negligence, dishonest assistance, deceit and conspiracy, seeking
about 24 million pounds. The complaint was filed in London in
April and made available by the court last week.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in an e-mail it was
investigating a suspected Ponzi scheme and made five arrests in
2010. No one has been charged and the agency refused to say who
had been arrested.  “These claims have been thoroughly investigated and we
believe they have no merit,” RBS spokesman David Gaffney said
in an e-mail. “The bank will defend itself vigorously.”  Aplin declined to comment via Gaffney.  Investors may have lost a total of 40 million pounds,
according to a person familiar with the  SFO probe  who declined
to be identified because the person wasn’t authorized to speak.  The case is Jeremy D. Stone Consultants Ltd., Jeremy Stone
v. National Westminster Bank Plc, Paul Aplin; High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division; HC11C00276.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches/Hearings  Fed’s Tarullo Calls for Tougher Supervision of Shadow Banking  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  called on
regulators to curb risks in lightly regulated nonbank funding
and credit markets that he said may grow as supervisors
strengthen bank oversight.  So-called shadow banking, in which nonbank institutions
create loans or raise funds, “has been only obliquely
addressed,” Tarullo said yesterday in remarks prepared for a
San Francisco Fed conference on global finance. “As the
oversight of regulated institutions is strengthened,
opportunities for arbitrage in the shadow banking system may
increase.”  Shadow banks typically lack deposit insurance and don’t
have access to the Fed’s discount window. Consequently, the
firms can be subject to runs if investors refuse to roll over
commercial paper or to buy assets held by a shadow bank. During
the financial crisis, the Fed created emergency programs to save
some lightly supervised parts of finance from collapse. The
Primary Dealer Credit Facility, for example, financed Wall
Street bond brokers after funding in repo markets broke down.  Tarullo called for more transparency in repo markets, and
for reforms to address “structural vulnerabilities” in money
market mutual funds. “A third short-term priority is to address
the settlement process for tri-party repurchase agreements,” he
said.  U.S. central bankers plan to meet June 19-20 amid signs of
sputtering economic growth.  JPMorgan Traders Took Risks They Didn’t Understand, Dimon Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
told Congress the bank let traders take risks they didn’t
understand while he didn’t answer key questions about more than
$2 billion in trading losses.  In testimony prepared for a hearing yesterday, Dimon
expressed regret over losses in the bank’s chief investment
office, saying that its trading strategy was “poorly conceived
and vetted” by senior managers who were “in transition” and
not paying adequate attention.  “This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than
protect the firm, created new and potentially larger risks,”
Dimon said in the remarks ahead of his appearance yesterday
before the Senate Banking Committee. “We have let a lot of
people down, and we are sorry for it.”  Dimon, 56, was scheduled to make the first of two
appearances on Capitol Hill to face lawmakers probing how the
largest and most profitable U.S. bank, often praised for its
“fortress” balance sheet, could have taken such risks after
coming through the 2008 financial crisis largely unscathed. His
remarks left unanswered what he knew when about the trading
strategy and losses that accelerated in March and April.  For more, click here.  Darda Says ECB ‘Failed’ to Offset Major Monetary Shock  Michael Darda, chief economist and chief market strategist
at MKM Partners LP, talked about the European Central Bank’s
handling of the debt crisis in the euro zone.  Darda spoke with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness.”  For the video, click here.  U.K.’s Sants Says New BOE Powers May Make Governor Role Too Big  Hector Sants, chief executive officer of the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said moving financial regulation powers to
the Bank of England may make the job of governor too big for one
person to manage.  Sants, who made the remarks in a BBC interview today, will
step down from his post at the end of this month after leading
the regulator through much of the global financial crisis. He
also said the run on Northern Rock Plc in 2007 could have been
prevented if the government and the Bank of England had taken
his advice to provide liquidity support to  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  to buy the lender.  “I think that would have made a difference, it would have
avoided the queues at Northern Rock and would have changed the
general climate in relation to the old building society sector
that had moved into the banking sector,” he told the BBC.  Comings and Goings  Lloyds Head of Strategic Transactions Group Murphy Said to Leave  Tom Murphy, the banker who helped Lloyds Banking Group Plc
to avoid ceding greater control to the British government in
2009 and oversaw the lender’s asset sales, will step down, said
a person with knowledge of his decision.  Peter Woodbury, another managing director in the division,
is also leaving, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. The person declined to say why
both men are leaving the bank, which was bailed out following
its acquisition of mortgage lender HBOS Plc in 2008.  Murphy ran the strategic transactions group that raised
22.5 billion pounds ($35 billion) of capital for the bank the
following year. The fundraising, which included a record
13.5 billion-pound rights offering as well as a debt swap,
allowed Lloyds to avoid seeking additional aid that would have
given the government a majority stake in the bank.  A spokesman declined to comment on individual employees.
Murphy and Woodbury didn’t return telephone messages seeking
comment.  Spain’s Fernando Vargas to Join EBA’s Management Board  Fernando Vargas Bahamonde, deputy director general of
supervision at the Bank of Spain, was chosen as a member of the
European Banking Authority’s management board, the Spanish
central bank said.  The management board is made up of the chairman and six
other board members, the Bank of Spain said in an e-mailed
statement from Madrid yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  