-- Invisible Art Show is Filled With Jokes in London: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-06-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/invisible-art-show-is-filled-with-jokes-nothing-review.html
As you might expect, there’s not a
lot to look at in the new exhibition, “Invisible: Art of the
Unseen 1957-2012,” at the  Hayward Gallery  in  London .  It abounds in empty galleries, blank canvases and
unoccupied sculptural plinths. A sensual pleasure for the eye
this is not.  There are, however, quite a few thought-provoking jokes and
conceits to be savored.  Naturally, being in the presence of invisible art provides
only vanishingly small benefits to the spectator.  Therefore, why not make an invisible visit? That is, don’t
go to the actual exhibition, but instead contemplate the ideas
contained in the galleries from an armchair at home.  It’s the contention of Ralph Rugoff, the Hayward’s
director, that invisible art constitutes “a low-profile
tradition” dating back over seven decades.  You can indeed discern a stylistic development in non-
visible work similar to that which is familiar in painting,
sculpture, installation and more conventionally perceptible
forms of visual art.  Andy Warhol  created an invisible sculpture at a  New York 
night club in the mid-1980s. It consisted of a label reading,
“Andy Warhol, USA/Invisible Sculpture/Mixed Media 1985.”  He stood next to this for a short while then went away.  Cursed Space  In 1992, Tom Friedman went one better by creating an
invisible sculpture, with added unseen lurking menace. This is
again an empty pedestal, with above it a spherical ritual space
cursed by a professional witch.  It’s not clear whether this piece ought to carry the occult
equivalent of a health-and-safety warning (“Caution: Malign
Magical Spell Hazard”). Both the Warhol and the Friedman are in
the exhibition, though obviously not on view.  Some pieces in the exhibition are less visible than others.
Claes Oldenburg’s “Proposed Underground Memorial and Tomb for
President  John F. Kennedy ” (1965) would actually have been
observable if it had been constructed, albeit only partially and
with difficulty.  It was to have consisted of a hollow bronze casting the
size of the Statue of Liberty, buried upside down with an
opening “about the size of a golf ball” in the ground above.
Through this, spectators could have peered at the interior while
kneeling or lying on their stomachs.  No Art  In comparison, the Taiwanese-born performance artist
Tehching Hsieh has achieved such levels of negative achievement
that he makes mere invisibility look un-avant-garde.  His penultimate work, the last of five one-year
performances, “No Art Piece” (1985-86) took the form of the
artist not seeing, making, talking or reading about or otherwise
having anything to do with art for 12 months.  He followed this with “Tehching Hsieh 1986-1999 (Thirteen
Year Plan),” in which he made art but in secret without
exhibiting it in public or revealing what it was.  The invisible tradition goes back to the French artist,
Yves Klein, who in 1958 exhibited an entirely empty gallery in
Paris, which he claimed to be crammed with an immaterial “blue
sensibility.”  Klein subsequently sold collectors “zones of immaterial
pictorial sensibility” in exchange for gold, some of which he
threw in the River Seine (and some not).  Now, there’s a sharply pointed metaphor for a lot of
things. It’s not only the art world that deals in imperceptible
value. Just now the European economy, for example, is full of
it. The irony is that Klein’s certificates transferring
ownership of intangible zones might prove to have been a better
investment than Greek  government bonds .  “Invisible: Art of the Unseen 1957-2012” is at the
Hayward Gallery, London, through Aug. 6. Information:
 http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk/venues/hayward-gallery .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  