-- Turkey Yields Rise for 2nd Day on Greek Elections, Tight Policy
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-13T15:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/lira-weakens-second-day-this-week-benchmark-bonds-unchanged.html
Yields rose for a second day as
investors pared exposure to riskier assets before elections in
 Greece  this weekend and the Turkish central bank kept the amount
of funding offered to lenders at the lower end of its scale.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bonds increased three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.18 percent at the
close in Istanbul.  Turkish central bank lent 1 billion liras ($547.7 million)
at 5.75 percent at its one-week repurchase agreements auction,
down from 3 billion liras on the same day last week. The maximum
liquidity it can provide in a day is 5 billion liras and the
minimum is 1 billion liras. With Greece voting June 17, polls
show the main party opposing the terms of its bailout may win
the election.  “Foreign investors who want to cut some risk exposure are
reducing their Turkish security portfolios before the election
in Greece,” Onur Bayol, a fixed-income and currency trader at
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Yields fell for eight days to June 11 in the longest
winning streak for bonds since 2009. Inflation in  Turkey  slowed
to 8.3 percent in May from 11.1 percent in April, the biggest
decrease since January 2003, the statistics office in Ankara
said June 4. The country’s current-account deficit retreated for
a sixth month to $5 billion in April from $7.7 billion a year
earlier, the central bank in Ankara said on its website June 11.  “Foreign investors are both booking profits and at the
same time reducing risks,” said Bayol.  Turkey’s central bank varies its funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year.  The lira appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8214 per dollar,
lifting its rise this year to 3.8 percent, the biggest
appreciation among developed and emerging-market currencies
after the Colombian peso.  The euro strengthened for a second day against the dollar
as speculation increased Greece may seek to modify its austerity
program following the June 17 election in a bid to remain in the
monetary bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  