-- Iran Oil Storage at Sea Seen by IEA Rising to 42 Million Barrels
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-06-13T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/iran-oil-storage-at-sea-seen-by-iea-rising-to-42-million-barrels.html
Iranian oil stored on tankers at sea
rose to as much as 42 million barrels, the  International Energy
Agency  said.  The Persian Gulf country added about 10 million barrels of
floating storage by the end of last month, the Paris-based
adviser to industrialized countries said in a report today,
citing unnamed shipping analysts. About 17 supertankers and
seven Suezmaxes are holding crude, with another estimated 25
million barrels being kept in onshore tanks, the report showed.  U.S. and European Union sanctions will cut Iranian crude
exports by 1 million barrels a day this year to about 1.5
million barrels a day, the IEA said. Measuring the oil flow has
been hampered as Iranian vessels routinely disabled their
tracking devices, according to the report. The EU embargo that
takes full effect July 1 is already curbing shipments beyond the
continent because insurers won’t cover ships hauling the crude.  “In months ahead,  Iran  may need to shut in production
volumes if export markets remain similarly constrained and
storage fills up,” the agency said. “The full implementation
of the most severe sanctions to date on Iran’s oil and banking
sectors is just weeks away.”  Iran is under pressure to stop its nuclear program that the
U.S. and  Europe  suspect involves weapons development. The Tehran
government, facing four sets of United Nations sanctions, says
it is enriching uranium for civilian and medical purposes.  Discounted Sales  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-
largest producer may be offering long-term credit, effectively
selling oil at a discount, the IEA said. Payments are being
stymied by sanctions that block banks settling trades with the
country from accessing the U.S. financial system.  The U.S. exempted banks in 17 countries that demonstrated
reduced imports, including  Japan  and  India , the second- and
third-largest buyers of Iranian supplies. Exports to  China , the
biggest customer, and India rose by 70,000 barrels a day to
730,000 barrels a day in May, according to the IEA.  Japan advanced a bill to compensate buyers of Iranian crude
who lose insurance, the IEA said. The cabinet approved the
measure Monday and will submit the legislation to the Diet, or
national parliament, for approval.  The number of Iranian  oil tankers  that sent no location
signals for at least a month more than tripled in the last few
weeks, according to the most recent data from the ships captured
by IHS Inc. Twelve supertankers and seven smaller Suezmaxes
haven’t signaled for at least a month, data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  