-- Italian Borrowing Costs Surge at Auction of 1-Year Bills
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-06-13T10:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/italian-borrowing-costs-surge-at-auction-of-1-year-bills.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs surged at
the sale of 6.5 billion euros ($8.2 billion) of Treasury bills
after the 100 billion-euro bailout of  Spain ’s banking system
failed to stop contagion from the region’s debt crisis.  The Rome-based Treasury sold the one-year bills at 3.972
percent, 1.63 percentage points more than the 2.34 percent at
the previous auction on May 11. Investors bid for 1.73 times the
amount offered, down from 1.79 times last month.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 4 basis points to
6.13 percent at 11:54 a.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with
German bunds to 463 points. A bigger test for the Italian
Treasury comes tomorrow when it sells as much as 4.5 billion
euros of longer-maturity debt.  “Although a warm-up for tomorrow’s bond auction, today’s
sale underscores the externally driven deterioration in Italy’s
perceived creditworthiness,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , wrote in an e-mailed
note. “Contagion is back with a vengeance and Italy is bearing
the brunt of the fallout from Spain’s request for external
assistance.”  Contagion Fears  Spain four days ago became the fourth euro-area country to
seek a bailout since the start of the region’s debt crisis more
than two years ago, with a request for emergency loans to save
its banking system. Instead of calming markets, Spanish and
Italian bond slumped, with Spain’s 10-yield reaching a euro-era
record 6.834 percent yesterday.  The Spanish bailout has shifted attention to Italy, which
has a debt of 1.9 trillion euros that is more as a share of its
economy than any other developed nation other than  Greece  and
Japan. The situation in Greece is also adding to concerns, as
the country prepares for a second national election in six
weeks, a vote that may determine whether it remains in the euro.  Italy is focused on meeting its own commitments, Deputy
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said in an interview in Rome
late yesterday. Grilli also rebuffed suggestions that investors
might see Italy as the next country in the firing line, saying
that’s only “speculation.” Italy won’t need a bailout even in
the future, Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told German Radio ARD
last night. The country’s risk premium over  Germany  will decline
if the summit of European leaders at the end of June adopts a
“credible package of growth measures,” the prime minister said
in speech in Parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  