-- Italy Yields Surge at Sale, Adding Pressure for Solution
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-14T10:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/italy-holds-first-bond-sale-after-spain-rescue-as-yields-surge.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs surged at
its first bond auction since Spain’s 100 billion-euro ($126
billion) bank rescue request, putting more pressure on European
leaders to step up their response to the debt crisis.  The Treasury sold 4.5 billion euros of debt, including 3
billion euros of its 3-year benchmark bond to yield 5.3 percent.
That was the highest yield since December and an increase of
almost 1.4 percentage points from the last sale a month ago.  “Today’s auctions most likely won’t manage to restore much
calm in the markets, instead it rather reflects quite well how
risk averse investors have become and how uncertainty within the
euro-zone and the European financial crisis itself continue to
dominate the headlines and market action,” Markus Huber, head
of German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London , said in an e-
mailed note.  The surge in Italian borrowing costs and Moody’s Investors
Service decision yesterday to cut Spain’s credit rating to one
step above junk piles pressure on European leaders to come up
with bolder measures to stop contagion before Spain or Italy
need a full-blown bailout. The euro region debt crisis will
likely dominate a meeting of the Group of 20 leaders next week
before an EU summit on June 28-29.  German Strength  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today that she is
“convinced”  Europe  is Germany’s future, adding that the
country can’t solve the crisis on its own.  “If the euro fails, Europe fails,” she said in parliament
in Berlin. “But we also know that our strength is not
unlimited.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Merkel will be
flying to the G-20 meeting in  Mexico  as Greece votes on June 17
in an election that might determine whether it remains in the
euro region. They will be joined by French President  Francois
Hollande  who will also meet Monti in  Rome  later today.  Monti is trying to convince investors that with a  budget
deficit  and jobless rate less than half that of Spain, Italy
remains a safe bet. Still, Italian bonds have been moving in
lock step with Spanish debt since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
announced the rescue request on June 9, with the yield on the
Italian 10-year bond rising more than 50 basis points in the
four trading days since the aid plan.  Relative Strength  “In the near term, Italy is in a somewhat better position
than  Spain , Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in a report yesterday. “The deficit should fall
below 3 percent this year already, private-sector debt is much
lower and Italy does not have a burst bubble on the housing
market that is weighing on the financial system.”  What links Spain and Italy is a lack of economic growth
that will make it hard to reduce the debt burden. Italy’s debt
reached a record 1,948.6 billion euros in April, the  Bank of
Italy  said today. That is more as a share of its economy than
any other developed nation other than Greece and  Japan . The
economy is mired in its fourth recession since 2001 and growth
has lagged the EU average for more than a decade.  “Italy is not only battling against the recession, but
also against chronically weak growth,” Rondorf wrote.  Monti yesterday called on European allies to do more to
foster growth as a way to end the debt crisis and said his
government would soon unveil new measures aimed at spurring the
Italian economy. Still, some of his efforts to revamp the euro-
region’s third-biggest economy have been watered down or held up
in the legislature.  Elections Pending  The premier met with leaders of the three parties that back
his unelected government on June 12, partly to confirm their
support and ask them to speed passage of his labor-market reform
and other legislation. Monti can only serve until spring of next
year and he faces the risk of his support in the legislature
weakening as elections approach and his backers prepare to
campaign against each other.  “Monti’s increasingly desperate calls for support from the
supine, slippery and self-interested Italian body politic
highlight again that Italy’s risks are fundamentally political,
and its financial woes are a symptom, not a cause of this,”
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London, said by e mail.  Foreign Exodus  Concern about Italy’s ability to bring down a debt due to
peak at 123 percent of gross domestic product this year has
contributed to an exodus of foreign investors. That’s forced
national lenders to stuff their balance sheets with  government
bonds  in a buying spree fueled by the  European Central Bank ’s
$1.3 trillion in three-year loans to euro region banks.  Foreign ownership of Italian debt has fallen to 32 percent
from 50 percent in 2008,  Fitch Ratings  said in a May 23 report.  Italian banks have been picking up some of that slack.
Their holdings’ of government bonds reached 295 billion euros at
the end of April, an increase of about one third since November,
according to a Bank of Italy report on June 8. With the
perceived risk of holding Italian bonds on the rise, shares of
those banks have been slammed.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, fell almost 12 percent
in the four trading days since the Spain bailout, bringing its
decline for the  year-to-date  to 43 percent. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA
shed almost 10 percent this week and has lost almost a quarter
of its value this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 