-- Mitsui O.S.K. to Trim Capesize Fleet Up to 18% on Rates
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-06-13T08:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/mitsui-o-s-k-to-trim-capesize-fleet-up-to-18-on-rates.html
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , operator
of the world’s largest merchant fleet, plans to scrap or lay up
10 to 20 of its 110 iron ore and coal carrying vessels as an
oversupply of ships has helped drag rates lower.  The line intends to scrap five of the Capesize vessels by
the end of March, 2013, and is considering disposal of others,
the Tokyo-based company said today in a statement. Taking about
10 ships out of service without keeping their crews on hand for
six months to one year “will help restore an appropriate vessel
supply-demand balance in the future,” it said.  Mitsui O.S.K., which gets about half its  revenue  from bulk
shipping, is reducing its fleet after a decline in rates caused
a 26 billion yen ($327 million) net loss in the year ended March
31, its first deficit since 1995.  Nippon Yusen (9101)  K.K. and  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , the line’s two biggest Japanese rivals, said
today they plan to temporarily remove, or lay up, some Capesize
vessels.  “The market situation is very tough, so we will lay up
vessels along with the market trend,” Makoto Arai, a Kawasaki
line spokesman, said by phone today. He declined to give details
on lay up plans and said the line has no plans to scrap any of
its 88 Capesize vessels.  Nippon Yusen  is also scrapping and laying up ships to
reduce costs, spokesman Jiro Tanida said by phone today,
declining to say how many vessels are involved. The Tokyo-based
company had 112 Capesize ships as of March.  Mitsui O.S.K. rose 1.5 percent to 279 yen at the close in
 Tokyo . Kawasaki Kisen was unchanged and Nippon Yusen gained 1
percent.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , the benchmark for commodity-carrying
rates, has dropped by about 49 percent this year. Iron-ore and
coking-coal buyers in  China  are seeking to defer imports as
 steel mills  in the country reduced output amid lower prices,
Mirae Asset Securities Co. said on May 21.  Separately, Kawasaki Kisen agreed to operate several
Capesize bulk carriers under a new venture with the dry bulk arm
of Singapore-listed Noble Group Ltd.,  Asia ’s largest listed
commodities trader.  K Noble Hong Kong Ltd. will start next month and will
increase efficiency and cut costs, the Tokyo-based shipping line
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 