-- Asia Shows Resilience as Europe Debt Concerns Mount
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-06-13T04:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/japan-machine-orders-rose-more-than-forecast-on-reconstruction.html
Japan’s machinery orders increased
more than economists expected and  South Korea ’s unemployment
fell as Asian economies show resilience in the face of Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Bookings, an indicator of  capital spending , rose 5.7
percent in April from March, the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo .
That compared with analysts’ median estimate of a 1.6 percent
gain. South Korea’s jobless rate declined to 3.2 percent in May
from 3.4 percent in April.  Sri Lanka kept interest rates on hold today as central bank
Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal told Bloomberg Television that his
nation’s economy can grow more than 7 percent this year. Spain’s
borrowing costs climbing to a record yesterday, underscoring the
threat of sovereign bailouts that would stretch European Union
finances to their limit.  “Asian economies are proving pretty resilient,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney said. “We
are certainly seeing some stabilization in growth across  Asia ,”
he said, adding that fiscal and monetary stimulus in China will
support the region.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little unchanged as of
12:14 p.m. in Tokyo before a bond sale in  Italy  that may show
whether investors’ concerns about Spain are spreading to the
larger economy.  Reconstruction Demand  “In the immediate term, tensions emanating from the euro
area are the most serious potential risk for  developing
countries ,” the  World Bank  said in a twice-yearly report
yesterday.  Sri Lanka’s Cabraal said today that growth momentum was
sustained in the first quarter and the economy can expand 7.2
percent this year “unless something dramatic happens in the
third or fourth quarters, which may not be that likely.”  The decision to keep  interest rates  unchanged showed that
officials want to shield growth from weakness in exports even as
a slump in the rupee fans inflation. The central bank left the
reverse repurchase rate at 9.75 percent and the repurchase rate
at 7.75 percent. The Bank of Thailand will also keep borrowing
costs unchanged today, according to a survey of economists by
Bloomberg News.  In Australia, central bank Governor Glenn Stevens today
described the benefits of a strong Australian dollar, saying
that it benefits consumers and probably will be sustained as
mining investment intensifies.  “It’s a test of adaptability,” Stevens told business,
union and community leaders today in the northern city of
Brisbane. “While I’m very conscious that a number of sectors
are really struggling with the  exchange rate  where it is, we
shouldn’t wish too quickly for a low exchange rate.”  Japanese Manufacturing  In  Japan , a 20 trillion yen ($252 billion) package for
rebuilding areas devastated by last year’s earthquake provides
manufacturers a cushion against slowing overseas demand, while
service industry hiring is aiding the labor market in South
Korea.  “Asian economies are resilient, but the pace of the
recovery overall is slowing,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief
economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo.
“Some exports numbers are looking dull, meaning there is some
impact from advanced countries’ economies, especially Europe.”  In a sign of constraints on the U.S. recovery, the Commerce
Department is forecast to report that retail sales fell in May
for the first time in a year, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predict.  France, Germany and  Spain  may report consumer prices fell
in May, according to Bloomberg News surveys before announcements
today. Industrial production in the euro region probably
contracted in April, according to a separate survey.  Rising Orders  Machinery orders in Japan were 789 billion yen ($9.9
billion) in April, the highest level since October 2008, after a
2.8 percent fall the previous month. The timing of major orders
can cause the results to be volatile.  A waning impact from post-quake reconstruction is projected
to curb the Japan’s growth rate after gross domestic product
jumped at an annualized 4.7 percent pace in January-to-March.
The expansion is forecast at 2 percent this quarter, according
to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The slowdown is at risk of worsening should  Europe ’s trauma
deepen after Greek elections on June 17 that may determine
whether that country remains in the euro region. Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told Group of Seven counterparts June 5 that
the yen’s appreciation is causing “serious damage” to the
economy.  South Korea added 472,000 new jobs in May as retailers,
social welfare, health care, and education services hired more
workers, Statistics Korea said today in Gwacheon, south of
Seoul.  President  Lee Myung Bak  said on June 11 that the country
isn’t planning a supplementary fiscal program and while the year
will be “very difficult,” the economy will probably grow more
than 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  