-- Japan Stock Futures Drop on Spain Rating, Economic Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-13T23:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/japan-stock-futures-drop-on-spain-rating-economic-data.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  fell as Spain’s credit rating was cut and economic
reports in the U.S and Europe added to concern the global
economy is slowing.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a Japanese
consumer electronics exporter that gets a fifth of its sales in
Europe, slid 0.7 percent. Those of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s No. 1 mining company, lost 0.5 percent as metals prices
fell.  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. (8750) , Japan’s second-largest life
insurer, may climb after Barclays Plc advised buying the shares.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,530 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,590
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,530 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index declined 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.3 percent after the central bank left  interest rates  at a
record low and signaled no change until mid-2013.  “Everyone knows the risks associated with the economies in
 Europe ,” said Cameron Peacock, a Melbourne-based analyst at IG
Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services for stocks, bonds
and currencies. “Ahead of the weekend’s election in Greece, no
one wants to be on the wrong side of the bet and take on risk.”  Greeks will go to the polls June 17. Alexis Tsipras, whose
Syriza party is vying for first place in pre-election polls,
said he expects the European Union will do all it can to keep
the nation in the euro even if he wins election and carries out
his promise to repeal austerity measures required to receive
emergency loans.  Spain Rating  Spain’s credit rating was downgraded three steps to Baa3
from A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, citing the nation’s
increased debt burden, weakening economy and limited access to
 capital markets .  Retail sales  in the U.S. fell in May for a second month,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday. Euro-area
industrial production declined for a second month in April, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said yesterday.
The Group of 20 nations meeting in Mexico next week probably
won’t announce significant progress on Europe’s debt crisis, a
U.S. official said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge fell 0.7 percent yesterday in New York.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  dropped 12 percent from this year’s
peak on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern growth in the
U.S. and China is slowing and as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified.  Annual Loss  The Asian benchmark dropped 0.4 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 4.6 percent advance by the  S&P 500 
and a 0.8 percent drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Shares on
the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book value, compared
with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the Stoxx 600,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one
means companies can be bought for less than value of their
assets.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 0.6 percent yesterday. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped
0.9 percent to 90.50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  