-- Jeremy Lin-Related Arbitration Hearing to Be Decided by July 1
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-13T20:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/jeremy-lin-related-arbitration-hearing-to-be-decided-by-july-1.html
Lawyers for the  National Basketball
Association  and its players’ union held an almost four-hour
arbitration hearing that may determine the futures of  New York 
Knicks players Jeremy Lin and  Steve Novak .  Attorneys Jeff Kessler and Ron Klempner represented the
union, which filed for the hearing to fight part of the
collective bargaining agreement that the league says strips the
Knicks of rights allowing teams to exceed the salary cap in re-
signing their own players.  The 2005 and 2011 labor contracts say players maintain
their so-called Bird and Early Bird rights if they switch teams
“by trade.” Bird rights are named for former Boston Celtics
Hall of Fame player Larry Bird, and Early Bird rights are a form
of the rule for players who have been in the league a shorter
time.  The union argues the rule also should include players taken
off waivers.  Novak, who led the NBA with a .472 3-point shooting
percentage, attended the hearing before arbitrator Kenneth Dam,
who told the parties that he would rule prior to the start of
free agency on July 1.  Other players affected by the outcome are Chauncey Billups
of the  Los Angeles Clippers  and J.J. Hickson of the Portland
Trail Blazers.  Lin is a Harvard University graduate who went from bench
warmer to the Knicks’ starting point guard in February,
averaging 14.6 points and 6.2 assists per game as the team made
the playoffs.  Rick Buchanan and Howard Ganz represented the NBA, which
interprets the word “trade” as a swap between teams. That
wouldn’t include players who moved through waivers, as Lin did
in joining the Knicks following his release by the  Golden State
Warriors  and  Houston Rockets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  