-- JetBlue Sued by Passengers Over Pilot’s Behavior
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-13T16:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/jetblue-sued-10-by-passengers-over-pilot-s-behavior.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  was sued by 10
New York-area passengers over an incident on a flight to  Las
Vegas  in March that resulted in a pilot’s arrest for erratic
behavior.  The lawsuit, filed today in New York State Supreme Court in
Queens, seeks compensatory and punitive damages from New York-
based JetBlue and pilot Clayton Osbon for claims including
assault, reckless infliction of emotional distress and negligent
supervision, hiring and retention.  Osbon’s behavior while captain on the March 27 flight from
New York caused his co-pilot to bar him from the cockpit,
according to a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent’s affidavit
filed with a criminal complaint the next day. After Osbon began
shouting and pounding on the flight deck door, he was restrained
by some of the plane’s passengers.  The suing passengers “experienced fear of imminent death
and severe physical injury due to the actions of defendant Osbon
and the ensuing struggle to subdue him” and “suffered severe
emotional disturbance, anxiety and fear,” according to the
complaint.  The flight was diverted to Amarillo,  Texas , where Osbon,
49, of  Georgia , was taken into custody and charged with
interfering with the duties of a flight crew. He was indicted on
April 11 and told a federal judge in Texas later that month that
he intends to mount an insanity defense.  JetBlue declined to comment on the lawsuit. Osbon’s
attorney in Texas, E. Dean Roper, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is Euler v. JetBlue Airways Corp., 701032/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Queens).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  