-- JPMorgan’s Gregson Says Miners Should Seek M&A on Costs
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-06-13T10:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/jpmorgan-s-gregson-says-miners-should-seek-m-a-on-costs-1-.html
JPMorgan Asset Managment’s Neil Gregson, manager of about $6.9 billion in natural-resource
assets, says mining companies should chase more takeovers as
rising costs force them to slow spending on expansions.  “These companies that are curtailing capex should be, I’m
sure they are, more active in making opportunities of the low
valuations,” London-based Gregson, who counts  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
 Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group among his top holdings, said in an interview in
London yesterday. “We’d certainly support a lot more M&A.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto , the first and third-
biggest mining companies by sales, said last month they’ll
ration spending because of escalating costs and waning global
economic growth. The  Bloomberg World Mining Index (BWMING)  has lost 18
percent this year.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FQM) ,  African Minerals
Ltd. (AMI)  and London Mining Plc are likely acquisition targets,
Jefferies Group Inc. said June 8.  “It’s fairly obvious there’s lots of supply issues on
copper and that copper will be a very attractive place to be
probably for the next 10 years or more,” said Gregson, a holder
of copper producers First Quantum and Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. “There is room for more on the iron-ore side maybe
with some of these West African companies.”  African Minerals, which has a market value of 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion), and  London  Mining both produce the steel-
making raw material in  Sierra Leone . It declined 1 percent to
355.5 pence at 11:30 a.m. in London. First Quantum, a producer
of copper in  Africa , has dropped 13 percent this year, valuing
it at C$8.3 billion ($8.1 billion). It was unchanged in London
today.  New Projects  “We’ve gone past the point where the capital expenditure
required to build new projects now far exceeds what you can go
out and buy,” Gregson said, adding he sees more deals. “That
is a trade-off where the companies should be much more active.”  Mining companies globally have announced $95 billion of
deals in the year to date, up from $75 billion in the same
period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  agreed an all-share takeover of
Xstrata in February that values the shares of the target it
doesn’t already own at about 19.8 billion pounds.  “M&A activity in the sector should accelerate in 2013 as
capex budgets begin to decline and after the Glencore Xstrata
merger closes,” Jefferies analysts Christopher Lafemina and
Seth Rosenfeld said in a note. “We expect shares of inexpensive
miners that have significant low-cost growth potential and
miners that are possible M&A targets to outperform.”  “Companies like Glencore, this is the perfect environment
for them,” Gregson said. “They are buyers and sellers and I
presume that they are very much in the buying mode.”  A drop of as much as 50 percent in mining company
valuations since last year, while capital spending costs gained
as much as 25 percent has shifted the balance in favor of
acquisitions and mergers, Liberum Capital Ltd. analysts said in
a note. Spending on new output will drop 19 percent to $103.8
billion next year, according to a Bank of America Corp. report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  