-- JPMorgan Traders Took Risks They Didn’t Understand, Dimon Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/jpmorgan-traders-took-risks-they-didn-t-understand-dimon-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon told Congress the bank let traders take
risks they didn’t understand while he didn’t answer key
questions about more than $2 billion in trading losses.  In  testimony  prepared for a hearing today, Dimon expressed
regret over losses in the bank’s chief investment office, saying
that its trading strategy was “poorly conceived and vetted” by
senior managers who were “in transition” and not paying
adequate attention.  “This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than
protect the firm, created new and potentially larger risks,”
Dimon said in the remarks ahead of his appearance today before
the Senate Banking Committee. “We have let a lot of people
down, and we are sorry for it.”  Dimon, 56, makes his first of two appearances on  Capitol
Hill  to face lawmakers probing how the largest and most
profitable U.S. bank, often praised for its “fortress” balance
sheet, could have taken such risks after coming through the 2008
financial crisis largely unscathed. His remarks left unanswered
what he knew when about the trading strategy and losses that
accelerated in March and April.  “We all bought into the idea that Jamie was the best
manager in the world,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for
the  Federal Reserve  Board of Philadelphia and analyst at FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “For a guy who is known
for risk management, he certainly didn’t put in place a top-tier
risk management system or board.”  VaR Switch  Dimon also didn’t address changes made earlier this year to
a company measurement known as value-at-risk, or VaR, that
underestimated the potential for losses. The switch -- and the
timing of the firm’s disclosures -- are the focus of an inquiry
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, agency chairman  Mary Schapiro  told the Senate panel on May 22.  Other government investigations of New York-based JPMorgan
include a study of internal oversight by the Federal Reserve, a
probe of the trades by the Comptroller of the Currency, and
additional inquiries by the  Department of Justice  and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Dimon said that the risk committee structures and processes
were not as robust in the CIO as they should have been. The
division’s London team built up a book of  credit derivatives 
that became so large by that employees couldn’t unwind it
without roiling markets or incurring large losses.  Feels ‘Terrible’  Dimon said he feels “terrible” that the firm will lose
shareholder money, yet defended the bank by saying lawmakers
needed to put the losses “into perspective,” noting that no
client, customer or taxpayer money was impacted. He said the
second quarter would be “solidly profitable.”  Dimon explained that the bank instructed the CIO in
December to reduce its risk-weighted assets to prepare for new
international capital rules. Instead, the office in mid-January
“embarked on a complex strategy that entailed adding positions
that it believed would offset the existing ones,” Dimon said.
The portfolio grew and the problem got worse.  [To read Dimon’s full testimony, click  here .]  Shares of the bank have dropped 17 percent from May 10,
when Dimon disclosed the losses, through yesterday, lopping
about $26.5 billion from the firm’s market value. The furor cost
former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew her job.  Senator  Tim Johnson , the panel’s chairman, said in remarks
prepared for the hearing that he expected Dimon to answer how
the investment office, a unit designed to protect the company
from risk, could lose billions of dollars instead.  Making Money  “How can a bank take on ‘far too much risk’ if the point
of the trades was to reduce risk in the first place?” the South
Dakota Democrat asked. “Or was the goal really to make money?
Should any hedge result in billions of dollars of net gains or
losses, or should it be focused solely on reducing a bank’s
risks?”  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the top Republican on
the panel, will focus on the specific nature of the bank’s
trades, according to Jonathan Graffeo, his spokesman. The
senator also intends to ask whether management ignored warning
signs inside the CIO and whether Dimon supports higher capital
standards, he said.  Volcker Rule  Dimon, who’s set to face the House Financial Services
Committee on June 19, will also find himself in the middle of a
renewed debate about whether regulators should tighten curbs on
trading by deposit-taking banks after mortgage bets pushed the
financial system to the brink of collapse four years ago.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, has used the
trading losses as ammunition in his fight to tighten exemptions
in the so-called Volcker rule. Merkley, who co-wrote the
provision in the Dodd-Frank Act along with Senator  Carl Levin  of
Michigan, has said that the draft rule released by regulators in
2011 had loopholes that would allow banks to maintain much of
their proprietary trading operations.  Five U.S. agencies are working to complete the rule, which
is named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  and is intended to
reduce risky trading by banks with federally insured deposits
and access to the central bank’s discount window.  Investors and bankers, including Dimon, have speculated
that the loss may hurt their efforts to soften the Volcker rule
and other provisions of Dodd-Frank, which was passed to curb the
kinds of banking practices that contributed to the 2008
financial crisis.  Hard Distinction  The current draft of the Volcker rule permits banks to
continue trades for hedging but not for proprietary trading
designed to generate profits. Banks have said the distinction
can be hard to make.  JPMorgan’s trading losses “could lead to a more stringent
interpretation of the Volcker rule,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in
a May 11 report. “That, in turn, could affect JPM’s hedging
strategies going forward by disallowing certain tactics, adding
risk to JPM’s portfolio.”  The bank’s pay policies might offer some insight to
lawmakers, said  Simon Johnson , a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund .  “What was the compensation arrangement for people in the
CIO, including traders and executives?” asked Johnson, who now
teaches at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s Sloan School
of Management. “If they were paid based on firm-wide results,
they were hedging. If they were paid based on returns in CIO
itself, this is prop trading.”  JPMorgan’s biggest competitors, including  Bank of America 
Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , have said their
corporate investment offices avoid the use of the kind of
derivatives that led to the trading losses and buy fewer bonds
exposed to credit risk. The rivals said their offices don’t
trade credit-default swaps on indexes linked to the health of
companies.  Dimon’s apology is a first step in the company’s plan to
assuage concerns of investors, said  David Hendler , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York.  “It’s not like you went through a stop sign and got a
slap-on-the-wrist ticket,” Hendler said. “It’ll have to be
every quarter for the next couple of years or so. That’s
basically job No. 1 for  Jamie Dimon .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  