-- DuPont, BP Win Temporary Halt to Rival Isobutanol Sales
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-13T16:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/judge-bars-gevo-from-shipping-isobutanol-from-minnesota-plant.html
A joint venture between  DuPont Co. (DD) 
and  BP Plc (BP/)  won a court order temporarily preventing a competing
biofuel company from trying to sell isobutanol produced at a
plant that came online last month.  U.S. District Court Judge Sue Robinson, in Wilmington,
Delaware, issued an order yesterday limiting Gevo Inc. from
shipping the chemical, used in making biofuels, to new
customers. The company can continue selling isobutanol to Sasol
Chemical Industries Ltd. and the U.S. Air Force, Robinson said.  Gevo is involved in several patent lawsuits with Butamax
Advanced Biofuels LLC, which DuPont, a specialty chemical maker
based in Wilmington, and U.K.-based oil company BP, own.  “This order provides protection for markets of key
interest to Butamax,” Butamax Chief Executive Officer Paul Beckwith said in a statement.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , built a biofuels plant
in Luverne, Minnesota, to produce renewable additives that can
be sold to oil refiners that make diesel and jet fuel. The
Minnesota plant can also produce ethanol, according to court
papers.  Robinson said the limits on Gevo will remain in place until
she issues a decision on a related request for a preliminary
injunction.  ‘That’s Fine’  The order means Gevo can’t pursue new customers, Brett Lund, Gevo’s general counsel, said in an interview today.  “Our business model is to sell into jet-fuel and chemical
markets,” Lund said. The judge “is just saying ‘Don’t go
beyond your business model,’ and that’s fine,” he said.  The ruling on Butamax’s request for a preliminary
injunction could come in two to three weeks, Lund said.  Last year, Gevo asked the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
to review the validity of a Butamax patent for a fuel additive,
questioning who was first to invent the technology.  The case is Butamax (TM) Advanced Biofuels LLC v.  Gevo
Inc. (GEVO) , 12-cv-70 U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 