-- Kerviel Says He Only Wanted to Make Money for SocGen
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-13T16:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/kerviel-says-he-only-wanted-to-make-money-for-socgen.html
Jerome Kerviel  told a Paris appeals
court today that his only goal was to make money for  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and reiterated his superiors knew he was taking
positions that exceeded his trading limits.  The former trader answered questions from the court as well
as lawyers for the bank and himself about the events of January
2008, when Societe Generale unwound his positions and announced
the resulting 4.9 billion-euro loss ($6.2 billion). He has said
previously that his actions were well-known and he never tried
to personally profit from the trades.  “I did it to make money” for the bank and “not a penny
went into my pocket,” Kerviel said on the fifth day of his
appeal trial. “My superiors saw everything, knew everything,
and pushed me to make money.”  Kerviel was convicted in 2010, sentenced to three years in
jail and ordered to repay the loss in a verdict that held him
solely responsible. Kerviel said during hearings last week that
the bank allowed him to exceed his limits because it foresaw
losing money on the subprime mortgage market and was using his
unhedged positions as cover for those potential losses.  Judge Mireille Filippini described documents submitted to
back up the claims as “nothing new.” Philippe Hoube, a broker
at Newedge Group, who wrote an unsigned letter included with the
documents, will testify tomorrow.  Losing Operations  Hoube said  Societe Generale  filled Kerviel’s account with
losing operations before unwinding it to increase the loss it
could attribute to him rather than announce as its own,
Liberation newspaper reported today, quoting the broker.  The full 4.9 billion-euro loss can’t entirely be blamed on
Kerviel, Hoube said, according to the newspaper.  Societe Generale said it will address Hoube’s “incorrect
analyses and the wrongful allegations” in a note to the court.  “Societe Generale will reserve its case for the court and
provide well-argued and detailed responses to all these
claims,” the Paris-based bank said in a statement.  Luc Francois, one of the Kerviel’s superiors at the time
and the first witness to testify at the appeal, said the theory
the bank knew of Kerviel’s outsized trades and used him as a
fall guy for subprime losses was “a gigantic lie” and managers
were in “complete shock” when they learned of the situation.  “No member of the Societe Generale hierarchy was aware,”
said Francois, who is to start a job as head of  capital markets 
at Natixis SA in September.  Francois also defended the bank’s secrecy while it unwound
the trades, saying Societe Generale “would have been dead” had
the news gotten out of the exposure during the sell-off.  Claire Dumas, head of the bank’s operational risk
department, said  France ’s market regulator was kept informed as
Societe Generale sold off Kerviel’s positions and the bank
followed market rules for undertaking such an operation in terms
of confidentiality, secrecy and the monitoring of the increasing
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net  