-- Kewill Surges After Symphony Bid Tops Rival Offer: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-06-13T15:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/kewill-surges-after-symphony-bid-tops-rival-offer-london-mover.html
Kewill Plc (KWL) , a U.K. supply-chain
software company, rose to the  highest  price in a year after
accepting a takeover offer that trumped a bid from a private-
equity firm that was due to be considered by a court today.  Kewill jumped 13 percent to 107.5 pence, the highest since
April 2011, making the Guildford, England-based company the
biggest gainer in the  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)  The shares closed in
London just above the 106 pence-a-share offer from  Symphony
Technology Group , based in  Palo Alto , California.  Symphony’s  offer , announced yesterday after the U.K. market
closed, tops an agreed bid of 96 pence a share made by San
Francisco-based  Francisco Partners  on May 2. Symphony, which is
also a private-equity firm, made its offer through Kestrel Bidco
Ltd., and Francisco acted through Kinetic Bidco Ltd.  Kewill said last month that the growing complexity of
global trade and regulations creates steady demand for its
products and services, even as organic growth “remained
disappointing due to continuing challenging market conditions.”
Its clients include Deutsche Post AG’s DHL unit;  TNT Express NV (TNTE) ,
the Dutch express-delivery company being bought by United Parcel
Service Inc.; and Irish industrial group  Ingersoll-Rand Plc. (IR)   The U.K. company said late yesterday in a statement that
Symphony’s offer was “materially better” than Francisco’s.
“The Kewill directors’ recommendation of the Kinetic offer has
accordingly been withdrawn with immediate effect in favor of the
acquisition.”  40 Percent  Symphony’s offer, which values the company at about
99.6 million pounds ($155 million), according to Kewill, is
almost 40 percent above the share price the day before the
Francisco bid. It has the support of Aviva Investors, Henderson
Global Investors and Herald Investment Management, which own
8.5 percent of Kewill.  Kewill, founded in 1972, has offices in eight countries
including the U.S.,  China  and Germany. The company’s software
assists e-commerce and helps customers accelerate  customs
clearance  and logistics.  The court hearing to consider the earlier offer was
adjourned, Kewill said today, and the new bid will be
implemented through a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement.
Investec Bank Plc is acting for Kewill in the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 