-- Kodak Loses Ruling in Fight With Apple Over Patents
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-13T20:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/kodak-loses-ruling-in-fight-with-apple-over-patents.html
Eastman Kodak Co. failed to persuade
a judge to rule that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has no interest in a group of
patents Kodak is putting up for sale as part of its bankruptcy
reorganization.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  said the
dispute could be resolved through a lawsuit in Kodak’s Chapter
11 bankruptcy case.  “An adversary proceeding will permit the parties to raise
issues in an orderly and expeditious fashion and preserve all of
their just rights,” Gropper said at a hearing today.  Kodak is planning to sell patent assets and said in court
papers that it needed the order to aid in the sale. Apple has
claimed ownership of the patents and is trying to “delay and
derail” the sale effort, Kodak said.  Andrew Dietderich, an attorney for Rochester,  New York- 
based Kodak, said after the hearing that the company would file
an adversary proceeding against Apple.  The U.S. District Court in Manhattan, not the  bankruptcy
court , should hear the dispute, according to Apple. Kodak can’t
use the urgency of its bankruptcy reorganization to “ramrod
through a procedurally flawed and substantively meritless
motion,” Apple said in court papers.  Move Sought  David Seligman, an Apple attorney, told Gropper the company
wants the matter resolved.  “Kodak seeks to have this rush to judgment occur in the
bankruptcy court, which is neither legally permitted nor
practically equipped to address the numerous complex points of
federal patent law and related issues implicated by the parties’
disputes,” Cupertino, California-based Apple said in court
papers.  In his ruling, Gropper said Kodak might be able to sell the
disputed assets and put the proceeds in escrow until a court
rules on whether the money should go to Apple or Kodak. Kodak
also can sell assets subject to any ownership interests of
Apple, the judge said.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).
The district court case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-04444,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  