-- N.Z. Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate at 2.5% (Full Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-06-13T21:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/n-z-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-at-2-5-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released today by the  Reserve Bank  of  New
Zealand  after it left the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5
percent.  The Reserve Bank today left the Official Cash Rate (OCR)
unchanged at 2.5 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said: “New Zealand’s
economic outlook has weakened a little since the March Monetary
Policy Statement.  “Political and economic stresses in  Europe , along with a
run of weaker-than-expected data, have seen New Zealand’s
trading partner outlook worsen. Furthermore, there is a small
but growing risk that conditions in the euro area deteriorate
more markedly than is projected in the June Statement. The Bank
is monitoring euro-area developments carefully given the
potential for rapid change.  “Increased agricultural production and the weakened global
outlook have driven New Zealand’s export commodity prices lower.
The resulting moderation in export incomes, although partially
offset by depreciation in the  exchange rate , will weigh on
economic activity in New Zealand. Fiscal consolidation is also
likely to constrain demand growth going forward.  “Offsetting these negative influences, housing market
activity continues to increase, supported by recent reductions
in mortgage interest rates. In addition, repairs and
reconstruction in Canterbury are expected to substantially boost
construction sector activity in coming quarters. Aggregate GDP
growth is projected to pick up slightly to just over 3 percent
next year. Given this economic outlook, inflation is expected to
settle near the mid-point of the target range.  “It remains appropriate for monetary policy to remain
stimulatory, with the OCR being held at 2.5 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  