-- N.Z. Retail Sales Fall Revised to 0.6% From 1.5% on Store Sample
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-13T03:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/n-z-retail-sales-fall-revised-to-0-6-from-1-5-on-store-sample.html
New Zealand first-quarter  retail
sales  fell by less than half the pace reported four weeks ago
after the nation’s statistics agency reviewed the spending at
supermarkets and grocery stores.  Sales adjusted for inflation declined 0.6 percent in the
three months through March compared with the fourth quarter,
when they gained 1.6 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in
Wellington today. On May 14, the agency reported first-quarter
sales dropped 1.5 percent.  Today’s revisions show a smaller decline in  consumer
spending  than previously estimated followed a surge in the
second half of 2011 fueled by tourism tied to the  Rugby World
Cup . The drop in store purchases underscores central bank
Governor Alan Bollard’s decision to keep the official cash rate
at 2.5 percent since March 2011.  A change in the composition of the supermarket category
sample had created “an anomalous result that was not
economically representative,” the statistics agency said. It
informed the central bank of the direction of the change but not
the magnitude to assist with preparation of the monetary policy
statement tomorrow.  New Zealand ’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 77.70 U.S. cents as of 3:32 p.m. in Wellington.  Fourteen of 16 economists surveyed last week by Bloomberg
expect no change in borrowing costs until 2013. Two see a
quarter-point rise in December. There is a 20 percent chance of
a rate cut at Bollard’s review tomorrow, according to interest
rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Supermarket and grocery store sales, which make up a
quarter of the total, weakened 3.9 percent, and not the record
7.4 percent fall reported on May 14.  Core sales, which exclude vehicle dealers and fuel outlets,
retreated 1.4 percent from the fourth quarter, when they rose a
revised 2.2 percent. Previously, the first-quarter decline was
reported as 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  