-- Nasdaq Exchange Immunity May Limit Losses From Facebook Claims
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/nasdaq-exchange-immunity-may-limit-losses-from-facebook-claims.html
Nasdaq Stock Market (NDAQ)  can rely on
legal protections afforded exchange operators to avoid paying
damages to firms that lost money on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the former
chief executive officer of the  American Stock Exchange  said.  The second-largest equity venue’s status as a self-
regulatory organization means it will probably be spared
liability for technology breakdowns and bad decisions in the May
18 initial public offering, said Neal Wolkoff, a lawyer who also
ran ELX Futures LP. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the parent company,
proposed setting aside $40 million to compensate firms after
delayed orders and confirmations left brokers and fund managers
unsure of how many shares they owned in the $16 billion IPO.  “Rules that are specific to the unique regulatory roles
played by exchanges may well insulate  Nasdaq  from facing the
consequences of significant damages,” according to Wolkoff. The
safeguards will withstand arguments that “Nasdaq acted
primarily in its corporate interests, or that a for-profit
exchange does not deserve the protection of the absolute
immunity doctrine that arose when exchanges were not-for-profit,
membership-owned organizations,” he said.  At least one investor has sued Nasdaq and brokers Knight
Capital Group Inc. and UBS AG said they are considering
lawsuits. Industry losses tied to delays and malfunctions that
slowed the confirmation of trades in the IPO may be close to
$200 million, Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said
June 7. CNBC said the total for UBS alone may be $350 million.  Maryland Investor  Phillip Goldberg, an investor in  Maryland , said in a
lawsuit filed in Manhattan federal court that Nasdaq OMX “badly
mishandled” orders placed through an online Charles Schwab
Corp. account. He is seeking to represent a class of investors
who lost money.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment, as did  Christiaan Brakman , a spokesman for UBS, and
Kara Fitzsimmons of Knight.  “The reason for immunity is you don’t want a regulator to
be worried about getting sued when they make decisions,” Thomas Hazen, a professor at the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel
Hill ’s School of Law and author of a seven-volume treatise on
securities regulation, said in a phone interview. “You want the
regulator or market to make decisions they think is best for the
marketplace.”  ‘Very Tough’  To win a lawsuit against a self-regulatory organization,
“you’d have to show they were acting in bad faith,” Hazen
said. “That’s a very, very tough lawsuit to win.”  Nasdaq shares have  lost  5.6 percent since May 17 when
Facebook shares were priced by underwriters. They rose 1.3
percent to $21.72 yesterday. Facebook, whose stock sale was the
biggest IPO ever by a technology company, has  fallen  28 percent.  The owner of the largest social networking website was
scheduled to open at 11 a.m.  New York  time on May 18 when
trading was delayed by a design flaw in Nasdaq’s IPO auction
mechanism. Fixing it blocked order updates and cancellations
sent to the exchange over 19 minutes from being included in the
first public trade, or cross, at 11:30 a.m., and prevented
confirmations from being immediately distributed to brokers.  The malfunctions spurred confusion among securities firms,
market makers, asset managers and individual investors, who
didn’t know whether they owned shares and couldn’t cut losses.
UBS was left with a larger Facebook stake than it meant to buy
after repeatedly entering an order that wasn’t confirmed, CNBC
said June 8.  Switzerland ’s largest bank said the loss isn’t
material and declined to quantify it.  Trade Disorder  The exchange’s liability in private lawsuits will depend on
whether it was acting “in its SRO role” when it decided to
continue with trading after uncovering technical flaws, and then
choosing not to halt the stock, Wolkoff wrote in a  blog post 
this week. He said in a phone interview that managing the IPO
process for a public company is a “key aspect of what an
exchange is about,” making it likely that immunity will apply.  “The role of an exchange is an adjunct to the role of the
banker, but the exchange gets the market value of the stock to
be published based on the buy and sell interest it receives,”
Wolkoff said in the interview.  Facebook was priced at $38 the day before shares began
changing hands. Nasdaq’s IPO auction price was $42, a level
Nasdaq OMX CEO  Robert Greifeld  told reporters on May 20 was
“proper with respect to volume and price.” Facebook closed at
$38.23 on May 18.  Technology Errors  The cap on Nasdaq’s liability stemming from technology
errors and malfunctions it causes is $3 million, according to
the exchange’s rules. Nasdaq  raised  the limit last year from
$500,000 after a malfunction in April with its automated
quotation system led to losses by market makers. Greifeld said
in a conference call on July 27 that the April mishap was the
first such error in his eight years at the helm of the company
and he didn’t expect another for the next eight.  Curbs on SRO liability were developed to keep the member-
firm owners of an exchange from having to pay another broker for
losses caused by technical breakdowns, according to George T. Simon, a partner at Foley & Lardner LLP and former associate
director in the SEC’s division of market regulation. Simon
helped restructure the national equities market after the 1975
Securities Acts Amendments, which overhauled rules for exchanges
and trading to spur competition and increase price transparency.  Today, since none of the exchanges are member-owned, “one
could argue that the premise behind the limited liability is no
longer relevant,” Simon said. “On the other hand, these rules
are still in effect and courts, except in cases of real abuse,
have honored them.”  Nasdaq Bet  “If I were a betting person, I’d bet in favor of Nasdaq,”
he said.  U.S. courts have upheld the immunity of exchanges and
associations of securities dealers for actions related to self-
regulatory responsibilities such as monitoring the compliance of
brokers with laws and running their markets. Cases brought
against the New York Stock Exchange and the National Association
of Securities Dealers Inc., which created Nasdaq in 1971,
preserved that protection in recent decades.  In 1996, a U.S. appeals court in  Barbara v. New York Stock
Exchange Inc.  upheld a lower court’s decision that NYSE was
entitled to immunity for damages stemming from how it conducted
disciplinary proceedings. An appeals court upheld  another
decision  in 1998 that Nasdaq’s de-listing of a stock and
suspension of trading was subject to immunity in Sparta Surgical
Corp. v. National Association of Securities Dealers Inc.  Past Rulings  An appeals court in Weissman v. NASD Inc. distinguished
between actions taken to carry out an SRO’s obligations and what
it called private commercial conduct. In 2007 it  affirmed  a
lower court decision that Nasdaq’s advertising about its listed
companies wasn’t subject to its immunity as an SRO. The U.S.
Supreme Court in a 1963 case called Silver v. New York Stock
Exchange said that NYSE’s role as a self-regulator  didn’t exempt 
it from antitrust laws.  Brokers suing Nasdaq OMX are subject to contracts for
trading on the exchange that  limit  the venue’s liability, said
 Andrew Stoltmann , a securities lawyer in  Chicago  who has
represented investors in cases alleging  securities fraud . Since
Nasdaq is experiencing a public relations crisis, the exchange
may increase the $40 million in reimbursements and trading
discounts it offered brokers, subject to SEC approval, he said.  “If you just look at the contractual agreement between the
firms and Nasdaq, that’s going to be hurdle No. 1 that has to be
jumped,” Stoltmann said in a phone interview. “There are
really limiting clauses in the contracts.”  ‘Overly Practiced’  Nasdaq may have been caught unprepared for the Facebook
blunder in part because the exchange wasn’t as used to dealing
with technology and systems problems as rival markets, Wolkoff
said. The American Stock Exchange, a listing venue mainly for
small and mid-size companies, was “overly practiced” at coping
with technical malfunctions because it experienced more glitches
as it shifted to automated trading in the last decade, he said.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of the New York Stock Exchange, bought
Amex in 2008 and renamed it NYSE MKT last month.  “We were famous for having technology problems,” said
Wolkoff, who left Amex in 2008. “Every exchange has had
technology problems. You can’t get so mad at a marketplace
because they have a technology issue. But once you have it, how
do you deal with it?”  Nasdaq should have delayed the  Facebook IPO  until it knew
for certain trading could occur without mishap, he said.  Eric Noll , executive vice president at Nasdaq OMX, said executives at
the company “believed they had the right solution” as they
worked to start trading on May 18, according to a statement
provided by Madden on May 22.  ‘Broad Latitude’  “With the benefit of hindsight they should have halted,
solved the problem and recommenced trading,” Wolkoff said.
“They had broad latitude to do whatever they viewed as fair for
the market. They could have canceled trades from the IPO cross
and restarted trading. Or they could have waited until they
confirmed everything and then reopened trading so no one was
operating in a vacuum of information.”  All exchanges are allowed to declare halts when it’s done
to protect investors and the integrity of trading, Wolkoff said.  “When you fix something on the fly, you can get lucky and
it can work,” Wolkoff said. “You can also get unlucky -- and
the consequences of being unlucky are close to catastrophic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 