-- Nigeria Police Investigate Subsidy Probe Bribe Allegations
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-06-13T13:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/nigeria-police-investigate-subsidy-probe-bribe-allegations-1-.html
Nigerian police are investigating
allegations that the chairman of a parliamentary committee that
probed illegal fuel subsidy payments took a bribe to influence
the outcome, a spokesman said.  “That case is under investigation,” Frank Mba, a police
spokesman in Abuja, said today by phone. The police will release
details “when we reach a comfortable level in our
investigation,” he said.  Farouk Lawan, the chairman of the House of Representatives’
committee that investigated fuel subsidy payments, denied in a
statement yesterday sent to Bloomberg that he “demanded and
received the sum of $600,000 as bribe from” a fuel retailer as
reported in some Nigerian newspapers.  Lawan’s committee, in a report approved by lawmakers in
April, said state agencies under the Petroleum Ministry paid 1.1
trillion naira ($6.7 billion) illegally to fuel importers
between 2009 and 2011, the period covered in the report. The
report called for the prosecution of officials who oversaw the
payments of the subsidies, which were “fraught with endemic
corruption and entrenched inefficiency.”  Lagos-based ThisDay newspaper cited Femi Otedola, the
chairman of Zenon Petroleum & Gas Ltd., as saying that Lawan
 requested $3 million  not to add Zenon’s name in the report,
saying that several other retailers also paid him.  In cooperation with Nigerian officials, Otedola said he
paid Lawan $620,000 in three installments with serialized dollar
bills provided by security agencies, ThisDay reported on June
11.  ‘Divert Attention’  “The present mudslinging isn’t unexpected in view of the
caliber of people whose actions and inactions were found wanting
in the report,” Lawan said in the statement. He accused them of
trying “to discredit the report and divert the attention of the
public from the real issues of large scale fraud in high places
established in our report.”  Nigeria fixes gasoline prices by subsidizing oil importers
such as state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. and  Total
Nigeria Plc. (TOTAL)  Africa’s largest oil-producing nation doesn’t have
the refining capacity to meet domestic needs.  President Goodluck Jonathan attempted to scrap the subsidy
and was forced to partially reinstate it in January after a week
of strikes and protests, raising the gasoline price to 97 naira
a liter (0.26 gallon) from 65 naira.  Foreign Currency  According to the parliamentary report, more than 10
companies obtained foreign currency under the subsidy program
and didn’t use the funds to import gasoline. The state  Petroleum
Products Pricing Regulatory Agency  gave approval to 35 companies
to import products before they were formally registered with the
agency, the committee said.  NNPC received 310.4 billion naira in subsidies for
kerosene, which is deregulated and shouldn’t attract state
payments, and 285.1 billion naira in excess of the amount
recommended by the PPPRA for 2011, the committee said. The
regulatory agency paid itself 312.3 billion naira in excess of
approved administrative charges in 2009 and 2010, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  