-- NoMad Scores With $78 Chicken, Skip Tasting Menu: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/nomad-scores-with-78-chicken-skip-tasting-menu-review.html
Committing to a meal composed by the
chef is usually the right move. It’s your way of saying, “Show
me your best,” in exchange for a few more dollars and a little
more time.  And you’d think the odds are in your favor at The NoMad.  The two-month-old spot, tucked into the garment-district
 hotel  of the same name, has instantly become one of the city’s
most satisfying brasseries, with affordable butter-dipped
radishes to begin ($8) and probably  New York ’s most expensive
chicken ($78) to finish. The chicken will rock your socks.  All this is what we’ve come to expect from Will Guidara and
Daniel Humm, who have turned Eleven Madison Park into one of the
world’s top restaurants.  The NoMad charges $125 for its tasting menu -- the same
price as the entry-level option as Eleven Madison. Must be the
deal of the century, right?  Wrong, sorry to say. Chef Humm sends out four of his worst
dishes on the seven-course meal.  True to form, the family-style tasting requires at least
two people. So if you’re stuck with the bill, dinner actually
starts around $322 after tax and tip. Add two wine pairings and
you’re at $516.  Good Start  The evening begins with a two-tiered shellfish tray,
including a small mound of sea urchin flanked by apple gelee and
sturgeon caviar. It’s meant to be consumed with a flute of
bubbly, and four of the fine sparklers on the by-the-glass list
are Champagnes ($19-$30). Very fancy.  After radishes with sweetbread croustillants and tete de
cochon canapes, a server hands you brown paper packages filled
with three forgettable meats: Mortadella, Rosette de Lyon and
coppa. You’re instructed to open up the parcels and serve the
greasy cuts to your companion -- a contrivance that might be
cuter if you were selling the stuff from behind a deli counter.  The fourth course is an egg with parmesan foam and crunchy
quinoa. It tastes like boredom and breakfast. The fifth course
is under-seasoned rack of lamb in a communal pot, also boring.  The final course is a duo of disasters: Rhubarb cobbler so
sour you’d think it’s sugar free, and bay leaf ice cream that
tastes like a bad herbal cough drop. The latter is served as a
full pint, violating the rule that degustation dishes be smaller
than portions at competitive eating contests.  Pretty Parlour  The included utensil is an ice cream scoop. You shovel the
goop onto your date’s plate. It’s not pretty.  NoMad’s a la carte menu, by contrast, is fine. The action
takes places in a civilized space, a parlour room of bordello
reds, velvety chairs and tiny tables for two with enough space
between them, yet not enough space on them. Your entrees might
hang over the edge.  Start with little jars of raw beef tenderloin, which Humm
spikes with tomato juice for a sly acid kick. Lovely. If only he
had a similar trick for salmon rillettes, a mayonnaise-y mess
that tastes more like tuna salad than salmon.  Order foie gras ($24). Humm takes a creamy pink torchon and
wraps it around pig’s face pate; just when you think the livery
exterior is too rich, the meaty center jolts your palate with a
shock of sherry vinegar. The sommelier suggests a bone-dry
Bloomer Creek Riesling ($12) to counteract all the fat.  Fine Foie  Eleven Madison Park groupies will remember that foie dish
from years past. The NoMad features some of Humm’s greatest
hits. Suckling pig confit ($34), for example, is back with its
sticky, crackling skin and delicately musky meat. Really, it’s a
pork candy bar.  Not all the choices make sense. Humm brings back his sleepy
beef tenderloin ($36) to star as NoMad’s only steak. He crusts
the cut with bone marrow breadcrumbs, catering to those who like
the texture of sand.  All is forgiven when your “minestrone” arrives. The bowl
is filled with fresh fava beans, firm garganelli and soft
lobster mitts poached in lemon verbena butter ($39).  Omnivorous vegetable lovers will eat well here. Cumin
carrots ($20) arrive with crispy duck skin -- the side dish of
the decade. And black truffles (my favorite vegetable) justify
the $24 cost of an asparagus and crushed potato salad.  Then there’s that chicken. It feeds two, no more. The
breast has a distinctly neutral flavor, all the better to show
off a luxuriant foie gras stuffing. The skin is perfectly crisp
and ashen.  Humm then throws in a little pot of truffled chicken thigh,
as well as some truffled potatoes. It’s outstanding. Pair it
with a light Gilles Gelin gamay ($13).  Finish with a tart lemon curd that’s been dipped in liquid
nitrogen and glazed in shortbread puree. It’s precisely the type
of impossible-to-get-anywhere-else type of dish that might sway
diners to order a longer tasting. Until then, I’ll take it alone
for $13 and skip the $125 family-style mess.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: A la carte $8-78; Tasting at $125.  Sound Level: Reasonable, around 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Yes, especially the cozy library bar.  Inside Tip: Order the heady, cumin-scented carrots ($20)
for the table.  Special Feature: Excellent snow pea and mint salad.  Back on My Own Dime: For the chicken.  The NoMad is at 1170 Broadway. Information: +1-212-796-1500
or  http://www.thenomadhotel.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 