-- Nucor Says Profit to Miss Guidance as Steel Imports ‘Surge’
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-06-13T20:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/nucor-says-profit-to-miss-guidance-as-steel-imports-surge-2-.html
Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the largest U.S.
steelmaker by market value, said second-quarter profit will miss
its previous guidance after a “surge” in imports undermined
prices and political and economic uncertainty affected buyers’
confidence.  Earnings will be 35 cents to 40 cents a share including an
impairment charge related to its Duferdofin Nucor Srl Italian
joint venture, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said
today in a statement. Excluding the charge, Nucor said profit
will be “somewhat below the qualitative guidance” given in
April, when the company said it expected “only a modest
improvement in earnings.”  Hot-rolled coil, a benchmark steel product used in cars,
trucks and appliances, has dropped 8.7 percent this year in the
U.S. amid higher imports and increased output from domestic
producers. Nucor said its performance is being affected by
higher imports of steel rebar, which is used to reinforce
concrete, and also steel plate and sheet. Lower scrap-steel
prices are also hurting the company’s recycling business in the
short term, it said.  “Although the U.S. market continues to show stable to
slightly improving demand for steel, this surge in imports has
undercut seasonal pricing momentum that is normally experienced
early in the calendar year,” Nucor said.  Nucor fell 0.1 percent to $36.06 in  New York .  Steel coil prices have declined to $632.50 a short ton this
year, according to Steel Business Briefing data. Prices may fall
to $570 a ton in the third quarter, Barclays Plc said yesterday
in a note.  U.S. steel  imports  were 10.5 million metric tons in the
first four months of 2012, 77 percent more than in the same
period a year earlier, according to Census Bureau data. U.S.
raw-steel production so far this year is up 7.4 percent,
according to  data  from the  American Iron and Steel Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  