-- To Save Money-Market Mutual Funds, Scrap Them
-- B y   A m a r   B h i d e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a p a g i a n i s
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/to-save-money-market-mutual-funds-scrap-them.html
Long-overdue rules to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 run on money-market mutual funds may not be
passed this year, thanks to a provision just inserted in a
funding bill before Congress by Representative Jo Ann Emerson,
Republican of  Missouri .  This is unfortunate but unsurprising. Because real reforms
jeopardize the very existence of money-market funds, opposition
from the industry has been fierce. There is a way out, however:
Pairing such reforms with a creative alternative to the current
model could make the demise of money funds palatable even to
their sponsors.  We propose extending a government program called
 TreasuryDirect , which allows investors to buy  Treasury
securities  directly from the government in accounts held with
the Treasury Department. Banks and brokerages should embed a
more user-friendly version of TreasuryDirect in their accounts -
- call it a (new) U.S. Money Fund.  To appreciate the merits of this alternative, it’s useful
to review some history.  Checkered Past  Money-market funds were created in the early 1970s when
inflation soared but banks weren’t allowed to pay interest on
checking accounts. Initially, money-market funds bought only
Treasury bills. Later, as funds competed for customers by
promising higher yields, they loaded up on riskier commercial
paper, the unsecured short-term securities that businesses often
issue to meet day-to-day needs.  Money funds had the same look and feel as traditional
checking accounts -- customers could write checks against their
balances -- but offered higher yields because they enjoyed
several cost advantages. They didn’t have to pay for  deposit
insurance  or hold capital in reserve, they weren’t subject to
regular examination by multiple regulators, and they didn’t have
to comply with most consumer-protection rules or demonstrate
their contribution to the local community. Relying on ratings
companies to identify investment-grade assets eliminated the
costs of loan officers and credit committees.  True, the accounts weren’t insured. But they did carry the
regulatory imprimatur of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  As more and more people moved into money markets, banks
lobbied for and eventually secured the right to offer their own
funds. By 1985, balances in money-market funds dwarfed those in
traditional bank accounts. Money-market funds were thought to be
“unrunnable,” because all withdrawals could be met by selling
the assets of the fund.  That illusion was shattered in September 2008. The
pioneering  Reserve Fund  had large holdings of commercial paper
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The failure of Lehman
triggered redemption requests for more than $20 billion, but
less than half that amount could be honored by selling assets
since the markets were frozen.  Redemption requests then surged at all money-market funds,
but they could only sell their safest and shortest-term
securities. The commercial-paper market froze. Fears of an
economic collapse prompted the government to guarantee the
previously uninsured funds.  Today, risky investments by money-market funds remain a
public menace. The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of maintaining
short-term  interest rates  of almost zero has impelled a
desperate search for yield. Until quite recently, dodgy European
bank paper constituted about 45 percent of the assets of the
large money-market funds in the U.S. Although most funds have
since reduced this exposure, the experience of 2008 demonstrates
that they won’t always have such clear warnings or the time to
divest in the future.  Two Reforms  Unfortunately, it’s hard to reduce the risks without
threatening the existence of the entire business. SEC staff have
proposed removing a special exemption for money funds, which now
enables their valuations to appear fixed, so their prices
instead would float with the market value of their assets, as
happens with traditional  mutual funds . But floating prices could
cause customers to flee because each withdrawal would become a
taxable trade. And why keep cash in funds whose value fluctuates
by the day instead of in a bank account insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.?  Another proposal would require funds to set aside capital
to cushion losses. Historically, fund sponsors have chosen to
make investors whole after losses were incurred. But requiring
funds to infuse capital upfront could force sponsors out of the
business, since many are already operating at a loss.  Why are fund sponsors fighting so hard to stay in an
unprofitable business? Industry giants, such as Fidelity and
Vanguard, subsidize their money funds to support their
mainstays: stocks, bonds and mutual funds. These core products
are more conveniently sold when customers can buy them with cash
in an in-house money-market fund.  This helps explain why sponsors should accept -- even
welcome -- reforms that could ruin the traditional market-market
fund business. A broader but simpler version of TreasuryDirect
would protect the true interests of fund sponsors and their
customers, if floating prices and  capital requirements  displaced
the current system.  Today, TreasuryDirect accounts provide a safe but limited
substitute for private brokerage accounts: They can be used to
buy and sell only Treasury notes and bonds.  The new U.S. Money Funds that we propose would complement,
rather than compete with, private accounts. They would be opened
within conventional banking or asset-management accounts and
used in exactly the same way as money-market funds. Nothing
would change in how customers trade stocks and bonds except that
the funds would flow in and out of the U.S. Money Fund. Banks in
good standing with regulators would have the right to borrow the
funds in “their” accounts from the Treasury under a formula that
replicates current reserve and capital requirements.  From the perspective of the bank and its customers, a
TreasuryDirect account would be indistinguishable from any other
checking account.  Increased Lending  The proposal wouldn’t, as some might argue, hurt real
businesses by preventing them from selling commercial paper to
money-market funds. Banks and other financial intermediaries
have long dominated the issuance of commercial paper: The share
issued by industrial companies fell to a fifth of the total 10
years ago and has stayed at roughly the same level ever since.
Giving banks the right to borrow against the proposed U.S. Money
Fund balances could actually increase real commercial lending.  True, money-fund companies would lose whatever profits they
might one day make if the current money-market-fund business
ever becomes profitable again. But against this possibility
stands the certainty that they would never again face panicky
withdrawals in times of stress, never have to make good on
losses if the value of fund assets fell, and never expose
taxpayers to another bailout.  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee is expected to hold a
hearing on reforming money-market funds next week. With memories
of the 2008 debacle still fresh, and interest rates so low, no
one has a compelling interest in the status quo. Why wait for
the next crisis?  (Amar Bhide is a professor at the Fletcher School of Law
and Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and the author of “A Call for
Judgment: Sensible Finance for a Dynamic Economy.” Christopher Papagianis is managing director of Economics21, a nonpartisan
research institute, and a former special assistant for domestic
policy to President  George W. Bush . The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks  and
 Putin’s attack helicopters in Syria ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
Federal Reserve’s next move ;  Michael Kinsley  on  why you’re even
poorer than you thought ; William D. Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s day
in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture For America ; Nicholas Polson
on  recognizing smart money ; Jonathan Reiss on  improving regional
Fed boards .  To contact the writers of this article:
Christopher Papagianis at  papagianis@economics21.org 
Amar Bhide at  amar@bhide.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  