-- Oaktree-Led Lenders Said to Cut Klockner Debt by 80 Percent
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-06-14T16:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/oaktree-led-lenders-said-to-cut-klockner-debt-to-315-million.html
Klockner Pentaplast Group’s senior
creditors led by Oaktree Capital Management LP plan to cut its
debt to about 250 million euros ($315 million) from 1.25 billion
euros if they take control of the plastic packaging producer
through a restructuring, according to three people with
knowledge of the situation.  The senior lenders aim to take ownership of the company
through a debt-for-equity swap after Klockner breached loan
terms at the end of last year, unless the creditors are repaid
at par by June 22, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Klockner Pentaplast,
founded in 1965 in Montabaur,  Germany , was bought by New York-
based  Blackstone (BX)  Group LP in 2007, according to its  website .  Under the restructuring proposal, Klockner’s debt will be
cut initially to about 250 million euros, or two times its
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
said the people. A plan to increase Klockner’s borrowings to
about 470 million euros for a dividend payout after a debt
restructuring was shelved because of market conditions, said the
people.  The senior lenders have been working with Bank of America
Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. for the dividend loans, said the people.  Blackstone plans to retain a stake in the company by buying
back some of the equity Oaktree will hold, said the people.  A London-based Blackstone spokesperson, who declined to be
identified citing company policy, declined to comment. Los
Angeles-based Oaktree declined to comment.  Junior Lenders  The Oaktree-led proposal is not supported by Klockner
Pentaplast’s junior lenders.  Strategic Value Partners LLC, a Greenwich, Connecticut-
based hedge fund, is leading a group of junior lenders seeking
to take over Klockner Pentaplast by repaying the company’s
senior debt at par, said two other people with knowledge of the
situation. They plan to issue a prepayment notice next week
after getting debt and equity financing, the people said.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  agreed to underwrite 650 million euros
of new debt, including a 50 million-euro revolving credit, to
back the junior lenders’ plan, said the people. Jefferies plans
to sell the debt to a wider group of lenders at a later date,
said the people. Strategic Value Partners and two other lenders
have also lined up 190 million euros of equity for the bid, the
people said.  Under the junior lenders’ proposal, Klockner’s debt will
represent about 4.3 times its Ebitda after the debt
restructuring, said the people.  Andrew Dowler , a spokesman in  London  for Strategic Value
Partners, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  