-- Occupy London Eviction Appeal Rejected by Judge, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-06-13T16:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/occupy-london-eviction-appeal-rejected-by-judge-lawyer-says-1-.html
Global equality campaigners may be
removed from the last Occupy  London  campsite as soon as today
after losing a court bid to appeal their eviction.  A U.K. judge refused the protesters permission to appeal a
June 1 order to leave the site on the fringes of the city of
London financial district, Ranjit Bhose, a lawyer for the
borough of Islington where the camp is located, said in an e-
mail. Protesters said they may be removed within hours and
surrounded their tents with a ring of wooden pallets and debris.  “People who found shelter here will lose that,” said a
spokeswoman who identified herself as Rosa Rosa. “Our
circumstances won’t change. These are people who will still be
homeless.”  The Occupy Movement began in  New York  in September, when
protesters took up residence in a park to highlight Americans
who suffered as banks recovered from the 2008 financial crisis.
The movement spread to cities around the world. Occupy London
protesters have cost the City of London and its police about 1.1
million pounds ($1.7 million) in legal and monitoring costs,
according to information obtained in a Freedom of Information
request by Bloomberg News.  A spokesman for the London Metropolitan police said court
appointed bailiffs will carry any eviction with the support of
local police if needed.  Bhose said that the protesters have a right to make an
“oral renewal” of the application to appeal. He said he didn’t
know if one had been made.  The Islington authority served the protesters on May 11
with a legal notice of eviction from the site giving them until
May 18 to clear the square of tents and other temporary
structures. The process was halted during court challenges.  Chris Roe, a spokesman for Islington, declined to
immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  