-- Oil Near Eight-Month Low Before OPEC Meets on Production
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-14T03:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/oil-trades-near-eight-month-low-before-opec-meets-on-production.html
Oil traded near its lowest close in
eight months in New York before OPEC meets to discuss production
quotas amid speculation the group won’t cut output as the global
economy weakens.  Futures were little changed after earlier falling for the
fifth time in six days. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, which meets in Vienna today, will probably maintain
its output ceiling as concern that global growth is shrinking
outweighs calls for supply cuts to stem sliding crude prices,
three of the cartel’s oil ministers said. U.S. retail sales fell
and  Spain ’s debt rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service.  “OPEC is the top news at the moment and that’s going to be
the driver,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney, said in a telephone
interview. “OPEC is opaque at times and one of the issues that
they grapple with, given that they are such a large and global
organization, is compliance with quotas.”  Oil for July delivery was at $82.76 a barrel, up 14 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
1:20 p.m. Sydney time. The contract fell 0.8 percent yesterday
to $82.62, the lowest close since Oct. 6. Prices are down 16
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement, which expires today, gained
26 cents to $97.39 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The more-actively traded August future rose 11
cents to $96.83. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $14.63, from $14.51 yesterday.  OPEC Output  Ministers from Ecuador, Kuwait and  Nigeria  said yesterday
that OPEC is set to keep its 30 million barrel-a-day limit.
Venezuela, Iran, Iraq, Angola, Ecuador and  Libya  have argued
that crude supplies are excessive.  While an increase of as much as 1 million barrels a day
suggested by some Gulf Arab countries would help Europe weather
its slowdown, the 12-member group will probably settle on the
status quo, according to two Middle Eastern delegates who
declined to be identified because a decision hasn’t been made.  The  International Energy Agency  reduced its forecast for
2012 crude consumption to 89.9 million barrels a day, the Paris-
based energy adviser said yesterday. That’s revised down by
100,000 barrels from May and reflects an increase of 820,000
barrels from last year.  U.S. retail sales fell 0.2 percent in May, matching the
revised decrease for April, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday in  Washington . Spain was cut three steps to Baa3 from
A3 by Moody’s, which cited the nation’s increased debt burden,
weakening economy and limited access to  capital markets .  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude-oil supplies dropped  191,000 barrels  last week,
a report from the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were
forecast to slip 1.5 million barrels, according to the median
estimate from 12 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles declined 1.7 million barrels, the
report showed. They were projected to rise  1.4 million barrels ,
according to the survey. Distillate inventories, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 63,000 barrels compared
with a forecast 1.2 million barrel gain.  Companies operated refineries at 92 percent of capacity
last week, up 1 percentage point from the prior week and the
highest level since August 2007, the report showed.  Demand for fuels averaged 18.7 million barrels a day over
the past four weeks, the Department reported. That’s down 1.9
percent from a year ago. The drop is “reflecting the ongoing
weakness in macro data,” according to a report yesterday from
 Michael Wittner , global head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  