-- Oil Drops to Eight-Month Low on U.s. Retail Sales
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-13T19:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/oil-falls-as-declining-u-s-retail-sales-signal-slowing-e.html
Oil tumbled to an eight-month low
after a report showed that U.S.  retail sales  weakened and as
borrowing costs in Germany and  Italy  increased.  Futures fell 0.8 percent as Commerce Department figures
showed that purchases decreased for a second month. The yield on
German and Italian debt climbed in auctions before a Greek
election on June 17. OPEC will probably leave its output target
unchanged at a meeting tomorrow, two Middle East delegates said.  “The retail sales numbers today were disappointment,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based energy hedge fund. “The markets continue to be battered
by the latest headlines from  Europe . We’re seeing crisis creep
ahead of the Greek elections.”  Crude oil for July delivery dropped 70 cents to $82.62 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 6. Prices are down 16 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement slipped 1 cent to end the
session at $97.13 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. July futures expire tomorrow. The more actively
traded August contract fell 25 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $96.72.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  each declined 0.9 percent.  Retail sales slipped 0.2 percent last month, following a
similar decline in April that was previously reported as a gain.
May’s decline matched the  median  forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg  ‘Softening Demand’  “The retail sales numbers point to softening demand,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago .  Last weekend, Spain became the fourth euro member --
following Greece, Ireland and Portugal -- to seek a bailout
since the debt crisis began almost three years ago, after its
borrowing costs approached euro-era highs.  Greeks are voting for a second time in six weeks after a
May 6 ballot failed to yield a government.  Futures rose as much as 0.8 percent in intraday trading
after the Energy Department said  gasoline supplies  fell 1.72
million barrels to 201.8 million last week. Stockpiles were
forecast to gain 1.4 million barrels, according to the median of
12 analyst projections in a Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline output  surged 5.5 percent to 9.55 million barrels
a day, the highest level since August. It was the biggest one-
week gain since December 2010. U.S. exports of the motor fuel,
which climbed 62 percent to a record 479,000 barrels a day last
year, averaged 403,000 barrels over the four weeks ended June 8,
according to the department.  Refineries operated at 92 percent of capacity, the most
since August 2007, the report showed.  Refinery Activity  “Gasoline supplies declined despite the increase in
operating rates, which is a signal that for some reason 92
percent of capacity is still not high enough,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York .
“That something is probably exports. Refiners are producing
more and a lot of that’s being exported.”  Crude stockpiles declined 191,000 barrels to 384.4 million
in the week ended June 8, the Energy Department report showed.
Inventories were forecast to fall 1.5 million barrels. Supplies
rose to 384.7 million barrels in the week ended May 25, the
highest level since July 1990.  “It looks like the market’s reaction to the inventory data
has run its course and attention will quickly pivot to the OPEC
meeting,” Evans said. “The members differ on what to do so
chances are they will announce a rollover.”  OPEC Disagreement  Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait , Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates 
would like to raise the output ceiling by 500,000 barrels a day,
an Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries delegate said
yesterday. Iran, facing a European Union embargo on its oil
exports from July 1, and  Venezuela  have been joined by  Iraq  and
Angola in warning that supply is excessive.  OPEC oil ministers meet tomorrow in Vienna.  “This should be a very contentious meeting,” said Tom Essaye, president of Kinsale Trading in Palm Beach,  Florida .
“The Saudis want to see higher output while the Iranians and
Venezuelans want to see a substantial cut.”  The  International Energy Agency  said OPEC cut crude
production last month, ending a seven-month run of increases, as
 Saudi Arabia  and Iraq reduced supplies.  The 12 members of OPEC pumped 31.86 million barrels a day
of crude last month, compared with 31.89 million in April, the
Paris-based IEA said in its monthly Oil Market Report. That
exceeds the group’s 30 million output ceiling set in December
and is still “flirting with four-year highs,” the agency said.  Abdalla El-Badri, OPEC’s secretary-general, said today in
Vienna that “there is some oversupply in the market” for oil.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 540,271
contracts as of 3:43 p.m. Volume totaled 603,181 contracts
yesterday, 7.6 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  