-- Where Does Haiti Fit in Citigroup’s Corporate History?
-- B y   P e t e r   J a m e s   H u d s o n
-- 2012-06-13T17:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/on-citigroup-s-anniversary-don-t-forget-its-brutal-past.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s online
 timeline  commemorating its 200th anniversary presents a
story of achievement, progress and world-uniting vision,
but it says little about the Republic of Haiti -- and no
wonder.  Citigroup’s history in Haiti is remembered as both
among the most spectacular episodes of U.S. dollar
diplomacy in the Caribbean and as an egregious example of
officials in  Washington  working at the behest of  Wall
Street . It’s also a story marked by military intervention,
violations of national sovereignty and the deaths of
thousands.  In the early 20th century, the National City Bank of
New York, as Citigroup was then called, embarked on an
ambitious and pioneering era of overseas expansion. Haiti
emerged as one of National City’s first international
projects. In 1909, Speyer & Co. invited National City
President Frank A. Vanderlip to join in the purchase of a
moribund American-controlled railway concession in Haiti.  Vanderlip agreed and the purchase turned out to be a
“small but profitable piece of business” for the bank. But
Vanderlip wasn’t interested in the acquisition for its
short-term returns. He thought the stock would give
National City a “foothold” in the country that could lead
to a risk-free and profitable reorganization of the Haitian
government’s finances.  Graft, Malfeasance  The next year, the government canceled the contract of
the Banque Nationale d’Haiti -- giving Vanderlip the
opportunity he sought. Chartered in 1880, the bank was
owned by  France ’s Banque de l’Union Parisienne and was
contracted by the Haitian government to finance the
national debt and handle the fiscal operations of the
state. It was continually dogged by scandal. Haitian
politicians accused its directors of graft and fiscal
malfeasance (at one point its foreign managers were jailed)
and local political aspirants saw the bank’s currency
reserves as a bounty for winning political office.  When a new contract was drawn up, the U.S. State
Department intervened, claiming it placed an unfair burden
on the Haitian people while giving too much leeway to the
French to intervene in Haiti’s internal affairs. They also
argued that the new contract didn’t represent the American
interests that were then gunning for a share of Haiti.  As a result of State Department pressure, a new
institution, the Banque Nationale de la Republique d’Haiti,
was chartered. The Banque de l’Union remained the majority
shareholder, but National City -- alongside a number of
other U.S. banks and a German one -- was offered a minority
interest.  Executive decisions at the Banque Nationale were made
by a committee split between the Banque de l’Union in Paris
and National City in  New York . Chairman of the New York
committee was Roger Leslie Farnham. He had spent a decade
working as a lobbyist for the corporate-law firm Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP before Vanderlip recruited him to National
City in 1911. Farnham lobbied officials in Washington on
behalf of the bank, and eventually took charge of all its
Caribbean operations, including in Haiti.  With the onset of World War I, French interests in
Banque Nationale receded. Farnham assumed a large role in
its direction while National City slowly began buying out
its stock. At the same time, Farnham was becoming a major
influence on State Department policy in Haiti.  American Interests  In 1914, Farnham, who once described the Haitian
people as “nothing but grownup children,” drafted a
memorandum for William Jennings Bryan -- then U.S.
secretary of state -- arguing for military intervention as
a way of protecting American interests in  Haiti . Sending
troops, Farnham insisted, would not only stabilize the
country, but be welcomed by most Haitians.  That summer, Bryan cabled the U.S. consul in Cap-
Haitien, stating that he “earnestly desired the
implementation of Farnham’s plan.”  Meanwhile, Farnham and National City worked to
destabilize the Haitian government. They refused to pay
government salaries over the summer, and in December they
ordered the transfer of $500,000 of the republic’s gold
reserves to National City’s vaults at 55 Wall St. The gold
was packed up by U.S. Marines, marched to Port-au-Prince’s
wharfs and shipped aboard the USS Machias to New York.  The bank argued that they owned the gold contractually
and were bound to protect it from possible theft. The
Haitians saw it as robbery, pure and simple, and indicative
of a growing threat to the republic’s sovereignty.  Threat turned to fact on July 28, 1915. On that day,
U.S. Marines landed in Haiti and initiated a period of
military rule that would last 19 years. The immediate
justifications for intervention included fears of
encroaching German influence and a desire to protect
American life and property -- especially after a spate of
factional violence that included the dismemberment of the
Haitian president in response to a massacre of his
political opponents.  Once the occupation began, it was rationalized as a
necessary measure to teach Haitians the arts of self-
government. Sanitation reforms were enacted, education was
promised and public-works projects were planned. In the
short term, however, the most pronounced labor of the
Marines was counterinsurgency. They waged a “pacification”
campaign through the Haitian countryside to suppress a
peasant uprising against the occupation. It left thousands
dead and countless others tortured, maimed or homeless.  Lucrative Business  For National City, the occupation provided ideal
conditions for business, offering the bank the authority to
reorganize Haitian finances just as Vanderlip had
envisioned in 1909. By 1922, National City had secured
complete control of Banque Nationale and floated a $16
million loan refinancing Haiti’s internal and external
debts. Amortization payments were effectively guaranteed
from Haiti’s customs revenue, and the loan contract was
backed up by the U.S. State Department.  Haiti proved a lucrative piece of business for
National City during the 1920s. Yet by the beginning of the
next decade, it began to reconsider its ownership of Banque
Nationale. Following protests that pressured the State
Department to disentangle itself from Haiti, the Marines
departed in 1934.  National City soon followed. Fearful of losing the
State Department’s protection, and wary of public criticism
of their activities, the bank’s executives sold Banque
Nationale de la Republique d’Haiti to the Haitian
government in 1935 -- reluctantly closing a profitable
chapter of Citigroup’s history.  (Peter James Hudson is an assistant professor of
history at  Vanderbilt University . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Peter James Hudson at
 peter.hudson@vanderbilt.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  