-- Morgan Stanley Said to Name Co-Heads of Debt-Underwriting
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-13T17:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/morgan-stanley-said-to-name-co-heads-of-debt-underwriting-unit.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  named Leo Civitillo
and Claus Skrumsager as global co-heads of fixed-income
underwriting, three months after the U.S. leader of the unit was
arrested, according to a person briefed on the decision.  Civitillo and Skrumsager will report to Raj Dhanda, head of
global capital markets at the New York-based bank, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the appointments
weren’t made public.  William Bryan Jennings, Morgan Stanley’s U.S. bond-
underwriting chief, was arrested in February, accused of
stabbing a New York cab driver over a fare. He pleaded not
guilty March 9. The company said that month that Jennings has
been put on leave.  Morgan Stanley’s fixed-income underwriting business
generated $1.36 billion in revenue last year, 32 percent of the
company’s investment-banking total. Issuance of global corporate
bonds has dropped 3.3 percent this year from the same period in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley is
the eighth-ranked underwriter, down from fifth in 2011 and
seventh in 2010.  Helen Meates, previously the chief operating officer of
global  capital markets , will become deputy head of the business,
the person said. Daniel Palmer, the firm’s global head of
corporate equity derivatives, will add the role of vice chairman
of capital markets, the person said.  Civitillo was previously co-head of fixed-income
underwriting in the Americas with Jennings, and Skrumsager led
the business in  Europe . The debt-capital-markets unit previously
didn’t have global heads.  Skrumsager and Civitillo were also named global co-chiefs
of debt derivatives in October. Skrumsager, based in  London , was
hired by Morgan Stanley from HSBC Holdings Plc in 2007.
Civitillo joined the firm in 2004 from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Jennings was charged with assault and a hate crime, which
each brings a maximum sentence of five years in prison. He was
also charged with not paying the fare, a misdemeanor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  