-- Ortega Is Europe’s Richest Man as Spain Ravaged by Debt
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-06-13T22:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ortega-is-europe-s-richest-man-as-spain-ravaged-by-debt.html
Just as Spain asked Europe for a
bailout topping $125 billion,  Amancio Ortega , the septuagenarian
Spaniard who founded retailer  Inditex SA (ITX) , became the region’s
richest man.  The tycoon’s fortune rose $3.8 billion to $39.5 billion on
June 13, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . That
places the owner of the Zara clothing chain above Sweden’s
 Ingvar Kamprad , who has an estimated net worth of $37.2 billion,
and France’s  Bernard Arnault , who finished the day at $22.7
billion.  Ortega’s wealth has surged even as Spain reels from a
financial crisis that has sent borrowing costs spiraling while
joblessness hovers above 20 percent. By reducing its dependence
on its home turf and adding stores in emerging markets, Inditex
managed a 30 percent gain in first-quarter profit, sending
shares up 12 percent yesterday.  “The truth is it doesn’t matter if he’s Spanish or not,”
said Christodoulos Chaviaras, a retail analyst at Barclays Plc
in London. The company “goes beyond Spanish borders anyway, so
it actually benefits massively from the strength of the Chinese
consumer. They look like they’re immune to any crisis.”  Emerging Markets  Net income at Inditex, the world’s largest clothing
retailer, rose to 432 million euros ($543 million) in the three
months through April, the Arteixo, Spain-based company said
yesterday. The company posted sales of 3.42 billion euros at
stores that include Zara, Pull & Bear and Massimo Dutti. Both
results surpassed average estimates among analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  About 22 percent of Inditex’s sales will come from  Spain 
this year, compared with 45 percent from emerging markets,
according to Anne Critchlow, an analyst at Societe Generale SA
in London. The company still has most of its stores -- more than
4,300 -- in Europe, with almost 900 in Asia and about 400 in the
Americas. Inditex said it plans to start online sales in China
in September.  Spain is the latest euro member to seek a bailout since the
start of the region’s debt crisis more than two years ago, with
a request last weekend to borrow 100 billion euros from European
Union rescue funds to recapitalize its banking system.  Ortega, 76, became the fourth-richest individual on Earth
after adding $4.6 billion to his fortune so far this year. The
only people richer are Mexican telecommunications tycoon Carlos
Slim,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  chairman  Warren Buffett .  Since Inditex’s public offering in 2001, Ortega has earned
2.3 billion euros in dividends. He invested much of that into
commercial property, taking advantage of the decline in real
estate prices that began in 2007.  Kamprad, Arnault  Next among the world’s wealthiest is Kamprad, the 86-year-
old founder of furniture retailer IKEA. He maintains control
over the closely held business through a network of holding
companies and legal entities established more than 30 years ago.
His fortune has risen by $74 million since the end of 2011.  Arnault’s net worth estimate was lowered by $14.6 billion
on May 17 because of the way he owns his stake in  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury
goods . While his 70.4 percent holding in  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  gives
him all the publicly traded company’s voting power in LVMH, his
economic interest is lower than the figure in LVMH’s annual
report. Arnault, 63, is the 14th richest person in the world.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  