-- Osborne Allows Currency, Rate Hedging, Easing Vickers Bank Plan
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/osborne-allows-currency-rate-hedging-easing-vickers-bank-plan.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will allow the retail units of banks operating in the
U.K. to hedge currencies and some simple derivatives on behalf
of small and mid-sized companies, softening the recommendations
of the Independent Commission on Banking.  In the government’s first detailed response to the
recommendations made by former  Bank of England  Chief Economist
 John Vickers , Osborne will say retail banking units protected by
a firewall will be able to hedge currencies and plain interest-
rate derivatives so that business banking doesn’t suffer. More
complex derivatives trades won’t be allowed. Vickers last year
proposed all those functions remain outside the retail
operations of a bank.  Osborne’s plan adopts the overwhelming majority of the
Vickers report, which recommended that banks create separate
boards for retail and investment banking operations with at
least two thirds of their members sitting on only one board.
Banks will also be forced to have separate risk committees.  “We’ve got to stop problems here in the  City of London 
spilling onto our high streets and putting taxpayers’ money at
risk,” Osborne will say in his annual Mansion House speech to
financiers in London tonight, according to remarks released by
his office. The White Paper outlining the government’s plans
will be published in Parliament today and draft legislation will
be in place in the third quarter.  In the same speech, Osborne may also announce measures with 
the Bank of England to improve the flow of credit in the 
economy, the Financial Times reported late yesterday. The 
central bank has softened its opposition to such action, the 
newspaper said, citing four unidentified officials. A spokesman 
from the Treasury and a spokeswoman from the bank declined to 
comment.  ‘High and Flexible’  The Treasury plans to pass all legislation relating to
Vickers recommendations by 2015 and fully implement them by
2019, resisting pressure from the industry to slow down their
adoption. Banks will have to build so called “high and
flexible” firewalls between their consumer and investment
operations and boost the amount of loss-absorbing equity and
debt they hold to between 17 percent and 20 percent. Retail
banks will be prevented from holding equity of the other units.  The proposed legislation will also include plans to
increase competition and put bank customers first among
creditors in the event of a failure, the so-called “depositor
preference” advocated by Vickers.  Smaller Banks  Osborne will exempt smaller banks from the rules so that
only institutions big enough to threaten the viability of the
financial sector have to implement them. Banks such as  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  with operations outside the U.K. that aren’t a risk
to financial system will be excluded from having to hold larger
loss-absorbing buffers.  Osborne’s plans will also adopt international standards on
leverage ratios to prevent U.K. institutions from being put at a
competitive disadvantage.  Vickers proposed that the units inside the firewalls will
handle all checking accounts, mortgages, credit cards and
lending to small and medium-size companies. As much as a third
of U.K. bank assets, or about 2.3 trillion pounds ($3.6
trillion), and 90 percent of deposits will be included,
according to the recommendations. Trading and investment-banking
activities will be outside the firewalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  