-- Tottenham’s Levy Considers Firing Harry Redknapp: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-13T09:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/tottenham-s-levy-considers-firing-harry-redknapp-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Tottenham Trouble  Tottenham Hotspur Chairman  Daniel Levy  is considering
whether to fire manager  Harry Redknapp  after the club missed out
on Champions League qualification, the  Guardian reported .  Levy is unwilling to meet Redknapp’s demand for a new
three-year contract to replace his existing agreement, which has
12 months remaining, the Guardian added. Everton’s  David Moyes 
would be the leading candidate to take over should Redknapp
leave Spurs, the newspaper said.  Redknapp’s Outrage  Redknapp is angry after being forced to deny he had quit
following Internet speculation yesterday that he had resigned
his position, the  Sun reported .  “No, I haven’t resigned and I’ve no idea why it’s being
suggested,” the Sun cited Redknapp as saying. “This is an
outrage, a liberty for people to be putting around this rumor.
It’s not true, there’s not a chance I’ll resign.”  Sigurdsson Swoop  Midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson will follow his former Swansea
City manager  Brendan Rodgers  to Liverpool for about 7 million
pounds ($10.9 million), the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Iceland international, who was close to agreeing on a
permanent move to Swansea from Hoffenheim, offered the Welsh
club the courtesy of meeting its new manager when appointed to
explain his situation, the newspaper added.  Laudrup Looms  Former Denmark playmaker Michael Laudrup will be hired as
Swansea’s manager by the end of this week, the  Sun reported .  Laudrup, whose soccer philosophy follows that laid down by
 Roberto Martinez  and Rodgers at Swansea, hasn’t coached since
quitting Spanish club Mallorca in September, the Sun added.  Scouting Mission  Chelsea scouts watched Malaga striker Jose Salomon Rondon,
who is valued at 20 million pounds, play for  Venezuela  against
Chile last weekend, the  Daily Mail reported .  Although Chelsea sees Rondon, who scored 11 goals in 37 La
Liga games last season, as a replacement for  Didier Drogba , the
Blues rate him closer to 10 million pounds, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  