-- HP-Oracle Itanium Contract Trial Resumes After Talks Fail
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-13T17:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/hp-oracle-itanium-contract-trial-interrupted-for-day.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Oracle Corp.
failed to reach a settlement during a two-day pause in a trial
over claims the database maker broke a contract by discontinuing
software for some Hewlett-Packard servers, a person familiar 
with the matter said.  The trial, which started June 4 in state court in  San Jose ,
California, resumed today after it was put on hold for the last
two days at the request of both companies, Rowena Walker, a
court clerk, said in an e-mail.  Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg, who is overseeing the
trial, last week encouraged the companies to work with another
judge, Brian Walsh, who had presided over a mandatory settlement
conference on May 22 that failed, said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because the talks were confidential.  The latest negotiations failed as well, the person said
today.  In its 2011 complaint, Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest
personal-computer maker, accused Oracle of violating a portion
of former Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd ’s
separation agreement describing a “reaffirmation of the Oracle-
HP partnership.” One month after Hurd’s forced resignation in
2010, he was hired by Oracle CEO Larry Ellison to serve as co-
president of the largest database-software maker.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, California, seeks a
court order requiring Oracle to continue developing software for
its servers running on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chips, and about
$500 million in damages.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, denies Hewlett-
Packard’s claims, arguing that the two sentences at issue in the
agreement don’t require Oracle to forfeit what software it can
develop and what price it can charge.  Howard Clabo, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman, declined to
comment on the trial delay.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle
spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  