-- Pacquiao’s Title Fight Loss to Bradley to Be Reviewed by WBO
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-13T17:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/pacquiao-s-title-fight-loss-to-bradley-to-be-reviewed-by-wbo.html
Manny Pacquiao’s loss to undefeated
Timothy Bradley in a June 9 title fight will be reviewed by the
 World Boxing Organization ’s championship committee after
complaints about the judging.  Pacquiao, an eight-time world boxing champion, suffered his
first defeat in seven years when two of three judges scored the
WBO welterweight bout in favor of Bradley. The decision prompted
jeers from the crowd at the MGM Grand in  Las Vegas  and led Irish
sportsbook Paddy Power to refund bets on anyone who had wagered
on the Filipino fighter.  The WBO’s championship committee will examine video of the
fight with “five recognized international judges” and then
make a ruling on the original decision, WBO President Francisco “Paco” Valcarcel said in a statement.  “I want to clarify that in no way this says that we are
doubting the capacity of these judges, which we consider as
honest and competent judges,” Valcarcel said.  Pacquiao, 33, landed 253 total punches to Bradley’s 159 and
out-landed Bradley with power punches 190-108, according to
CompuBox, a computerized punch scoring system.  Two judges scored the 12-round fight in favor of Bradley
115-113, while the third had Pacquiao winning by the same point
total. Bob Arum, the promoter for both fighters, told reporters
afterward that the two judges who scored in favor of Bradley
should have their eyes examined.  Bradley, 28, improved to 29-0 with 11 knockouts, while
Pacquiao fell to 54-4-3 with 38 wins by knockout. Pacquiao’s
loss led to outrage in his Southeast Asian home country, where
he is a national hero and was elected to Congress in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  