-- Pensions Seek Magic 8% With Neglected Junk Debt
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-13T15:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/pensions-seek-magic-8-with-neglected-junk-debt.html
U.S.  pension-plan  managers are
pouring cash into debt from the smallest speculative-grade
borrowers, seeking to meet targeted 8 percent returns at a time
when average yields are at about record lows.  California ’s San Bernardino County Employees’ Retirement
Association, which oversees $6.1 billion, is poised to recommend
investing in a fund from Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC that
exclusively focuses on lending to smaller companies. The  New
York  State Common Retirement Fund, with about $150.3 billion of
assets, committed money to funds from Brightwood Capital
Advisors LLC and Monroe Capital Partners LP this year.  Fund managers that oversee retirees’ health and pension
benefits are seeking the debt of smaller junk-rated borrowers,
pushed toward riskier investments as the Federal Reserve pledges
to hold  interest rates  near zero through 2014. Borrowers with
$500 million or less in annual revenue are paying
disproportionately higher yields as U.S. banks reduce commercial
and industrial lending by 12 percent from the 2008 peak.  “We like this space,” Donald Pierce, chief investment
officer of the San Bernardino County pension  plan , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “This segment of the
marketplace is having a tough time accessing capital,” he said.  Middle-market loans have average yields of 7.8 percent
compared with 6.6 percent on  large  corporate obligations,
according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary &
Data. S&P LCD defines middle market as issuers with earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $50
million or less.  ‘Getting Traction’  Loans to smaller companies had a 12-month trailing default
rate of 1.25 percent in May, compared with 1.05 percent for
bigger companies, according to S&P LCD.  Pension plans are poised to play a bigger role in financing
the smallest companies after banks reduced commercial and
industrial  loans and leases  to $1.4 trillion as of May 30, from
$1.6 trillion on Oct. 22, 2008, according to Fed data.  “The strategy is definitely getting traction,” said Frank
Barbarino, a consultant with NEPC LLC, an  investment adviser .
“It’s that magic 7 to 8 percent number that institutions are
shooting for at the plan level. Many are willing to lock up
their capital for a few years in order to add strategies that
help them get there.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing by 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 124.3 basis points
as of 11:24 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bondholder Protection  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, declined 0.03 basis point to 30.18 basis
points as of 11:24 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Embraer Bonds  Bonds of  Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
60 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:26 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The world’s fourth-
biggest planemaker sold $500 million of 5.15 percent, 10-year
bonds yesterday.  San Bernardino’s pension plan, attracted by bigger yields
and more favorable covenants, is setting its sights on the
smallest borrowers as it faces an actuarial rate of 7.75
percent, Pierce said. Pensions for public employees typically
trail the 8 percent average yearly gains that officials set as
their benchmark to cover rising costs.  The New York State Common Retirement Fund allotted money
for the first time this year to funds from Chicago-based Monroe
and New York-based Brightwood Capital, which is led by Damien Dwin and Sengal Selassie. Both firms focus on investing in
smaller companies.  ‘Actuarial Needs’  Pennsylvania’s Public School Employees’ Retirement Board,
which oversaw $50.8 billion as of March 31, 2011, agreed in
March to invest as much as $200 million in Cerberus
Institutional Partners V LP.  The fund will buy “distressed assets on a global basis”
and invest in “private-equity turnarounds focused on the middle
market,” according to a Feb. 16 letter to the pension plan’s
trustees from Portfolio Advisors LLC, recommending the
investment.  “All these pension funds have a huge issue right now: they
need to hit a 7 to 8 percent annual return in order to hit their
actuarial needs,” said Theodore Koenig, Monroe Capital’s chief
executive officer. “The market isn’t giving them that.”  Demand for the debt comes as smaller companies seek a place
to borrow. Issuance of loans to the smallest companies has
declined to $3.77 billion for the first five months of the year,
compared with $7.59 billion during the comparable period in
2011, the S&P LCD data show. In the first five months of 2007,
the borrowers sold $15.3 billion of loans.  “In the large-cap market, the maturity wall has been
pushed out with the ability to issue high-yield debt in 2011 and
2012,” Monroe Capital’s Koenig said. “In the middle market,
that has not been the case.”  ‘Pulled Away’  About $130 billion of loans that are less than $100 million
each are coming due in the next five years, according to Newstar
Financial Inc.  “The banks have pulled away in fairly significant ways
over the past several years although they’re returning to the
market in some capacity,” Barbarino said. “Middle-market loan
volumes are down, and banks are focused on larger companies.”  Corporate bonds and loans set to mature through 2014
tumbled 66 percent to $413 billion as of last September from
$1.2 trillion at the end of 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. research.  U.S. leveraged loan issuance has totaled $257.7 billion
this year and $603.6 billion in 2011, Bloomberg data show. U.S.
junk bond sales have totaled $138.5 billion this year.  Issuance of collateralized loan obligations may reach $30
billion this year, JPMorgan said in April. That’s down from
$91.1 billion at the peak of the market in 2007, according to
Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley data. CLOs buy high-yield, high-
risk loans, including those from smaller companies and slices
them into securities of varying risk and return.  ‘Thinned Dramatically’  “We have seen a couple of new entrants in the market, but
as you know, the middle-market lender universe has been thinned
dramatically over the past few years,” said Timothy Conway,
Newstar’s chief executive officer, in a May 2 earnings call.  Pension plans are facing “lackluster” returns in 2011
that weren’t sufficient to offset rising liabilities, causing
funding gaps that are poised to widen, according to a Feb. 14
 Fitch Ratings  report.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. pension, has seen its market value decline 4.8
percent this year after stocks fell amid the brewing fiscal
crisis in  Europe  and slowing of the U.S. economic recovery.  Investment-grade bonds yield 3.49 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, while U.S. Treasury
10-year  notes  are at 1.66 percent. Including reinvested
dividends, the  S&P 500 (SPX)  has returned 6.3 percent this year after
gaining 2.1 percent in 2011.  “Pension plans are really looking to expand the list of
approved investments,” said Mark Oline, Fitch Ratings’ global
head of corporate ratings in  Chicago . “Secured loans were not
very common in the asset list but are gaining favor in
portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  