-- Pop Warner Tackles Concussions by Limiting Practice Contact
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-13T18:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/pop-warner-tackles-concussions-by-limiting-contact-in-practice.html
The Pop Warner youth football
organization is  limiting contact  in practices to try to reduce
the risk of concussions.  Pop Warner , which provides youth football along with cheer
and dance programs in 42 U.S. states, has implemented safety
changes that include limiting contact to no more than one-third
of practice time. It’s also eliminated drills in which players
hit each other head-on or at full speed beyond three yards.  “The two areas of highest concern are the quantity or
volume of hits to the head and full-speed head-to-head
contact,” Pop Warner Executive Director Jon Butler said in a
telephone interview. “Our two new rules directly address both
of those points.”  The organization said about 285,000 children participate in
its football programs for ages 5 to 14 years.  “This upcoming season is the 83rd season for Pop Warner
football and the No. 1 goal has always been to reduce any risk
and keep the kids as safe as we can keep them,” Butler said.  Pop Warner said it’s the first youth organization to limit
contact in practice. The changes at the grass-roots level come
as the  National Football League , the most popular U.S. sports
league, seeks to improve player safety while facing more than 80
lawsuits filed by more than 2,000 former players seeking damages
for head injuries sustained on the field.  NFL Lawsuit  A master complaint filed against the NFL this month accuses
the league of negligence and failing to inform players of the
association between repeated traumatic head impact and long-term
brain injuries, including early onset Alzheimer’s, dementia and
chronic traumatic encephalopathy.  The NFL adopted a rule last year for team doctors and
trainers to assess players who have sustained concussions during
games. The league began issuing guidelines on concussions in
2007. Pop Warner has had a concussion rule in place since 2010
that says any player that suffers a head or neck injury has to
be held out until cleared in writing by a medical professional
trained in concussion recognition.  The father of New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , a
two-time NFL Most Valuable Player and three-time Super Bowl
winner, is among the parents to express concern about children
playing football as more links to long-term effects of head
injuries are discovered.  Tom Brady Sr., who didn’t let his son play the sport until
high school, told  Yahoo Sports  last month that if he had to make
the same decision today, he’d be “ very hesitant ” about playing
football at all.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  