-- Portugal Beats Denmark 3-2 in Group B at European Championship
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-13T18:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/portugal-beats-denmark-3-2-in-group-b-at-european-championship.html
Substitute Silvestre Varela scored
an 87th-minute goal as  Portugal  beat Denmark 3-2 to boost its
chances of reaching the knockout stage at soccer’s European
Championship for a fifth straight time.  Pepe and Helder Postiga also scored in the Group B game
in Lviv, Ukraine, today for 2004 runnerup Portugal, which had
only one goal in its past four matches. Nicklas Bendtner got
both of Denmark’s goals.  Portugal, seeking to win the tournament for a first time,
joins Denmark and record three-time champion  Germany  with three
points, with the  Netherlands  yet to score a point. Germany faces
the Netherlands later today in Kharkiv in their second group
game.  Denmark and Portugal both named unchanged teams, although
the Danes were forced to substitute in midfield 16 minutes into
the match with Jakob Poulsen replacing the injured Niki Zimling.  Pepe blocked an early shot from Christian Eriksen as 1992
champion Denmark, which finished above Portugal in qualifying
for the 2010  World Cup  and this tournament, made a positive
start.  Portugal started to settle, with Lars Jacobsen forced to
clear a Nani cross and goalkeeper Stephan Andersen punching the
resulting corner clear.  Cristiano Ronaldo  dragged a shot wide on 20 minutes, then
hit a freekick high over the bar soon later. Portugal did score
from a set piece in the 24th minute as Joao Moutinho swung in a
corner which was met at the near post by the head of Pepe.  A Ronaldo freekick hit the defensive wall and was then
deflected over as Portugal continue to apply pressure, before
Postiga doubled his team’s advantage after 36 minutes. The
striker hit a first-time shot from Nani’s cross for his 20th
international goal.  Rare Attack  Denmark  replied before halftime from a rare attack with
Michael Krohn-Dehli collecting a long pass from Jacobsen and
heading across goal for the unmarked Bendtner to head in from
close range.  Ronaldo twice failed to score with only the goalkeeper to
beat before Denmark levelled. The Real Madrid forward hit a shot
straight at Andersen early in the second half, then after 78
minutes he broke through on goal but slipped the ball wide.  Bendtner appeared to have earned his team a point with 10
minutes remaining when he headed into the net off a post from a
cross by Jacobsen. It was his 20th Denmark goal, including six
against Portugal.  There was another opportunity from Ronaldo from a freekick
which Andersen held before Varela snatched the winner moments
after replacing  Raul Meireles . He spun around before firing a
right foot shot into the net.  Danish substitute Lasse Schone could have tied the score in
injury time but put his affort over the bar from 15 yards out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 