-- Procter & Gamble May Need to Break Up, Bernstein Says
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-13T20:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/procter-gamble-may-need-to-break-up-bernstein-says.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company, should consider breaking
itself up if it doesn’t improve earnings this year, an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said today.  Procter & Gamble, based in Cincinnati, would have a market
value of as much as $208 billion in a breakup based on 2013
earnings estimates, according to analyst  Ali Dibadj ’s sum-of-
parts analysis. The company has a current market value of about
$171 billion. A split would improve focus within the separate
units, wrote Dibadj, a New York-based analyst at  Sanford
Bernstein .  Procter & Gamble, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald , said in May it would pull back on spending in  emerging
markets  to focus on larger regions, where it has lost market
share. The company will gain $10 billion in cost cuts and
savings through 2016, Procter & Gamble said in February.  While Procter & Gamble now has “an appropriate strategy,”
the company “hasn’t been successful,” Dibadj said in a
telephone interview.  The lack of success may be related to the fact that the
cost cuts were just announced, or to Procter & Gamble’s
 management  or the macro environment, Dibadj said. “It could
also be related to the fact that this company is just too
complex,” he said.  “We believe the size and scale of our business offers
competitive advantages and unique opportunities to win now and
into the future,” Paul Fox, a spokesman for Procter & Gamble,
said via e-mail.  ‘Lost Share’  The maker of Tide washing detergent, Ivory soap and Bounty
paper towels may gain more by accelerating sales within
operating units and achieve greater focus in a split than it
would lose in efficiencies, Dibadj said in the note. In the
short term, Procter & Gamble’s strategy to enter emerging
markets, reduce prices and free up cash for investments may help
“right the ship,” Dibadj wrote.  McDonald, who took over almost three years ago, had
previously laid out a growth plan of adding product categories
and markets to help the company expand to 5 billion customers by
2015.  Investors may lose patience with McDonald if Procter &
Gamble doesn’t show improvement next year, Dibadj said in the
interview.  “The company has lost share, missed commitments to the
street, missed commitments internally, and is in a much worse
place than I think any of us would have anticipated,” Dibadj
said. “Can you hoist that blame just on one person? No, but
there’s always one person who’s ultimately responsible.”  The company’s current fiscal year ends June 30.  Procter & Gamble fell 0.3 percent to $62.57 at the close in
 New York . The shares have declined 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  