-- Rajoy Battles ECB for Loans; Monti Appeals for EU Action
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-14T10:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rajoy-battles-ecb-for-loans-monti-appeals-for-eu-action.html
Spain  attacked Germany for what it
termed fostering the financial crisis, saying the biggest
European economy has benefited from the single currency as its
banks profiteered by lending to the fast-growing South.  “It’s true that some countries including Spain lived
beyond our means but that’s because banks from the core decided
to make lots of money investing here,” Spanish Foreign Minister
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo told Onda Cero radio radio. If
Germany “throws one country to the wolves that will affect
everyone, so they should take a more long-term view.”  Rifts are deepening with Greek elections on June 17 risking
the first exit from the single currency as voters buckle under
the continent’s most severe austerity program. Italy’s bond
yields soared at an auction today and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected “seemingly easy” solutions to the financial
turmoil, pushing back against calls by France, Spain and Italy.  Garcia-Margallo said Germany’s export-led economic boom was
powered by the monetary union that depresses their currency. He
commented a day after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would
“battle” the  European Central Bank  for cheap loans to avoid a
sovereign bailout.  Rajoy yesterday called for the ECB to buy Spanish
government debt investors are dumping to ease the government’s
interest costs in a letter to European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso .  Rajoy’s Battle  “That is the battle we have to wage in Europe,” Rajoy
told Parliament in Madrid. “I am waging it.”  “What we’re seeing now says much about the deepening
cracks in Europe’s political financial and economic edifice,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said in a telephone interview.  The EU and the ECB have already lent or pledged the
equivalent of about 40 percent of Spain’s annual economic output
to the state and country’s financial institutions. Spanish
lenders took a record 287.8 billion euros from the central bank
in May, which many channeled into government debt to support the
sovereign.  The government agreed June 9 to borrow another 100 billion
euros from the EU to recapitalize the banks. The ECB likely
bought as much as 40 billion euros of Spanish securities in its
government-bond buying program, according to Marco Valli, chief
Euro zone economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan.  Surging Yields  The yield on Spain’s 10-year debt rose to a euro-era record
of 6.998 percent today while Italy’s benchmark bond yields
increased to 6.29 percent. The Spanish rate, which has jumped 78
basis points since the bailout request, rose for a fifth day
after Moody’s Investors Service cut Spain’s credit rating to one
step above junk late yesterday and said a further downgrade may
follow.  French President  Francois Hollande , who is pushing back
against the austerity measures advocated by Germany, will meet
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in  Rome  today. Monti called
for a “credible package of growth measures” yesterday as he
said Europe faces a “particularly intense and crucial phase.”  The increasingly fractious tone of relations is adding to
doubts that European leaders will be able to plot a route out of
the crisis when they meet in Brussels on June 28. The bank
rescue will probably fail to avert a full sovereign bailout out
for Spain, and Monti may have to follow Rajoy in seeking aid
within months,  James Nixon , chief European economist at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in London said.  Greek Vote  Any measures may come too late for Greeks who will vote
June 17 on whether to back Alexis Tsipras, who wants to scrap
the austerity plan dictated by the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund  as a condition of its bailout. New Democracy
leader Antonis Samaras, who supports the bailout conditions,
said backing Tsipras will see Greece thrown out of the euro.  “We have no sense that European partners will follow this
tactic of blackmail heard from some quarters and stop funding,”
Tsipras, whose Syriza party is vying for first place in pre-
election polls, said in an interview in Athens yesterday with
Bloomberg Television. “Something like that would be
catastrophic not only for Greece but for the entire euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  