-- Rajoy Battles ECB for Loans; Monti Appeals for EU Action
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-13T12:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rajoy-declares-war-on-central-bankers-to-counter-crunch.html
Spain and Italy appealed to European
policy makers to step up their response to the financial crisis
after a 100 billion-euro ($125 billion) lifeline for Spanish
banks failed to calm markets.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today he’ll
“battle” central bankers refusing to buy debt from peripheral
nations. Rajoy published a letter to European Union leaders
calling for the  European Central Bank  to buy debt from the
countries struggling to shore up their finances.  “That is the battle we have to wage in  Europe ,” Rajoy
told the Spanish parliament in  Madrid  today. “I am waging it.”
His Italian counterpart,  Mario Monti , told lawmakers in Rome
Europe faces a “crucial” moment.  The leaders of southern Europe’s biggest economies went on
the offensive as bond yields jumped following the announcement
of a bailout for Spanish banks that was intended to quell
concern over the countries’ finances. The decline wiped out the
effects of 1 trillion euros in ECB loans for euro-region banks
that had held yields in check since December.  Spain’s 10-year yields declined 2 basis points today to
6.69 percent following a surge after the bailout. Italian bonds
also strengthened after slumping the previous two days.  ‘Next Domino’  “The crisis will inevitably roll on to the next domino,
and that’s Italy,”  James Nixon , chief European economist at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in London, said in a telephone interview.
“The southern European economies are effectively in free-fall
and market appetite for southern European debt is rapidly drying
up. I can’t see anything to turn that dynamic around.”  Monti told lawmakers in the national parliament that the EU
hasn’t time to wait for austerity plans to stabilize borrowing
costs and officials must act to support economic growth as the
Italian economy slides deeper into recession.  The Italian economy shrank by 0.8 percent in the first
quarter compared with 0.7 percent in the previous three months
and a 0.3 percent contraction in Spain in the first quarter.
 Italy ’s borrowing costs surged at a sale of 6.5 billion euros of
one-year Treasury bills yielding 3.972 percent. One-year paper
paid 2.34 percent at the previous sale on May 11.  “Above all, Europe needs more growth,” said Monti, who
will travel to Berlin today. The single currency area is “in a
particularly intense and particularly crucial” situation.  Spiraling borrowing costs and shrinking output are opening
divisions among EU leaders who face a series of hurdles in the
coming days as bond investors question their ability to hold the
euro area together. Italy is due to sell another 3 billion euros
of bonds tomorrow while international consultants are due to
report on the extent of Spanish banking losses by June 21.  Spain Deficits  The European Commission forecasts that  Spain  will post
deficits of 6.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and
6.3 percent in 2013 even after unveiling 45 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax increases. Rajoy’s aim is a deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP this year.  Greeks will vote June 17 on whether to back Alexis Tsipras,
who wants to scrap the austerity plan dictated by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  as a condition of its bailout. New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, who supports the bailout
conditions, said backing Tsipras will see  Greece  effectively
thrown out of the euro.  “The indirect impact of a Greek redenomination on banks
throughout the eurozone could be severe, most notably in program
countries as well as Spain and Italy,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a
report today. “A robust response from policymakers would be
required.”  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret this week said the
ECB won’t buy more  government bonds  to ease the market tensions
while Swedish central bank governor Stefan Ingves today said
it’s hard to see what else the ECB could do for Spanish lenders.  “We have done our part,” Dombret said in a June 11
interview in  London . “Now it’s up to the political leaders to
deliver on the fiscal and structural policy side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  