-- RBA Says ‘Pretty High’ Aussie Tests Firms’ Adaptibity
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-13T02:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rba-says-pretty-high-aussie-tests-firms-adaptibity.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the strength of the nation’s currency
benefits consumers and probably will be sustained as  mining 
investment intensifies, forcing businesses to change to survive.  “It’s a test of adaptability,” Stevens told business,
union and community leaders today in the northern city of
 Brisbane . “While I’m very conscious that a number of sectors
are really struggling with the  exchange rate  where it is, we
shouldn’t wish too quickly for a low exchange rate.”  Every time Australians put gasoline in their cars, buy
 consumer goods  or travel overseas, they’re enjoying lower prices
generated by the strong exchange rate, Stevens told the forum
convened by the government to discuss the local dollar’s impact
on the economy. “There are big benefits to us as consumers from
a high currency and that is part of the mechanism for spreading
the gains of the resource boom,” he said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government is struggling to
reconcile one of the developed world’s fastest-growing economies
with public pessimism about their own prospects. A private
report today showed  consumer confidence  stagnated near the
lowest level this year even after the RBA lowered borrowing
costs by 75 basis points at the past two meetings to 3.5
percent.  ‘Grumpiness,’ Dissatisfaction  There is “grumpiness, dissatisfaction” among households
and a lower growth rate of  consumer spending , Stevens said. He
said the economy is always a “patchwork quilt” that’s boosting
the prospects of some and hurting others.  The Australian dollar has soared about 75 percent in the
past decade, reflecting surging demand from developing nations
in Asia such as  China  for the nation’s iron ore and coal. It
bought 99.43 U.S. cents as of 11:39 a.m. in Sydney, little
changed from yesterday, when the currency climbed by 1 percent.  “We think that a $1 is high, but actually I can remember
it being $1.40 in my teen age,” 54-year-old Stevens said of the
value of the local currency against the U.S dollar. “If you go
way back, in the days when we were pegged to sterling, we were
way higher than $1, and there’s been a long downward trend at
least until about 2000.”  On the basis of the inflation-adjusted, or “real exchange
rate,” which Stevens said provides a better gauge of
 Australia ’s competitive position, the currency is “actually
pretty high here,” he said.  Currency’s Effects  Australia’s economy is being driven by the biggest resource
bonanza since the 1850s as China and India increase demand for
minerals and energy. In contrast, tourism, manufacturing and
retail have weakened under the high currency.  “Unless you’re very pessimistic about China and so on,
it’s likely we have a relative price story that is persistently
pretty different to what we’ve seen for the past 100 years,”
Stevens said today. “If that’s true, then a lot of other
changes follow.”  Confidence in Australia remains subdued even after the
central bank lowered rates, the government announced cash
handouts in May, the economy expanded twice as fast as forecast
last quarter, and employment growth accelerated.  A  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey
taken June 4-10 of 1,200 consumers released today in Sydney
showed the sentiment index for June rose just 0.3 percent.  ‘Disappointing’ Sentiment  “This is another disappointing result,”  Bill Evans ,
Westpac’s chief economist, said in a statement. “Clearly other
factors are dominating rates in the minds of consumers -- those
factors are concerns about the domestic economy and
international conditions.”  The RBA cut  interest rates  in the past two meetings to
shore up growth as weakness in Europe and China threaten the
global outlook. Stevens said in a speech last week that he felt
the need to do some “cheerleading” for the economy in response
to negative commentary about the country’s prospects.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that the outlook for
Australia’s Aaa rating remains stable.  “Economic strength is classified in Moody’s rating
methodology as very high, based on the country’s economic
diversity, the performance of the economy during the past two
decades, relatively good growth prospects and high per capita
income,” Moody’s said.  The Australian economy’s relative strength compared with
 Europe  and the U.S. hasn’t translated into more popularity for
Gillard, the country’s first female leader who faces an election
by the end of 2013.  A Newspoll released this week showed her ruling  Labor
party ’s favorability dropped 1 percentage point to 31 percent
and the Liberal-National opposition fell 2 points to 44 percent.  The survey of 1,146 people was taken June 7-10 and had a
margin of error of 3 percentage points. The Greens gained 2
percentage points to 14 percent, the poll published in the
Australian newspaper yesterday showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  