-- New Zealand Signals Rates May Stay at Record Low
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-14T04:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rbnz-keeps-cash-rate-at-2-5-signals-no-change-until-2013.html
New Zealand ’s central bank signaled
it may keep  interest rates  at a record low for another year,
extending a 15-month pause as weaker domestic growth eases
inflation and Europe’s fiscal crisis clouds the outlook.  “Our forecast for 90-day interest rates is consistent with
not having to push the OCR up for some time,”  Reserve Bank  of
New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said at a news conference in
Wellington today after earlier keeping the official cash rate at
2.5 percent. The central bank cut its forecasts for economic
growth in the next three years, citing falling commodity prices
and spending restraint.  The RBNZ’s next step may depend on what happens in  Europe ,
where a Greek election June 17 will influence whether it exits
the euro, causing greater financial-market turmoil. The  New
Zealand dollar  rose after today’s language lacked any specific
signal Bollard will cut borrowing costs, even as interest-rate
swaps reflect a 64 percent chance of a cut by September.  “If you were to see a real euro-zone meltdown, that’s
going to be reflected through in our forecasts,” Bollard told
reporters. “Absolutely that would be a core issue we would be
thinking about in terms of monetary policy.”  New Zealand’s dollar bought 77.79 U.S. cents at 4:31 p.m.
in Wellington compared with 77.30 cents immediately before the
statement. There was a 20 percent chance of a rate cut late
yesterday, according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today’s decision was forecast by all 16 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Bollard’s Exit  Bollard, 61, has announced he won’t seek to extend his term
as governor beyond late September, and said today the Sept. 13
policy decision will be his last.  The central bank forecasts the three-month bank bill yield
will be 2.7 percent in the first quarter next year, down from
3.1 percent in its March projections, according to the monetary
policy statement also published today. The forecasts are seen as
a guide to the direction of the cash rate.  The yield will rise to 3.1 percent by the fourth quarter of
2013, and 3.3 percent a year later, the RBNZ said.  Fourteen of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
no change in the cash rate until 2013. Two predicted a quarter-
point rate rise in December.  “We see little reason to disagree with an outlook that has
the RBNZ on hold until some time in 2013, unless the worst case
does occur in Europe in which case the RBNZ will be easing
policy,” said  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland.  Quake Damage  Bollard has left the  cash rate  unchanged since March last
year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years in Christchurch, its second-
largest city, and the surrounding Canterbury province, which
killed 185 people and closed the central city.  Unlike counterparts in Australia and  China , Bollard hasn’t
cut borrowing costs because quake rebuilding is expected to
boost growth and stoke inflation in coming years. Still, the
recovery has been slow amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis
would spill over into weak global demand for exports, which make
up 30 percent of New Zealand’s economy.  The central bank sees a 60 percent chance of a “muddle-
through” scenario in Europe, which comprises small crises and
no definite exit from the euro, Bollard told a parliamentary
committee today. The RBNZ sees a 30 percent chance of a Greek
exit and a 10 percent chance of contagion into more important
peripheral countries such as Spain and  Italy , he said.  Worst-Case Scenario  Elaborating on the contagion scenario, Bollard said
“obviously the official cash rate can be cut.”  “We’re in the reasonably comfortable position where we can
do that but we’re not planning to do that at the minute,” he
said.  Australia ’s central bank on June 5 cut its overnight cash
rate target to 3.5 percent, the lowest since 2009, on concern
about Europe’s fiscal problems and slowing Chinese growth. China
also last week reduced borrowing costs for the first time since
2008.  New Zealand’s economy is growing at a slower pace than
previously projected, reflecting falling commodity prices and
modest household consumption, Bollard said. The fall in export
incomes will weigh on economic activity even as the currency
falls, he said. The local dollar has slumped 5.4 percent this
quarter after a 5.3 percent gain in the first quarter.  Currency’s Strength  The currency is still “quite highly valued given New
Zealand’s competitiveness, but it’s certainly a bit more of a
comfortable position than it was in March,” he told the
committee. There isn’t much the central bank can do to lower the
 exchange rate  when it is mainly being influenced by
“distortions” in the international environment, he said.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, last month said it will pay its New Zealand farmers
less for their milk as global prices moderate.  The economy will probably grow 2 percent in the year ending
March 31, 2013, down from 3.1 percent predicted in the March
policy statement, the RBNZ said.  Growth will improve to 3 percent in the 12 months through
March 2014, slower than the 3.7 percent pace projected in March,
it said. The main impetus to the expansion is coming from
residential investment and the Christchurch rebuilding, the
central bank said. Growth is forecast to slow to 1.6 percent in
the year through March 2015.  Inflation in the year through June will slow to 1.1 percent
and accelerate thereafter, the RBNZ forecast. It will reach the
midpoint of the 1 percent to 3 percent range that Bollard is
required to target by mid-2013, a year earlier than previously
projected, after the government announced new tobacco taxes.  “Current spare capacity in the economy will be absorbed as
domestic activity increases, leading to some inflationary
pressures,” the RBNZ said. “The removal of some monetary
stimulus will offset this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  