-- Real Erases Gain as Concern Global Economy Slowing Saps Demand
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-13T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/real-rises-on-report-brazil-may-stem-iof-tax-on-overseas-loans.html
Brazil ’s real fell as concern the
global economy is slowing overshadowed a newspaper report that
the Latin American nation’s government may remove a financial
tax on overseas loans.  Interest-rate futures yields declined for a sixth day as
President  Dilma Rousseff  said there is no technical reason for
Brazil to continue having high  interest rates . The real
fluctuated earlier after U.S. retail sales fell for a second
month and borrowing costs rose at auctions in Germany and  Italy .  “The environment abroad continues to be bad,” Italo
Abucater, the head of  currency trading  at Icap do Brasil DTVM,
said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s currency weakened 0.2 percent to 2.0727 per  U.S.
dollar  today in  Sao Paulo  after earlier gaining as much as 0.8
percent. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2014 fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8 percent. It earlier touched a record low
7.99 percent.  Brazil had net inflows of $843 million this month through
June 8, following a $2.69 billion outflow in May, according to
central bank data released today.  The real rose earlier as O Globo newspaper, citing an
interview with Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , reported that the
government may eliminate the financial transactions tax, known
as IOF, on overseas loans maturing in less than five years if
the international crisis worsens.  Exchange Rate View  The  exchange rate  is favorable now, and the government
wants it to stay at the current level, Mantega told the Rio de
Janeiro-based newspaper. A Finance Ministry official, who asked
not to be identified in accord with internal policy, confirmed
Mantega’s comment.  Brazil extended in March a 6 percent tax on foreign loans
and bonds issued abroad by local companies to include lending
with a duration of as long as five years.  The tax was one of a series of measures taken to weaken the
real and protect exporters from what Rousseff dubbed “a
monetary tsunami” unleashed by rich nations seeking to devalue
their currencies.  Mantega’s comment “indicates that the government currently
does not want the real to depreciate significantly more,” Bernd Berg, an emerging-market strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG’s
private banking unit in Zurich, said in a telephone interview.  The real rallied 24 percent from the end of 2008 through
2011, making it the best performer among emerging-market peers
in the period. It has dropped 9.9 percent this year.  U.S. Retail Sales  The U.S. Commerce Department reported that retail sales
fell 0.2 percent in May following an identical decline in April
that was previously reported as a gain.  Brazil’s policy makers lowered the target lending rate by a
half-percentage point to a record low 8.50 percent last month
and signaled they will reduce the benchmark Selic further as a
fragile global economy damps inflation.  “I do not have and will not have the intention of reducing
rates by decree,” Rousseff said at an event in  Rio de Janeiro .
“But I am going to continue saying that there is no technical
reason to keep rates high in the country for so long as time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  