-- Regeneron Falls After Rival Eye Drug Combo Works in Trial
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-06-13T21:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/regeneron-sinks-after-rival-eye-drug-combo-works-in-trial-1-.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ,
maker of a drug for a leading cause of blindness, sank the most
in a year after another therapy was shown to improve vision when
used with a rival medicine from  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   Regeneron declined 12 percent to $111.88 at the close in
New York, the biggest decline since April 2011. Ophthotech
Corp., a closely held biotechnology company, today released data
showing that its drug Fovista taken with Roche’s Lucentis
improved vision more than Lucentis alone. Regeneron’s Eylea
works in a similar way to Lucentis.  The data may push Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , and
Regeneron into a bidding war for Princeton, New Jersey-based
Ophthotech as they seek dominance in the disease, two analysts
said.  The trial “throws the current competitive landscape for
wet AMD into some turmoil,” Steve Yoo, an analyst with Leerink
Swann in  New York , said in a note to clients. “Ophthotech has a
valuable asset that, in our view, can play the role of the king-
maker in the wet AMD market.”  The 24-week trial of 449 patients showed that Fovista plus
Lucentis increased vision 62 percent more than Lucentis alone in
patients with wet  age-related macular degeneration , or AMD, a
leading cause of vision loss in the elderly.  Ophthotech Comment  Samir Patel, Ophthotech’s chief executive officer, declined
to say whether he’d been in talks with larger companies about an
acquisition.  “We’re going to look at all those possibilities and
formulate a plan that will bring the drug in the most efficient
way to the marketplace,” Patel said in a telephone interview.  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, also
said he sees Ophthotech as a takeover candidate.  “Roche or Novartis would have much to gain by buying
Ophthotech, co-formulating Lucentis and Fovista and recapturing
share from Avastin and Eylea,” Nadeau said in a note to
clients. “We would assume Regeneron also understands the value
of combining Fovista and Eylea.”  Lucentis generated 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion)
in  sales  last year for Roche. Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron, whose stock has more than doubled since Eylea was
approved in November,  expects  its medicine to draw as much as
$550 million in 2012 revenue.  “The data suggest that the treatment of wet AMD is likely
to continue to evolve, and this is a negative for Regeneron as
the company’s current valuation assumes consistently high sales
of Eylea for a number of years,” Nadeau said.  Peter Dworkin, a spokesman for Regeneron, declined to
comment on the study and the analysts’ notes.  “The early trial outcome is interesting but we can’t
comment further at this time, as we’ve not seen the full
results,” Terence Hurley, a spokesman for Roche, said in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  