-- The Regional Feds Need More Independence
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R e i s s
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/regional-feds-need-directors-not-tied-to-banks.html
All the fuss about whether  Jamie Dimon , the chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
should remain on the  New York  Federal Reserve Bank board is
missing a larger issue. The entire board is connected to the
banking industry and needs reform.  It is imperative that the board include some directors who
are independent of the banking industry because it performs many
vital public functions, including selecting the president of the
 New York Fed , who also serves as  vice chairman  of the policy-
making  Federal Open Market Committee . Yet none of the current
directors is entirely independent, not even the six who by law
should represent the public.  Here’s how the board is  supposed to be structured : The nine
directors are divided into three classes, each containing three
people. Class A directors are bankers, elected by the member
banks. Dimon is one of these. Classes B and C are designated to
represent the public and are specifically not allowed to be
bankers.  Nevertheless, Class B directors are also elected by the
member banks. And this raises the question, whose interests are
they likely to represent -- the public or the banks? Their
independence would be enhanced if they were chosen in a
different manner.  In testimony before Congress last week, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  agreed with Senator  Bernie Sanders ’s statement that six
of the nine directors of each regional Fed bank are actually
from the banking industry. Bernanke also stated that fixing the
problem would take an  act of Congress  to change the way the
Class B directors are chosen. He is right about this. Such an
act is needed.  Bernanke seems unaware, however, that the Class C directors
are a problem, too. And he has the power to fix this one. Class
C directors are appointed by the Fed governors, who could be
careful to select independent people. Yet the three Class C
directors now at the New York Fed are presidents of  Columbia
University , the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art and the Partnership
for  New York City . All three head nonprofit organizations that
rely on contributions from financial corporations or their
executives. They all report to boards partially occupied by
financiers such as Jamie Dimon; Lloyd Blankfein, the CEO of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.; and Vikram Pandit, the CEO of
Citigroup Inc.  To preserve their independence, the directors are not
allowed to own a single share of bank stock, but apparently it
is fine for them to accept millions in contributions from
bankers on behalf of the institutions they run.  Perhaps these contributions don’t influence the directors.
There has been no hint of corruption or quid pro quos. But is it
smart to have a system whose independence relies on directors
being immune to incentives? The very existence of the incentives
diminishes the New York Fed’s credibility.  There is no restriction on how the governors recruit
directors, but the New York Fed recommends two candidates for
open Class C seats and the governors pick one. The Government
Accountability Office  studied  the lack of diversity of the bank
boards and reported that the regional banks have had difficulty
finding good candidates.  This problem is not hard to fix. Bernanke and the other six
Fed governors can simply select more diverse and representative
directors. If they have had trouble finding good candidates, a
public call for nominations would be helpful. A Class C seat
expires at the end of this year, so now is a perfect time to do
so.  And to increase the independence of the Class B directors,
Congress should amend the law so that they are appointed not by
the banks but by the Fed governors. Together, these changes
would ensure that the spirit of the law governing the New York
Fed board and the other regional  Federal Reserve  banks is
fulfilled.  (Jonathan Reiss, former head of international bonds for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., is the founder of Analytical
Synthesis LLC. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks  and
 Putin’s attack helicopters in Syria ;  Caroline Baum  on  the
Federal Reserve’s next move ;  Michael Kinsley  on  why you’re even
poorer than you thought ; William D. Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s day
in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture For America ; Nicholas Polson
on  recognizing smart money ; Amar Bhide and Christopher
Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual funds .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Reiss at  jr@analyticalsynthesis.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  