-- NRC Nominees Closer to Confirmation After U.S. Senate Hearing
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/republicans-press-nrc-chief-designee-on-management-skills-1-.html
Two nominees for the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission moved closer to Senate confirmation after
lawmakers at a hearing said they were willing to set aside their
concerns to support the candidates together.  Allison Macfarlane , a geologist picked to lead the
regulatory agency, and Kristine Svinicki, nominated for a second
term, fended off criticism yesterday during a two-hour Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee hearing.  Republicans said Macfarlane lacked experience to run the
4,000-employee agency and has limited knowledge of nuclear
power, and Democrats said Svinicki was keen to back industry
operators. Panel members said they will back President  Barack
Obama ’s nominees to keep the  commission  with five members so it
can deal with safety, license renewals and small-reactor
projects.  “Although I have some concerns about perhaps a lack of
background in management experience, that’s something certainly
you should be able to pick up quickly,” Senator  James Inhofe  of
Oklahoma, the panel’s top Republican, told Macfarlane. “I think
we all agree that the NRC functions most effectively as a full
commission.”  A committee vote on confirming the nominees may occur as
soon as next week after Macfarlane and Svinicki answer
lawmakers’ written questions. Chairman  Barbara Boxer , a
California Democrat, gave senators until today to submit
questions and set June 18 for responses, saying “we are trying
to move this forward.”  Replacing Jaczko  If confirmed, Macfarlane, 48, would replace  Gregory Jaczko ,
who is quitting after colleagues accused him of bullying the
staff. Jaczko has been dissenting from the other four
commissioners on granting licenses for new  power plants  for
 Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  and disagreed with his colleagues
on the pace of implementing safety rules after the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi reactor disaster last year in Japan.  “It will be a right thing for us to do both of these
nominations and move them together,” Senator  Jeff Sessions , an
Alabama Republican, said yesterday. Then, speaking to
Macfarlane, he said, “I would express that your background is
not the kind of background I would normally look for in the
chairman of the NRC.”  Macfarlane pledged to be open, efficient, collegial and
transparent, and promised to avoid delaying or skipping votes as
a way to postpone tough decisions.  She said she met the NRC staff and plans to have open
discussions and one-on-one sessions that would help her make
decisions on issues she knows little about, such as containment
vents at reactors.  Waste Commission  Macfarlane cited her work on the 15-member presidential
 commission  on nuclear waste as an evidence of her ability to
coordinate and communicate within a group with varied opinions.  Svinicki, sitting alongside Macfarlane, drew a rebuke from
Boxer who said the nominee lied about her role in the Yucca
Mountain waste site planning, and for opposing a safety
investigation of  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear plant
in California.  “When I don’t vote for you, commissioner, it’s because I
have reasons,” Boxer said. “Despite my opposition, I hope
you’ll be confirmed.”  Sessions disputed Boxer’s allegation about Svinicki’s
previous comments to the committee.  Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent, called
Svinicki an advocate for the nuclear-power industry when he said
commissioners should be neutral on atomic power.  Yucca Site  Republicans said work on Yucca Mountain, a site about 100
miles (161 kilometers) northwest of Las Vegas picked as a U.S.
waste site, cost $15 billion before it was rejected by the Obama
administration.  Senators said that among issues the NRC should take up
after Macfarlane is confirmed are the future of small modular
reactors and evacuation plans for facilities such as  Entergy
Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point north of  New York  City.  “I do believe that under the activities that the NRC is
undertaking regarding the Fukushima accident, they are
reconsidering the emergency planning zones, and looking at that
as well,” Macfarlane said.  Asked about Yucca Mountain as a potential long-term
nuclear-waste repository, Macfarlane said that the NRC is
responsible for verifying the safety of a potential site, “not
making the  energy policy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  