-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Fell in May as Auto Demand Cooled
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-fell-in-may-as-auto-demand-cooled.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
declined in May for the first time in a year as slower
employment and subdued wage gains damped demand for automobiles,
economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.2 percent decrease last month would follow
a 0.1 percent gain in April that was the smallest this year,
according to the  median  forecast of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. A separate report may show prices paid to
producers fell for a second month.  Limited gains in payrolls and unemployment exceeding 8
percent signal it’ll be tough for  consumer spending , the biggest
part of the economy, to accelerate from a first-quarter advance
that was the biggest in a year. At the same time, lower prices
at the gasoline pump are providing relief for Americans, helping
sustain sales at retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT)   “We’re looking for pretty disappointing retail sales
results,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Jobs are a little
harder to come by and the average consumer is less optimistic
about their financial health. That’s reducing demand. We’re
headed to a relatively soft year for consumer spending.”  The Commerce Department’s figures are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of 0.7
percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  Also at 8:30, a Labor Department report may show the
producer price  index (S15RETL)  fell 0.6 percent in May after a 0.2 percent
drop the prior month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Lower fuel costs are subduing inflation.  Less Inflation  Receding inflation gives the  Federal Reserve  more
flexibility to take steps to spur the economy if needed.  “The situation in  Europe  poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on June
7. “As always, the Federal Reserve remains prepared to take
action as needed to protect the U.S. financial system and
economy in the event that financial stresses escalate.”  Cars and light trucks sold at a  13.7 million  annual rate in
May, the weakest this year and down from April’s 14.4 million
pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed. Year-over-year gains
of 11 percent at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and 30 percent at Chrysler
Group LLC trailed analysts’ projections.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the
only major automaker which topped estimates with a 13 percent
increase in sales, boosted incentives by about $100 per vehicle.  Retail  sales excluding autos  probably were little changed
last month, the weakest performance so far this year, according
to the Bloomberg survey median.  Employment Cools  Monthly employment gains have decelerated from a high this
year of 275,000 in January. Payrolls rose 69,000 in May after a
77,000 increase in April, according to data from the Labor
Department. The jobless rate climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent. Average hourly earnings rose 1.7 percent last month
from May 2011, the smallest increase since December 2010.  Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, is among companies projecting joblessness
will remain stubbornly high.  “We will still face higher-than-normal unemployment and
underemployment rates, with the consequence that value will
remain of major importance to our customers,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Blake  said on an analyst conference call on June
6. “Growth will be moderate.”  Gasoline Prices  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data, which aren’t
adjusted for prices, may also reflect cheaper gasoline. A gallon
of regular  fuel  at the pump cost an average $3.71 in May, down
from this year’s peak of $3.94 on April 4, according to AAA, the
biggest U.S. auto group. It was down to $3.54 on June 11.  Less expensive gasoline may have helped free up cash for
purchases of other items like clothing and home goods, company
reports indicated. May same-store sales climbed more than
analysts projected for Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
chain, and Limited Brands Inc., the operator of the Victoria’s
Secret lingerie stores.  The drop in fuel costs helped shore up Americans’ finances
and improved the buying climate, leading the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index to rise for the third consecutive week, figures
showed on June 7.  Investors are betting that Americans will keep shopping.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index, which
includes Macy’s Inc. and Gap Inc., has gained 16 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with a 5.3 percent advance in
the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Household purchases will grow at 2.3 percent annual rates
in each of the final three quarters of 2012, according to the
median forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey of economists
taken from June 1 to June 5. Consumer spending expanded at a 2.7
percent pace last quarter.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  