-- Retail Sales in U.S. Declined for a Second Month in May
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-13T21:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-fall-for-second-month-signaling-slowdown.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. fell in May
for a second month, prompting economists to cut forecasts for
economic growth as limited job and income gains hold back
consumers.  The 0.2 percent decrease matched April’s drop that was
previously reported as a gain, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . Sales excluding  car dealerships 
slumped by the most in two years.  The smallest wage gains in a year and unemployment
exceeding 8 percent are taking a toll on the  consumer spending 
that accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, leaving it
more vulnerable to shocks from the European crisis. Federal
Reserve policy makers gather next week to decide whether further
stimulus is needed to fuel the three-year-old expansion.  “The consumer is pulling back,” said  Michael Brown , an
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, who correctly forecast the drop in sales. “There
isn’t a lot of  job creation . We will continue to see softer
numbers.”  Stocks fell after the report and as higher borrowing costs
in Italy and Germany fueled concern about the global economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.7 percent to 1,314.88
at the close in  New York .  Last month’s drop in retail sales matched the  median 
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 0.7 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.
April and May marked the first back-to-back declines in two
years.  Europe’s Economy  In the euro area, industrial production decreased for a
second month in April, led by a drop in  Germany  and adding to
signs of a deepening  economic slump . Output in the 17-nation
euro region declined 0.8 percent from a month earlier, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Japan ’s machinery orders increased more than forecast and
South Korea’s unemployment fell as Asian economies showed
resilience in the face of Europe’s debt crisis, other data
showed.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced their
tracking estimate for U.S. second-quarter gross domestic product
immediately following the retail sales report, to a 1.6 percent
gain from 1.8 percent. Morgan Stanley cut its projection 0.2
percentage point, to 1.8 percent, while Credit Suisse marked
down GDP for the period to 2.2 percent from 2.5 percent.  Souvenir Sales  “People aren’t opening their wallets,” said Ivy
Montville, who operates White House Gifts, a souvenir shop in
Washington. “This year, the first quarter was good but the
second quarter has been marginal. The economy just isn’t as
strong as it used to be.”  The Georgetown Day Spa in Charlotte,  North Carolina , has
suffered an almost 50 percent drop in its massage business this
year and 25 percent decline in skin care, said owner Gary Adams.
Customers are also putting off haircuts and coloring, he said.  “People are waiting a little bit longer between services,
going for five or six weeks maybe instead of four,” said Adams,
55, who started the business in 1998. “Everybody has been
really cautious, trying to save where they can or stretch the
dollar out.”  Another report today showed wholesale prices dropped in May
by the most since July 2009 as energy and food costs decreased.
The  producer price index  declined 1 percent, more than forecast,
after falling 0.2 percent the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting on June 19. The
group may address a cooling expansion, slower job growth and the
financial crisis in  Europe .  “Will there be enough growth going forward to make
material progress on the  unemployment rate ?” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony last week to the Joint Economic
Committee. “That’s the essential decision and the central
question that we have who look at.”  Eight of 13 major retail categories showed sales declines
last month, led by building materials merchants, service
stations and general merchandise stores, according to today’s
Commerce Department report.  Sales at automobile dealers showed an unexpected gain, in
contrast to industry figures, which are the ones used to
calculate GDP. They climbed 0.8 percent in May after a 0.1
percent increase the prior month.  Light Trucks  Cars and light trucks sold at a  13.7 million  annual rate in
May, the weakest this year and down from April’s 14.4 million
pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed. Year-over-year gains
of 11 percent at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and 30 percent at Chrysler
Group LLC trailed analysts’ projections.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the
only major automaker who topped estimates with a 13 percent
increase in sales, boosted incentives by about $100 per vehicle.  Retail  sales excluding autos  decreased 0.4 percent, the
weakest performance since May 2010, today’s report showed. They
were projected to be unchanged, the survey median showed.  The retail sales data, which aren’t adjusted for prices,
reflected lower gasoline receipts at service stations, where
demand dropped 2.2 percent in May, the most this year.  A gallon of regular  fuel  at the pump cost an average $3.71
in May, down from this year’s peak of $3.94 on April 4,
according to AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group. It was down to
$3.54 yesterday.  Clothing Stores  Spending increased 0.9 percent at clothing stores and 0.8
percent at electronics chains.  Sales excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which are the figures used to calculate GDP, were little changed
in May after rising 0.1 percent, today’s report showed. The
April advance was previously reported at 0.4 percent.  Monthly employment gains have decelerated from a high this
year of 275,000 in January. Payrolls rose 69,000 in May after a
77,000 increase in April, according to data from the Labor
Department. The jobless rate climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent. Average hourly earnings rose 1.7 percent last month
from May 2011, the smallest increase since December 2010.  Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, is among companies projecting joblessness
will remain stubbornly high.  “We will still face higher-than-normal unemployment and
underemployment rates, with the consequence that value will
remain of major importance to our customers,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Blake  said at an analyst conference on June 6.
“Growth will be moderate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  