-- Revamped MacBook Pro Has Style, Power: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-06-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/revamped-macbook-pro-has-style-power-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The rise of smartphones and tablets
has made it harder than ever to whip up enthusiasm for a plain
old laptop computer.  But the MacBook Pro, the flagship of  Apple (AAPL) ’s line, is
neither plain nor old. It’s the best combination of stylishness
and power out there, though it doesn’t come cheap.  The redesigned MacBook Pro, which went on sale this week,
is a bit of a hybrid. Like earlier Pros, it’s built around
 Intel (INTC) ’s most potent consumer microprocessors and it also
includes a dedicated  Nvidia (NVDA)  chip to speed up graphics. But like
the MacBook Air, it features fast start-up in a thin and
comparatively lightweight package.  Its most striking feature, though, was borrowed from the
iPad and iPhone: Apple’s  Retina Display , which packs way more
pixels than your flat-screen TV. The result, as when I viewed
vacation pictures on the 15.4-inch screen, is spectacular --
better even than on the iPad, since I didn’t have to view them
through the greasy fingerprints of a tablet touchscreen.  As for video, at this week’s launch event in  San Francisco ,
Apple showed its  Final Cut Pro  editing software running a full
1080p high-definition movie in a window. The video used only 2
million pixels, leaving 3 million more for the editing tools.  Thinner, Lighter  Apple has also redesigned the way the screen sits in the
laptop’s lid, helping reduce the Pro’s thickness and weight to
.71 inches high and less than 4.5 pounds. Those are,
respectively, about 25 percent and 20 percent below the previous
15-inch model (which, with a few tweaks, remains in the product
lineup).  As significant as what the MacBook Pro includes is what it
doesn’t. A conventional hard drive, for instance. Instead, it
uses flash-memory chips for storage, which are responsible both
for its rapid boot-up time and the speed with which it runs
applications.  In my tests, the new Pro started up in 14 seconds, compared
to 50 for an older, hard-drive-based version. Lifting the lid
woke it up from sleep mode in three seconds.  Also missing is a DVD drive. Instead, as with the MacBook
Air, Apple expects you to acquire and install software, watch
movies and do just about everything else via the Internet.  Internet Everything  The newly refreshed versions of the previous-generation
MacBook Pros do maintain optical drives, but I wouldn’t bet on
seeing them in any future models. Nor, increasingly, on other
companies’ products, since Apple’s decisions tend to drive
design industry-wide.  In light of the MacBook Pro’s cloud-centric approach, it’s
mildly surprising that it has done away with an Ethernet port.
Apple executives say most people use MacBooks with Wi-Fi and the
port took up too much space. If you want to run the new one on a
wired network, you’ll need an extra-cost adapter.  Apple has redone the rest of the Pro’s connectivity options
as well. In addition to a pair of industry-standard USB 3.0
ports, it has two ultrafast ThunderBolt ports. There’s a new
HDMI port for connecting the computer to a high-definition
television set and a reader for SD cards.  MacBook Airs use lower-powered chips in part to reduce heat
buildup. That’s an even bigger concern in the MacBook Pro, with
its beefier processor. So Apple has added vents while re-
engineering the internal fan to cut down noise. It apparently
works; even holding the machine to my ear, I couldn’t hear a
thing. As for the heat, after several hours of using it balanced
on my knees, it was a little warm, but by no means
uncomfortable.  Power Usage  Apple says the MacBook Pro will go seven hours between charges
in normal use, but that may be conservative. I coaxed 6 1/2
hours from it even after disabling the power-savings options
while writing, Web-surfing, checking e-mail and streaming a
 Netflix (NFLX)  movie over Wi-Fi.  As for cost, the base model, with a 2.3GHz quad-core Intel
Core i7 “Ivy Bridge” processor, 8 gigabytes of memory and 256
gigabytes of flash storage, is $2,199. Bump the processor to
2.6GHZ and the storage to 512 gigabytes, and you’re looking at
$2,799.  That’s a lot, especially when a 15-inch Air-inspired
Windows PC like  Samsung (005930) ’s Series 9, less robust but still
potent, can be had for $1,500. But if you need more power and
storage, want to be dazzled by the most beautiful display ever
or are just looking for the state of the art in laptop design,
look no further.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 