-- Trinity Ventures Said to Seek $300 Million for 11th Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-06-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/trinity-ventures-said-to-seek-300-million-for-11th-fund.html
Trinity Ventures , a 26-year-old
venture capital firm that backed coffee retailer  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
and restaurant chain PF Chang’s China Bistro Inc., is seeking
$300 million to invest in early-stage technology companies,
according two people with knowledge of its plans.  The fund, the firm’s 11th, is scheduled to close in
October, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. Trinity’s previous fund gathered about
$300 million in 2009.  The firm, in addition to its early bets on food-service
companies, also invested in technology companies Novell Inc. and
 Aruba Networks Inc. (ARUN)  More recently, it has focused on digital
media startups and companies building Web-based software for
businesses. In May, Trinity invested $7 million in DotLoop Co.,
a maker of software for the real estate industry.  Fred Wang, a general partner at  Menlo Park , California-
based Trinity, declined to comment on the fundraising.  Venture firms are raising capital even as the troubled
Facebook Inc. initial public offering and European debt crisis
put an end to the best stretch of Internet IPOs in more than a
decade. Madrona Venture Group announced a $300 million fund last
week, while Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and New Enterprise
Associates have raised bigger sums.  Institutional Venture Partners, DFJ Growth and Mayfield
Fund are also starting new funds, people familiar with the
matter have told Bloomberg.  IPO Deals  While Trinity wasn’t invested in any of the U.S. consumer
Web companies to go public in the past year, the firm did back
 21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , a Chinese Internet data-center service
provider that first sold shares in April 2011. It also backed
 Infoblox Inc. (BLOX) , a Santa Clara, California-based network and data-
services provider that went public two months ago.  Trinity was co-founded in 1986 by Noel Fenton, who remains
one of the firm’s seven investment partners. Last year, Trinity
opened an office in San Francisco’s Mission district called
Dolores Labs, which it uses as a co-working space for young
portfolio companies.  For its  10th fund  raised in 2009, Trinity said that it
would invest between $2 million and $20 million in about 30
companies. The firm has more than $1 billion under management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  