-- Rio, China Juggle Whether to Sell, Use Emission Credits
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-06-14T09:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rio-china-say-they-won-t-use-sold-co2-credits-for-limits.html
Officials from Rio de Janeiro and
 China  said they wouldn’t use emission-reduction credits that
have been exported when accounting for new domestic greenhouse-
gas targets, potentially easing climate negotiations.  Brazil ’s second-largest city will retire any reductions it
uses when accounting for its 2020 target, said Rodrigo Rosa,
special adviser on climate protection to Rio de Janeiro Mayor
Eduardo Paes. “Either we retire through the targets, or we sell
the credits,” Rosa said in an interview in Cologne,  Germany .  China, which is setting up seven pilot carbon markets, also
will ensure it doesn’t both sell reductions abroad and use them
to meet its own limits, said Wang Shu, an official in the
department of  climate change  in the  National Development and
Reform Commission  in Beijing. “We cannot do double counting,”
Wang said in an interview. “We will make that clear.”  Concern that nations will count emission reductions twice
has helped stall climate talks. A  three-page summary  of
negotiations by United Nations envoys from a meeting last month
in Bonn mentions the term “double counting” seven times.  Rio, which is hosting an environmental summit of world
leaders next week, is already grappling with decisions about
when to sell credits and when to use them for its self-imposed
limits, said Lorraine Sugar, a climate-change-policy specialist
at the World Bank in  Washington . Rio has established its own Low
Carbon City Development Program, even as Brazil considers its
own options for a national carbon market, she said.  Due Diligence  “There will be a process of looking back and maintaining
this due diligence of ‘retire or sell’ and not double
counting,” Sugar, who is helping advise the city, said in an
interview May 31. “There’s the whole financing aspect as well.
By selling some credits, we then create an opportunity to
reinvest the carbon revenues in further projects.”  Those additional credits can then be either retired or sold,
Sugar said.  The notion of double counting has become crucial as
developing nations that up until now have sold emission credits
start to take on their own targets. New carbon programs in at
least 15 emerging nations from China to Costa Rica show
emissions trading may take off, even as U.S. lawmakers focus on
non-market-based regulations for climate protection, the  World
Bank  said last month.  Securing Reductions  Rio’s target is to secure 2.3 million metric tons of
emission reductions through 2020, a figure that’s the equivalent
of 20 percent of the city’s 2005 discharges, Rosa said. Instead
of trying to cut total emissions, the city is seeking to make
sure output is less than it otherwise would be without the
program, he said.  It’s already achieved about 1.4 million tons of cuts by
covering a landfill site and capturing its methane emissions,
which are being used to produce power, Rosa said May 31. That
project is registered under the UN-overseen Clean Development
Mechanism and the credits may be sold to factories and power
utilities in  Europe  to comply with that region’s carbon limits.  Rio has decided not to use credits sold abroad for its own
targets because that would amount to double counting, Rosa said.  The city is spending about $3 billion on a rapid-transport
system, he said. It wants 63 percent of its population to use
mass transport by 2016, up from about 18% now, he said. The
city’s current population is about 6 million and transport
emissions are about 43 percent of Rio’s total discharges.  Mass Transit  UN-overseen regulators based in Bonn are discussing how to
issue credits to such mass-transit programs in developing
nations.  “That takes people out of their individual cars,” Rosa
said. The plan is for four so-called Bus Rapid Transit systems
starting this month, Rosa said. The use of biofuels will be
boosted to about 20 percent by 2016 from about 5 percent
initially, he said.  It’s possible the system can be electrified in the future,
further cutting emissions, he said.  Decisions needed to find emission cuts will probably test
the mayor’s popularity with voters, Rosa said.  The city decided around 2010 under Paes’s administration to
narrow some of the city’s streets to install the BRTs,
restricting car use, he said. “There was a tough call there. If
you are taking the street out and the traffic is congested,
that’s not easy.”  Elections planned for October will give the population a
chance to vote on the administration’s governance, including its
environmental management, Rosa said. “It’s a test on everything
we’re doing here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  