-- India Looms Larger as U.S. Shifts Attention to Asia
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-13T16:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rising-india-looms-large-as-u-s-shifts-attention-to-asia.html
India ’s growing economy, rising
strategic influence and potential as a democratic counterbalance
to China are making the South Asian nation a vital element of
U.S. commercial and military strategy.  The latest evidence of India’s importance to the U.S. came
last week in  New Delhi , when Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
invited a larger role for India in Afghanistan after the NATO-
led coalition withdraws its combat forces in 2014. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  visited India last month, and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is scheduled to go there June
27-28 for the third annual meeting of the U.S.-India Economic
and Financial Partnership.  The two nations are expanding ties as the U.S. puts a
higher priority on Asia and as U.S. relations with Pakistan --
India’s neighbor and rival -- grow increasingly strained. Today,
Clinton is hosting a dialogue in Washington between the U.S. and
India, which was the only country named as a long-term partner
in a strategic outlook released by the Pentagon in January.  “We are forging a new and more mature phase in our
critical bilateral relationship, one defined by near-constant
consultation aimed at advancing the interests and values we
share and working through the inevitable differences,” Clinton
said today at the State Department, flanked by Indian Minister
for External Affairs S.M. Krishna.  Trade Grows  Underlying the U.S. pursuit of a closer bond with India is
a burgeoning economic relationship. Bilateral trade jumped
fivefold during the last decade, fueled by India’s purchases of
U.S. weapons and collaboration on clean energy, counter-
terrorism, cybersecurity and monsoon forecasting. India’s
growing middle class also has become an attractive market for
U.S. exports.  “We have an enormous stake in India’s emergence as a
global power,”  Michael Froman , deputy U.S. national security
adviser for international economic affairs, said yesterday at an
event organized by the U.S.-India Business Council. President
 Barack Obama  “views India as one of his top foreign policy
priorities and one of the most important bilateral
relationships.”  Mending Ties  After decades of mutual suspicion during the  Cold War ,
which prompted a U.S. “tilt” toward India’s arch rival
Pakistan 40 years ago, U.S. President  Ronald Reagan  began to
mend ties with India in the 1980s, allowing sales of advanced
U.S. computers and high technology equipment.  A high-water mark in the relationship came in 2005, when
President  George W. Bush  and India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  signed a civil-nuclear cooperation agreement that allowed
India -- which isn’t a signatory to the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty and has nuclear weapons -- to obtain atomic
fuel for its nuclear energy plants.  As part of today’s strategic dialogue, the third of such
annual talks between the countries, Clinton met with Krishna,
her counterpart. The Indian delegation includes four other
cabinet-rank ministers and several other top officials.  Two days before the foreign minister’s visit, India was
granted a renewable, 180-day exemption from new U.S. financial
sanctions in exchange for demonstrating that it’s reducing its
dependence on crude oil imports from Iran.  Bilateral Trade  U.S.-India bilateral trade in goods and services is
expected to reach $100 billion this year, U.S. Ambassador to
India Nancy Powell said yesterday in Washington. That’s up from
$18 billion in 2001.  Indian purchases include Chicago-based  Boeing Co.’s (BA)  787
Dreamliner aircraft and its C-17 military transport plane, as
well as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.’s (LMT)  C-130J
military cargo aircraft.  Two-way investment flows also have grown. Indian companies
have a presence in 43 U.S. states in different parts of the
economy and have created 280,000 jobs in America, Nirupama Rao,
the Indian Ambassador to the U.S., said yesterday.  The relationship’s strength is “not confined to or driven
only by our governments,” she said, saying that Indian students
contribute $3 billion in annual tuition to U.S. universities.  Powell said India is the world’s largest recipient of U.S.
work visas, getting 65 percent of all U.S. visas issued to high-
skilled workers.  ‘Expectations Gap’  Still, landmark accords such as the energy cooperation
agreement have created high expectations on both sides that all
bilateral engagements should lead to measurable outcomes or
“deliverables,” said Richard Armitage, former U.S. deputy
secretary of state under George W. Bush.  “Both sides have judged ourselves on these deliverables
and patted ourselves on the back” for agreements such as the
nuclear deal, Armitage, president of Armitage International, an
Arlington, Virginia-based consulting firm, said in an interview.  A strategic relationship with India has “huge potential,
but it will be a whole lot of hard work to accomplish it,” said
Teresita Schaffer, a South Asia specialist at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington who served as a U.S. diplomat in India
and was ambassador to  Sri Lanka .  “There’s been an expectations gap” in part “because
there have been unrealistic expectations on both sides,”
Schaffer said in an interview yesterday.  Liability Protection  U.S. business leaders have been frustrated by Prime
Minister Singh’s failure to advance proposed policy changes.
U.S. companies continue to face obstacles in selling atomic fuel
and technology to India because Singh’s government hasn’t passed
legislation to shield suppliers of nuclear reactors from
liability in the event of an accident.  Liability protection is key to  General Electric Co. (GE) , based
in Fairfield, Connecticut, and Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania-
based Westinghouse Electric Co., which are interested in
supplying India’s nuclear power projects.  Westinghouse, a unit of  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , today announced an
agreement with the government-owned Nuclear Power Company of
India Ltd. to work on preliminary licensing and site development
for a power plant in the Indian state of Gujarat.  U.S. companies are concerned that India’s “investment
environment has deteriorated or that domestic political
challenges are slowing the pace of reform,” Froman said. This
is “worrisome” because the business community is a critical
component of the U.S.-India relationship, he said.  Wal-Mart Help  Other Singh initiatives, such as plans to open up the
country’s $1.7-trillion economy to foreign insurers and
retailers, including New York-based  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , based in Bentonville, Arkansas,
have been shelved because of protests from opposition parties
and members of his own coalition.  Megastores such as Wal-Mart could help India, where
malnutrition remains an issue, achieve food security and improve
the food-to-market supply chain, said Timothy Roemer, Obama’s
first ambassador to India. Roemer said that almost 30 percent of
India’s crops rot in fields because of a lack of transportation
to markets.  Indian officials, for their part, are irritated by export
control laws restricting transfer of U.S. military technology.
Responding to those concerns, Panetta announced in New Delhi an
effort “to streamline our bureaucratic processes and make our
defense trade more simple, responsive, and effective.”  “To the degree we reform our export control legislation
the opportunities for India to buy U.S. goods will increase,”
said Ashley Tellis, an India specialist at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington.  ‘Fertile Opportunity’  China ’s  slowing growth  and the financial crisis in Europe
“create a fertile opportunity for the U.S. and India to build
our middle classes,” Roemer said. The U.S. manufacturing sector
needs India’s market potential, he said.  A larger goal for both sides is to negotiate a bilateral
investment treaty that can become the foundation for a free-
trade agreement, Roemer, who’s now a senior director at APCO
Worldwide Inc., a Washington-based public-affairs firm, said in
an interview.  India isn’t keen to become a counterweight to China simply
to help long-term U.S. goals, Armitage said. “India doesn’t
want to be a pawn in someone else’s play, because they’ve their
own difficulties with China having to do with territory and
water disputes,” he said.  Autonomous Policy  India’s drive to maintain an autonomous foreign policy,
which hearkens back to the country’s role as a founder of the
Non-Aligned Movement during the Cold War, may frustrate U.S.
policy makers looking to the South Asian nation to do more
militarily in the Asia-Pacific region.  Just because the U.S. wants India to play a greater role in
 Afghanistan  and in the broader Asia-Pacific doesn’t mean India
will do so, said C. Raja Mohan, the head of strategic studies at
the Observer Research Foundation, a New Delhi-based policy
research group.  The U.S. push for India to increase its presence in
Afghanistan comes after three years of warning the country to
limit its profile there because of objections from Pakistan,
Raja Mohan said in a phone interview.  India already has pledged $2 billion in aid to Afghanistan
and has helped build the new Afghan parliament. The two
countries last October signed an agreement that allows Indian
training of Afghan troops.  Asked about U.S. calls for India to play a larger role in
Asia’s security, Krishna said in an interview last night: “If
we are playing a larger role, it’s because we see it’s in our
interests, it’s not at the behest of anyone else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  