-- Romania Gets 1 Billion-Euro World Bank Loan as Yields Rise
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-06-13T13:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/romania-gets-1-billion-euro-world-bank-loan-as-yields-rise-1-.html
Romania  got a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) precautionary loan from the World Bank as the European
sovereign-debt crisis pushes borrowing costs higher and prompts
the government to sell less local debt.  The Balkan nation plans to use the new loan, approved
yesterday by the Washington-based lender, to strengthen its
financing buffer and cover four-month budget spending as pledged
to the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, Peter Harrold, the World Bank’s country director said today. Romania
will be able to draw on the money should external conditions or
the debt crisis worsen, Harrold said.  Romania, which has borrowed about 35 billion lei ($9.8
billion) from the domestic market and an additional $2.25
billion from the U.S. market this year, sold only half of the
planned amount of leu-denominated bills and bonds this month
after yields increased by about 20 basis points.  The increase in Romania’s borrowing costs “is what you
should expect as there’s a very high degree of uncertainty,”
Harrold said in an interview in Bucharest. Romanian authorities
“may not have had all the success they wanted but they are
still well ahead with the financing program for this year. They
are very close to completing the financing program for this
year.”  The  World Bank  can extend the maturity of the Romanian loan
after the initial deadline of three years expires, while the
negotiated amount is fixed, according to Harrold.  The bank joined the IMF and the EU in a 5 billion-euro
precautionary agreement with Romania over two years, signed in
March last year. The Balkan nation hasn’t drawn any money so far
from the loan.  “We judge the impact of this increase in the public debt
managers’ buffer as marginally positive,” Vlad Muscalu, an
economist at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note to clients
today. “An increased liquidity buffer can allow the public debt
managers to limit issuance for a longer period but during this
time frame the demand for debt does not consolidate if the
buyers are in a deleveraging mode.”  Romania should not extend its “departure from usual market
practices,” as the cost of returning to the markets would be
steeper, Muscalu said.  The ministry sold 843 million lei in one-year bills and
two-year bonds in the first two debt sales this month, less than
the 1.7 billion lei planned, according to the central bank. The
yields increased to 5.29 percent for the bills and to 5.73
percent for the bonds.  The country has changed two governments this year and is
scheduled to hold general elections in October or November after
having local elections on June 10. Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s
government pledged to continue the accord with the lenders and
cut the  budget deficit  to below the EU limit of 3 percent of the
gross domestic product this year, while restoring public-sector
wages after a 25 percent cut in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  