-- Romney Tells Executives Eloquent Words From Obama ‘Are Cheap’
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-14T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/romney-tells-business-leaders-obama-s-eloquent-words-are-cheap-.html
Mitt Romney  dismissed an economic
policy speech President  Barack Obama  planned for today, urging
business executives to ignore “soaring and eloquent” rhetoric
and focus on joblessness during Obama’s term.  “My own view is that he will speak eloquently, but that
words are cheap, and that the record of an individual is the
basis upon which you determine whether they should continue to
hold on to their job,” Romney told about 100 executives at the
 Business Roundtable  quarterly meeting in Washington yesterday.
“We have 23 million Americans that are  out of work , or stopped
looking for work or underemployed. That is a compelling and sad
statistic. These are real people.”  In an address today at a  community college  in  Cleveland ,
Obama plans to sketch out “Romney Economics” as a series of
policies that would damage the economy and hurt the middle
class, including handing tax cuts to the wealthy and wiping out
rules for  Wall Street .  About the same time at the other end of  Ohio  -- viewed by
both campaigns as a crucial battleground for the November
election -- Romney plans to speak at a manufacturing tool
company in Cincinnati.  Definition Fight  The dueling speeches underscore the fight between the
Democratic president and his presumptive Republican challenger
to gain the upper hand on the economy, with each defining the
other’s economic vision and record in a negative light. They are
also competing to paint one another as out of touch with
Americans facing hardships in a sluggish recovery.  Romney, 65, said yesterday that Obama’s agenda has been
hostile to business, heaping burdensome and costly regulations
on industry. That, he said, has led to “a tepid and unfortunate
recovery” as Obama advocates tax increases that would further
hurt company profits.  He also said Obama, 50, has failed to stem budget deficits
or rein Medicare and other federal entitlement programs,
complicating firms’ ability to plan for the future.  As his audience of business executives sipped iced tea and
dined on lunches of salmon, couscous, salad and fruit tarts,
Romney reprised a June 8 comment by Obama that Republicans are
using as a cudgel against the president to argue he doesn’t
understand the nation’s economic woes.  Not ‘Doing Fine’  “He said, as you know, just a few days ago that the
private sector is doing fine, but the incredulity that came
screaming back from the American people has caused him, I think,
to rethink that,” Romney said.  Obama in his speech today, Romney said, will change course
and “acknowledge that it isn’t going so well, and he’ll be
asking for four more years.”  The president has sought to limit the fallout from his
remark, saying later on June 8 that it is “absolutely clear
that the economy is not doing fine.”  Obama’s campaign yesterday accused Romney of distorting the
administration’s record.  Romney “made dishonest after dishonest claim about the
president’s record and failed to offer any new ideas of his
own,” Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, said in a
statement on the Republican’s speech yesterday.  Government’s Role  Romney, a former private-equity executive who co-founded
the Boston-based firm Bain Capital LLC, said his approach toward
business would be a stark contrast with Obama’s. Aside from
securing the nation, Romney said, the government’s main
responsibility “as it relates to the economy is to make America
the most attractive place in the world for entrepreneurs and
innovators, investors, job creators.”  “Government has to be the partner, the friend, the ally,
the supporter of enterprise, not the enemy,” he said. “Too
often, you find yourself facing a government that looks at you
like you’re the bad guys, and if you’re hiring people, and
employing people and paying taxes, you’re the good guys. I want
you to do well.”  Vowing to repeal Obama’s health-care law as well as the
Dodd-Frank financial-regulation measure the president pushed
through Congress, Romney said lawmakers had taken advantage of
the 2008 financial meltdown to enact their longstanding goals of
placing more restrictions on banks and other businesses.  “The legislators and particularly the staff used the
economic crisis to do all the things they’d always wanted to do,
and to be able to overreach and try and put their reins on all
sorts of enterprises,” he said.  Dodd-Frank Provision  As an example, Romney cited attempts to impose Dodd-Frank
margin, or collateral, requirements on non-financial firms. The
 Business Roundtable  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, along with
commercial and manufacturing firms including MillerCoors LLC,
have lobbied regulators and lawmakers to prevent those
requirements from being placed on end-users of derivatives.  Even as Romney promised his agenda of spending and tax
cuts, less regulation and more domestic energy exploration and
production would mean an economic resurgence, comments by
Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  illustrated potential obstacles
to a bipartisan deal on the nation’s fiscal challenges.  Rubio, a possible Romney vice presidential running mate,
said he wouldn’t accept revenue increases in a deficit deal that
also cut spending to prevent a U.S. fiscal crisis. It’s a
“different time” than when former President  George H.W. Bush 
embraced such an agreement in 1990, Rubio said.  Growth Issue  “I don’t have a moral objection to tax increases; I think
they have a negative impact on growth, which is what our No. 1
objective should be,” Rubio, 41, said yesterday at a Bloomberg
Breakfast with reporters in Washington.  To reach a deal with Democrats who controlled the Senate
and House in 1990, the first President Bush “had to accept
those tax increases, and I think we live in a different time
today,” Rubio added.  Rubio, a Cuban-American who some Republicans say could
boost Romney’s standing among Hispanic voters as his vice
presidential pick, declined to comment on the vice presidential
speculation. He said he wanted to be “respectful” of the
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 