-- RTS Futures Slump on Oil as VimpelCom Tumbles: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-06-13T23:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rts-futures-slump-on-oil-as-vimpelcom-tumbles-russia-overnight.html
Russian stock futures  dropped in  New
York  after oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, fell to an
eight-month low.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  declined the most this month as
a conflict between shareholders intensified.  RTS stock-index futures expiring on June 15 fell 1.1
percent to 129,450 as the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of
the most-traded Russian companies declined from a three-week
high.  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY)  and  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s biggest energy
companies, dropped at least 1.4 percent. VimpelCom, the world’s
sixth-largest mobile-phone company, sank 5 percent after its
biggest shareholder  Telenor ASA (TEL) , requested a  Bermuda  court to
reverse Russian regulators’ claims it couldn’t boost the stake.  Crude oil, which together with natural gas accounted for
about 50 percent of Russia’s budget revenue in 2011, extended
its decline to 16 percent this year after reports showed U.S.
retail sales weakened and euro-area industrial production
dropped for a second month in April. Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich  said yesterday the government may ease planned
increases in the natural-gas extraction tax for crude producers
and review oil taxation.  “Russia’s market is very sensitive to oil price, so oil
weakness leads the entire market weakness,” Yan Gloukhovski, a
trader at Alfa  Capital Markets  in  London , said by e-mail
yesterday. “There is also the risk that as oil declines, the
Russian budget will receive less revenue and the government
could further hike taxes to make up for the shortfall.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, retreated 1.2 percent to $24.87,
falling for second day in three. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in futures, rose 1.8 percent to 45.15
points.  VimpelCom, RusHydro  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index slid 0.7 percent to
85.14 in New York yesterday. VimpelCom was the biggest decliner
on the gauge, losing 5 percent to $7.56, the most since May 30.  Telenor, the Nordic region’s largest phone company,
requested yesterday that the  Supreme Court  of Bermuda confirm it
didn’t breach any regulations when purchased 11.3 percent in
VimpelCom from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s Weather
Investments II SARL.  Russia’s Federal Anti-monopoly Service filed a claim in
Moscow court in April asking Telenor to return 234 million of
VimpelCom’s preferred shares it bought from Weather, saying
Telenor didn’t receive the Russian commission’s permission to
raise its stake.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s largest hydropower producer, gained
5 percent to $2.54 in New York trading yesterday, the most since
June 6. The stock traded at 4.9 times estimated earnings, a 25
percent discount to the 6.5 average multiple for  energy
companies  on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  index, the biggest gap
since Rushydro listed its American depositary receipts in U.S.
in July 2010.  Retail Sales  U.S. retail sales dropped in May for a second month, as
limited job and income gains hold back consumers, Commerce
Department figures showed in  Washington  yesterday. Output in the
17-nation euro area slipped 0.8 percent from March, when it fell
0.1 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said yesterday.  Crude oil for July delivery dropped 0.8 percent, to $82.62
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the
lowest settlement since Oct. 6.  Brent oil for July settlement was little changed at $97.13
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, fell 1.3
percent to $94.49 a barrel, the lowest since Jan. 27.  Gazprom Valuation  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company and the world’s largest
natural gas producer, retreated 1.6 percent to $9.25 in New York
yesterday, sending valuations to 2.97 times estimated earnings,
a 70 percent discount to  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  and a 53 percent
discount to BP Plc, the cheapest since June 1. The Moscow-based
company’s  stock  was little changed at 152.02 rubles, or $4.68,
on the Micex yesterday. One Gazprom ADR is equal to two ordinary
shares.  “The discount for Russian companies is due to several
factors, including general discount on emerging markets and
Russia, unstable taxation regime and lower dividends payout
compared with developed markets peers,” Gloukhovski said.  Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil producer behind
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , lost 1.4 percent to $52.36 yesterday in New York.
Lukoil rose 0.1 percent to 1,711.10 rubles, or $52.67, on
Russia’s Micex Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  