-- Rubio Rules Out Bush-Style Deficit Deal Raising Tax Revenue
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-13T19:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/rubio-rules-out-bush-style-deficit-deal-raising-tax-revenue.html
Florida Senator Marco Rubio said he
wouldn’t accept revenue increases as part of a  deficit  deal that
also cut spending to prevent a U.S. fiscal crisis, saying it’s a
“different time” than when former President  George H.W. Bush 
embraced such an agreement in 1990.  The first-term Republican, a prospect to be  Mitt Romney ’s
vice presidential running mate, said he favors a broad agreement
to simplify and bring more certainty to the  tax code , and argued
that it ultimately would bring additional revenue to the
government. He ruled out including revenue increases in the
plan, saying that would frustrate economic growth.  “I don’t have a moral objection to tax increases; I think
they have a negative impact on growth, which is what our No. 1
objective should be,” Rubio said today at a Bloomberg Breakfast
with reporters in Washington.  That’s a break with former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, who
earlier this week said the fiscal deal his father cut that
coupled tax increases sought by Democrats with spending cuts
favored by Republicans was good for the country. Rubio said the
“good part” about the agreement was it showed the government
could arrive at a solution to the fiscal challenges.  After a recession that lasted from July 1990 to March 1991,
the U.S.  economy  expanded for 10 years, according to the
 National Bureau of Economic Research .  ‘Level of Certainty’  “What led to the economic growth was the fact that you had
the government respond to an issue and create a level of
certainty, and some would argue that the growth would have been
even greater if a tax increase wouldn’t have been a part of
it,” Rubio said.  To reach a deal with Democrats who controlled the Senate
and House in 1990, the first President Bush “had to accept
those tax increases, and I think we live in a different time
today,” Rubio said.  His comments were the latest evidence of intransigence
among Republicans toward raising any taxes as part of a deficit
deal, which coupled with Democrats’ refusal to accept certain
spending and entitlement cuts is creating conditions for the
latest partisan fiscal clash at year’s end.  Either President  Barack Obama  or Romney, the presumed
Republican nominee, will eventually be faced with the challenge
of bridging the gap.  Rubio’s Bill  Rubio, who has been working on an immigration measure to
allow certain students and military service members brought to
the U.S. illegally as children to obtain non-immigrant visas and
stay in the country and work legally, said he believes his bill
will gain “significant Republican support in the Senate.”  The legislation is designed to be a Republican answer to a
bill favored by Obama, Democrats and a handful of Republicans
that would grant such young people a path to citizenship --
something that Romney has called amnesty and opposes.  “Nobody’s really boxed in on it unless they choose to
be,” Rubio said of his measure, which he said has yet to be
completed.  Republicans are lagging badly with Hispanic voters
according to recent polls after a presidential primary battle in
which Romney, 65, attacked his opponents for what he
characterized as an overly permissive approach to dealing with
illegal immigrants.  Rubio, 41, said members of his party “have to start
putting ideas on the table with regards to what we’re for.”  Missed Opportunity  Alluding to the debates during the primary season, he said:
“Maybe we missed an opportunity early on to talk about what we
were for.”  Still, Rubio added, “We should not de-legitimize the very
real anxiety out there with illegal immigration.”  Rubio, a Cuban-American who some Republicans say could
boost Romney’s standing among Hispanic voters as a running mate,
declined to comment on the vice presidential speculation. He
said he wanted to be “respectful” of the process.  A member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Rubio
said the U.S. should take a more forceful role in dealing with
the violence in  Syria . He said the Obama administration should
help with creation of a “safe zone” in  Turkey  -- and
eventually in Syria -- where those waging the 15-month-long
revolt against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad can better
organize themselves.  He also said the U.S. should consider providing
communication and logistical equipment to the opposition “that
they would need in order to become a more effective fighting
force.”  Thwarting Extremists  The lack of a “cohesive opposition” to Assad creates
“ideal conditions” for Islamic extremists to become more
involved in the conflict, Rubio said. So the U.S. needs to
identify Assad opponents “we can work with” and help them
“become cohesive so that there isn’t any space for these
radicals to operate,” he said.  Rubio said he wasn’t yet prepared to support the use of
U.S. air power to establish a no-fly zone to thwart the efforts
of Assad’s forces to crush the government’s opposition. “I need
to look at that a little bit more closely,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 