-- Russia May Ease Gas Tax Increase for Novatek, Oil Producers
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-13T16:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/russia-may-ease-gas-tax-increase-for-novatek-oil-producers-1-.html
Russia  may ease planned increases in
the natural-gas extraction tax for OAO Novatek and crude
producers and review oil taxation as the government seeks to
maintain oil output at a post-Soviet high.  The gas tax increases, which the government has paired with
a decision to raise state-regulated domestic prices, may be
revised down from proposed levels from the second half of 2013,
Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  told reporters today at
a meeting in the town of Gazoprovod in the Moscow region.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, is seeking
additional funds from gas producers to compensate for oil tax
breaks and help pay for President  Vladimir Putin ’s campaign
pledges of higher salaries and pensions. Putin has called for
oil output to remain at more than 10 million barrels a day for a
decade. Crude and gas revenue comprised half of the 2011 budget.  Russia will seek to set a formula for the gas extraction
tax by 2014 that will account for deposit type, gas prices and
transit costs, Dvorkovich said. The government aims to have  a
formula approved in the first half of next year, he said.  Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Shatalov  said May 2 that the
government had supported a plan to quadruple independent
producers’ tax rate by mid-2015, raising it to the same level as
for state-run OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer.
That may happen only if Gazprom loses its monopoly on exports or
if regulated domestic prices become as profitable as shipments
abroad, the Vedomosti newspaper said today, citing an
unidentified state official.  Oil Decline  Oil output may fall “in the near term” without an
overhaul of the tax system and a move to profit-based levies,
Energy Minister Alexander Novak said at the meeting. The system
doesn’t take the economics of the industry into account and
“hinders investments,” he said.  Dvorkovich supported moving from the current focus on
revenue-based export duties and extraction levies. The profit
tax “will be best tested first on new fields, most likely in
the offshore,” the deputy prime minister said. OAO Bashneft has
proposed its fields for the test, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  