-- Clinton Calls on Russia to End Arms Sales to Syria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-06-14T01:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/russia-rejects-clinton-accusation-of-arms-for-syria-repression.html
Syria  is “spiraling toward civil
war,” with  Russia  supporting the violence by continuing to arm
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said.  “We have repeatedly urged the Russian government to cut
these military ties completely and to suspend all further
support and deliveries,” Clinton said yesterday at the State
Department. “We know -- because they confirm -- that they
continue to deliver.”  The remarks were the latest in an exchange of critical
comments by U.S. and Russian officials, putting on display their
deepening rift over how to deal with the conflict in Syria, a
nation that has been Russia’s main Mideast ally.  Earlier in the day, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
rejected U.S. accusations that it’s sending arms for use against
Syrian civilians and said his country is simply fulfilling its
contractual obligations.  “We are completing previously signed and paid-for
contracts,” Lavrov  said  during a press conference in Tehran
with his Iranian counterpart  Ali Akbar Salehi . “All these
contracts have to do exclusively with air-defense systems.”  Lavrov said Russia doesn’t want to see Syria “fall into
pieces.” Russia was only supplying “what Syria might need in
case of a military attack from outside,” he said.  Russian Choppers  Clinton said June 12 that she was “concerned by the latest
information we have that there are attack helicopters on the way
from Russia to Syria, which will escalate the conflict quite
dramatically.” Russia is repairing about 20 Mi-24 helicopters
sold to Syria during the Soviet era, two people familiar with
the matter told Bloomberg yesterday.  When the U.S. has raised its concerns with the Russians in
the past, Clinton said, they have said “we shouldn’t worry;
everything they’re shipping is unrelated to their actions
internally. That’s patently untrue.”  The U.S. and  United Nations  say the Syrian government is
using helicopter gunships as it increases the tempo of military
operations against the opposition. After 15 months of conflict,
the UN says the two-month-old cease-fire negotiated with Assad
by UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan is failing to hold and that
massacres are being committed against Sunni civilians.  ‘Civil War’  Clinton called on Russia to support efforts to end Assad’s
rule. “We believe that the situation is spiraling toward civil
war, and it’s now time for everyone in the international
community, including Russia and all Security Council members, to
speak to Assad with a unified voice and insist that the violence
stop, and come together with  Kofi Annan  to plan a political
transition going forward.”  No-fly zones over Syria are one of the possibilities being
considered by  France  and its allies if Assad’s regime doesn’t
cease its crackdown, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius
said. “It is one of the options,” he said at a press
conference yesterday in Paris.  He said that 140 countries and organizations have been
invited to a July 6 meeting in Paris of the so-called Friends of
Syria contact group backing the Syrian opposition.  In Syria, government forces shelled the al-Khaldiyeh
neighborhood in Homs yesterday as heavy clashes continued in the
city, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in
an e-mailed statement. A video posted on YouTube yesterday
showed what purported to be images from Homs, including smoke
rising from the city and loud explosions. The authenticity of
the videos couldn’t be verified.  72 Killed  At least 72 people were killed in the conflict yesterday,
according to the Local Coordination Committees, an activist
group.  Assad’s attacks on what began as a peaceful opposition
movement pushed Syria toward sectarian violence pitting the
majority Sunnis against the Alawite leadership in a patchwork
nation of ethnic and religious groups. That’s left at least
10,000 dead, the UN estimates.  A translation into Farsi of Lavrov’s comments to reporters
in Tehran had him accusing the U.S. of helping to provide
weapons to Syrian rebels. The Russian Foreign Ministry in Moscow
later provided an audio recording that showed Lavrov didn’t
accuse the U.S. of arming the Syrian opposition.  “The  United States  has provided no military support to the
Syrian opposition, none,” Clinton said yesterday. “All of our
support has been medical and humanitarian, to help relieve the
suffering of the Syrian people, a total of $52 million so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  