-- Russian Investigator Threatened Reporter, Novaya Gazeta Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-06-13T16:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/russian-investigator-threatened-reporter-novaya-gazeta-says.html
Russia ’s chief investigator
threatened the life of the deputy editor of  Novaya Gazeta ,
according to an open letter published today in the newspaper.  Alexander Bastrykin , head of the Russian Investigative
Committee, made the threat in person after ordering Sergei
Sokolov to be taken to a wood outside Moscow on June 4,
according to the letter, which was addressed to him. The
committee’s press service declined to comment.  Novaya Gazeta’s editor, Dmitry Muratov, said Bastrykin was
responding to an article in the newspaper that criticized him
over the trial of suspects for a massacre of 12 people in the
southern Krasnodar region in 2010. Sokolov has left Russia for
his own safety, Muratov told the British Broadcasting Corp.’s
Russian-language service.  Russia is the world’s ninth most-dangerous country for
journalists, according to the New York-based Committee to
Protect Journalists, a media freedom watchdog. Seventy-seven
journalists have been killed in Russia since 2002, CPJ says.  President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said
the Russian leader was aware of the complaint “but it’s too
early to comment on situation.”  During the investigation of the November, 2010 mass murders
committed in Kushchevskaya, about 1,150 kilometers (719 miles)
south of Moscow, the government examined allegations that local
officials aided a group of criminals that terrorized the region
since the late 1990s.  Five reporters for Novaya Gazeta have been killed since
Putin came to power in 2000, including  Anna Politkovskaya , who
was shot in the head in her Moscow apartment building on Putin’s
birthday in 2006. Politkovskaya’s work alleged corruption under
the Russian leader and abuses by security forces in the mainly
Muslim region of Chechnya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  