-- Micex Climbs to 1-Month High as Stimulus Bets Spur Risk Appetite
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-13T15:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/russia-stocks-climb-on-stimulus-expectations-as-market-reopens.html
Russian stocks rose to a one-month
high as speculation U.S. and European policy makers will take
steps to boost growth stoked appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.6 percent to 1,346.43 by the close
in Moscow, the highest level since May 12. The gauge was closed
for trading on June 11 and 12 due to public holidays. OAO
Gazprom Neft added 3 percent and preferred shares of OAO
Surgutneftegas gained 2.8 percent. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s
biggest lender, climbed 1.8 percent.  U.S. stocks rallied yesterday after Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago President  Charles Evans  said he would support more
stimulus. Euro-area aid of up to 100 billion euros ($125
billion) for  Spain ’s banks will help bolster financial
stability, the  European Central Bank  said yesterday.  “The Russian market is gaining on the positive support
signals from earlier this week,”  Mark Rubinstein , the head of
research at Metropol Ifc in Moscow, said by phone. “The support
for Spanish banks is an important step.”  OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-biggest natural gas producer,
rose 1.1 percent to 326.11 rubles, the fifth day of gains and
the highest close in a month. The government may increase the
natural-gas extraction tax for the company and oil producers at
a slower rate than proposed by the  Finance Ministry  last month,
Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said today.  “There is hope that taxes will be lowered for Novatek,”
Rubinstein said.  ‘Firmly Fixated’  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for the
seventh week, registering a net outflow of $48 million in the
week ended June 6, compared with $8.2 million in the week
before, according to Troika Dialog, which cited EPFR Global
data.  “Investors are very firmly fixated on any indication of
further stimulus to come in the U.S. or  Europe ,”  Chris Weafer ,
a strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mailed
note.  Stocks pared gains earlier as retail sales in the U.S. fell
in May for a second month after slower employment and subdued
wage gains damped demand.  Greece  holds general elections on June
17 amid concern Europe’s fiscal crisis is spreading.  Crude, Russia’s biggest export earner, moved between gains
and losses, retreating as much as 1.4 percent. Russia received
almost 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last
year.  “Oil is not offering support to the market,” Mark Rubinstein, the head of research at Metropol Ifc in Moscow, said
by phone. “The market will remain cautious before the Greek
elections.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.7 percent to 919.24.
Russian stocks trade at 4.9 times  estimated earnings , having
lost 4 percent this year. That compares with a 0.3 percent gain
for the  MSCI Emerging-Market Index (MXEF)  which trades at 9.4 times
projected earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  