-- S. Africa Yields Hit Record Low as Rand Pares Gain on Rate Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-13T09:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/s-africa-yields-hit-record-low-as-rand-pares-gain-on-rate-bets.html
South African bonds advanced,
driving three-year yields to a record low, and the rand pared
gains before the release of data that may show retail sales in
 Africa ’s biggest economy slowing.  Yields on the nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.21 percent,
the lowest on a closing basis on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as
much as 0.5 percent before paring its advance, trading 0.1
percent stronger at 8.3893 as of 11:12 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Retail sales growth probably slowed to 4.1 percent in April
from 6.8 percent in the previous month, according to the median
 estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The data may add
to signs the economy is losing steam, easing pressure on the
central bank to lift rates from a three-decade low.  The retail sales data “are expected to reflect greater
weakness in the consumer sector” as “global economic prospects
continue to put a damper on the domestic outlook,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments. “We now place a
higher probability than before on a rescue-measure interest-rate
cut.”  Swaps  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , the fixed borrowing cost
between banks and a gauge of investors’ expectations of average
short-term rates in the next two years, dropped 3.5 basis points
today to 5.53 percent. The rate has declined from 6.21 percent
as recently as March 21.  The South African Reserve Bank has left its benchmark repo
rate at 5.5 percent since November 2010 to support economic
growth even as the  inflation  rate lifted above the 6 percent
target.  The rand gained after Japanese machinery orders rose more
than three times the pace estimated by economists, boosting the
price of metals including copper. Metals and other commodities
account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  “The focus remains on developments abroad,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “Given all that is set to unfold in
coming trading sessions and the amount of bad news already
priced in, traders will be reluctant to sit on any significant
trading positions.”  Greece  holds elections June 17 that may determine its
future in the euro area, which buys about a fifth of South
Africa’s exports. Italy and  Germany  are due to sell debt today
after Spanish bond yields rose to a euro-era record yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  