-- S&P Lowers Montenegro’s Credit Rating, Raises Outlook to Stable
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-13T12:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/s-p-lowers-montenegro-s-credit-rating-raises-outlook-to-stable.html
Montenegro’s sovereign-credit rating
was lowered one step at  Standard & Poor’s  to BB-, its third
highest non-investment grade, as the Balkan nation’s economy
slows and debt rises.  “The rating action reflects our view that the government
is facing increasing challenges to its efforts to stabilize
public debt levels given the weakening economic environment,
pressures arising from contingent liabilities, and diminishing
external bank financing,” S&P said in a statement today from
 London . The rating, which has a stable outlook, is level with
the former Soviet republic of  Georgia  and one step above Albania
and Ukraine.  The smallest of six former Yugoslav republics saw its
economy expand 2.5 percent last year to 3.27 billion euros ($4.1
billion), even as industrial production fell 10.3 percent. Its
budget gap was 143 million euros, or 4.37 percent of gross
domestic product, while public debt rose 16.75 percent to 1.48
billion euros, or 45.3 percent of GDP.  Growth will slow to 0.5 percent this year, S&P said in the
statement, as domestic demand remains subdued “due to anemic
credit growth and the large private-sector debt overhang.”
Meanwhile, the financial industry has continued to deleverage as
the local units of foreign banks “increasingly rely” on
domestic deposits to fund their loan books.  ‘Accumulated Arrears’  “The continuous withdrawal of credit from Montenegro’s
private sector has interrupted the flow of working capital into
the economy,” S&P said in the statement. “As a consequence,
several companies have accumulated arrears to both private and
public sector agents. Arrears accumulation is also hindering the
government’s ability to consolidate public finances.”  The government may not be able to meet its revised deficit
target of 2.5 percent of GDP this year, according to S&P,
because of tax collections shortfalls.  Montenegro accumulated a budget deficit of 84.7 million
euros in the first four months of the year compared with a full-
year target of 168.4 million euros, according to Finance
Ministry data. Public debt rose to 1.63 billion euros in April.  The stable outlook balances “our view of risks from any
further deterioration in the external environment against the
government’s general willingness to pursue reforms that address
economic weaknesses,”  S&P said a further downgrade may follow an assessment that
external refinancing needs were placing more-intense pressure on
the Montenegro economy “than we currently expect.” Labor
market and “business environment reforms” that would improve
economic competitiveness and diversify the economy would be the
key for the ratings upgrade, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  