-- Saturated Milk Fats May Raise Risk of Bowel Disorders
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-13T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/saturated-milk-fats-may-raise-risk-of-bowel-disorders.html
Diets high in saturated milk fats,
found in processed foods and sweets, may increase the risk of
developing immune disorders like inflammatory bowel disease in
those who are genetically predisposed, a study of mice found.  About 60 percent of mice fed a diet high in saturated milk
fats developed  ulcerative colitis , an autoimmune inflammatory
bowel disease, within six months, compared with about 25 to 30
percent of the animals who ate a low-fat diet or one high in
polyunsaturated fats such as safflower oil, according to
research online today in the  journal Nature . The severity and
extent of the colitis was much greater in the mice fed milk fats
than those fed low-fat diets, the study found.  Autoimmune disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease,
which include colitis and Crohn’s disease, are more common now
than 50 to 100 years ago, Eugene Chang, a senior study author,
said. Today’s findings show that environmental factors including
food may be contributing to the rise in these and other immune
disorders like asthma, he said.  “These immune disorders are all linked together. As we’re
beginning to understand the basis of these diseases they have
very common mechanism of actions that seem to cause them,” said
 Chang , a professor of medicine at the  University of Chicago , in
a June 11 telephone interview.  Multiple Effects  “They’re a combination of genetic susceptibility and
changes in environment,” he said. “In most cases the
environment alters the microbes that we live with and that
alters our relationship with our microbes. In most people, that
relationship we can compensate for but certain individuals have
a mutation or genetic factor that might cause them to react in
an abnormal way.”  Saturated fats are those that are solid and are found, for
example, in high-fat cuts of meat and cheeses and whole milk.
Milk fat is a type of  saturated fat  that’s left over when the
fat has been separated from butter and dehydrated into a
powdered substance. Milk fats are found in ice cream and
chocolate products such as chips and candy.  The researchers found that mice fed a diet high in milk fat
had more of a bacterium called Bilophila wadsworthia in their
gut than those fed other diets.  Milk fats are hard to digest, requiring the liver to
secrete a form of bile high in sulfur to help break them down in
the intestines, the researchers said. Bilophila wadsworthia
thrives on sulfur so when the fats reach the colon the bacteria
numbers increase. The bacteria can then activate the immune
system in those genetically prone to bowel diseases causing
colitis, they said.  Diet Crucial  “Environment plays such a huge role in human disease,”
Chang said. “In our study we are what we eat. If you had a
genetic abnormality and you grew up in parts of  Africa  or rural
areas of  Asia  you may not get any of these disorders but if you
come to a culture where the environmental signals and stimuli
are completely different and very artificial that may set off a
whole new relationship between you and the environment and
increase your risk for these disorders.”  Chang and Suzanne Devkota, a lead study author and post-
doctorate student at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston , said more
studies are needed to show whether a diet rich in milk fats
causes autoimmune diseases in humans and if changing the foods
people eat can reverse the diseases or prevent them from
occurring in those genetically predisposed.  The findings also don’t account for potential environmental
triggers for autoimmune diseases such as different dietary
components including the amount of lard or processed sugars
eaten which have been tied to the illnesses, Chang said.  Today’s study was funded in part by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health, the Gastrointestinal Research Foundation
and the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  