-- Savion Glover, McCoy Tyner, Jazz Meets Tap at Blue Note
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-06-13T13:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/savion-glover-mccoy-tyner-jazz-meets-tap-at-blue-note.html
Pianist  McCoy Tyner  will have the
best seat in the house tonight to enjoy his love affair with
percussion of all sorts.  The Philadelphia native will be at the Blue Note jazz club
backing up master tap dancer Savion Glover.  “The percussive approach of tap is almost like the
drums,” Tyner, 73, said by phone from his New Jersey home.
“There are different rhythmic patterns one can do with tap, and
there are certain things that people can do with their feet that
a drummer may not do.”  Glover’s gigs are part of the three-week  Blue Note Jazz
Festival , now in its second year. The concert series, which has
 artists performing  at various venues in  Manhattan  this month,
features straight-ahead jazz and acts that also cross the line
into pop, rhythm and blues, and folk.  The festival opened earlier this week with an unusual
pairing of banjo whiz Bela Fleck and jazz pianist Marcus
Roberts. Other artists include the Manhattan Transfer (June 19);
bassist Stanley Clarke and pianist-composer George Duke (June
26); and vocalist Cassandra Wilson (June 28-30).  Glover’s gigs this week will spotlight drum legend Jack
DeJohnette (Thursday and Friday), who has played with  Miles Davis  and  Herbie Hancock . On Saturday and Sunday, the age-
defying Roy Haynes, who continues to tour and record at age 87,
will take over the drum chair.  Roy Listens  “Roy is among the top drummers I’ve worked with,” Tyner
said. “He really listens to what” the bandleader does.  Tyner said tonight’s song list will include his classic
composition “Fly with the Wind,” the title song of a recording
he released in 1976, and “Ballad for Aisha,” which is
dedicated to his wife.  Tyner will return to the Blue Note on June 21 with the big-
band leader  Charles Tolliver  to recreate the music of
saxophonist John Coltrane’s 1961 genre-blending album,
“Africa/Brass.”  Tyner, who became a member of Coltrane’s group in 1960,
said the legendary saxophonist’s standards have become a
permanent part of his repertoire, along with his original
compositions.  “Some of the people who come to my shows are in their 20s
and 30s, and then there are the older people who remember me
when I was with John Coltrane,” Tyner said.  (Glover and Tyner perform tonight at the Blue Note, 131 W.
3rd St. in Manhattan at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Information: +1-
212-475-8592 or  http://www.bluenote.net/newyork/index.shtml ).  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 