-- HSBC Boosts Foreign-Currency Emerging Bonds After Yields Surge
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-13T18:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/hsbc-boosts-foreign-currency-emerging-bonds-after-yields-surge.html
HSBC Global Asset Management is
boosting holdings of foreign-currency debt in  emerging markets 
after concern efforts to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis will fail
sent yields to a five-month high.  HSBC’s  Total Return Fund (HTRAX)  has increased net investments in
emerging market debt and currencies to 76 percent at the end of
May from 45 percent at the start of April, Christian Deseglise,
the managing director who helps oversee $426 billion at HSBC
Global Asset Management for the Americas, said in an interview
yesterday. The bank favors quasi-sovereign and corporate debt,
he said.  Dollar-denominated emerging-market bonds declined last
month for the first time since November on concern that the
deepening debt crisis in Europe may slow global growth. The
 average yields  investors demand to hold emerging-market bonds
instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened to a five-month high of 441
basis points, or 4.41 percentage points, on June 1, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  “We think a lot of the correction is behind us and the
 debt market  overreacted,” Deseglise said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “Getting more than 400
basis points in an asset class which is investment-grade, which
is improving in terms of quality, seems to us like a good
trade.”  Among emerging market assets, foreign-currency bonds are
best positioned to protect investors from the European turmoil
because they are free of the foreign-exchange risks, according
to Pablo Goldberg, head of global emerging markets research at
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.  “In the distribution of risks presented by the different
asset classes, investors need to ask what are my potential
downside in a bad scenario in equities, foreign exchange, local
bonds and hard currency,” Goldberg said in the interview. “The
answer is, you’re better off protected with hard currency
emerging-market debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  