-- Sears Chief Says Chain Open to Selling Assets in Turnaround
-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-13T20:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/sears-ceo-says-chain-open-to-selling-assets-in-turnaround-effort.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the retailer
controlled by  Edward Lampert , is open to selling assets as it
works to turn itself around, its chief executive said.  “If there are assets that make sense to be brought in to
the portfolio, we are open to that discussion as well,” Lou D’Ambrosio said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Sears posted first-quarter profit of $189 million last
month after spinning off smaller format stores and selling some
locations, and following a $3.1 billion loss last year. It also
has announced plans to spin off part of its Canada business. The
asset sales and declining revenue since Lampert merged Sears and
Kmart in 2005 have prompted speculation that he’s in the process
of breaking up or liquidating the company.  “If that is the case, nobody has shared that with me,”
D’Ambrosio said. “We have an asset-rich portfolio. We are
evaluating whether assets are more valuable inside or outside
the portfolio.”  D’Ambrosio led a walk through a redesigned store near the
company’s  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , headquarters, highlighting
new mannequins by the entrance and a fitness department that has
doubled in size. Sears is the top seller of fitness equipment,
he said.  The retailer, whose Craftsman tools and Kenmore appliances
are leading brands, recently reported increases in clothing
sales after years of declines. Its Kardashian clothing line,
introduced last year, is attracting new customers of various
ages, D’Ambrosio said.  D’Ambrosio told shareholders at the company’s annual
meeting last month that selling its Lands’ End clothing brand
wouldn’t be difficult, adding that the company wasn’t currently
shopping the unit.  Sears fell 3.6 percent to $48.84 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 54 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  