-- Senate Republicans Press NRC Chief-Designee on Management Skills
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-13T15:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/senate-republicans-press-nrc-chief-designee-on-management-skills.html
U.S. Senate Republicans questioned
 Allison Macfarlane ’s skills to lead the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, citing a lack of experience that would prepare her
to run an agency with 4,000 employees.  Macfarlane, a 48-year-old geologist, pledged in testimony
today to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee to be
collegial if confirmed to replace  Gregory Jaczko , who is
quitting after colleagues accused him of bullying the staff.  “It’s my hope that Dr. Macfarlane can step in to be a
valuable member of the commission, although I have some concerns
about her lack of management and nuclear-safety experience,”
Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , top Republican on the
committee, said today at a confirmation hearing.  The agency has been split in the past year, with Jackzo
frequently voting against the four commissioners on issues such
as licensing new reactor construction and standards responding
to the disaster at Japan’s Fukushima in 2011. The NRC watchdog
faulted Jaczko for limiting the commissioners’ decision-making
power and withholding information.  Criticism of Macfarlane has been muted as committee
Chairman  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, combined the
hearing for Macfarlane with consideration of the renomination of
Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, who joined the panel in 2008
during  George W. Bush ’s administration. Jaczko announced his
resignation on May 21.  Open, Transparent  Macfarlane, a professor at  George Mason University  in
Virginia,  pledged  to be open and transparent in running the
agency that oversees 104 U.S. commercial reactors.  “I will devote all my energies to serving on the NRC with
the attributes that I consider important to good governance --
openness, efficiency and transparency,” said said in her
testimony. “I will make a strong commitment to collegiality at
all levels.”  Boxer criticized Svinicki today for withholding information
about her involvement in the analysis of the Yucca Mountain
nuclear waste repository, and cited two letters from
unidentified “concerned Americans” that oppose her
renomination because of her opposition to safety measures.  Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent, called
Svinicki an advocate for the nuclear-power industry when he said
commissioners should be neither an advocate nor an opponent of
atomic power.  Democrats and Republicans on the committee expressed
interest in moving promptly through the nomination process to
have a complete and functional commission as soon as possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  