-- Earmark-Free Bills Push Senators to Get Creative
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-14T00:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/senator-sweetens-farm-bill-for-michigan-growers-in-post-e.html
Democrat  Debbie Stabenow  helped
secure $744.2 million in targeted spending for her home state of
Michigan in the first three years of her current term in the
 U.S. Senate .  As Stabenow seeks a third term, such earmarks are no longer
allowed, so like every senator seeking re-election she has had
to get creative about finding alternative ways to convince
voters that she is working for them.  Stabenow, chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, is using
the $969 billion measure she wrote to set U.S. farm and food
policy for the next five years in part as a campaign vehicle.
She persuaded Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to let her bring
up the legislation early so she could tout its expanded
assistance to farmers -- including Michigan fruit growers, who
have suffered crippling crop losses this spring.  “The absence of earmarks as a kind of beacon to voters
that their interests are being looked after is a real problem,”
said  Ross Baker , a congressional scholar at  Rutgers University 
in New Brunswick,  New Jersey . “You kind of need a flag to plant
to demonstrate to your constituents that you’re on the job and
that your activities are supportive of their interests.”  Congress eliminated earmarks two years ago following an
outcry that lawmakers’ focus on money for pet projects was
contributing to the growing U.S.  budget deficit  and  debt . The
rules changed, though the imperative to show results for local
interests hasn’t.  Symbolic Action  Cullen Schwarz, a spokesman for Stabenow, said in an e-mail
that the farm bill “helps farmers and business owners in all 50
states continue to create agriculture jobs” and said its timing
was not politically motivated.  “With the current farm bill expiring in September, it is
Senator Stabenow’s job as Chairwoman of the Agriculture
Committee to help pass a new farm bill before the deadline,”
Schwarz said.  Banning earmarks was more symbolic than substantive: In a
given year, they typically amounted to no more than 1 percent of
the federal budget, according the Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget, a Washington-based bipartisan policy research
group.  Still, Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has given members of his
party in competitive races this year opportunities to use the
Senate floor to champion causes that may resonate with voters in
their states. The strategy is designed to help ensure that
Senate Democrats, who are defending 23 seats in November
compared with 10 for Republicans, don’t appear out of touch with
constituents’ needs, particularly in a post-earmark environment.  ‘Crucial Tool’  Washington Democrat Maria Cantwell, who is seeking a third
term, sponsored an amendment to extend the Export-Import Bank’s
charter. The  Boeing Co. (BA) , which has two major production
facilities in Washington state, pressed hard for the measure, a
version of which the Senate sent to President Barack Obama in
May, days before the bank’s authority to provide loan support
for exports, such as Boeing aircraft, was to expire.  “The Export-Import Bank is a crucial tool to support  job
creation  and manufacturing in Washington state and around the
country,” Cantwell spokesman Jared Leopold said in an e-mail.  West Virginia Democrat  Joe Manchin , seeking his first full
term in a Republican-leaning state, sponsored an amendment that
would extend a moratorium on closing postal facilities,
including a mail processing center in Bluefield, West Virginia.  “Joe Manchin always has and always will fight for the
people of West Virginia,” the senator’s spokeswoman, Emily Bittner, said in an e-mail.  Populist Proposals  Reid also has tapped Democrats seeking re-election to take
to the Senate floor to promote legislation designed to advance
the party’s populist message.  Pennsylvania Democrat Bob Casey, running for a second term,
was the lead sponsor of the Democrats’ proposal to extend a
payroll tax cut through the end of the year. On March 29,
Republicans blocked New Jersey Democrat Bob Menendez’s measure
to rescind or limit tax credits for large  oil companies ,
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and ConocoPhillips. Menendez, who was chairman of
Senate Democrats’ campaign efforts in 2010, is seeking a second
term.  Reid is “mindful” of the Democrats “he’s got to
protect” to keep his majority, Baker said. Those who are up for
re-election “will continue to get opportunities to showcase
their activities by introducing bills and amendments,” he
added.  Vulnerable Senators  Although they don’t control the Senate’s agenda,
Republicans there have been seizing on chances to highlight
legislation championed by vulnerable senators.  Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts stood next to Obama in
April when the president signed a bill he co-sponsored that
would let small businesses seek early capital investors on the
Internet. Brown is in a competitive race against Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard University professor and architect
of Obama’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Polls show
Obama leading former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the
state.  Also, polls show Stabenow with a solid lead over her two
most probable Republican challengers, former Representative Pete Hoekstra and Clark Durant, co-founder of a group of Detroit
charter schools. Still, Senate passage of the farm bill could
help inoculate her against criticism that she isn’t doing enough
to help the state’s farmers.  ‘Every Station’  “You can bet when this agriculture bill is done, she will
probably be on every radio station in the state,” said John Truscott, who was an aide to former  Michigan  Governor  John Engler , a Republican.  Abnormally warm temperatures in mid-March followed by a
freeze ravaged Michigan’s fruit crops. A Michigan State
University  study  estimated that the erratic weather resulted in
a $209.8 million crop loss and wiped out about 90 percent of the
state’s tart cherry, peach, apple and grape production for the
year.  Michigan typically produces three-fourths of the nation’s
tart cherries. The cherries and other fruit crops damaged in
Michigan would have more protections under the expanded
insurance system in the farm bill.  “I really wish we had the current bill in place” before
the crop disaster, Stabenow told reporters earlier this month.  The current law authorizing farm programs expires Sept. 30.  ‘Politically Strategic’  Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the
Republican leadership, said “political ramifications” of the
farm bill probably caused the chamber’s Democratic leaders to
bring it up this spring.  “They’re clearly being somewhat politically strategic in
how they are scheduling the floor,” Thune said in an interview.
“There’s no question about that.”  Reid’s spokesman, Adam Jentleson, confirmed that Stabenow
pressed Reid to bring the farm bill to the floor.  “Just like any other senator who has an issue that’s
important to them -- they do the same thing,” he said.  Stabenow’s $744.2 million in earmarks over three years were
tallied by Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group in
 Washington  that opposes the practice.  Stabenow called agriculture the “bright spot” in
Michigan’s economic recovery, adding that the legislation would
provide needed certainty to farmers.  Family Businesses  Ben LaCross, a northern Michigan grower of cherries, apples
and plums, told reporters last week that his farm would be in
“free fall” without federal assistance, adding that Stabenow’s
measure would expand the tools available to help farmers cope
with crop failures like the one this year.  “Crop insurance will help keep family businesses like mine
in business,” LaCross said.  Jennifer Duffy , who tracks Senate races for the nonpartisan
Cook Political Report, said in an interview that from a
political standpoint, consideration of the farm bill allows
Stabenow to emphasize benefits to Michigan that stem from having
someone senior enough to head the Agriculture Committee in the
Senate.  “There’s also obviously an effort to try to show her
seniority and that she’s a little indispensable because she has
the chairmanship, and that can be nothing but good for Michigan
and Michigan farmers,” Duffy said.  The farm bill is S. 3240.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  