-- Russia’s Appalling Cynicism on Syria
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-13T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/sending-gunships-to-assad-displays-breathtaking-cynicism.html
According to  Hillary Clinton , a
delivery of helicopter gunships is on its way from  Russia  to
President Bashar Al-Assad in Syria. If so, any prospect of a
managed end to the bloodshed there is dwindling fast, and Russia
will bear responsibility.  Foreign military intervention will eventually come if
diplomacy fails. The only questions will be when, what form that
intervention will take and who will carry it out. In the
meantime, many thousands more Syrians will likely die.  Clinton, the U.S. secretary of state, did not reveal
details of the alleged shipment and a Bloomberg News report,
citing Russian officials, suggests the helicopters in question
are part of a four-year-old contract to refurbish 20  Mi-24 
gunships that  Syria  bought long ago. Whether these choppers are
new or refurbished is irrelevant. At a time when the regime in
Damascus has just started using combat helicopters to attack its
domestic opponents, it’s troubling that Russia would be choosing
to send more.  Putin’s statement just a week ago, that his country wasn’t
supplying any arms to Assad that could be used domestically, now
appears breathtaking in its cynicism. Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said Wednesday in response to Clinton that Russia was
only supplying air defense equipment against an external attack.
We’re sorry, helicopter gunships don’t count.  Bloomberg View was an early proponent of  efforts  by the
U.S. administration and United Nations-Arab League envoy  Kofi Annan  to persuade Russia’s leadership to cooperate in effecting
a Yemen-style transition in Syria. Under such an arrangement,
Assad would leave power and those left behind would negotiate a
political settlement. Russia would play a significant role in
that process and its aftermath.  We still believe this would be the best way to save lives
in Syria and to ensure against contagion in a rolling sectarian
conflict between Sunnis and Shiites that could destabilize the
region. Talks snagged over Russia’s demand that  Iran , Syria’s
No. 1 backer, should be at the table. But if Russia’s response
to such overtures is to resupply Assad with attack helicopters,
the attempt is clearly doomed.  Putin, it’s worth remembering, does not believe in popular
uprisings, at home and abroad. He appears to be convinced that
the Arab Spring was inspired, organized and manipulated by the
West, to Russia’s strategic detriment. This view disregards the
rights and choices of millions of individuals from  Tunisia  to
Syria. It also, apparently, outweighs the reputational and
diplomatic costs of aiding butchery in Syria.  There are, of course, two sides to this conflict. The pace
of fighting increased significantly in recent weeks, as anti-
tank weapons -- purchased with money from  Saudi Arabia  and  Qatar 
-- arrived in rebel hands. Those weapons quickly took a toll on
a Syrian army that had been able to operate with near impunity.
It’s hard to quibble with the right of rebel forces to fight
back with the best weapons they can get. But the escalation
involved has demonstrated some of the risks that have caused us
to oppose arming  the opposition .  It is no coincidence that some of the worst atrocities of
the conflict to date have taken place in step with this arms
escalation. Nor is it a coincidence that the regime has, for the
first time, deployed combat helicopters, as confirmed by Annan’s
UN observers. That’s a logical, if lamentable, step for Syria’s
military to take once its tanks have become vulnerable to
attack.  An  article  in the Wall Street Journal on Wednesday traced a
pattern of refugee accusations and movements on the ground that
suggest the Syrian military is trying to clear safe, homogenous
zones for Syria’s 10 percent Alawite minority along the coast,
with a corridor to the capital, Damascus. Such planned ethnic
cleansing is all too reminiscent of the 1992-1995 war in Bosnia,
where about 100,000 people died in a country with less than a
fifth of Syria’s population.  Syria has not yet sunk so deep, but it could get there. The
last best chance to arrest the fall comes next week in  Mexico  at
the Group of 20 summit. There, President  Barack Obama  and others
need to make the case to Putin that sending Assad more combat
helicopters will guarantee not a Syrian government victory but a
further arms escalation, probably in the form of shoulder-held
anti-aircraft weapons sold to the rebels to shoot down gunships
newly arrived from Russia.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  measuring methane leaks ;
 Caroline Baum  on  the Federal Reserve’s next move ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  why you’re even poorer than you thought ; William D.
Cohan on  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ;  Ezra Klein  on  Venture
For America ; Nicholas Polson on  recognizing smart money ; Amar
Bhide and Christopher Papagianis on  fixing money-market mutual
funds ; Jonathan Reiss on  improving regional Fed boards .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 