-- Tsipras Bets He Can Keep EU Aid Flowing While Ending Austerity
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-06-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/tsipras-expects-greece-to-stay-in-euro-after-repeal-of-austerity.html
Alexis Tsipras is betting he can
have it all. The leader of  Greece ’s Syriza party aims to win
over voters by promising an end to punishing austerity while
keeping the European Union’s financial-aid flowing.  “We have no sense that European partners will follow this
tactic of blackmail heard from some quarters and stop funding,”
Tsipras, whose party is vying for first place in  polls before
June 17 elections, said in an interview in Athens yesterday with
Bloomberg Television. “Something like that would be
catastrophic not only for Greece but for the entire euro area.”  Tsipras’s pledge to abrogate the terms of the bailout
amounts to a bet the EU will stop short of kicking Greece out of
the 17-nation euro. The cuts required for 240 billion euros
($303 billion) of aid from the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund  have deepened the worst recession since World War II.
Greeks vote a second time in six weeks in three days after a May
6 ballot failed to yield a government.  Tsipras is “promising miracles,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a
research fellow at the Peterson Institute of International
Economics in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.
“Things in Greece, economically and politically, can get a lot
worse. That’s not something that’s very easy to sell to Greek
voters but I think that’s the reality.”  While some euro-area leaders, such as Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , have signaled their willingness to
ease some conditions of the aid, policy makers have rejected
suggestions that aid won’t be tied to tough conditions.  ‘Seldom Fair’  “Crises are seldom fair,” German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Stern magazine in comments published
yesterday. “If the country wants to become competitive again,
the minimum wage has to sink.”  Syriza was propelled to second place in the inconclusive
May 6 vote. Most opinion polls show Syriza and  New Democracy ,
which backs the bailout, running even for first place. According
to the last opinion polls on June 1, neither has enough support
at this point to rule alone.  Tsipras, 37, has said he’ll try to keep Greece in the euro
while pledging to cancel austerity measures.  Fitch Ratings  said
today that a Greek exit from the euro would have a “severe”
indirect impact on banks throughout the euro area, requiring a
“robust” response from policy makers to prevent contagion.  Investors will target debt-laden Italy, a Group of Eight
country and the third-largest euro economy, if Greece is ejected
from the currency, Tsipras said. “When you give a sign that a
country can be led to hell, then they will rush to attack the
next weak link, which is  Italy .”  Euro ‘Convictions’  Tsipras’s view that Greece won’t be kicked out of the euro,
membership of which is seen as irrevocable by its founding
treaty, “is based on the analyses of the most credible European
and international economists, cost-and-benefit analyses of one
or the other scenario,” he said in response to a question on
whether he has been in touch with any EU official. “Our
conviction isn’t based on public relations or on some
confirmations from politicians.”  “Tsipras is misreading Greece’s European partners,
especially the Nordic countries, as there is no willingness to
give in to blackmail,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  London .  Syriza Proposals  A Syriza-led government would revoke all austerity measures
that have deepened the economic slump and enact a plan for
economic and social development, taxes on the wealthy,
nationalize “and socialize” banks while seeking a
renegotiation of the loan agreement.  “We have empty funds, public funds, bankrupt pension funds
and a banking system hanging from a thread,” he said. “The
most important thing right now is to restore a climate of
confidence.”  Worried Greeks have accelerated bank withdrawals, two
bankers familiar with the situation said, on concern the nation
may move closer to abandoning the euro. The outflow is
increasing the strain on a banking system that has suffered
since the beginning of the crisis. An exit from the euro would
cut lenders off from access to ECB funding.  Tsipras said he’ll argue for a European-wide deposit
guarantee, if elected, at the EU summit on June 28.  “To stop these outflows, this hemorrhage from the
financial system, it is imperative to have support from all
political sides that we’re working to stabilize the  Greek
economy ”, he said. “This scare-mongering on Greece leaving the
euro must stop.”  Inconclusive Vote  Syriza’s unexpected gains in the May 6 election left New
Democracy and Pasok, which supported the second international
rescue in an interim government this year, two deputies short of
the 151 seats needed for a majority in Parliament.  Syriza won 16.8 percent of the vote compared with New
Democracy’s 18.9 percent. Under Greek election rules, the
winning party gets an extra 50 seats in Parliament.  “It would be an incomprehensible, historical mistake today
if European leaders could believe that a  Europe  without Greece
could continue,” Tsipras said. “An EU without Greece would be
a politically, economically and culturally crippled Union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in Athens at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  