-- BSkyB, BT Win Rights to Premier League for Record Amount
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-14T17:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/sky-wins-bidding-to-show-116-english-premier-league-soccer-games.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  slumped in London trading after paying a record
3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) to win the bidding to show
English Premier League soccer matches.  BSkyB, the U.K.’s largest pay-television broadcaster, lost
3.5 percent to 671 pence, the steepest drop in seven months. BT
fell 3.5 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to 201.70 pence.  BSkyB, which relies on exclusive sports broadcasts to
retain and win subscribers, will pay more than analysts had
estimated, increasing spending on the soccer rights by 40
percent. BT, the U.K.’s largest Internet provider, will acquire
the live rights for the first time, using the matches to start a
new sports channel.  “It speaks to how important Premier League rights are to
the Sky model,” said Patrick Yau, an analyst at Peel Hunt in
 London . “Sky has become synonymous with coverage of the league,
so to maintain its position, it was prepared to pay as much as
it did.”  BSkyB’s pay-TV Sky channel will show 116 matches starting
in the 2013-14 season, with BT getting 38 matches. The sale of
the seven packages raises 3.02 billion pounds, compared with
1.77 billion pounds in the current pact, the league said
yesterday. BT will pay 246 million pounds a season.  BSkyB has held rights to Britain’s top soccer games since
the Premier League’s inception in 1992. Rival broadcaster
Setanta collapsed in 2009 and paved the way for  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports channel, which yesterday lost the right to
show Premier League matches after the next season.  Paying More  BSkyB will pay 760 million pounds per season, while
analysts in a Bloomberg survey were estimating about a 20
percent increase to about 649 million pounds  The broadcaster, in which  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns
39 percent, won’t pass on the additional costs to its more than
10 million subscribers, said a person familiar with the matter,
declining to be named as the plans are confidential. BSkyB will
pay for the increase by cutting operational costs and slowing
spending on other programming, the person said.  The broadcaster will need to save an additional 140 million
pounds, Peel Hunt’s Yau said.  “Investors in BT might justifiably think this wasn’t one
of the options they thought they were buying into,” Citigroup
analyst Simon Weeden said.  YouView Platform  BT will gain rights to 18 out of the 38 top tier matches
available, showing games including the traditional New Year’s
Day match on the new connected TV platform YouView, said Marc
Watson, chief executive officer of BT’s television service,
which has about 700,000 clients. BT will also offer fiber
broadband packages alongside the games, he said in an interview.  “It’s going to take a while to build, of course it is,”
said Watson, a former independent league rights negotiator.
“But we think we’ll start picking up customers quite quickly
because customers are going to want to watch these matches.”  The new deal means for the first time a broadcaster outside
of BSkyB will show matches between Arsenal, Liverpool,
Manchester United and Chelsea. The teams had been known as the
’Big Four’ prior to the emergence of  Manchester City  and
Tottenham. The Premier League has increased the total number of
live matches shown to a record in the new contracts, which cover
the 2013-14 to 2015-16 campaigns.  “BT have secured highly attractive highly competitive
games,” Premier League Chief Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  said yesterday. “That’s a game changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  