-- South Sudan Refugee Water Shortage Killing Up to 10 People Daily
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-06-13T10:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/south-sudan-refugee-water-shortage-killing-up-to-10-people-daily.html
As many as 10 refugees are dying
daily as water runs out in camps in South  Sudan  hosting an
influx of people fleeing fighting in Sudan’s Blue Nile state,
the aid group Medicines Sans Frontieres said.  Voitek Asztabski, an emergency coordinator with MSF, said
people died on the road during a 25-kilometer (16-mile) trek to
a camp in South Sudan’s Upper Nile state after water ran out at
another site four days ago, forcing thousands to leave.  “That was quite a horrifying activity being witnessed by
us here,” Asztabski said today by satellite telephone from the
Kilometer 18 transit camp where MSF has stored water. Rains made
roads impassable for trucks, he said.  Sudan’s military and the rebel Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement-North have been fighting in the Southern Kordofan and
Blue Nile states over the past year. There are now at least
152,000 Sudanese refugees from the conflict in  South Sudan ’s
Upper Nile and Unity states, according to the United Nations
refugee agency, UNHCR.  Between five to 10 people are dying every day either
walking to water sources or in clinics at two camps, MSF Deputy
Head of Mission in South Sudan Tara Newell said by telephone
today from Juba, the capital. That figure does not include a
third camp, and the aid agency is conducting a mortality survey
to get more accurate data, she said.  ‘Major Crisis’  Relations between the two countries have deteriorated since
South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July after a referendum on
independence, the culmination of a 2005 peace agreement intended
to end a two-decade civil war. The south kept three-quarters of
the formerly united country’s oil output of about 490,000
barrels a day.  Negotiations mediated by the  African Union  will resume on
June 21 to discuss a dispute over the fees South Sudan should
pay to export its oil through Sudan’s pipelines and processing
network, as well as territorial disputes and security.  The talks have not yet halted the refugee flow, as another
15,000 people are expected to cross the border in the coming
days or weeks, Asztabski said.  “We are expecting a major crisis once the water source
dries out at Kilometer 18,” he said. Aid agencies have not had
the money or capacity to put a contingency plan in place for
when water runs out there within the next three weeks, he said.  UNHCR said it talking with South Sudanese authorities and
local communities to identify alternative camp sites, the agency
said in e-mailed statement on June 11.  In an April report,  Human Rights Watch  said civilians are
victims of indiscriminate bombing carried out by Sudan’s
military. Khartoum has repeatedly denied bombing civilians.  Asztabski said refugees tell “horrific stories” of
fleeing their villages to escape aerial attacks. Some have
walked for as long as two months to reach the border, and many
arrive malnourished and sick, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  