-- South African Shares: Clicks, Coal of Africa, ELB Group, Jubilee
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-13T15:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/south-african-shares-clicks-coal-of-africa-elb-group-jubilee.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
rose to its highest closing level in more than a month, gaining
0.3 percent to 33,969.06 by the close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active equities in the
market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Clicks Group Ltd. (CLS)  , a South African retailer, fell
for the first time in six days, dropping 0.6 percent to 51 rand.
Michael Harvey, an executive director of the group and managing
director of its Clicks division, resigned.  Coal of Africa Ltd.  (CZA SJ), a coal miner, headed for its
biggest gain in more than two weeks, jumping 4.7 percent to 4.87
rand. The estimated coal resource at the Greater Soutpansberg
asset in  South Africa ’s Limpopo province increased more than
fivefold, the company said in a statement.  ELB Group Ltd. (ELR)  , an investment trust, advanced to
the highest in three weeks, climbing 3.6 percent to 21.50 rand.
The company’s engineering unit entered into an agreement with
Sasol Mining Pty Ltd., a unit of Sasol Ltd., to build a colliery
material handling system worth about 870 million rand ($104
million).  Jubilee Platinum Plc (JBL)  , a miner of the metal, rose
to the highest in almost two weeks, climbing 3.5 percent to 1.50
rand. The company was awarded the rights to recover platinum-
group elements from chromite tailings on the Dilokeng mine in
South Africa’s Mpumalanga Province, it said in a statement
today.  Wescoal Holdings Ltd. (WSL)   jumped to the highest
closing price in more than two weeks, rising 3.3 percent to 62
cents. Earnings per share for the year through March rose to
11.5 cents to 13 cents, compared with a 29.11 cent loss a year
earlier, the coal miner said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  