-- South Korea Jobless Rate Declines to Four-Month Low of 3.2%
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-06-13T00:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/south-korea-jobless-rate-declines-to-four-month-low-of-3-2-1-.html
South Korea ’s  unemployment  rate fell
to a four-month low last month as hiring in the service sector
continued to increase.  The  jobless rate  was at 3.2 percent, compared with 3.4
percent in April, Statistics Korea said today in Gwacheon, south
of Seoul. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists was 3.4 percent.  Risks to economic growth from  Europe ’s turmoil are
increasing,  Bank of Korea  policy makers said in a statement
after they kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 12th straight
month in June. Spain’s benchmark borrowing costs climbed to a
record yesterday, raising the specter of sovereign bailouts for
the government in  Madrid  and then  Italy  that would stretch
European Union finances to their limit.  “Korean producers are becoming more cautious, which may
weaken output growth over the coming months,” Ronald Man, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before the
data was released. “Lower production will weigh on employment
growth and pose a risk to overall domestic activity.”  Exports in  Asia ’s fourth largest economy contracted for the
third consecutive month in May. Shipments to the European Union
declined 16.4 percent from a year earlier in the first 20 days
of May, according to government statistics.  Confidence Drops  At the same time, manufacturers’ confidence dropped from a
nine-month high, with the index measuring expectations for June
dropping to 86 from 90 in May, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in Seoul on May 29. A measure of expectations at non-
manufacturing companies also declined to 83 from 85.  The won fell 0.4 percent to 1,170.55 per dollar in Seoul
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index declined 0.7 percent.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told reporters on June 3 that
the government will announce measures to support small companies
and exporters at the end of this month, vowing to allocate
additional state funds.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at 3.1 percent
in May, compared with 3.5 percent in April, today’s report
showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  