-- Spain Bailout Made Crisis Worse, JPMorgan's Morris Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-13T12:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/spain-bailout-made-crisis-worse-jpmorgan-s-morris-says.html
Europe ’s decision to provide  Spain 
with as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to rescue its
banks has deepened the currency bloc’s crisis as it undermines
confidence in the government’s ability to finance itself,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. StrategistDaniel Morris said.  “When they went for the bailout, in some way you made it
worse,” Morris said in an interview in  Stockholm  today.
“Because if they couldn’t come up with the 100 billion euros
for the banks, where are they going to come up with the 300
billion euros that they need over the next few years for their
own funding?”  Since Spain on June 9 became the fourth euro nation to seek
a bailout, its borrowing costs have soared. The country’s 10-
year bond yield reached a euro-area record yesterday of 6.834
percent, signaling investors doubt the rescue package will solve
Spain’s woes. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who as recently as
May 28 said he wouldn’t seek a bailout, described the deal as a
 credit line  for lenders with no fiscal austerity strings
attached.  Spanish authorities have “put themselves in this position
where they almost have to bite the bullet and accept the
 interest rates ,” Morris said. “If they go for the full
bailout, you won’t have any more money left at that point and we
know Greece needs more money under even the best scenario, let
alone if Portugal or Ireland do as well.”  Inflame Anxiety  A full Spanish bailout would inflame anxiety over  Italy ’s
health, Morris said. Italy’s 10-year borrowing costs were little
changed today at 6.17 percent today, compared with 5.77 percent
before Spain announced its rescue deal.  The fate of the euro ultimately hinges on the outcome of
Greek elections on June 17, as speculation mounts that a victory
for anti-austerity parties would trigger an exit from the
currency bloc, Morris said. He places the probability of such an
event at 25 percent to 33 percent, he said.  JPMorgan’s main scenario is that  Greece  will stay in the
euro and continue to “muddle through” the crisis, Morris said.  “Fundamentally, for all these countries in Europe, they
have to find ways to get the economies to grow faster and it
really does come back to structural reform,” he said. “There
is no way around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  