-- Spain to Keep Existing Tools for Bank Cleanup, Defying Finland
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-13T12:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/spain-to-keep-existing-tools-for-bank-cleanup-defying-finland.html
Spain  countered calls from  Finland 
to use the European bailout to purge the financial system,
saying it would continue to seek to prop up and restructure
failing lenders.  Spain’s FROB bank-bailout fund, conduit for as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) of European funds, has bought
preference shares, ordinary shares and contingent convertible
securities in struggling banks as well as failed lenders before
selling them at auction.  “For the future we should expect something very similar to
what the FROB has already done to provide institutions with
support,” Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre told
reporters in  Madrid  today. Closing down banks isn’t a “probable
option because it wouldn’t be the most efficient.”  His comments contrast with those of officials in Finland,
one of the euro region’s six AAA rated nations. Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen  said on June 11 that unhealthy banks should be
“brought down” and some banks should be split up so that the
viable parts can continue and the rest ends up in a so-called
bad bank.  Euro-region finance ministers said on June 9 that the aid
will be tied to conditions that will be imposed on banks
receiving aid, without giving details. Negotiations are
continuing and Jimenez Latorre said he hopes the conditions will
be fixed in the coming days.  Either the temporary European Financial Stability Facility
or its permanent successor will be used, depending on when funds
are needed and how soon the European Stability Mechanism comes
into effect, Jimenez Latorre said.  “If there are needs in the short term and only one
instrument is available because the ESM hasn’t yet been ratified
by all  member states , logically the existing fund will be
used,” he said. “Once the transitory fund becomes permanent,
we can use the other one: whatever funds are available will be
used depending on the needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  