-- Sri Lanka Holds Rates to Sustain Growth as Rupee Fans Prices
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-06-13T02:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/sri-lanka-holds-rates-to-sustain-growth-as-rupee-fans-prices-1-.html
Sri Lanka  kept  interest rates 
unchanged for a second month, opting to shield growth from
tumbling exports even as a slump in the rupee fans inflation.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  left the  reverse repurchase 
rate at 9.75 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.75 percent,
according to a statement on its website today. Seven of eight
economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted no change in the
reverse repurchase rate, with one expecting a 0.25 percentage-
point cut. Six of eight economists forecast an unchanged
repurchase rate, with one respondent expecting a quarter-point
increase and another a 25 basis-points cut.  Sri Lanka raised borrowing costs in February and April and
has let its currency weaken to a record low as part of a policy
overhaul that seeks to damp imports, narrow a trade deficit and
protect foreign reserves. The rupee’s drop has contributed to
inflation running at a nine-month high, while a 9.2 percent fall
in exports in April exacerbated the island’s trade imbalance as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbs Asian shipments.  “Concerns over growth seem to be overriding inflation
worries at present,” Samantha Amerasinghe, a Colombo-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the decision.
“Falling oil prices may ease price pressures going forward.”  Sri Lanka joins Asian neighbors from  Pakistan  to  Indonesia 
in leaving interest rates unchanged. Asian officials are
striving to support their economies as the possibility of a
Greek exit from the euro area darkens the global outlook.  Rupee, Inflation  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, rose 7 percent in
May from a year earlier after gaining 6.1 percent in April.
Inflation has been fanned by  exchange-rate  depreciation, the
central bank said, adding economic growth will moderate from the
second quarter.  The rupee touched 133.5 per dollar yesterday, its lowest
level, after the central bank in February moved to a more freely
floating exchange rate and as Europe’s debt crisis saps demand
for emerging-market assets. The currency has dropped about 17
percent in the past year. The  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  of stocks
is down 33 percent in the same period.  “We think that the policy measures that we have taken so
far have been working in the way that we have expected it to
work,” Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “In that sense there doesn’t seem to
be any reason to change any of the policy measures that we have
put in motion.”  Credit Growth  The drop in the rupee will help to narrow the island’s
trade shortfall and its currency reserves will keep building
this year, the central bank said in today’s statement. Private-
sector credit growth was significantly lower in April, it said.  Aside from increasing borrowing costs and allowing the
rupee to weaken, officials also raised fuel and energy prices in
February to curb inward shipments of oil.  The policy overhaul is starting to work and officials
shouldn’t “rush” into further steps, Treasury Secretary P.B.
Jayasundera said two days ago.  Imports fell 3.3 percent in April from a year earlier, the
first decline in more than two years. The trade deficit was $761
million, widening 2.6 percent from the same period in 2011.
Foreign reserves stood at $5.84 billion.  “If we do find that the import demand is rising once again
for whatever reason, then we will need to take further measures,
but right now the view of the monetary board was that it should
probably come down and not go up,” Cabraal said today.  He has previously said average inflation may accelerate to
7 percent in 2012. The central bank governor today reiterated a
forecast of 7.2 percent economic growth this year, compared with
8.3 percent in 2011. Sri Lanka’s expansion has picked up after
its civil war ended in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  