-- St. Jude’s Durata Linked to Case of Externalized Wire
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/st-jude-s-durata-linked-to-case-of-externalized-wire.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Durata, a
wire used to connect life-saving defibrillators to the heart,
was linked to a rare and dangerous fraying defect in one patient
in a report to U.S. regulators.  A doctor voluntarily reported the case of a so-called
externalized wire from April 17 to the  Food and Drug
Administration , according to a  posting  on the agency’s Maude
safety database. The unidentified doctor didn’t tell  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based St. Jude, according to the FDA’s posting.  An anonymous report with such specific details is rare and
raises questions about the credibility of the information, David Roman, an analyst at Goldman Sachs in New York, wrote yesterday
in a note to investors. The agency reviews the information it
receives and forwards the details to manufacturers, said Erica
Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman.  “There are a number of reasons for the agency to review
all reports that come in, including the potential for fraud or
the need for additional follow up,” Jefferson said in an e-
mail. “We strip all privacy information out of the reports
prior to posting them on the public database.”  The person reporting the incident, including a doctor,
patient or someone else, can check a box indicating they want to
maintain their privacy, Jefferson said, without commenting
specifically on the Durata device.  St. Jude stopped selling an older version of the device
known as Riata in December 2010 and recalled it a year later
amid reports the wires known as leads could break through the
insulation coating and fail to work properly. Durata replaced
Riata, and the new product’s insulation coating, called Optim,
was designed to prevent the rare defect. No cases of
externalized Durata wires have been reported before now.  ‘Some’ Failure  “All leads are prone to some level of failure and one lead
failure does not implicate the entire family of Durata leads,”
wrote Raj Denhoy, a Jefferies & Co. analyst in  New York , in a
note yesterday to investors. “This new report raises questions
on whether Durata is truly immune to the same failures that
plague Riata and at the very least, will keep up the discussion
on whether St. Jude’s smaller diameter leads should be used when
other more reliable leads are available.”  St. Jude  fell  6 percent to $36.24 at the close yesterday
New York, the biggest single-day drop since December. The shares
have dropped 26 percent in the past 12 months through yesterday.  Seeking Information  “The report indicates that it was filed by a physician,
but does not provide the device serial number, the name of the
physician or the institution, which would enable us to learn
more about the circumstances,” Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for
St. Jude, said in an e-mail. “We will make every effort to
learn more about this report as quickly as possible.”  There haven’t been any cases of externalized wires on a
Durata lead reported to the company, Meyer said.  St. Jude’s declining stock price is an overreaction, Roman
wrote. Durata’s performance seems to be similar to competitors
and its future performance may show a reduction in lead
failures, he said.  “The sharp negative reaction in the stock reflects the
fear factor of a  product recall  that we ultimately do not think
will materialize,” Roman said. “We see this as an especially
compelling opportunity” to buy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  