-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Russia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-13T14:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-russia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to Russia:  A staff team from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), headed by
Mr. Antonio Spilimbergo, visited Moscow during May 31 - June 13
to hold discussions for the 2012 Article IV consultation.
The team met with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov,  Central Bank 
of Russia (CBR) Governor  Sergei Ignatiev , other senior officials,
and representatives from the private sector, academia, and think
tanks. At the conclusion of the visit, Mr. Spilimbergo issued the
following statement:  “The Russian economy has recovered from the 2008-09 crisis and is
now running close to its potential. High oil prices, strong wage
growth, and robust consumption have supported demand. Meanwhile,
the  unemployment rate  has fallen below 6 percent and capacity
utilization in manufacturing has risen to its pre-crisis peak,
suggesting that the remaining slack in the economy is small.
While headline inflation slowed to 3.6 percent in May 2012, this
owed mostly to a delay in administrative price increases and
favorable food prices, and the IMF staff team’s measure of
underlying inflation remains above 6 percent.  “The outlook is for continued moderate growth and a rebound in inflation.
Under unchanged policies, we project growth of about 4 percent both in
2012 and 2013. With the economy moving above potential, the supply-side
factors muting prices reversing, and the  exchange rate  recently
depreciating, inflation is projected to increase to around 6½
percent in 2012 and to remain at that level in 2013.
“The ongoing turbulence in international markets is affecting
Russia mostly through  oil prices . The reliance on oil exports
exposes Russia to declining oil prices, especially if accompanied
by large capital outflows. The increased exchange rate flexibility
has been a major policy advancement and is helping the Russian
economy absorb external shocks, including spillovers from
international developments.
“An ambitious fiscal consolidation is needed. This would help
avoid overheating in the economy and depleting the wealth of
future generations. Cutting the nonoil government deficit by
some 1½ percent of GDP in 2012 to 9 percent of GDP, and further
by about 1½ percent of GDP per year through 2015 would limit
demand pressures in the short term and lay the basis for balanced
economic growth and inter-generational equity over the longer term.
The immediate priorities include withdrawal of the crisis-related
enterprise subsidies and reduction in tax exemptions. Looking further
ahead, pension reform is indispensible for fiscal adjustment.
To stabilize pension spending at its 2010 level, the  retirement
age  should be raised for both men and women to 63 years by 2030
and 65 years by 2050, in line with increases in  life expectancy .
In addition, the eligibility criteria for early retirement should
be tightened, combined with a strengthening of disability and
welfare programs to protect the vulnerable. Other budget measures,
such as better targeting of social transfers and improving the
efficiency of expenditures, will also be needed.  “A fiscal anchor should be promptly reinstated. Such an anchor would
guide medium-term fiscal policy, decoupling the fiscal stance from
short-term variations in oil prices and ensuring intergenerational
equity. While reinstatement of the nonoil deficit target would be the
first-best option, an oil price-based rule, if well designed, could
broadly achieve the same objectives. In this regard, however, the
specific oil-price rule under discussion would leave the nonoil deficit
in excess of the level consistent with intergenerational equity, and
a more conservative base oil price would be appropriate. Strong
political commitment to the chosen fiscal rule is important; in
this respect, continuing the long-standing practice of multiple
supplemental budgets during the year would undermine the rule and
should be discontinued.  “ Monetary policy  should be aimed at securing low and stable inflation.
Timely tightening of monetary policy is necessary to contain the
rebound in inflation and anchor medium-term inflation expectations.
At the same time, the CBR should stand ready to provide emergency
liquidity as needed if global financial conditions worsen. The greater
exchange rate flexibility is a welcome development in this context as,
besides helping absorb external shocks, it allows monetary policy to
focus squarely on inflation. For the successful adoption of inflation
targeting, continued steps to strengthen monetary policy tools are
necessary. In addition, further enhancing communication policies,
including the publication of inflation forecasts, will be important
to improve transparency and convey the rationale for CBR’s policy
measures to the public. Transparency would be improved by making the
repo rate formally the primary policy interest rate.  “A stronger supervisory framework is key to facilitating sound financial
intermediation. The financial system is improving, but concerns remain
about asset quality in the context of rapid credit growth and volatile
oil prices.  Russia  continues to improve its financial stability analyses
and macro-prudential oversight framework. In this regard, the prompt
passing of legislation on consolidated supervision and connected lending
and the expansion of the CBR’s powers to use professional judgment
remains a top priority.
“Delivering on structural reforms will promote economic growth.
Structural reforms are crucial to increase investment, diversify the
economy, and raise potential growth. Russia’s accession to the WTO should
be seized upon to strengthen the momentum for reforms making the
business environment more predictable and rules-based. Complementary
steps to reduce corruption, strengthen the rule of law, and scale back
state involvement in the economy―including through transparent and decisive
privatization of state owned companies―are priorities”.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  