-- Sugar Subsidy Remains in Farm Bill After Amendment Defeated
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-06-13T17:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/sugar-subsidy-remains-in-farm-bill-after-amendment-defeated.html
The Senate rejected an amendment
backed by snack-food and beverage companies that would have
phased out federal government aid to U.S. sugar growers,
including marketing quotas and import restrictions.  Today’s vote was 50-46 in favor of tabling the amendment,
effectively killing the plan.  Unlike other crop initiatives that send farmers payments,
the sugar program keeps prices high primarily by limiting
imports, harming consumers and companies, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the sponsor of the amendment, said yesterday on the
Senate floor. “This outdated program puts American companies at
a competitive disadvantage, and it should go,” the New
Hampshire Democrat said.  The  Coalition for Sugar Reform  supported the amendment. Its
members include industry groups representing bakers and makers
of candy, snack foods, beverages and other groceries, as well as
small-government organizations. The amendment would have ended
all price supports for the sweetener by 2015 and ended the quota
on imports.  “Each and every time this amendment comes up for a vote it
is rejected by Congress and we wouldn’t expect any different
today,” Phillip Hayes, spokesman for the  American Sugar
Alliance  that represents cane- and beet-sugar growers, said
before the vote.  Food Stamps  The Senate also rejected, 65-33, a plan offered by Kentucky
Republican Rand Paul to reduce spending on the
food-stamp program and allocate funds as block grants to
the states. Opponents of the measure said giving states more
flexibility would inevitably lead to needy families not
receiving food aid. Spending on  food stamps  has doubled in the
past four years as the economy slowed.  Lawmakers are debating the five-year farm bill approved in
April by the Senate Agriculture Committee. The  Congressional
Budget Office  said the measure would produce $23.6 billion in
savings, if scored over a 10-year period, primarily by doing
away with direct payments to farmers, which are paid out
regardless of crop prices.  Senate leaders are still crafting the “final universe” of
amendments to be debated on the floor, Agriculture Committee
Chairman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, told reporters
today. Almost 250 amendments had been introduced as of yesterday
evening.  The bill is S. 3240.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  