-- Supervalu is Super Cheap as Free Cash Lures LBO: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-13T23:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/supervalu-is-super-cheap-as-free-cash-lures-lbo-real-m-a.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  is offering private-
equity shoppers the biggest discount of any supermarket chain in
America.  The third-largest U.S. grocery store chain fell to a 30-
year low this week, reducing its valuation to 3.9 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s
the lowest since at least 1990 and cheaper than all other U.S.
food retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Supervalu has seven times as much debt as its market
value and is mired in its worst  sales slump  as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  grab a larger share of grocery revenue,
Barclays Plc says the company could still lure buyout firms with
its cash flow and command a 50 percent premium. Supervalu, which
analysts say will turn a profit for the first time in three
years, has the industry’s highest free  cash flow  yield, the data
show. Asset sales could also help a buyer  pay down  Supervalu’s
debt and boost returns, Highmark Capital Management Inc. said.  “There’s no question about it, these shares are cheap,
cheap, cheap,”  David Dietze , president and chief investment
strategist at Summit, New Jersey-based Point View Wealth
Management Inc., which owns Supervalu stock, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s been a problem child. It could make a good
candidate for private equity. They are trading at such a very
small multiple of earnings and cash flow.”  Mike Siemienas , a spokesman at  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-
based Supervalu, declined to say whether the company is open to
a sale or has been approached by any buyers.  History Lesson  Today, Supervalu rose 2.2 percent to $4.27 a share in  New
York . It was the biggest gain among consumer staples stocks in
the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index, which fell 0.3 percent.  Supervalu, which traces its roots to a  grocery warehouse
business  formed in 1926, operates more than 2,000 stores under
brands such as Jewel-Osco in the U.S. Midwest and Shaw’s, which
has stores located across the Northeast.  The company’s largest supermarket chain is Albertsons,
which Supervalu purchased in 2006. Albertsons has stores in 18
states from  California  to  Florida , according to its website.  Once worth more than $10 billion, Supervalu had plummeted
92 percent in less than five years as the  U.S. economy  fell into
a recession and customers turned to discount stores such as
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, to buy more of their groceries.  Analysts estimate Supervalu will suffer a fourth straight
year of  declining sales  in the current fiscal year, extending
the longest stretch of decreases since at least 1987, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The share plunge pushed Supervalu to $4.06 on June 11, the
lowest price since 1982. The stock ended at $4.18 yesterday,
giving Supervalu $887 million in market capitalization.  Relative Value  Even with debt that exceeds its cash by more than $6
billion, Supervalu was valued at 3.9 times its Ebitda, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a third less than the
industry median and about half the multiple for consumer staples
companies in the S&P MidCap 400.  Supervalu is now the most appealing leveraged buyout
candidate among the three largest supermarket chains in America,
according to Meredith Adler, a New York-based analyst for
Barclays, who published a report dated June 11 analyzing the LBO
prospects for Supervalu,  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)   Supervalu is the smallest of the three and generates the
most cash from its operations, after deducting capital expenses,
relative to its stock price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s  free cash flow  yield of 45 percent is more
than 10 times higher than the median 4.2 percent for U.S. food
retailers with at least $100 million in value, the data show.  Buyout Math  “The stock has gotten awfully cheap,” Adler said in a
telephone interview. Plus, Supervalu generates “a reasonable
amount of cash flow.”  By her math, a buyer could pay a 50 percent premium for
Supervalu and still earn a return exceeding 40 percent,
according to her report. That would “clearly be very attractive
to private equity,” she wrote.  Based on Supervalu’s price yesterday, the company would
then be valued at $6.27 a share in a takeover.  A buyout firm that specializes in retail deals could
increase returns by cutting the number of store-brand products
the company offers and selling off some of its  real estate , said
Point View’s Dietze. Supervalu owned about 38 percent of its 64
million square feet (5.9 million square meters) of retail space
as of Feb. 25, according to a regulatory filing.  Another option would be to sell one or more of Supervalu’s
smaller grocery chains, which would help pay down any additional
debt used to finance the transaction, according to  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager at Highmark, which
oversees about $17 billion.  ‘Interesting Assets’  “They do have some interesting assets,” Lowenstein said
in a telephone interview. “Everything’s got a price and at some
point, the risk-reward will be attractive. For private-equity
firms, it’s worth a look.”  Potential buyers may still be wary of pursuing an LBO
because Supervalu owes too much money, said  John Heinbockel , a
New York-based analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC.  Supervalu’s total debt  is equal to 3.5 times its Ebitda,
higher than both Cincinnati-based Kroger and Pleasanton,
California-based Safeway, and almost five times the industry
median, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With more discount
retailers selling cheaper groceries, Supervalu’s long-term
viability is also being threatened, Heinbockel said.  “You already have a fair amount of debt” with Supervalu,
he said in a telephone interview. “The other challenge is
cutting through the clutter and differentiating your offerings
because there are so many other people out there selling food.”  Bullish Option  Supervalu also has  pension  and retirement liabilities that
exceed $1 billion, which Highmark’s Lowenstein said could keep
some potential acquirers at bay.  Still, options-market traders are growing more bullish on
Supervalu, a sign they may be trying to anticipate a surge in
the company’s value, said  Chris Rich , head options strategist at
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC in  Chicago .  Open interest  on  call options  rose to 135,990 contracts,
about 9 percent higher than the average level this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Supervalu is interesting for an acquirer “with deep
pockets who is looking to do a turnaround,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The grocery store business is
tremendously competitive. But a buyer that has an understanding
of retail, would they take a shot at this? Absolutely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 