-- SuperGroup to Exit Asos Site, Dealing Blow to Web Retailer
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-13T15:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/supergroup-to-exit-asos-site-dealing-blow-to-online-retailer.html
SuperGroup Plc (SGP)  will remove its
Superdry clothing brand from the  Asos Plc (ASC)  Web site, dealing a
blow to the U.K.’s second-largest online clothing retailer,
which relies on outside brands for almost half its sales.  SuperGroup, whose hoodies and leather jackets are worn by
celebrities such as  David Beckham  and  Zac Efron , has put its
wholesale relationship with Asos “on hold in the short- to
medium-term,” as it expands its own international e-commerce
offering, Chief Operating Officer Susanne Given told Bloomberg
News. Asos Chief Executive Nick Robertson declined to comment.  Superdry is the first major brand to exit Asos’s fast-
fashion multibrand  Web site  as SuperGroup avoids cannibalizing
its own Web sales and takes control of international pricing.
Asos currently offers 171 Superdry menswear items on its U.K.
site, including a $107.71 windcheater jacket and $38.11 T-shirt.  “It’s not a very positive development” for Asos, said
Chris Chaviaras, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London with a
neutral recommendation on the stock. “Superdry is an important
brand, especially for the targeted customer for Asos, but we
must bear in mind that no brand contributes more than 1 percent
of Asos’s sales.”  Asos fell as much as 1.6 percent in London trading, and was
down 1.3 percent at 1,570 pence as of 3:58 p.m., erasing a gain
of as much as 2.3 percent. SuperGroup  shares  rose as much as 6.6
percent and were up 2 percent at 270.7 pence at 3:58 p.m.  SuperGroup is reducing its wholesale channels in the U.K.
as it expands its retail operations and invests in e-commerce.  850 Brands  “This, combined with our planned growth of international
e-commerce and the complexities around international pricing,
which directly affects our international SuperGroup partners,
has resulted in us putting our wholesale relationship with Asos
on hold in the short-to medium-term,” Given said.  Asos offers about 850 brands on its site from $280  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY)  sunglasses to $41 River Island dresses. About 55
percent of revenue comes from its own-label ranges. Robertson
said growth in sales of Asos branded products was “a bit of a
short-term trend” as shoppers in new international markets tend
to move onto other labels after initially buying Asos’s items.  “There’s going to be a natural churn, some we will want to
downscale,” the CEO said last month. Still, the only big brand
that had left and since returned was All Saints, a closely-held
U.K.-based seller of $395 men’s leather jackets, he said.  Reduced Forecast  SuperGroup shares have tumbled 47 percent this year, after
the retailer cut its profit guidance for the third time in about
six months. In April, CEO Julian Dunkerton cited a fall in
wholesale demand, increased operating costs and an “arithmetic
error” for a profit shortfall.  The retailer has posted double-digit growth in retail sales
since listing on the stock exchange more than two years ago. The
owner of the Cult brand sells to 91 countries via its websites,
with e-commerce accounting for 8 percent of revenue in the
fiscal first half, almost double the year earlier period.  SuperGroup also sells $30 Superdry-logo t-shirts at 79 U.K.
stores and 74 concession spaces inside department stores such as
 House of Fraser . Superdry has a policy of never offering
discounts in its standalone stores. Shoppers must seek out its
nine outlets and EBay Inc. for discounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  