-- Suu Kyi to Send Signal to World in Collecting Nobel Prize
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-13T12:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/suu-kyi-to-send-signal-to-world-in-collecting-nobel-prize.html
When Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi collects her Nobel Peace Prize this week, 21 years
after winning it, she will send a message that human-rights
struggles pay off, said Nobel Committee head Thorbjoern Jagland.  Her acceptance speech in  Norway  on June 16 “will be one of
the most historic events in Nobel Peace Prize history,” Jagland
said in an interview today from Strasbourg, France. “It will be
a very moving moment for us and also for her, and it will be a
very good opportunity for her to convey her message to the whole
world.”  Suu Kyi left Myanmar today for her first visit to  Europe 
since 1988. She is due to speak at the annual meeting of the
International Labor Organization in Geneva tomorrow. She will
then travel to Norway to pick up her prize before heading to
Ireland to thank U2 singer Bono for his support, the U.K. and
 France . In Britain, she will address both houses of Parliament
and accept an honorary doctorate at Oxford University, where she
once studied.  The Peace Prize was awarded to Suu Kyi in 1991 while she
was detained by the military after leading a pro-democracy party
to victory during elections in Myanmar, then known as Burma, the
previous year. For 24 years, she was either under house arrest
or too fearful that if she left the country, the military regime
would refuse to let her return. She remained even as her British
husband was dying of cancer in  England  in 1999.  Suu Kyi’s pro-democracy crusade got a huge boost when she
won the prize even though she couldn’t accept it, Jagland said.  Struggle Highlighted  “The fact that she couldn’t come highlighted her struggle
in  Burma , and while being isolated, it increased even more,” he
said. Isolating Suu Kyi, 66, “didn’t help the junta, it helped
her. It also gave her protection. Without the prize it would
have been extremely difficult and dangerous for her to stay in
the country.”  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896,
and the first prizes were handed out in 1901. According to
Nobel’s will, the Peace Prize should be bestowed on the person
who “shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity
between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing
armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses.”  Suu Kyi’s case is one of several that illustrate how
governments buttress the causes of dissidents when they prevent
winners from accepting their prize, Jagland said.  Sakharov, Walesa  The same happened when  Andrei Sakharov , a Soviet nuclear
physicist, dissident and human-rights activist, won the Peace
Prize in 1975 and wasn’t allowed to leave the country to collect
it.  Lech Walesa , the leader of the Solidarity movement that
helped to bring down the Iron Curtain in Eastern Europe and was
Poland’s first democratically elected president after 1989, was
unable to accept the prize he won in 1983 because he feared the
Polish government wouldn’t let him back into the country.  Carl von Ossietzky, a German journalist and pacifist who
was a constant warning voice against the Nazi party, was
forbidden from traveling to Oslo to collect the Peace Prize he
won in 1935. He died three years later.  “The prize has contributed to highlight the importance of
human rights and the situation in these countries,” said
Jagland, a former Norwegian prime minister who is now secretary
general of the  Council of Europe . “For these human-rights
defenders, it’s absolutely worth it.”  Tensions With China  The same holds true for  Liu Xiaobo , who won the peace prize
in 2010 for his struggle to promote human rights and democracy
in  China . Liu began serving an 11-year sentence in a Chinese
prison in 2009 for plotting to subvert the ruling Communist
Party, and the Nobel committee’s decision to award the prize to
him sparked a diplomatic spat between Norway and China.  That doesn’t concern Jagland, who said the five-member
Nobel Committee that is appointed by Norway’s parliament is
immune to political pressure in deciding who wins the prize.  “It is very necessary to keep up attention to what is
going on in China,” he said. “There is a similar situation in
many other places in the world. It’s absolutely necessary to
inform the whole world how things are in many corners of the
globe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  