-- U.K. Watchdog Highlights Failures in Company Tax Settlements
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-k-watchdog-highlights-failures-in-company-tax-settlements.html
Britain’s tax authorities failed to
follow the rules properly when settling large tax bills with
major companies, the  government spending  watchdog said.  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs  “overlooked governance
arrangements,” excluded specialized staff from final settlement
negotiations and communicated poorly, the  National Audit Office 
said in a report published in London today. Even so, it said the
amount of money raised in five unnamed disputes it examined was
“reasonable.”  “With billions of pounds of tax at stake it is extremely
worrying that the department failed to involve its own
specialists in the final negotiations and follow its own rules
by settling for less than it could have won in litigation,”
Margaret Hodge, the opposition Labour Party lawmaker who heads
Parliament’s  Public Accounts Committee , said in an e-mailed
statement. “These deals have sent a message that it’s one rule
for big business and another rule for everyone else.”  A judge in London ruled yesterday that a deal between the
tax agency and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that saved the bank as
much as 20 million pounds ($31 million) should be reviewed by a
U.K. court. UK Uncut, a group that opposes reductions in
government spending, had questioned the legality of HMRC’s
decision to allow Goldman to forgo paying interest on money owed
from a plan to avoid contributions on employee bonuses dating
from the 1990s.  The government has pledged to crack down on what it sees as
abusive tax-avoidance schemes, including a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  plan
that denied the Treasury more than 500 million pounds. Barclays
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  criticized the
government’s handling of the dispute in May, calling it
“unwarranted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  