-- U.S. Credit Rating Unlikely to Change in 2012, Moody’s Hess Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-06-13T20:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-credit-rating-unlikely-to-change-in-2012-moody-s-hess-says.html
The U.S.’s Aaa credit ranking from
Moody’s Investors Service is unlikely to change this year amid
the presidential election and potential for a wave of tax
increases and  spending  cuts to take effect, according to  Steven Hess , Moody’s senior credit officer.  The rating company placed a negative outlook on the top
grade in August when the U.S. raised the debt ceiling after
months of political wrangling about the deficit. The U.S. is on
course for tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  to
expire at the end of this year and for more than $1 trillion of
automatic spending reductions to take effect in January.  “We are most likely going to wait until the outcome of all
of this to see what the fiscal trajectory looks like,” Hess
said today in  Montreal  in an interview.  House Speaker  John Boehner  last month revived Republicans’
insistence that any increase in the nation’s debt limit be
matched by at least as much in spending cuts, positioning his
party for a renewed standoff with Democrats about the  federal
budget .  Last summer’s borrowing-limit debate was cited by  Standard
& Poor’s  as among the reasons it cut the U.S. to AA+ on Aug. 5.
The company has said political and fiscal risks may lead to
another downgrade.  ’Debt Trajectory’  “The long-term debt trajectory of the U.S. government is
the central issue,” New York-based Hess said. Higher taxes and
reduced spending in 2013 according to current law “would be a
huge increase in revenues for the governments if it were to
happen, but it will kick in and also seriously affect economic
growth in 2013.”  Treasuries have gained 5.9 percent since S&P downgraded the
U.S., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, has climbed 10.1 percent during that span. Yields on
U.S. government 10-year debt touched 1.44 percent on June 1, the
lowest ever.  The government will likely approach its $16.4 trillion
legal cap on borrowing close to the end of this year. A
temporary reduction in the Social Security payroll tax will also
run out at the end of 2012, as will extended  unemployment
benefits .  “The debt ceiling always gets raised, one way or
another,” Hess said. “The political configuration now is such
that they are using this as a tool to get other things done on
their political agenda. The debt limit per se is not a
significant issue in our negative outlook on the U.S. rating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  