-- U.S. Forces Ask Pentagon for More Soldiers, Weapons in S. Korea
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-06-13T01:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-forces-ask-pentagon-for-more-soldiers-weapons-in-s-korea.html
The U.S. military in  South Korea 
asked the Pentagon for more troops and stronger ballistic
missile defenses, amid rising tension with the regime of  North
Korea ’s dictator Kim Jong Un.  General James Thurman, the commander of U.S. Forces  Korea ,
met recently with U.S. Army Chief of Staff General  Ray Odierno 
to ask for an additional attack-reconnaissance squadron and
“increased capabilities” in missile defense, Thurman told the
Association of Republic of Korea Army in Seoul yesterday.  “Maintaining high levels of readiness requires having the
proper manning, the proper force structure, and the most modern
equipment,” Thurman said in his speech. He said he’s confident
his request will be met.  Thurman’s request would be the first to seek more U.S.
forces along the border since Kim took power following the death
of his father,  Kim Jong Il , in December. Tension has increased
after a failed rocket launch by North Korea in April, a move
that prompted speculation the North may conduct a nuclear test
to reassert itself.  A full-strength brigade would have two squadrons, Jennifer
Buschick, a U.S. Forces Korea public affairs officer, said in an
e-mail yesterday. She said she was not authorized to comment on
the number of troops per squadron.  Thurman also singled out the importance of strengthening
the  Air Force  and working with the Marines and the Navy to
mobilize maritime support when needed.  Nuclear Concerns  While North Korea denies planning a nuclear test “at
present,” the Kim Jong Un regime has repeatedly threatened to
attack South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government. The
hostile rhetoric from the North, which vowed April 24 to turn
him and his government into “ashes in three or four minutes,”
is meant only for internal consumption, Lee said.  On June 4, North Korea threatened to target the offices of
seven South Korean media outlets with “strategic rockets” for
their “vicious smear campaign” against Kim. While North Korea
often issues threats of war, the statements have become more
specific to list the longitude and latitudes of targeted
locations.  The Korean peninsula technically remains at war since the
1950-1953 conflict ended without a peace treaty, instead in
division along the 38th parallel. The U.S., fought in the war in
alliance with what is now the South Korean government, and still
maintains 28,500 troops on the peninsula’s southern half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  