-- U.S. Energy Output Jumps as China Spurs Global Demand: BP
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-13T10:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-energy-output-jumps-as-china-spurs-global-demand-bp-says.html
The world’s two largest economies
followed opposite paths on energy last year as the U.S. boosted
oil and gas production while Chinese consumption jumped,
according to BP’s  Statistical Review of World Energy .  Shale production made the U.S. the world’s largest gas
producer and the country’s oil output climbed more than any
nation outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries in 2011, BP said today in its annual survey. China
accounted for 71 percent of global demand growth.  The U.S. experience “shows how an open and competitive
environment drives technological innovation and unlocks
resources,”  BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in a
statement. “The message for policy makers is to follow this
model and to encourage competition wherever possible.”  Global energy consumption grew 2.5 percent, close to the
historical average, against a background of unrest in the  Middle
East , the disaster at Japan’s Fukushima nuclear plant and
average 2011  oil prices  exceeding $100 a barrel, BP said. An
increase of oil coming from Saudi Arabia, diversions of natural
gas to Asia and the rising use of coal in  Europe  helped offset
disruptions, BP’s chief economist  Christof Ruehl  said.  Energy demand slipped 0.8 percent in Organization of
Economic Cooperation and Development countries as it jumped 5.3
percent in  emerging markets , BP said.  Primary Energy  U.S. oil production grew 3.6 percent to 7.84 million
barrels a day, as gas output gained 7.7 percent. Primary energy
consumption in the U.S. slipped 0.4 percent to the equivalent of
2.27 billion tons of oil, the review showed. In contrast,
 China ’s energy consumption jumped 8.8 percent to 2.61 billion
ton of oil equivalent.  The average price of Brent crude oil rose 40 percent last
year, dragging up oil-indexed gas prices outside the U.S., BP
said. Demand for oil grew by less than 1 percent and gas demand
gained 2.2 percent, according to the report. Demand for coal was
above average, growing 5.4 percent in 2011.  “The coal story is one of production and trade patterns
able to adjust to market conditions,” Ruehl said. “In this
way, coal was buttressing the global supply security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  