-- U.S. Stocks Drop Amid Lower Retail Sales, Europe Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-13T20:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-italy-s-costs-rise-at-auction.html
U.S. stocks slid, after yesterday’s
gain, as retail sales fell and concern about Europe’s debt
crisis grew amid higher borrowing costs in Italy and  Germany .  Nine out of  10 groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
retreated as consumer discretionary, commodity and industrial
shares had the biggest losses.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc.
and  DuPont (DD)  Co. dropped at least 1.5 percent.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  rose 1.6 percent as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
testified about his bank’s practices to lawmakers.  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
advanced 2.6 percent after saying it will pay a dividend.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.7 percent to 1,314.88 at 4 p.m. New York
time. It rose 1.2 percent yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  declined 77.42 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,496.38.
Trading volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about
6.1 billion shares, 10 percent below the three-month average.  “It’s a tough recipe,” Burt White, who oversees $390
billion as chief investment officer at LPL Financial Corp. in
Boston, said in a telephone interview. “Consumers are starting
to question the validity of this recovery and beginning to plan
for tougher times. At the same time you have global austerity.
You’re getting more recessionary pressures throughout Europe and
borrowing costs are moving higher. Things are deteriorating.”  Equities fell as retail sales dropped in May for a second
month, as limited job and income gains hold back consumers.
Euro-area industrial production declined for a second month in
April, led by a drop in Germany, adding to signs of a deepening
economic slump. The Group of 20 nations meeting in  Mexico  next
week probably won’t announce significant progress on Europe’s
debt crisis, a U.S. official said.  Greece’s Election  Investors also watched the latest developments ahead of
Greece’s elections on June 17. Alexis Tsipras, whose Syriza
party in Greece is vying for first place in pre-election polls,
said he expects the European Union will do all it can to keep
the nation in the euro even if he wins elections and carries out
his promise to repeal the austerity measures required to receive
emergency loans.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  briefly rose as banks rallied. JPMorgan jumped
1.6 percent to $34.30 as Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon
testified about his bank’s $2 billion trading loss. He said a
switch to a new risk model in the first quarter may have helped
fuel the loss, and the bank has shifted back to the old system.  “Dimon is not putting his foot in his mouth,” said Rick Fier, director of equity trading at Conifer Securities LLC in
New York. His firm oversees more than $12 billion. “The bid in
JPMorgan today is more because he didn’t say anything to get
into him into any more trouble. Still, we’re not really seeing
people chase this market. What managers are talking about the
most is: where’s the growth going to come from?”  Most-Tied  The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  of companies most-tied to
the economy lost 1.5 percent. Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, lost 2.4 percent to $50.97. Caterpillar,
the world’s largest maker of construction equipment, dropped 2
percent to $85.29. DuPont, a chemicals producer, fell 1.6
percent to $49.11.  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  slumped 4.4 percent to $20.74. The
fourth-largest U.S. auto insurer fell as claims costs rose above
the company’s target.  Global Payments Inc. (GPN)  retreated 4.1 percent to $40.48. The
bank-card processor disclosed that “intruders” may have hacked
into company servers containing personal information.  Casey’s General Stores Inc. (CASY)  tumbled 13 percent, the most
since 2008, to $52.18. The operator of  convenience stores  in the
U.S. Midwest reported fourth-quarter  earnings  that trailed
analysts’ estimates, citing a decline in gasoline profits.  Cut Costs  Dell rallied 2.6 percent to $12.28. The quarterly payout of
8 cents a share will begin in the period that ends in October.
The dividend’s yield would be 2.7 percent, based on the stock’s
closing price yesterday. The company will focus on data-center
gear as well as computing software and services while seeking to
cut costs by more than $2 billion over the next three years.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  gained 2.2 percent to $64.45. The company
said its $19.7 billion purchase of Synthes Inc., the largest
acquisition in its 126-year history, will add 3 cents to 5 cents
a share to 2012 earnings as it gained U.S. clearance for the
deal. Separately, the shares were upgraded at Jefferies Group
Inc. and Raymond James Financial Inc.  The S&P 500 may decline more than 5 percent by the end of
July before starting a rebound that may continue into the third
quarter, according to technical analysts at UBS AG.  Third Wave  The analysts cited the average directional index indicator,
or ADX, approaching the end of a third wave -- the momentum top
of a trend. The ADX is the moving average of the  directional
movement indicator , a theory developed by J. Welles Wilder in
1978 that measures how far a security moves from an average
price range calculated from second to second.  “We still see the risk of another setback towards 1,250
into the second half of July as the basis for a longer lasting
corrective rebound into at least September,” Michael Riesner
and Marc Mueller in Zurich wrote in a note dated yesterday. “On
the back of our overbought momentum work we see further upside
to be limited towards a maximum 1,358” for the rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  