-- U.S. Solar Grew 85 Percent in First Quarter, SEIA Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-solar-grew-85-percent-in-first-quarter-seia-says.html
Developers installed 85 percent more
solar panels in the U.S. in the first quarter than a year
earlier, led by strong growth in commercial projects and demand
in  New Jersey , according to the  Solar Energy Industries
Association .  Total U.S. installations were 506 megawatts in the quarter
and may reach 3,300 megawatts this year, about 11 percent of the
2012 global market, the Washington-based trade group said today
in its quarterly market report.  That will make the U.S. the fourth-largest solar market
this year, and one of the few countries where growth is expected
to continue for the foreseeable future, according to GTM
Research, a Boston consulting company that prepared the report
with SEIA. Falling prices are making solar energy an economical
energy choice for U.S. homeowners and businesses.  “The economics have improved dramatically, with companies
realizing it’s a good hedge against rising energy prices,”
 Rhone Resch , chief executive officer of SEIA, said in an
interview.  Non-residential solar projects, which include commercial,
government and non-profit companies, totaled 288.8 megawatts, up
77 percent from a year earlier, according to the report.  New Jersey, the top solar state, added 174 megawatts in the
quarter, 34 percent of all U.S. installations, including 122
megawatts of non-residential projects.  California was the second-largest solar market with 148
megawatts installed. The top global markets this year will be
Germany, Italy and  China .  Installed prices for all U.S. solar systems fell 17 percent
to $4.44 a watt. Prices for utility plants dropped 25 percent,
residential installed prices fell 7.3 percent, and non-
residential projects declined 11.5 percent.  ‘Open Question’  The price of solar panels  dropped  49 percent in the past
year as manufacturers, mainly based in China, increased
production and triggered a global oversupply.  The impact of an  import tariff  on Chinese solar cells and
the expiration last year of a U.S. Treasury grant program for
renewable energy will be felt most next year, Shayle Kann, vice
president at GTM, said in a statement.  “We remain bullish in 2012 on all market segments,” Kann
said. “However, 2013 is an open question.”  Total U.S. solar installations may grow to 10 gigawatts a
year by 2015, Resch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  