-- Justice Department Is Said to Investigate Cable Companies
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-13T19:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/u-s-said-to-probe-cable-company-competition-with-online-video.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
investigating whether  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and other cable companies
are violating antitrust laws by limiting competition from
Internet video providers, two people familiar with the matter
said.  The department is examining whether Comcast and  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  are using their status as providers of programming
and high-speed Internet to put online video providers such as
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC at a competitive disadvantage, said
the people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Authorities are probing whether Philadelphia-based Comcast
broke the law by creating incentives to consumers to watch
programming through its cable services instead of through the
online video providers, the people said.  The department also is reviewing whether cable companies
signed deals to obtain television programming at lower prices
than online providers are charged, the people said. Such
agreements may violate the law, they said.  Increasingly, Comcast and other cable companies are finding
questionable ways to quash competition from video providers,
said Mark Cooper, director of research at the Washington-based
Consumer Federation of America.  Long-Term Costs  Without low-cost access to online video, “consumers will
suffer in the long term,” said Cooper, who urged the  Justice
Department  to start an investigation and hasn’t been briefed on
the probe. “Prices will be higher and choices will be fewer”
for programming, he said.  Jennifer Khoury , a spokeswoman for Comcast, and  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, declined to comment.
Netflix spokesman Joris Evers and Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman
for Los Angeles-based Hulu, declined to comment.  Charles Miller ,
a Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment.  Cable companies are offering consumers more ways to view
programming, said Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the  National
Cable & Telecommunications Association , a Washington-based
industry trade group.  “The innovative offerings by cable companies are positive
developments for consumers, and represent accepted and
legitimate business practices as well as sound  network
management ,” he said in a statement.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the probe last night.  Choice Access  The Justice Department and the Federal Communications
Commission have said they want to foster the growth of online
video to provide consumers more viewing choices.  “The government wants to see that the consumer has more
access for less money,” said Jeffrey Jacobovitz, an antitrust
litigator with McCarthy, Sweeney & Harkaway PC in Washington.  Before approving the purchase of  NBC Universal  last year,
the government imposed conditions on Comcast to ensure the
company wouldn’t unfairly compete against online video
companies.  The Justice Department’s inquiry into whether cable
companies are illegally obtaining programming at lower prices
than online providers is similar a case it’s pursuing in the
electronic books market.  The department is seeking an end to a clause in Apple
Inc.’s contracts that require book sellers to provide the maker
of the iPad with the lowest prices they offer competitors, two
people familiar with the matter have said.  Application Videos  In the online video investigation, the department also is
looking at how Comcast in March said it wouldn’t count videos
viewed on its Xfinity application via Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox
toward a monthly limit on the amount of data users can view.  Comcast counts video viewed through Hulu or Netflix against
the limit, leading to charges by  Los Gatos , California-based
Netflix that the change is an attempt by Comcast to unfairly
penalize its customers.  “The cap should be applied equally or not at all,”
Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said on an April
23 earnings conference call.  Comcast last month increased its data limit for all
customers to 300 gigabytes, over which the user pays extra. Most
users don’t risk added charges because the median Comcast
customer uses 8 gigabytes to 10 gigabytes a month, according to
Cathy Avgiris, the company’s executive vice president.  Time Warner Cable doesn’t have a data limit, and in a
commercial that ran during the  Super Bowl  earlier this year
promoted the advantages of Netflix running over its network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  