-- Ukraine Party Ruined as Soccer Highlights Orange Revolt Flop
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-06-14T12:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/ukraine-s-party-wrecked-as-soccer-highlights-orange-revolt-flop.html
Ukraine hoped the European soccer
championships would showcase its progress since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed. Instead, it’s shining the spotlight on accusations of
political repression, graft and aging infrastructure.  Almost eight years after the bloodless Orange Revolution
propelled the country toward closer European integration, the
bloc’s leaders are boycotting the tournament, which culminates
July 1 in Kiev. They say democratic values have slipped since
President  Viktor Yanukovych  took over in 2010, dislodging the
leaders of the protests that overran the capital’s main square.  That’s left Ukraine’s leader, who’s struggling to secure
cheaper energy imports from traditional ally Russia and unlock
international aid, looking isolated at a time when the economy
is losing steam. Halfway into his five-year term, credit markets
signal a 44 percent chance of a Ukrainian default, while Societe
Generale SA predicts the hryvnia will be devalued.  “Euro 2012 is definitely a chance for Ukraine to improve
its international image,” Liza Ermolenko,  emerging-markets 
analyst at London-based Capital Economics Ltd., said June 1.
“Unfortunately, it looks more likely that the exact opposite
will happen.”  Swaps, Hryvnia  The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps has risen to 850 basis
points from 460 a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The government sees no threat of default, First Deputy Prime
Minister Valery Khoroshkovskyi said yesterday.  The hryvnia may be devalued by 10 percent after
parliamentary elections in October, according to Vladimir Tsibanov, an economist for Societe Generale’s OAO Rosbank unit
in Moscow. It fell to 8.103 as of 3 p.m. in Kiev from 8.0935
yesterday.  Viewers worldwide watched in 2004 as millions of Ukrainians
braved freezing temperatures to challenge Viktor Yanukovych’s
presidential-election win in what became known as the Orange
Revolution. The Kiev tent camps, rebuilt as fan areas for Euro
2012, helped sweep opposition leader  Viktor Yushchenko  to power
in a rerun vote, prompting the EU to pledge closer integration.  Mittal, Raiffeisen  In years that followed, foreign direct investment surged,
while billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal  paid $4.8 billion for Ukraine’s
largest steelmaker and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  made a
$1 billion acquisition. Ukraine joined the  World Trade
Organization  in 2008.  Still, Yushchenko’s overhaul became bogged down amid
infighting with his Orange Revolution ally Yulia Tymoshenko,
allowing Yanukovych to become president in 2010.  Talk of stronger EU ties has run aground after Tymoshenko
was handed a seven-year prison sentence in October for abuse of
office. The bloc’s leaders say the case is politically motivated
and want her released. Yanukovych said in a June 12 interview
that her conviction is legally sound.  Ukrainians “are still suffering under dictatorship and
repression,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said May 10. EU
Commissioners including  Jose Barroso  have refused to attend Euro
2012 matches in the country.  Germany  defeated the Netherlands 2-1 in Ukraine’s eastern
city of Kharkiv yesterday after  Portugal  beat Denmark 3-2 in
Lviv, near the country’s western border with co-host  Poland .  ‘Offended Ukraine’  “Those who declared the boycott offended Ukraine,”
Yanukovych said June 12 in an interview. “Ukraine is a very
hospitable country, we’ve been preparing for the tournament for
so many years and we’ve fought for the right to host it. Let
them put themselves in our shoes.”  The president is also struggling to seal a discount on
natural-gas imports from neighboring  Russia  that would bolster
his nation’s public finances and refuses to raise household fuel
tariffs to unblock an International Monetary Fund bailout that’s
been frozen since last March.  Gross domestic product  grew an average 6 percent a year in
2005-2007 before the global financial crisis sparked by  Lehman
Brothers Inc .’s 2008 collapse triggered a recession. After
expanding 5.2 percent in 2011, GDP may rise 1.6 percent this
year as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs demand for exports such as
steel and grain,  Fitch Ratings  said May 11.  Business Climate  Conditions aren’t conducive for enterprise, according to
Mykola Tolmachov, chief executive officer of TMM Real Estate
Development Plc, Ukraine’s largest property developer, who said
corruption adds as much as 30 percent to his costs.  “The business climate is very difficult,” he said. “It’s
very hard to open a new business and to run it. So many people
decide to close down.”  Ukraine has slipped to 152nd from 134th in Transparency
International’s  Corruption Perceptions Index , where a lower
score indicates higher perceived levels of graft. That leaves it
trailing Uganda and Tajikistan.  Regulation remains cumbersome even after changes made
during Yushchenko’s stint as Ukraine’s leader, according to
Cargill Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gregory Page.  “I expected more from Ukraine” after the Orange
Revolution, Page said June 8 in an interview in Kiev. “Things
should be easier.”  While the president recognizes global attention will be on
Ukraine, he’s called the  soccer tournament  an opportunity to
promote his nation, with airport and railway investments to
provide a legacy for economic prosperity.  ‘Step Forward’  “For us, Euro 2012 is a chance to show our country to the
world,” Yanukovych said May 30. Infrastructure “is a step
forward and represents investments for future generations.”  Ukraine has spent 11 billion euros ($13.9 billion) on
preparations for the championship, according to London-based
Capital Economics Ltd. Still, while stadiums and airports were
built and renovated, some projects failed to materialize and
others haven’t run smoothly.  A fast-train link between downtown Kiev and the city’s
Boryspil airport, planned to ready in time to ferry fans from
abroad to their hotels, hasn’t been started.  While fast trains have been introduced between the four
Ukrainian host cities to save supporters from tackling journeys
of as much as 1,198 kilometers across Soviet-era roads, tickets
only became available two weeks ago, giving fans logistical
headaches.  “It dragged on from March,” said Peter Dutczyn, a British
television editor who works in Kiev and chose a slower overnight
train for himself and his friends. “It’s really bad service.”  There were delays June 11 to a fast train and flights to
the eastern mining city of Donetsk before the England team’s
first game of the tournament, against  France .  With the world watching, Euro 2012 isn’t working in
Ukraine’s favor, according to Rob Drijkoningen, who helps manage
$12 billion in debt as global head of emerging markets at ING
Investment Management in  The Hague .  “Politically, it’s moving in a direction that’s seen as
inappropriate,” he said June 8 in a phone interview. “They’re
not getting what they should out of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  