-- Hungary Sees 0.5% Economic Growth in Second Half on Germany
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-13T08:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/hungary-raises-growth-forecast-for-2012-on-germany-varga-says.html
Hungary’s government forecasts that
the economy, which  contracted  in the first quarter, may grow in
the second half as the German economy’s resilience may boosts
exports.  Gross domestic product may “possibly” expand 0.5 percent
in the second half and about 1 percent in 2013, the press office
of Mihaly Varga, the minister in charge of obtaining
international aid, said in an e-mail today. The Cabinet’s 0.1
percent growth forecast for 2012 is unchanged, Varga said,
correcting an earlier statement on TV2 today when he said the
economy may grow “at least” 0.5 percent.  “Hungary is quite strongly linked to  Germany ’s indicators
and growth and it seems that Germany is doing better than other
European countries at coming out of the crisis,” Varga told
TV2. “That may provide some momentum to Hungarian exports and
lead to a higher  economic-growth  rate for our economy.”  Hungary’s  economy  contracted for the first time in more
than two years in the first quarter as the  European debt crisis 
sapped demand for Hungarian exports, the engine of the economy.
The country is seeking to start bailout-loan negotiations with
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union to cut
financing costs and bolster investor confidence at a time when
commercial banks are curbing lending, raising the risk of a
credit crunch.  Aid Talks  Aid talks may begin in July or August, once the government
amends a disputed central bank law and after an EU decision
later this month on the country’s finances, Varga told TV2.
While Hungary requested aid in November, talks haven’t started
because lawmakers passed a disputed central bank law in December
that was opposed by the IMF and the EU.  The currency of the EU’s most-indebted eastern member has
tumbled 3.5 percent versus the euro since the beginning of May
on concern over the delays in reaching a bailout accord, the
steepest decline among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
behind the Russian ruble and the Polish zloty. It strengthened
0.3 percent to 297.11 per euro at 10:40 a.m. in Budapest.  Hungary’s economy shrank 0.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier after a 1.4 percent expansion in the last
three months of 2011. GDP contracted 1.2 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months.  Industrial output  plunged in April as mobile phone and
television production continued to fall, boosting the chances
that second-quarter GDP data won’t improve and the economy will
enter its second recession in four years.  Output dropped a workday-adjusted 3.1 percent from a year
ago after a 0.6 percent increase in March, the Budapest-based
statistics office said June 7 based on preliminary data.
Production fell 2.4 percent from March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  