-- Hungary Lauds Hitler Ally Horthy as Orban Fails to Stop Hatred
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/hungary-lauds-hitler-ally-horthy-as-orban-fails-to-stop-hatred.html
Hungary  has a new hero.  Towns and villages are putting up statues and naming
streets after Miklos Horthy, a former head of state who led the
country into World War II on  Adolf Hitler ’s side.  The base for a Horthy statue is already standing in
 Csokako , population 1,383, a village dotted with small vineyards
an hour’s drive west of Budapest. The sculpture will be unveiled
on June 16 in a park below the ruins of a 13th-century fort.  From such hamlets to the halls of the neo-Gothic Parliament
in Budapest, where the nationalist Jobbik is the second-largest
opposition party, radicalism and its symbols are spreading as
Hungary heads into its second  recession  in four years. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  is seeking to obtain an international
bailout after Hungary’s debt was downgraded to junk last year.  “Where there are economic problems, there are tensions
between peoples and groups,” said Gabor Bognar, 47, Csokako’s
deputy mayor. “If we don’t allow people to let their steam out
by erecting a statue, then they’re not going to stop there.”  Nationalists are making gains across Europe as leaders
struggle to avert prolonged economic turmoil. What’s different
in Hungary is that Orban is accused by Jewish groups and
political analysts of including parts of the radical agenda in
his own policies, a charge the government denies. Orban, 49, has
condemned a flurry of anti-Semitic attacks in the past month,
which the Jewish group  Mazsihisz  has  called  a “tide of hatred
inundating Hungary.”  Reading List  The government expanded the reading curriculum for schools
last month to include books by Jozsef Nyiro, a member of
Parliament during World War II. He also was an ally of Ferenc
Szalasi, a former head of the fascist Arrow Cross party who was
executed for  war crimes . More than 500,000 Hungarians, mostly
Jews, were killed in the Holocaust, according to the Budapest-
based  Holocaust Memorial Center .  Parliament speaker Laszlo Kover, who co-founded the ruling
Fidesz party along with Orban, organized a reburial ceremony for
Nyiro in the ethnic-Hungarian part of northern Romania, where
the author was born. The May 27 ceremony took place without
Nyiro’s ashes after  Romania  barred them.  Romania “doesn’t accept commemorations and anniversaries
for people who were known for anti-Romanian, anti-Semite and
pro-fascist behavior,” Premier Victor Ponta said in a speech on
June 2, demanding an apology from Orban.  Orban considers Nyiro’s reburial a “funerary matter” and
the inclusion of his books in the curriculum “is clearly about
his literary work,” government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said
June 12 in an e-mailed response to questions.  Forced Thinking?  “That the current government is openly associating itself
with the ideology of the regime that collaborated with the
fascists is unique in Europe,” Attila Mesterhazy, president of
the Socialist Party, the largest opposition group, said in a
June 2 statement. “That it’s trying to force this kind of
thinking on the nation is inexcusable.”  Orban, Hungary’s most powerful premier since the fall of
communism after winning a two-thirds parliamentary majority in
2010, is hedging his response, condemning specific attacks while
including some of the radical agenda in his policies, according
to Attila Juhasz, an analyst at  Political Capital  in Budapest.  “Fidesz senses that Jobbik is a serious rival and is
trying to take the wind out of its sails by taking over parts of
its agenda,” Juhasz said. “The problem is all this is doing is
strengthening the extremist ideology on which Jobbik thrives.”  Backing for Orban’s party dropped to 22 percent among
eligible voters in May, the lowest in more than a decade, from
26 percent in April, according to a Median poll published in HVG
weekly on June 7. Jobbik, whose  website  describes the party as
having “radical methods,” was third with 11 percent. No error
margin or other details were given.  Confused Voters  Forty-three percent of respondents, the most in 11 years,
said they didn’t know whom to support, a “serious consequence
of the general disillusionment” in Hungary, Median said.  “It is completely baseless to accuse the government that
it accepts or accepted at any time radical, anti-Semitic and
incendiary contents,” Giro-Szasz said, adding that the cabinet
“profoundly rejects and takes decisive action against all forms
of racism, anti-Semitism, discrimination and intimidation.”  Giro-Szasz cited a government initiative that banned
paramilitary groups, laws that make it a crime to deny Holocaust
or communist-era crimes and memorial events that celebrate the
life of Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who rescued Jews
from deportations, as evidence for his point.  Some radical Hungarians aren’t getting the message. Jozsef Schweitzer, a 90-year-old rabbi, was accosted by a person
shouting “I hate all Jews” outside his apartment building in
Budapest near  Europe ’s largest synagogue, the Jewish group
Mazsihisz said in a June 5 statement.  Video Evidence  A day earlier, a reporter from the daily newspaper
 Nepszabadsag  was called a “dirty Jewish whore” and was spat on
by people while covering a taxi strike in Budapest, according to
 video footage  posted on the publication’s website.  Holocaust memorials and Jewish cemeteries have been
vandalized, and anti-Semitic and anti-Roma graffiti appeared in
a spate of incidents after a man poured red paint over a Horthy
statue on May 16 in the southwestern town of Kereki. He placed a
sign reading “Mass Murderer, War Criminal” around its neck,
according to a photo posted on  Facebook  and reported in
Hungarian media.  Orban wrote Jewish leaders in Szekesfehervar, the town west
of Budapest where he was born, that he was “pained and
outraged” after the local Jewish cemetery was vandalized, MTI
state news service reported on June 4.  Defending Citizens  A day after Rabbi Schweitzer was heckled, the government
published a statement saying it was doing “everything to
suppress the hateful voices, which are incompatible with
European norms” and pledged to “defend all citizens from such
attacks.” President Janos Ader the same day said “we have no
other choice. We have to clean up other people’s filth.”  To some Jewish groups, that is not enough.  “Every day Jewish people are attacked, and while the prime
minister says he’s defending the Jewish community, we’re not
feeling this,” Tamas Vero, a rabbi in Budapest, said by phone.
“If he is against intolerance, then why is he making children
read authors who represent such hateful ideology?”  The Jewish community, numbering as many as 120,000 in a
country of 10 million, isn’t the only one being targeted by
radicals. Jobbik pledged before the 2010 election to crack down
on “Roma crime.”  Historic Uniforms  Gabor Vona, the party’s 33-year-old president, founded a
paramilitary group in 2007 that patrolled towns and villages
with Roma, also known as Gypsy, populations, saying national
police weren’t up to the task. Its uniforms were emblazoned with
the red-and-white stripes of a historic Hungarian Arpad flag,
which resembles the symbol the Arrow Cross regime used.  Jobbik won 836,774 votes in the  2010 parliamentary
elections  out of 5.1 million votes cast, a sevenfold increase
from 2006. Then, the party failed to win a single seat after
sharing a ballot with another radical party.  It is being boosted by the economic decline of Hungary,
which the European Commission  forecasts  will be the only non-
euro EU economy in eastern Europe to shrink in annual terms this
year. Orban’s policies, including the nationalization of private
pension funds, spooked investors, contributing to the downgrade
and pushing the government to seek an  International Monetary
Fund  loan as 10-year bond yields exceeded 10 percent in January.  The  unemployment  rate was 11.5 percent in the February-
April period, close to the 11.8 percent record two years ago.
The rate helps Jobbik because the party counts “relatively
well-educated and well-off people” among its backers, said
Juhasz of Political Capital. These are the citizens who are now
concerned about losing work and slipping into poverty, he said.  Blooming Roses  In Csokako, where red and yellow roses bloom next to a
municipal building as youngsters practice folk dancing, the town
council, composed of a ruling party mayor and six independents,
unanimously approved a civic initiative for the Horthy statue.  “Why should I have blocked this initiative?” asked Mayor
Gyorgy Furesz, who, like many Csokako natives, tends to a small
vineyard in his backyard. “Hungarian society needs to grow up
and accept that there are different kinds of people.”  Not all locals agree. Horthy, who temporarily recaptured
with Hitler’s help parts of the territories Hungary lost after
World War I, “shouldn’t be considered a positive hero, since he
did end up leading the country into a war that we lost,” said
Gyorgy Csizmarik, 52, as he cleaned up his driveway.  Nazi Occupation  Hungary restricted university access for Jews in 1920
during Horthy’s first year in power, making it the first country
in Europe to pass an anti-Semitic law after World War I,
according to the Holocaust center. Horthy resigned 24 years
later, in October 1944, when the country was under Nazi
occupation. About 437,000 Hungarians had been sent to death
camps between May and July of that year.  The revival of radical historical figures is part of a
search for identity by Hungarians who were told under communism
that “everything that happened before World War II was taboo,”
according to Andras Lanczi, president of the Budapest-based
 Szazadveg Foundation , which advises the government on policy.  “There is confusion in people’s minds and there’s also
hate, and our democracy doesn’t seem to be able to handle
this,” Lanczi said. “It’s a dilemma: Can we tolerate
intolerance?”  Hungarian society is questioning Horthy’s role and the
government “doesn’t want to interfere in this historical debate
as it considers this a scientific question,” Giro-Szasz said.  In Csokako, the red-and-white Arpad flag flies by the
Hungarian flag. Horthy’s statue will be placed next to a
memorial with a black granite slab in the form of greater
Hungary, a reminder of the loss of two-thirds of the country’s
territory after World War I.  “People are always fighting with symbols,” said Kata
Bognar, 22, as she headed to folk-dance practice with her
boyfriend. “The Horthy statue really divided the town, but I
don’t think that statue is going to hurt anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  