-- Venezuela Passes Saudis to Hold World’s Biggest Oil Reserves
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-14T15:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/venezuela-overtakes-saudis-for-largest-oil-reserves-bp-says-1-.html
Venezuela  surpassed  Saudi Arabia  to
become the world’s largest holder of proven oil reserves, a
resource that President  Hugo Chavez  promises to tap if he gets
re-elected in October.  The South American country’s deposits were at 296.5 billion
barrels at the end of last year, data from  BP Plc (BP/)  show. Saudi
Arabia held 265.4 billion barrels, BP said yesterday in its
annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The 2010 estimate for
Venezuela increased from 211.2 billion in the previous report.  “These reserves are quantified and certified by third
parties and recognized by the entire world as being the biggest
proven reserves of the world,” Venezuela’s Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said today in Vienna. “We have always said that in the
future the natural resources will become scarce and when the
economy recovers and demand will come back then we will be one
of the few countries able to respond to that.”  Chavez wants to more than double the country’s oil-
production capacity to 6 million barrels a day by 2019,
according to a government plan released June 12. The world’s
biggest oil-exporting nations faced a 15 percent slump in crude
prices last month, the biggest decline since December 2008, on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis would derail the global
economic recovery.  Ramirez has said  oil prices  need to be higher than $100 a
barrel. The recent slump in crude is dangerous for producers,
the oil minister said June 12 in Vienna, where the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries is meeting today to decide
production quotas.  Canada Third  Brent futures fell 14 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $96.99 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at 4:04 p.m. London
time today.                       Global reserves advanced to 1.65 trillion barrels at the
end of last year, a 1.9 percent increase from a revised 1.62
trillion in 2010, BP said. Venezuela now holds 18 percent of the
world’s reserves, according to BP data.  BP revised its estimates on reserves in part because the
company publishes its report in June, before most governments
issue their annual reserves figures, said  Robert Wine , a BP
spokesman. Last year’s record average oil price also had an
effect, increasing the commercial viability of hard-to-reach
deposits, he said.  Saudi Arabia now trails Venezuela with a 16 percent share
of world proven oil reserves, according to the report. Canada
ranks third with 175.2 billion barrels, or 11 percent of total,
unchanged from the revised number for 2010.  Development Difficulties  Venezuela’s deposits may be difficult to extract, according
to Strategic Energy & Economic Research. “People still know
that a lot of that is very hard to develop and is not as readily
accessible the way Saudi reserves are,”  Michael Lynch , the
researcher’s president, said today in Vienna. “It’s the same
with Canadian  oil sands .”  Russia boosted its deposits to 88.2 billion barrels from a
revised 86.6 billion a year earlier, according to BP. Russia’s
share of the total is 5.3 percent.  Reserves in  Norway  increased last year, snapping 11 years
of declines, according to BP. The country’s deposits rose to 6.9
billion barrels, compared with a revised figure of 6.8 billion
in 2010.  BP said the estimates in yesterday’s report are a
combination of official sources, OPEC data and other third-party
estimates. Deposits include gas condensates and natural-gas
liquids, as well as crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  