-- Venezuela Faces ‘Deep’ Recession as Oil Prices Fall, BofA Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-13T15:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/venezuela-faces-deep-recession-as-oil-prices-fall-bofa-says.html
Venezuela’s economy will go into a
“deep recession” in 2013 as  oil prices  decline and the
government curbs spending following elections in October,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Gross domestic product  will contract 3.5 percent, Bank of
America’s  Francisco Rodriguez  said in a report, revising down
his forecast for Venezuelan crude oil prices this year to $100.8
a barrel from $107.6. The government will need to devalue the
bolivar by 74 percent, he said.  “Venezuela’s fiscal situation continues to deteriorate due
to declining oil prices, an acceleration in central government
spending and exchange rate appreciation,” Rodriguez wrote in
the report. “Correcting this fiscal gap will require a
substantial fiscal and exchange rate adjustment in early 2013.
The result will be a deep recession, which could be exacerbated
by further oil price declines.”  Venezuelan crude oil prices  have declined 19 percent since
March to an average of $94.05 a barrel last week. The drop may
deepen. Should  Greece  exit the euro, the country’s crude will
decline to about $74.4 a barrel, triggering an economic
contraction of 5.5 percent, Rodriguez said. A broader collapse
of the euro-zone would result in oil prices of $55 a barrel and
a GDP decline of 7.4 percent, he said in the report.  Bank of America’s forecast contrasts with the  World Bank ’s,
which  expects  Venezuela’s economy to grow 2.7 percent next year.  GDP expanded 5.6 percent in the first quarter of 2012, the
fastest pace in almost four years, as record oil revenue allowed
President  Hugo Chavez  to finance a boom in housing construction
ahead of the Oct. 7 vote. Chavez, who is battling cancer, is
seeking to extend his 13 years in power with another six-year
term.  Debt Concern  Should Chavez win re-election and then resign due to
worsening health, an interim government would delay a fiscal and
 exchange rate  adjustment that would deplete foreign reserves and
lead to concerns about Venezuela’s ability to honor debt
payments, Rodriguez said.  The bolivar, which is pegged at 4.3 bolivars per dollar for
“priority” imports and 5.3 bolivars per dollar in a central
bank-administered  currency market , has tumbled to a record low
in an unregulated market as individuals and companies seek to
buy a shrinking number of dollars.  The government last devalued the bolivar in January 2011 by
weakening the exchange rate on so-called essential goods such as
food and medicine by 40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 