-- Wahlberg, Wintour, Matt and Kim, Lasry, Pruzan: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-13T14:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/wahlberg-wintour-matt-and-kim-lasry-pruzan-scene.html
The members of the indie pop band
Matt and Kim haven’t seen much of the countries they’ve toured
in.  “We experience backstage rooms,” Matt Johnson said.  “They’re basically all the same,” Kim Schifino said.  The pair were at the U.S. Mission to the  United Nations 
last night for a reception hosted by the J. William Fulbright
Foreign Scholarship Board.  Among the attendees gathered under a Sol LeWitt ceiling
drawing:  Marc Lasry , founder and managing partner of Avenue
Capital Group (who said he’s heading to  Russia  for the first
time next week), and photographer and filmmaker Timothy
Greenfield-Sanders (who said he has no plans to travel this
summer).  The Fulbright program, created in 1946 and sponsored by the
State Department, has sent 100,000 U.S. students abroad and
brought 200,000 foreign students to the U.S., said  Susan Rice ,
the U.S. ambassador to the UN.  Johnson and Schifino, who will be performing at the Catalpa
NYC Music Festival on Randall’s Island in July, are on a
selection committee for the  MTVu Fulbright Scholars . These
students focus on music during their travels and share their
stories on MTVu’s website and cable channel for college
students.  The network, owned by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , does not provide funding
for the scholarships.  “We got involved to create content about social change,”
said  Stephen Friedman ,  MTV ’s president.  In Malawi  In a video -- played from a projector propped up with a
copy of the book “Afghanistan and  Pakistan : Conflict,
Extremism, and Resistance to Modernity” -- MTVu Fulbright
alumnus Andrew Magill described his project in Malawi recording
an album about families affected by AIDS.  “Music is truly the closest thing we have to an
international language,” said Tom Healy, the chairman of the
Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.  The only thing missing at the Fulbright reception was a
live band. Other events filled the gap.  At the  Historic House Trust  of  New York  City benefit last
night Stephen Doyle and his daughter Maud, an editor at
Departures magazine, took a spin on the dance floor at Gracie
Mansion, the official residence of New York’s mayor, to music by
the Bruce Saunders Orchestra.  Hawke, Wintour  The New York City Housing Authority jazz band played on the
roof of 200 Fifth Avenue on June 11 at a benefit for New York
City public programs organized by the Mayor’s Fund to Advance
New York City.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, hosted the event.
Guests included Ethan Hawke, Vogue editor Anna Wintour and
Hollywood force and art collector  Michael Ovitz , who helped
raise $900,000.  The housing authority supports a choir, an orchestra and a
youth basketball tournament through a combination of public and
private funds.  Encye , a hip-hop clothing label, donated custom-
made basketball uniforms, a contribution valued at $260,000.  At a benefit for  ArtsConnection  also on June 11, the
featured act was a steel-pan drum band composed of public-school
students.  In the audience: Robert Pruzan, co-founder and partner at
Centerview Partners LLC, entertainment lawyer Allen Grubman,
Allison Williams, a star of the HBO series “Girls,” and  Mark Wahlberg , the actor and producer and one of the event’s honorees
(a “get” arranged by ArtsConnection board chairwoman Lisa
Plepler, wife of HBO co-president Richard Plepler.)  “They were amazing,” Wahlberg said after posing for
photos with the musicians. “It’s so inspiring to see kids
gravitate to the arts,” the native of Dorchester,
 Massachusetts , added. “Most kids in my hood were getting into a
lot of trouble.”  Rock ‘n’ Roll  Wahlberg said he has never played the steel-pan drum.  “I play the guitar a little here and there. I was in a few
bands, always on vocals,” he said, vaguely harkening back to
his rapper days as Marky Mark and with New Kids on the Block.  Literary agent Luke Janklow said playing in a professional
rock ‘n’ roll band for more than 10 years “was crucial to my
learning how to master something and work hard with others to
achieve something special. I reference the work ethic it
demanded and demands in all aspects of my life.”  He added: “Most of all, it is pure joy.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 