-- Whitehaven Rejects Takeover Bid From Nathan Tinkler
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-13T01:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/whitehaven-rejects-takeover-bid-from-nathan-tinkler-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Tinkler in headline.)  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , the Australian
coal producer valued at A$4 billion ($4 billion), rejected a
takeover approach from  largest shareholder  Nathan Tinkler,
saying it was too conditional.  The company received the non-binding proposal from Tinkler
Group Pty late yesterday, Sydney-based Whitehaven said today in
a statement. The company added that there was a possibility a
“more complete” proposal would emerge and established a
committee of directors to respond to any future offers.  The bid came after Whitehaven’s shares plunged 30 percent
since the company agreed to buy Tinkler’s Aston Resources Ltd.
in December. That deal made 36-year-old Tinkler the company’s
largest shareholder in the coal producer whose main assets are
in the Gunnedah Basin in New South Wales state.  “Like most resource stocks Whitehaven’s share price has
been dealt with very harshly by the market that’s unrelated to
its fundamentals,” Andrew Pedler, an analyst at  Wilson HTM
Investment Group (WIG) , said by phone from Brisbane. “Whitehaven is
significantly undervalued and shareholders would be doing
themselves injustice to sell out at this price.”  The stock, which will resume trading at 11 a.m. in Sydney,
climbed 2.8 percent to A$4 yesterday. It has fallen 28 percent
in the past year, compared with an 11 percent drop in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Pedler has a “buy” rating on
Whitehaven with a price target of A$7.21.  Conditional, Incomplete  “The proposal is highly conditional and incomplete and is
not considered capable of being progressed at this time,”
Whitehaven said in today’s statement.  Tinkler, who has moved to  Singapore  this year, said in an
interview last year after completing the Aston sale that he was
planning more coal mergers and acquisitions.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  