-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Fell 1% in May on Cheaper Energy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-13T12:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-dropped-1-in-may-on-cheaper-energy.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. dropped
in May by the most since July 2009 as costs of energy and food
decreased, easing pressure on companies to pass expenses to
customers.  The  producer price index  fell 1 percent, more than
forecast, following a 0.2 percent decrease the prior month,
Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. Economists
projected a 0.6 percent decline, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  core measure , which
excludes volatile food and energy prices, climbed 0.2 percent
for a second month.  Slower global growth that’s tempering demand for  raw
materials  may allow producers to hold down costs and preserve
margins, a benefit to consumers facing weaker  income  gains.
Limited inflation also provides Federal Reserve officials with
more room to stimulate the U.S. expansion.  “The signs are that inflation pressures are dissipating
fairly quickly,” said Jeremy Lawson, a senior U.S. economist at
BNP Paribas in  New York . “From a producer perspective, it means
import costs are low so they can maintain relatively healthy
margins. For consumers, it provides some relief, adds to
purchasing power, at a time where their incomes are being
constrained by very weak wage growth.”  The median estimate for the producer price index was based
on forecasts from 76 economists. Projections ranged from a
decrease of 1.5 percent to an increase of 0.3 percent. Core
wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.2 percent for a second
month.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  fell in May for a second month as slower
employment and subdued wage gains damped demand, another report
today showed. The 0.2 percent decrease followed a similar drop
in April that was previously reported as a gain, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  Stock-index futures remained lower after the figures. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
September fell 0.6 percent to 1,312.7 at 8:50 a.m. in New York.  In the 12 months ended May 2012, companies paid 0.7 percent
more for materials, the smallest gain since October 2009. The
core price index increased 2.7 percent in the same period.  The decline in the overall index was led by a 4.3 percent
slump in energy prices that was the biggest since March 2009.
The cost of liquefied petroleum fell the most since December
2009, and gasoline prices dropped 8.9 percent, the report
showed.  Cheaper Food  The cost of food decreased 0.6 percent, the most this year,
reflecting a drop in prices of meat, fruits and soft drinks.  About 25 percent of the increase in core prices in May was
attributable to a 0.7 percent gain in the cost of pharmaceutical
preparations, the report said.  The price of passenger cars rose 0.2 percent last month and
was up 1.2 percent from the prior 12 months.  Prices of capital goods climbed 0.1 percent last month
after a 0.2 percent rise in April.  Price pressures eased all the way down the  production line ,
according to today’s data. The cost of intermediate goods
dropped 0.8 percent, the most since October. Prices for crude
materials, those used at the earliest stage of production,
declined 3.2 percent.  The waning of raw material costs is good news for
businesses hesitant to raise prices while consumers face an
unemployment rate of 8.2 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB commodity index has  fallen  17 percent through yesterday from
a five-month high in February.  Raw Materials  Diminished demand for commodities from abroad will probably
help keep inflation in check. The expansion in the 17-nation
euro region  stagnated  in the first quarter from the same time in
2011, government data show.  “Raw material costs we do see moderating this year,” said
David Meline, chief financial officer of  3M Co. (MMM)  The  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based maker of Post-it Notes and fuel system tune-up
kits expects input price inflation of 1 percent to 2 percent in
2012 compared with 4 percent last year, Meline said during a
June 5 investor conference.  The outlook for inflation is “subdued,” and price gains
will probably remain at or slightly below the 2 percent level
that’s in line with central bank policy makers’ goal of stable
prices and maximum employment, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
the Joint Economic Committee of Congress last week. Still-high
unemployment and retreating oil and gas prices “should continue
to restrain inflationary pressures,” he said.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, meets next week. The group may address a
cooling U.S. expansion, the weakest job growth in a year and a
widening financial crisis in  Europe .  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, is projected to drop 0.2 percent in May after little
change the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey. The cost of goods imported into the U.S. fell
1 percent last month, reflecting lower costs for food and fuel,
Labor Department data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  