-- WPP Investors Vote Against Pay Package of CEO Martin Sorrell
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-13T17:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-13/wpp-investors-vote-against-pay-package-of-chief-martin-sorrell.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  investors voted against the
remuneration packages of directors, including Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Sorrell , as the the revolt over executive pay
spread to the world’s biggest advertising agency.  In a non-binding vote today, 60 percent of investors in WPP
voted against the proposed pay, which included a 56 percent
increase for Sorrell. The company will now approach shareholders
to discuss options, which may include changes to performance
targets, and reconcile the two sides, said one person with
knowledge of the matter, declining to be named as the plan is
not public.  The investor rebellion is one of the biggest since 2009,
when 90 percent of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  shareholders
turned down the  pension plan  for the lender’s former chief  Fred Goodwin . Sorrell’s pay package, including long-term incentives,
was worth 11.6 million pounds ($18 million) last year, making
him the second-highest paid company head in Britain’s FTSE 100
index where CEOs got a median compensation of 3.2 million
pounds, according to remuneration researcher Manifest and MM&K.  “If you look at the long-term performance in general in
the  media industry , it has been dismal,” said Sanford C
Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi . “So scrutiny over what
management teams have done to justify their pay packages is
entirely appropriate.”  Investor groups including ISS and  Glass Lewis  urged
shareholders to vote against the increase and said Sorrell’s pay
is too high compared with other U.K. executives. Sorrell and WPP
have argued that the 67-year-old CEO’s pay should be compared to
international rivals such as Omnicom Group.  Protest  WPP will take the vote seriously and consult with share
owners, Chairman Philip Lader said.  “We’re disappointed by the result of the vote,” Sorrell
said in an e-mail. “But the shareowners have spoken.”  European investors are scrutinizing executive pay more
closely after four years of stagnant or negative economic growth
since the financial crash coupled with the European debt crisis.
Last month, shareholders voted down insurer Aviva Plc’s
remuneration plans while staging protests at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Inmarsat
Plc (ISAT)  for failing to keep compensation in line with stock
performance.  Wire and Plastic  Aspesi said while he understands investors’ concerns about
executive remuneration as cash compensation of media executives
in the past was often not tied to share price performance, he
disagrees with the vote against Sorrell’s package because of
WPP’s performance.  WPP in April reported an increase in first-quarter sales of
7.6 percent to 2.4 billion pounds, ahead of its own budget. The
company has been offsetting a slowdown in markets hit by the
European debt crisis by acquiring digital advertising technology
and companies in faster-growing markets such as China and
 Brazil . Sorrell announced more than two dozen deals this year,
scooping up assets in Indonesia, Pakistan and  Russia .  WPP dropped 2 percent to 753 pence in London trading,
valuing the company at 9.5 billion pounds. The stock had risen
12 percent this year, while the FTSE 100 U.K. benchmark index
declined 1.6 percent and the  Bloomberg Europe Media Index (BEUMEDA)  gained
0.7 percent.  Sorrell turned the company into an advertising giant after
taking control Wire and Plastic Products Plc, a U.K.-based maker
of wire baskets, in 1985. He acquired J. Walter Thompson Group
in 1987, winning ad agency JWT and public relations firm Hill &
Knowlton Inc. and transforming WPP into a media company. WPP now
has about 158,000 employees in more than 2,500 offices.  Maximum Bonus  Last year, Sorrell received a 30 percent base salary
increase to 1.3 million pounds, according to a WPP spokesman.
Sorrell’s maximum bonus was raised to 500 percent. No changes
are planned for 2012, the company has said.  The WPP CEO also received a boost in the company’s share-
matching incentive plan that would allow him to get as much as a
500 percent match to a maximum contribution of 4.55 million
pounds over a five-year period if the company meets performance
targets, the spokesman said.  This would be Sorrell’s second raise in more than a decade,
with his last increase in 2007.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO  Robert Diamond  was also hit with an
investor protest over his pay in April after 27 percent of
shareholders voted against his 12-million pound compensation
package. He agreed to cut his deferred bonus for 2011 until the
bank’s profitability improves.  Maurice Levy , the CEO of Paris-based Publicis, became the
target of attacks in the French presidential election in April
after his 16.2 million euro ($20.3 million) bonus, which had
accrued since 2003, was made public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  