-- A Few Fed Numbers Worth a Thousand Words
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F e r o l i
-- 2012-10-22T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/a-few-fed-numbers-worth-a-thousand-words-michael-feroli.html
Modern central banks have been
described as “an army with only a signal corps.” It’s an apt
portrayal.  The instrument that central banks most directly control --
the  interest rate  at which commercial banks lend to each other
overnight -- affects virtually no transactions that most people
care about. But expectations about the path of that rate shape
long-term interest rates, which then influence economic
activity. The signal that central banks send about this path is
how they exert leverage over an economy.  Among the world’s central banks, the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
signal corps has been the most active in sending out and
refining its message. The logical next step is to specify
numerical thresholds that will govern the Fed’s deliberations on
the timing of its first rate increase since  June 2006 . More to
the point, numerical thresholds will probably involve stating
 employment  and inflation values that would need to be met before
the Fed considers raising rates.  This is a worthy undertaking, but one that could take time
to refine and put into practice. Fed governors have already
started the discussion. Further progress at this week’s  Federal
Open Market Committee  meeting would be a welcome development.  The Fed’s current calendar guidance -- that near-zero
interest rates will likely be warranted at least through mid-
2015 -- is the FOMC’s best estimate of what constitutes a
“considerable period after the recovery strengthens.” This
guidance communicates two things at once: the Fed’s economic
forecast, and the expected policy response given that forecast.  Numerical Thresholds  Numerical thresholds downplay the first part, and instead
focus on articulating with more specificity the second part --
the reaction to economic outcomes.  This should provide important benefits. Instead of
breathlessly waiting on the Fed to alter its rate guidance, the
market can automatically adjust its rate expectations in light
of incoming economic data.  By focusing on how the Fed will react instead of what it
forecasts, the tone of Fed communications should change for the
better, too. Calendar guidance often risks sending a pessimistic
signal about the Fed’s outlook for the economy. Communicating
numerical thresholds, by contrast, would send a more affirmative
message about the Fed’s commitment to full employment and price
stability -- a message that should help bolster business and
 consumer confidence .  Make no mistake: The immediate benefit of establishing
these thresholds would likely be minimal. After several fits and
starts, the Fed has finally pushed back market expectations on
the timing of the first post-crisis rate increase. In late 2009,
even as the  unemployment rate  hovered at about 10 percent,
markets were expecting the Fed to raise rates at least twice
over the following year. Now, the Fed has convinced the market
that the first tightening is at least three years away.  If the Fed says that rate increases won’t begin until
unemployment is at least below 7 percent, that would likely do
little to change market expectations on when short-term rates
will rise and, hence, on longer-term rates. Instead, the
benefits would slowly accrue over time. A more predictable,
stable, rules-based policy framework should reduce uncertainty
and prevent another situation like 2009 when interest rates
moved at odds with the Fed’s mandated goals.  Operational hurdles remain. Take the example of Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans ’s “7/3” rule, which says the first rate
hike won’t occur until the unemployment rate falls below 7
percent, provided inflation doesn’t get above 3 percent. There
are still public misperceptions about what the 7 and the 3
really mean.  Minimally Acceptable  First, Evans has suggested that rates shouldn’t be raised
before unemployment falls below 7 percent. After the surprise
move down in the September unemployment rate, many analysts
misinterpreted the 7 as a trigger rather than a minimally
acceptable improvement in the labor market.  If unemployment falls below 7 percent (or whatever the
threshold is) in a low-quality way -- because, say, people are
dropping out of the  labor force  or more people are accepting
part-time jobs -- there is no obligation for the Fed to raise
rates. The Fed would need to emphasize that reaching an
unemployment threshold is a necessary but not sufficient
condition for tightening.  Second, Evans stipulated that 3 percent inflation should be
considered a serious enough deviation from the Fed’s 2 percent
inflation target that it should release the Fed from its
commitment to keep rates low, even if the employment objective
hasn’t yet been attained.  Regrettably, many have misinterpreted this to mean that
Evans intends to raise the Fed’s inflation objective to 3
percent from 2 percent. The Fed must do a better job of spelling
out the distinction between an inflation objective and a
threshold that represents an intolerable deviation from that
objective.  These are tactical issues. The strategic consideration, as
it must be whenever a central bank is being innovative or
aggressive in spurring growth, is inflation. The inherent
conservatism of the Evans rule or similar thresholds is that
they contain an automatic inflation firebreak. If structural
unemployment is greater than anticipated, the ensuing wage and
price inflation would activate the inflation circuit breaker and
policy would be free to adjust.  Inflation, the greatest risk in a numerical threshold
policy, would be inherently limited. Over time the benefits
could be large, including more stable, predictable policy-
setting that would automatically adjust to ensure interest rates
are geared toward getting the economy back to work.  ( Michael Feroli  is the chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s aggressive crackdown 
on press freedom; William Pesek on what the U.S. can learn from
 Japan’s debt management ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  Barack Obama
doesn’t deserve another term ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and the modern family ; Richard Vedder on
five reasons  college enrollments may be dropping .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Feroli at  michael.e.feroli@jpmorgan.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 