-- Above-Normal Temperatures May Hold in U.S. East Through January
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-22T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/above-normal-temperatures-may-hold-in-u-s-east-through-january.html
A lack of Pacific Ocean warming and
of blocking patterns in the Atlantic will probably mean warmer-
than-normal weather in the eastern U.S. for the next three
months, said  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist at Weather
Services International.  Temperatures in the East may be about 2 degrees Fahrenheit
(1 Celsius) above normal from November through January, while
the Northwest cools, according to a seasonal forecast today from
the Andover, Massachusetts-based company.  “It is now clear that the previously expected El Nino
event is dead on arrival heading into the winter season,”
Crawford said in a statement, referring to the Pacific warming
phenomenon. “We expect the strongest signal this winter will be
for cold Alaskan high pressure to direct cold Arctic air
southward into western Canada and the northwestern U.S.”  Above-normal temperatures in the Midwest and Northeast can
crimp demand for natural gas and heating oil to warm homes and
businesses. In the winter of 2011-2012, mild weather sent
natural gas futures to a 10-year low by April.  Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record in the
contiguous 48 states, with an average temperature of 36.8
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius), according to the  National
Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina .  “The biggest wild card heading toward this winter is the
degree of atmospheric blocking in the North Atlantic, typically
referred to as the North Atlantic Oscillation,” Crawford said.  The oscillation, a pressure differential over the ocean and
Greenland, can bottle up cold air in  North America  if conditions
are right. In the winters of 2009-10 and 2010-11, the blocking
sent temperatures plummeting.  In 2012, the North Atlantic Oscillation didn’t have much of
an impact and temperatures were warmer. Crawford said he doesn’t
expect it will play a large role this winter, either.  “Recent climate model forecasts and statistical predictors
generally suggest that Atlantic blocking will be the exception
rather than the rule this upcoming winter,” Crawford said.
“And we feel that the odds are tilted toward another mild
winter across much of the eastern U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  