-- Abu Dhabi Ports May Raise Funds Next Year as Khalifa Grows
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-10-22T15:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/abu-dhabi-ports-may-raise-funds-next-year-as-khalifa-grows.html
Abu Dhabi Ports Co. may raise funds
next year to meet the growth potential of its Khalifa Port as
the Persian Gulf emirate boosts the development of industries
that will reduce its reliance on oil exports.  Khalifa Port, which began commercial operations last month,
will handle 1.2 million TEUs, or 20-foot standard containers, by
2014, Tony Douglas, the port company’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview. Abu Dhabi Ports will need to order six
more cranes to utilize the port’s current 2.5 million TEU
capacity, he said.  “There is no shortage of opportunities” to get financing
“for any debt that’s required,” Douglas said. “There’s every
chance that next year we may look at syndicated financing. We
have no plans to go the bonds or sukuk route.”  The United Arab Emirates’s capital and largest city is
diversifying its economy by developing industries such as
aluminum, steel and petrochemicals. Non-oil industries accounted
for about 48 percent of the emirate’s economy in 2011, rising
4.1 percent to 288.8 billion dirhams ($78.6 billion), the
Statistics Centre in Abu Dhabi said on Oct. 14.  The new port is next to Khalifa Industrial Zone, or Kizad.
By 2030, the zone should contribute about 15 percent of Abu
Dhabi’s non-oil gross domestic product, and as much as 80
percent of the goods manufactured there will be exported,
according to its website. Khalifa Port expects to need to double
capacity within the next five years to 5 million TEUs, Martijn Van de Linde, CEO of operator Abu Dhabi Terminals, said last
month.  Major Tenants  Within the 51 square kilometer first phase, 75 percent of
Kizad’s leasable area is available, Douglas said. Tenants
include Emirates Aluminium Co., which is building the world’s
largest smelter, and Dubai-based construction company  Al Braik
Investments LLC . Kizad, open almost two years, plans to expand
to two-thirds the size of  Singapore  once the entire area is
developed.  “Power costs an eighth of what it does in  Germany ,”
Douglas said of the Abu Dhabi zone’s competitive advantage.
“It’s tax free, you can access global markets, there’s good
infrastructure and it’s easy to do business here.”  Khalifa Port was built to replace Port Zayed, located
downtown, which will be redeveloped to serve cruise ships as the
city boosts tourist offerings with beach resorts and museums
including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim. The first phase
of the Khalifa Port complex, built on a manmade island outside
Abu Dhabi city, has cost 26.6 billion dirhams and is just 25
miles south of Dubai’s  Jebel Ali (DPW) , the world’s ninth-biggest
container port.  Government Pays  Abu Dhabi Ports will be reimbursed after transferring some
assets it built to various government departments, such as roads
and power networks, Douglas said. The additional cranes needed
will each cost less than $10 million.  The migration of container ships from 40-year-old Port
Zayed to Port Khalifa will be completed by the end of the year,
three months earlier than planned and just as the old port
reaches full capacity of 800,000 TEUs, Douglas said.  “Grains, rail, refinery equipment -- it all comes into
Port Zayed,” said Douglas, speaking at his Abu Dhabi office.
“If we’re getting full, it means something’s happening in Abu
Dhabi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  