-- Macerich to Buy Two New York-Area Malls for $1.25 Billion
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-22T16:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/macerich-agrees-to-1-26-billion-purchase-of-two-new-york-malls.html
Macerich Co. (MAC)  agreed to buy two New
York-area malls from  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and its Alexander’s
Inc. affiliate for $1.25 billion as it expands in the market.  Macerich will buy the Kings Plaza center in  Brooklyn  from
Alexander’s for $751 million, the  Santa Monica , California-based
real estate investment trust said today in a statement. The
company also said it will purchase the Green Acres Mall in
Valley Stream, New York, from Vornado for $500 million.  The transactions are scheduled to be completed by the end
of March. Macerich, which already owns the Queens Center mall in
Elmhurst, New York, said it plans to reduce vacancies at the
properties and attract retailers prepared to pay higher rents.  “They like the New York metro market,” said Alexander Goldfarb, a REIT analyst for Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.
“They were the logical buyer of Kings Plaza. Through the Queens
Center, they had dominance in Queens, they now get the dominant
mall in Brooklyn.”  Green Acres, on  Long Island , is less attractive because it
competes with  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ’s Roosevelt Field mall
in nearby  Garden City , said Goldfarb, who has hold ratings on
both Macerich and Vornado. Macerich’s properties include the
Shops at Atlas Park in the Glendale section of Queens; the Cross
County Shopping Center in Yonkers, New York; Freehold Raceway
Mall in Freehold,  New Jersey ; and Danbury Fair in Danbury,
 Connecticut , according to the company’s website. All are within
55 miles of  Manhattan .  Investment Strategy  “These transactions are consistent with our investment
strategy of acquiring assets in the major markets where we have
our best assets and selling non-core assets and recycling
capital,” Chief Executive Officer Arthur Coppola said in the
statement.  Vornado, a New York-based REIT that gets most of its
earnings from office buildings in Manhattan and the Washington
area, is seeking to simplify its operations in response to
shareholder complaints that it has too many disparate
businesses. The company planned to sell some of its malls and
strip shopping centers considered “non-core” assets, Chairman
 Steven Roth  said in his annual letter to investors in April.  Vornado owns about 32 percent of Paramus, New Jersey-based
Alexander’s, which is  led  by Roth.  Manhattan Retail  Vornado expects about $185 million in net proceeds from the
Green Acres Mall sale, while Alexander’s will have net proceeds
of $481 million from its deal, the companies said today in
separate statements.  Kings Plaza is a 1.2 million-square-foot (111,500-square-
meter) enclosed mall, anchored by Macy’s, Lowe’s and Sears. The
1.8-million-square-foot Green Acres Mall includes Macy’s, Sears,
Kohl’s, J.C. Penney and Walmart.  Selling those properties is less important to Vornado’s
simplification effort than it is a way of “recycling capital,”
said Goldfarb. The proceeds from the Green Acres sale will
probably be used to defray the cost of retail space it agreed to
buy in July for $707 million at Manhattan’s 666 Fifth Ave.,
along one of the world’s most expensive shopping corridors, he
said.  “It enhances the street-retail platform of Vornado in a
tax-efficient way.” he said.  Vornado controlled 46  New York  retail properties totaling
2.1 million square feet as of June 30, according to its  second-
quarter report  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Most critical to streamlining the company would be sales of
its stakes in Toys “R” Us Inc., the world’s largest toy
merchant, and J.C. Penney Co., the 110-year-old department-store
chain that has been undergoing a makeover to make it more
competitive, Goldfarb said.  “This transaction doesn’t do anything to simplify Vornado
from a 30,000-foot view,” Goldfarb said. “The real decisions
that will do that will be the divestiture of Toys, the
divestiture of J.C. Penney, and other investments that are
really a small part of the Vornado story, but attract a
disproportionate amount of attention.”  Macerich fell 2.5 percent to $57.45 and Vornado declined
0.2 percent to $81.15 at 12:45 p.m. in New York.  Alexander’s (ALX) 
rose 5 percent to $440.56.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  