-- Acer Net Misses Estimates on Dropping Sales, Market Share
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/acer-profit-misses-estimates-as-market-share-sales-decline.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , Asia’s second-largest
computer maker, posted third-quarter profit that missed
estimates amid declining sales and market share as consumers
held off purchases ahead of the release of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
next Windows operating system this month.  Net income was NT$68 million ($2.3 million), the Taipei-
based company said in a statement last night. That compares with
the NT$503 million average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Acer had a net loss of NT$1.1 billion a year earlier.  Acer’s shipment decline for the quarter was wider than the
industry’s as the company’s sales of Ultrabooks, light notebooks
that mimic  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s MacBook Air, failed to meet
expectations. The release of Windows 8 this month may not be
enough to spur sales growth in the coming quarter.  “There are substantial risks around Acer’s Ultrabook
strategy, given the Ultrabook market may not be as large as Acer
believes and that it may incur substantial promotional and
marketing expenses,” Alberto Moel, who rates the shares market
perform at Sanford C. Bernstein in Hong Kong, wrote in an Oct.
18 report.  Consolidated sales fell 11 percent on year to NT$104
billion, Acer said yesterday. That’s less than the NT$110
billion average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The third-quarter profit is wider than the NT$56 million it
posted in the prior three months.  Before last year, Acer’s quarterly net income hadn’t
dropped below NT$1 billion since 2003.  Shares Drop  Operating income, which measures revenue less operating
costs, was NT$345 million, less than the NT$433 million of the
prior quarter and an improvement over an operating loss a year
earlier. Acer didn’t explain the results in its statement.
Spokesman Henry Wang didn’t immediately answer calls to his
office yesterday.  Acer’s shares dropped 0.9 percent to NT$26.95 at the close
of trade in Taipei yesterday, before the announcement. The stock
is down 23 percent this year, lagging a 4.3 percent advance in
 Taiwan ’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index.  The company’s shipments fell 10.2 percent from a year
earlier, wider than an 8.3 percent decline for the broader
market, with its market share dropping to 9.9 percent,
researcher Gartner Inc.  wrote  Oct. 10.  “The third quarter was also a transitional quarter before
Microsoft’s Windows 8 operating system release, so shipments
were less vigorous as vendors and their channel partners
liquidated inventory,” Gartner wrote at the time.  Acer posted its first annual loss last year after writing
off inventory amid a slump in demand for consumer PCs and the
increased popularity of tablets. Weaker-than-expected sales of
its Ultrabooks, a product designed by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , has damped
the company’s recovery,  Kirk Yang , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote earlier this month.  Acer will hold an investors conference on Oct. 25 in
Taipei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  