-- Albert Ueltschi, Billionaire CEO for Buffett, Dies at 95
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-22T16:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/albert-ueltschi-pilot-billionaire-buffett-cohort-dies-at-95.html
Albert Ueltschi, a pilot who founded
aviation-training company FlightSafety in 1951, expanded it into
an international powerhouse and sold it to  Warren Buffett  for
$1.5 billion, has died. He was 95.  He died on Oct. 18 at his home in Vero Beach,  Florida ,
according to a  statement  from the company. No cause was given.  As pilot of Pan American’s first corporate plane -- his
regular passenger was company founder Juan Trippe -- Ueltschi
hit upon the idea of opening a testing and training center for
the booming aviation industry in the 1950s.  That company today is  FlightSafety International Inc. ,
which bills itself as the world’s leading aviation-training
company, teaching pilots, aviation mechanics, flight attendants,
dispatchers and others each year.  Based at New York’s  LaGuardia Airport , the company runs
training centers and flight simulators at more than 40 locations
in the U.S.,  Canada ,  France  and the U.K., according to its
 website .  The 1996 purchase of the company by Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  culminated Ueltschi’s rise from  Kentucky  farm boy
to the ranks of the world’s wealthiest. Forbes magazine
 estimated  his net worth to be $2.1 billion in September.  Buffett’s Praise  Ueltschi stayed on as FlightSafety president after the
Buffett purchase until 2003, then served as  chairman .  “The first question I always ask myself about somebody in
his position is, do they love the money or do they love the
business?” Buffett was quoted in Aviation International News in
1999. “But with Al, the money is totally secondary. He loves
the business, and that’s what I need.”  Albert Lee Ueltschi (pronounced YULE-chee) was born on May
15, 1917, on a dairy farm near Frankfort, Kentucky, the youngest
of seven children. His father’s parents had settled in the state
after emigrating from  Switzerland .  Aviation, still in its infancy, captured his attention. He
recalled listening, at 10, to radio reports on  Charles
Lindbergh ’s pioneering  trans-Atlantic flight .  “There was no question in my mind that I would be a pilot,
just like Lindbergh,” he said in a 1997  memoir  posted on the
company’s website. “I was certain of it.”  ‘Fool Kid’  After graduating from high school in 1934, he opened a
hamburger stand and used the proceeds to take flying lessons. A
year later he borrowed $3,500 to buy an open-cockpit bi-wing
airplane, the  Waco 10 , and made it his next business venture.  “I took people up for a dollar a hop, gave lessons, and
even put on air shows. Folks came out to see if the fool kid
would kill himself, and like a fool, on several occasions I
almost obliged.”  He became chief pilot for Queen City Flying Services in
Cincinnati, then signed on with  Pan American  World Airways. In
1943 he was tapped to fly the twin-engine propeller plane that
Pan Am had outfitted to transport  Trippe , its founder and
president. Ueltschi would hold the job for 26 years, flying the
occasional celebrity and learning the business by listening to
Trippe make deals.  As more and more companies bought airplanes to serve their
top executives, he “began to see possibilities that no one else
was able to see at the time,” Robert P. Miles wrote in “ The
Warren Buffett CEO ,” a 2001 book that included a chapter on
Ueltschi.  Mortgaged Home  Many of the new corporate pilots were skilled veterans of
the Navy or Army Air Corps, Miles wrote, and “once they left
the military and began flying corporate jets, their training
essentially came to an end.”  So in 1951, Ueltschi borrowed $15,000 by mortgaging his
house and opened FlightSafety at LaGuardia’s Marine Air
Terminal.  He said Trippe acted as the new company’s “ambassador to
the Fortune 500,” urging his CEO friends to send their pilots
to the company for training.  In 1954, with money from corporate clients including
Eastman Kodak Co. and Coca-Cola Co., FlightSafety bought its
first modern flight simulator.  Ueltschi took the company public in 1968 and retired from
Pan Am so he could lead it full-time.  He was just shy of 80, and mulling the company’s future,
when Buffett invited him to lunch in  New York  City in 1996.
Though Buffett had sent his pilots to FlightSafety for training,
it was the first meeting of the two men.  Took Stock  After hamburgers and cherry Cokes, the two men shook hands
on a $1.5 billion deal to make FlightSafety an independent unit
of Berkshire Hathaway. Ueltschi, whose family owned 37 percent
of FlightSafety, chose to take payments in Berkshire stock,
which almost tripled in value over the next decade.  “Al was a great visionary who had a profound and positive
impact on generations of aviation enthusiasts and
professionals,” Bruce Whitman, FlightSafety’s president and
chief executive officer, said in a statement on the company’s
 website .  Ueltschi was a leader of  Orbis International , a nonprofit
organization that flies a specially outfitted airliner around
the world to teach sight-saving surgical procedures. Last month
he signed “The Giving Pledge,” an initiative started in 2010
by Buffett and Bill and  Melinda Gates  to encourage the richest
Americans to commit to giving away at least 50 percent of their
wealth.  In  his pledge , Ueltschi wrote, “My share will be
contributed to helping the least advantaged people in the world
lead healthy and productive lives through medical innovation.”  He was predeceased by his wife, Eileen, whom he married in
1944. They had four children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  