-- Halcon Agrees to Buy North Dakota Fields From Petro-Hunt
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-10-22T20:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/halcon-agrees-to-buy-north-dakota-fields-from-petro-hunt.html
Halcon Resources Corp. (HK) , the oil and
natural gas producer run by former Petrohawk Energy Chairman
Floyd C. Wilson, agreed to buy some of Petro-Hunt LLC’s North
Dakota fields for about $1.45 billion in cash and stock.  Petro-Hunt, a closely held company owned by the Hunt
family, and an affiliated entity will get $700 million in cash
and $750 million in shares, Houston-based Halcon said in a
statement today. The purchase includes about 81,000 net acres in
four North Dakota counties with current net production
equivalent to more than 10,500 barrels of oil a day.  The acquisition is the fourth and largest for Halcon, the
Spanish word for falcon, since it was formed in November 2011.
Wilson, who sold Petrohawk for $12.1 billion to  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  in August 2011, has said he will also eventually sell
Halcon, which has a $1.52 billion market valuation. The company
will focus on developing fields and isn’t looking at more big
deals, Wilson said today on a conference call with analysts.  “This hawk is ready to soar,” said Wilson, Halcon’s
chairman and chief executive officer. “We’ll have grown from an
idea into a well-staffed  oil company  producing over 25,000
barrels of oil equivalent per day with the closing of this
transaction.”  Halcon rose 1.6 percent to $7.18 at the close in New York.  Capital Spending  With the purchase, Halcon is more than doubling its land
holdings in the Bakken and Three Forks formations in  North
Dakota  and Montana. North Dakota oil production reached a  record 
of 701,134 barrels a day in August, up 3.7 percent from the
prior month. The assets in today’s agreement hold reserves
estimated at the equivalent of 42.4 million barrels of oil.  Petro-Hunt will own about 22 percent of Halcon after the
deal closes, which is expected in December, according to the
company. Halcon will finance the cash portion by selling $300
million of stock at $7.16 a share to the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and with bank borrowings, according to the
statement.  Halcon expects to expand its planned $1.1 billion capital
spending plan by $300 million to accelerate drilling and extend
pipelines in the area, Wilson said.  Mitchell Energy Advisors LLC advised Halcon on the
transaction and Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. advised the pension
board, according to today’s statement.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
agreed to extend Halcon’s borrowing base to $850 million and
provide a $500 bridge loan.  Petro-Hunt is based in  Dallas . H.L. Hunt, who formed Hunt
Oil Co. in 1934, was said to be the inspiration for the J.R.
Ewing character in the television show “Dallas,” according to
Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  