-- Ancestry.com Said to Agree to $1.6 Billion Permira Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-22T09:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ancestry-com-said-to-agree-to-1-6-billion-permira-sale.html
Permira Advisers LLP has reached an
agreement to buy  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the family-history research
website, for about $1.6 billion, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Permira will pay about $32 a share for the company and an
announcement is scheduled before the stock market opens in New
York, said the person, who declined to be identified because
talks are private. The private-equity firm had resumed the talks
with Ancestry.com after earlier discussions stumbled over price,
people familiar with the situation said earlier this month.  Ancestry.com has been working with  Frank Quattrone ’s
Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers and had been discussing a
possible deal with private-equity firms, people with knowledge
of the matter have said. The company, which recently passed the
2 million-user milestone, had been seeking a sale amid concerns
that the cancellation of a television show featuring its
research would crimp subscriber growth.  An official at Permira declined to comment. The Wall Street
Journal reported earlier today that an agreement had been
reached.  The company reported second-quarter sales and profit in
July that topped analysts’ estimates, helped by user gains and
demand for new products. Ancestry.com also raised its sales
forecast for 2012 to as much as $480 million.  Market Value  The stock has risen 27 percent so far this year, valuing
the company at $1.25 billion.  Ancestry.com lost almost a third of its market value
earlier this year amid concern that the cancellation of the TV
show “Who Do You Think You Are?” would hinder expansion. The
show, which had celebrities such as  Martin Sheen  and  Marisa Tomei  exploring their roots with the help of Ancestry.com
research, aired its final episode on May 18 on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC network.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content. The company said on Aug. 17 it had completed its
acquisition of Archives.com, another family-history website,
from  Redwood City , California-based Inflection LLC.  An official at Ancestry.com couldn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  