-- Handelsbanken Has Record Third-Quarter Net as Income Rises
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-22T08:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/handelsbanken-has-record-third-quarter-net-as-income-rises-1-.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Sweden’s
second-largest bank by market value, said profit in the three
months through September was the highest on record of any third
quarter after lending income grew and costs declined.  Net income, including discontinued operations, rose to 3.25
billion kronor ($495 million) last quarter, from 3.21 billion
kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based bank said in a
 statement  today. The  average estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for profit of 3.24 billion kronor. Net interest
income jumped 7 percent to 6.46 billion kronor, while total
costs fell 1 percent to 3.78 billion kronor.  The result “was the highest ever achieved in a single
third quarter,” the lender said in the statement. Net interest
income in the first nine months of 2012 increased “due to
rising business volumes and interest margins,” the bank said.  Sweden ’s banks have largely steered clear of  Europe ’s
economic crisis and their balance sheets aren’t weighed down by
assets linked to the region’s most indebted nations, giving them
better access to funding than many peers. Handelsbanken is
Europe’s safest lender and ranks No. 10 globally, according to a
May Bloomberg Markets overview that looked at measures such as
capital and deposit-to-funding ratios. It’s also the European
Union’s best capitalized major bank, Bloomberg data show.  Margin Pressure  Still, Handelsbanken like most of its European peers is
struggling to increase income as central banks lower interest
rates to stimulate their economies. Lower demand for stocks is
also pushing down equity brokerage and advisory commissions.  From the second quarter, net interest income fell 2
percent, “which is attracting focus today,” Mads Thinggaard,
an analyst at Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen, said in a note.
Net fee income was also “a big disappointment,” he said.  Sweden’s central bank lowered its benchmark repo rate a
quarter of a percentage point last month to 1.25 percent as
policy makers seek to protect the largest Nordic economy from
the fallout of Europe’s debt crisis.  “The key takeaway from the third-quarter results is the
weaker-than-expected core revenue performance,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a note. “Net interest income missed
consensus forecast by 1.7 percent and fees by 4.1 percent. While
the fee income is at least in part driven by seasonality, net
interest income is largely the result of lower short-term
 interest rates  and more pre-funding.”  Capital Buffer  Handelsbanken had a core Tier 1 capital ratio according to
Basel II rules of 17.9 percent at the end of the third quarter,
up from 16.8 percent at the end of June and 14.7 percent at the
end of the first nine months of 2011, the lender said. The
bank’s core Tier 1 capital increased by 2 billion kronor in the
third quarter from the second to 87.6 billion kronor after
profit in the period boosted reserves.  Handelsbanken declined as much as 2.1 percent, before
trading 0.1 percent higher at 233 kronor as of 9:48 a.m. in
 Stockholm . The stock has gained 29 percent this year, compared
with a 17 percent increase in the 38-member Bloomberg index of
European financial companies.  Sweden, whose banking industry is four times the size of
the economy, is pushing through tougher capital rules than those
set elsewhere, requiring its lenders to target 10 percent core
Tier 1 buffers of their risk-weighted assets next year and 12
percent from 2015. That compares with the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision ’s core capital target of at least 7 percent,
while the European Banking Authority has set a temporary 9
percent target for some banks.  Still ‘Solid’  “Handelsbanken’s balance sheet remains solid,” BofA said.
The increase in  capital ratios  means Handelsbanken would have a
fully phased in Basel III core equity Tier 1 capital ratio of
15.8 percent, according to BofA. If Sweden goes ahead with plans
to raise the risk-weights on mortgage loans, Handelsbanken would
still have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of about 14 percent, BofA
said.  Handelsbanken’s household deposits rose 5 percent to 266.2
billion kronor in the third quarter, compared with the same
period a year earlier, while loans to the public increased 1
percent to 1.62 trillion kronor, driven by a 4 percent increase
in  mortgage loans , Handelsbanken said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  