-- Apollo Said to Hire Advisers for European Life Insurance Push
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-10-22T12:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/apollo-said-to-hire-advisers-for-european-life-insurance-push.html
Apollo Global Management LLC, (APO)   Leon Black ’s private equity firm, hired advisers to start a life
insurance operation in  Europe , two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  The firm hired RMR Advisors Ltd., started earlier this year
in  London  by former UBS AG bankers Jamie Robinson, Deepak Rajan 
and Henrik Matsen, as consultants to build the European life
insurance and reinsurance unit, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the plan is private. They may also look
to grow the business through acquisitions and insurance-linked
financing such as securitizations, the people said.  The private equity firm is seeking to expand in European
life insurance operations as it has done in the U.S., where it
owns reinsurer Athene Holding Ltd. Apollo also teamed up with
CVC  Capital Partners  Ltd. last year to buy non-life insurer Brit
Insurance Holdings BV.  Apollo and other asset managers including Harbinger Capital
Partners and Guggenheim Partners LLC have targeted life
insurers’ unwanted operations in the U.S. to get access to a
stable pool of funds for their investment-management operations.
At the same time, some of the biggest life insurers, such as
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and Sun Life Financial
Inc., have stopped selling some U.S. life and annuity products.  Apollo will target pools of European life insurance
policies that release capital as they expire over time, the
people said.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for the New York-based
firm, declined to comment.  Robinson left UBS in June as head of European insurance
coverage after 19 years with the Zurich-based bank. Rajan joined
UBS in 2010 from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to run its European
insurance structuring business, a team Matsen was part of after
a stint in the financial institutions group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net  