-- Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever Kills Five in Uganda, WHO Says
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-10-22T22:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/marburg-hemorrhagic-fever-kills-five-in-uganda-who-says.html
Five people died in an outbreak of
Marburg hemorrhagic fever that probably infected four others in
southwestern  Uganda , the  World Health Organization  said.  Of the cases, three have been laboratory-confirmed by the
Uganda Virus Research Institute, the Geneva-based United Nations
agency said in a  statement  late yesterday. WHO said it’s
supporting health officials to control the outbreak.  “An investigation into the outbreak is ongoing,” WHO
said. “Preliminary investigations indicate that all these cases
belong to the same cluster -- family and relatives of the index
case.”  Marburg hemorrhagic fever is a severe and highly fatal
disease caused by a virus from the same family as the one that
causes Ebola hemorrhagic fever. There is no vaccine or specific
treatment for Marburg hemorrhagic fever, which was initially
detected in 1967 following simultaneous outbreaks in Marburg and
Frankfurt, Germany, and Belgrade in the former Yugoslavia,
according to WHO.  The initial cases occurred in laboratory workers handling
African green monkeys imported from Uganda.  Since then, outbreaks and sporadic cases have been reported
in  Angola ,  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Uganda and  Kenya . It
has also been reported in  South Africa  in a person who had
recently traveled to Zimbabwe, WHO said.  Infection results from contact with blood or other body
fluids, such as feces and saliva, with high virus concentration.
Patients become increasingly infectious as their illness
progresses, and are most infectious during the phase of severe
illness, according to a  WHO fact sheet .  Many patients develop severe hemorrhagic manifestations
between days five and seven, and fatal cases usually have some
form of bleeding, often from multiple sites. In fatal cases,
death occurs most often eight-to-nine days after symptom onset,
usually preceded by shock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  