-- ARM Cement of Kenya Jump to 1-Week High on Profit: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-22T09:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/arm-cement-of-kenya-jump-to-1-week-high-on-profit-nairobi-mover.html
ARM Cement Ltd. (ARML) , Kenya’s second-
biggest cement maker by market value, rose to the highest in a
week after it said profit in the first nine months of this year
increased more than fourfold.  Shares in ARM gained 3.5 percent to 235 shillings by 12:10
p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A close at this level will be the
highest since Oct. 15.  “The jump in the shares has a lot to do with the earnings
but most of the profit was on the back of exchange-rate gains,”
Kuria Kamau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital
(East Africa) Ltd., said in a phone interview today. “Turnover
is up which is positive and the prospects in the fourth quarter
are higher after it begun production in Tanzania.”  Net income climbed to 826.5 million shillings ($9.7
million) in the nine months through September from 193 million
shillings a year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in a
statement e-mailed by the city’s stock exchange today. Revenue
jumped 29 percent to 7.74 billion shillings, ARM said.  Kenya ’s shilling is little changed against the dollar this
year through September after weakening 20 percent against the
U.S. currency last year. The company made an exchange gain of 42
million shillings in the nine months through September, after
making a provision for an unrealized foreign-exchange loss of
681 million shillings a year earlier, the company said.  The introduction of Rhino Cement, the  brand (BRND)  of the building
material produced by the company, in Tanzania last month is
expected to boost sales in the fourth quarter, it said.  “The company remains optimistic about the business
environment in the region, and expects the growth in demand for
Rhino Cement and other products will continue,” ARM said in the
statement. African Finance Corp. provided ARM with a $50 million
convertible note last month, it said.  Shares in ARM have surged 51 percent this year, while the
 NSE All-Share Index (NSEASI)  has gained 31 percent  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  