-- Armstrong Decision May Bring Truth Panel to Clean Up Cycling
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-10-22T18:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/armstrong-stripped-of-tour-de-france-titles-by-governing-body.html
Cycling’s ruling body will meet this
week to discuss allowing riders to disclose past drug use
without penalties after Lance Armstrong was stripped of his Tour
de France titles and banned from the sport for doping.  The  International Cycling Union , which goes by the French
acronym UCI, today endorsed a decision by the U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency to take away the 41-year-old American’s seven
championships in the sport’s most prestigious race. A Texas
promotion company said it would move to reclaim a $7.5 million
bonus paid to Armstrong for one of the wins, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  USADA also urged the bike group to create a “Truth and
Reconciliation Commission,” similar to that used in  South
Africa  at the end of apartheid, to find wrongdoing, and UCI
lawyer Philippe Verbiest said it will be discussed on Oct. 26.  “There must be more action to combat the system that took
over the sport,” USADA Chief Executive Officer Travis Tygart
said in an e-mailed statement. “It is important to remember
that while today is a historic day for clean sport, it does not
mean clean sport is guaranteed for tomorrow.”  Armstrong lost sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  and the Trek Bicycle Corp. after USADA published
evidence from 11 former teammates on Oct. 10 that he “engaged
in serial cheating” in winning the Tour from 1999 through 2005.
Today,  Luxottica Group SpA’s (LUX)  sunglass maker Oakley said it also
was ending its relationship with the rider. Armstrong may lose
$30 million in sponsorships, according to Steve Rosner of 16W
Marketing LLC.  Livestrong Move  The Texan last week also stepped down as chairman of
Livestrong, the cancer foundation he founded and which has
raised more than $470 million 1997, according to its website.  “Lance Armstrong has no place in cycling,” UCI President
Pat McQuaid said at a news conference in Geneva today. “He
deserves to be forgotten in cycling.”  Armstrong has denied doping for more than a decade and said
he never failed a drug test. He declined to take the USADA
findings to arbitration, saying the process was heavily weighted
against him.  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, was in court and
unavailable for comment on UCI’s decision, according to an e-
mail from his office.  McQuaid said he was “sickened by what I read” in the
USADA report, particularly by how Armstrong’s former teammate
David Zabriskie testified he was “coerced” into doping by team
officials.  UCI could have appealed the decision to the Court of
Arbitration for Sport. The Oct. 26 meeting will also explore
whether Armstrong should return his prize money, and whether to
award his titles to anyone else, McQuaid said.  Money Back  SCA Promotions of  Dallas  said it wanted the $7.5 million
bonus, interest and legal fees Armstrong received for winning
the 2004 Tour back, the  BBC said , quoting the company’s outside
counsel, Jeffrey Tillotson.  “We will make a formal demand for return of funds,”
Tillotson said according to the broadcaster. “If this is not
successful, we will initiate formal legal proceedings against
Mr. Armstrong in five business days.”  Tillotson didn’t immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment on the  BBC  report. Jeffrey Dorough, SCA’s
general counsel, said in separate e-mails that the company was
considering all legal options to pursue a return of the funds
paid to Mr. Armstrong” and “fully endorses” any statement
made by Tillotson as outside counsel.  Long History  McQuaid said doping in cycling dates back to at least the
1970s, when he was aware of it as an amateur rider.  Other Tour winners to lose titles for doping were  Floyd
Landis  in 2006 and  Alberto Contador  in 2010. Twenty of the 21
riders to finish in the top three the years Armstrong won have
been “tied to likely doping” through admissions, sanctions,
public investigations or exceeding the UCI’s hematocrit level,
USADA said.  USADA said on Aug. 24 it was stripping him of his titles
after he refused to fight the group’s charges at an arbitration
hearing. Herman, Armstrong’s lawyer, described the USADA’s
evidence on Oct. 10 as “a taxpayer-funded tabloid piece
rehashing old, disproved, unreliable allegations based largely
on axe-grinders, serial perjurers, coerced testimony, sweetheart
deals and threat-induced stories.”  The U.S. Postal Service stopped sponsoring cycling in 2004.  “We are aware of the allegations concerning  Lance
Armstrong  and other riders in the USADA report and have no
further comment concerning the matter at this time,” USPS
spokeswoman Patricia Licata said in an e-mailed statement.  More Fallout  The Dutch lender Rabobank Groep said last week it would
pull its 15 million euros of annual spending on pro cycling
because of the USADA findings.  Armstrong’s former teammate Levi Leipheimer was fired by
the Omega Pharma-Quick Step team after admitting doping in an
affidavit to USADA.  Johan Bruyneel  exited as manager of the
RadioShack team. The Belgian, who oversaw Armstrong’s seven Tour
wins, denies wrongdoing.  “This is the biggest crisis cycling has ever faced,”
McQuaid said. “My message to cycling, to our riders, to our
sponsors and to our fans today is: Cycling has a future.”  The  International Olympic Committee  said it will wait for
more information before deciding what to do about a bronze medal
Armstrong won at the 2000 Sydney Games.  Asked why Armstrong’s doping hadn’t been caught, McQuaid
said the UCI had limited powers to uncover what he called the
“sophisticated” doping regime.  “The UCI doesn’t have police powers,” McQuaid said,
adding it had to rely on drug testing. He said it was
“absolutely untrue” that the organization had covered up
failed tests by Armstrong.  Tygart, the USADA CEO, said that an independent
reconciliation panel would allow cycling to “unshackle” itself
from the past.  “There are many more details of doping that are hidden,
many more doping doctors and corrupt team directors and the
‘omerta’ has not yet been fully broken,” Tygart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net 
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  