-- Armstrong’s NYC Marathon Times May Be Erased With Cycling Titles
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/armstrong-to-have-nyc-marathon-results-stripped-wittenberg-says.html
Lance Armstrong  twice finished the
New York City Marathon in under three hours, results that will
probably be erased after the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency stripped
him of his record seven Tour de France cycling titles.  “I anticipate the results will come out of our archives,”
Mary Wittenberg, president and chief executive officer of race
organizer the New York Road Runners, said in an interview
yesterday. “Lance doesn’t have a place in running because we
will stick to the rules and support USADA.”  Armstrong, 41, finished the 2006 marathon in 2 hours, 59
minutes, 36 seconds and shaved almost 13 minutes off that result
with a time of 2:46:43 in 2007 for 214th place among men.  USADA stripped Armstrong of his  Tour de France  wins and
barred him from Olympic-related sports in August after the Texan
opted not to contest doping charges in arbitration. USADA’s
stand was upheld yesterday by the International Cycling Union,
known by the French acronym UCI.  The UCI decision came after USADA released a 202-page
summary of its findings on Oct. 10, which stated that Armstrong
“engaged in serial cheating” throughout his career. Armstrong
has denied performance-enhancing drug use.  NYRR will wait for the appeals process in the case to be
completed before officially acting, Wittenberg said. The  World
Anti-Doping Agency  or Armstrong can appeal the USADA ruling.  “The terms of his arrangement with USADA look like it will
apply to say that those times should be erased,” Wittenberg
said. An e-mail seeking comment from Annie Skinner, a
spokeswoman for USADA, wasn’t immediately returned.  Repaying Bonuses  Armstrong also will be asked to repay $9.5 million given to
him by SCA Promotions Inc., which paid bonuses for his fourth,
fifth and sixth Tour de  France  titles.  Dallas-based SCA was sued by Armstrong and U.S. Postal
Service team owner Tailwind Sports in 2004 for failing to pay a
$5 million bonus owed to the cyclist for winning his sixth
straight Tour de France, which came amid allegations of doping.
It settled the suit in 2006, agreeing to pay the $5 million and
$2.5 million in interest and legal fees.  “The entire arbitration award and payment by us was
premised on the fact that Mr. Armstrong was the official winner
of the Tour de France,” Jeffrey Tillotson, outside counsel for
SCA, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “He is no longer
that official winner and has no legal right to maintain or keep
those bonus funds.”  Tillotson said that SCA also paid Armstrong a $1.5 million
bonus in 2002 and $3 million in 2003 for his Tour de France
wins. If Armstrong doesn’t repay the bonuses, Tillotson said SCA
will pursue all legal avenues to collect.  All Funds  “We’ll seek return of all of those funds,” Tillotson
said. “You’re looking at $9.5 million in bonus. Plus interest
and court costs brings it to close to $12 million.”  Armstrong yesterday was banned for life from cycling and
UCI President Pat McQuaid said Armstrong “deserves to be
forgotten” in the sport.  Armstrong lost most of his sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and Trek Bicycle Corp. after USADA
published evidence from 11 former teammates on Oct. 10 that the
41-year-old cheated in winning seven straight Tour de France
titles through 2005. Yesterday, sunglass maker Oakley said it
was ending its relationship with the rider.  The Texan last week also stepped down as chairman of
Livestrong, the cancer foundation he founded.  Marathon Partnership  Livestrong will continue to be a partner of the NYC
Marathon, said Wittenberg, who recalled Armstrong’s support for
nine-time race winner Grete Waitz, who died in  April (APR)  2011 five
years after being diagnosed with cancer.  Armstrong, who didn’t know Waitz before Wittenberg
mentioned that she was fighting the disease, immediately e-
mailed the Norwegian to offer his support. Armstrong survived
testicular cancer that spread to his lungs and brain.  “She said to me in that first year when she was fighting
for her life and trying to stay on the treadmill and active and
physically fit, Lance’s success against cancer buoyed her and
really helped her believe she could beat it,” Wittenberg said
of Waitz. “There’s no question that he helped her have the
confidence and the will to fight the cancer and survive for the
five years that she did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  