-- Armstrong Will Be Asked to Repay $7.5 Million to Bonus Promoter
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-22T19:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/armstrong-will-be-asked-to-repay-7-5-million-to-bonus-promoter.html
Lance Armstrong  will be asked to
repay $7.5 million given to him by  SCA Promotions Inc. , which
guaranteed his bonus for winning the 2004  Tour de France .  Dallas-based SCA was sued by Armstrong and U.S. Postal
Service team owner Tailwind Sports in 2004 for failing to pay a
$5 million bonus owed to the cyclist for winning his sixth
straight Tour de  France , which came amid allegations of doping.
It settled the suit in 2006, agreeing to pay the $5 million and
$2.5 million in interest and legal fees.  Armstrong was stripped of all seven of his Tour de France
victories today when the International Cycling Union, known by
the French acronym UCI, said it wouldn’t appeal the penalty
first imposed by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency.  “We will make a formal demand for return of funds,”
Jeffrey Tillotson, outside counsel for SCA, told BBC Sport today
following the UCI decision. “If this is not successful, we will
initiate formal legal proceedings against Mr. Armstrong in five
business days.”  Tillotson didn’t immediately return an e-mail and telephone
message left at his office.  Jeffrey Dorough, SCA’s general counsel, said in separate e-
mails that the Dallas-based company was “considering all legal
options to pursue a return of the funds paid to Mr. Armstrong,”
and that SCA “fully endorses” any statement made by Tillotson
regarding the company’s plans.  Armstrong’s original agreement with SCA didn’t include a
doping clause and said that he would be paid if he was the
official winner of the event.  ‘Inappropriate, Improper’  “Mr. Armstrong is no longer the official winner of any
Tour de France races and, as a result, it is inappropriate and
improper for him to retain any bonus payments made by SCA,”
Dorough said.  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, was in court and
unavailable to comment on the statements from UCI and SCA.  The settlement agreement states that “no party shall
challenge, appeal or attempt to set aside the arbitration
award,” according to ESPN, which said it obtained a copy of the
agreement.  Armstrong, who has denied doping during his career and said
he never failed a drug test, has lost all of his sponsors since
Oct. 17, when  Nike Inc. (NKE)  announced it was ending its relationship
with him. Armstrong may lose $30 million in sponsorships,
according to Steve Rosner of 16W Marketing LLC.  Livestrong Move  Nike’s decision came the same day Armstrong stepped down as
chairman of Livestrong, the cancer foundation he founded which
according to its website has raised more than $470 million since
1997.  USADA said on Aug. 24 that it would strip Armstrong of his
Tour de France titles and bar him from all Olympic-related
sports after he refused to fight the group’s charges at an
arbitration hearing.  It released a 202-page summary of its findings on Oct. 10,
stating that the 41-year-old Texan “engaged in serial
cheating” throughout his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  