-- Hartford Debt Upgraded by JPMorgan as McGee Divests Units
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-22T17:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/hartford-debt-upgraded-by-jpmorgan-as-mcgee-divests-units.html
Investors should buy  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ’s debt as the insurer  divests 
 life-insurance  businesses to focus on higher-returning property-
casualty operations, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Spreads on the insurer’s debt will probably improve as the
company refocuses operations and lowers risk in the variable
annuity portfolio, JPMorgan analysts led by Arun Kumar said in a
note to clients today, in which they upgraded the bonds to
overweight. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company may use
proceeds from asset sales to retire debt, they said.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  reached  deals  this year
to sell Hartford’s broker-dealer, retirement-plans business, a
life operation and individual-annuities distribution unit after
facing pressure from  John Paulson  to simplify the business.
Paulson, whose hedge fund is Hartford’s  largest shareholder ,
urged McGee in February to split property-casualty operations,
such as auto and commercial coverage, from life insurance.  Hartford “has largely traded in tandem with its life
insurance counterparts,” the analysts wrote. “However, as the
company continues to execute on its plans, we believe it will
naturally trend toward some of the other P&C companies.”  The insurer’s $425 million of 6.625 percent notes due April
2042, rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, trade at 128.9
cents on the dollar to yield 4.78 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. That’s up from 102.6 cents on April 26,
when McGee announced a deal to sell the annuities distribution
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  