-- Harvard Loses Head of Charles Regatta’s Top Race After Protest
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/harvard-loses-head-of-charles-regatta-s-top-race-after-protest.html
The  University of Washington  won the
men’s eights rowing race at the Head of the Charles Regatta over
defending champion  Harvard University  following a protest.  The final ruling on  Washington ’s appeal wasn’t made until
almost three hours after the conclusion of yesterday’s race, the
premier event of the two-day regatta on the Charles River in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Washington finished about five seconds faster than Harvard
in a time of 14 minutes, 37.27 seconds. The Huskies received a
10-second penalty for rowing outside of a buoy in the final
half-mile of the three-mile course and appealed. The umpiring
committee and jury deliberated for more than an hour before
upholding the appeal after finding photographic evidence that
the Huskies’ boat never left the race course, organizers said.  “When there is any doubt in a call, our mantra is to err
on the side of the athlete,” John Lambert, the regatta’s
managing director for rules, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
made a decision that we felt was most fair to all of the
athletes involved.”  Washington’s appeal had followed a collision between the
Huskies and US Rowing, a boat including three members and the
coxswain from the U.S. Olympic team that finished fourth at the
 London  games, organizers said. US Rowing was given a four-minute
penalty for failing to give way and finished last while
Washington won its third gold in the past five years on the
Charles. Harvard finished second.  Women’s Eights  There also was controversy in the women’s feature race.  The Women’s Great8 team, which featured eight Olympic
scullers rowing as the Cambridge Boat Club, finished about one
second ahead of US Rowing, which had five rowers and the
coxswain from the Olympic gold medal-winning boat in London.  The Great8, however, was given a buoy penalty for rowing
off the course while trying to avoid a collision with  Yale
University . The boat’s appeal was denied, giving US Rowing its
first gold since 2007 after having won 11 titles in the previous
13 years. The Great8 finished second with the penalty.  Also on day two,  Stanford University  captured its first
Head Of The Charles title in the men’s fours in a time of
16:50.39. The Cardinal finished about six seconds ahead of
second-place Washington.  In the women’s race,  Canada ’s national team claimed its
first title since 2006 in a time of 18:32.10.  Organizers said an estimated 347,000 fans attended the 48th
edition of the two-day regatta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  