-- Asset-Backed Securities May Face Tougher Basel Bank Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-22T15:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/asset-backed-securities-may-face-tougher-oversight-in-basel-plan.html
Banks trading asset-backed
securities may face tougher capital requirements and stricter
oversight from global supervisors amid concerns that regulation
is failing to curb excessive risk-taking.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is about to
embark on a “fundamental” review of how securitization is
regulated, Wayne Byres, the group’s secretary general, said in
an interview last week.  “Ultimately it’s driven at capital treatment, but it’s
also about reflecting on what have we learned from the crisis
about securitization, and the way risks within securitization
work,” Byres said.  The boom in the U.S. and European markets for securitized
debt in the years leading up to 2008 has been identified by
regulators as one of the main reasons for the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial crisis, as
lenders struggled with a plunge in the debt’s market value.  Securitization has also been the subject of lawsuits, amid
accusations that some instruments were flawed or even designed
to incur losses.  Eric Schneiderman, the  New York  attorney general, said this
month that a suit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S.
bank , will serve as a template for other legal challenges.  Defective Loans  Schneiderman has alleged that the Bear Stearns business
that JPMorgan took over in 2008 deceived mortgage-bond investors
about the defective loans backing securities they bought,
leading to “monumental losses.”  Some steps taken by regulators on securitized debt don’t
take into account recent credit quality and price performance
“of European asset-backed securities since the onset of the
financial crisis,”  Richard Hopkin , a managing director at the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , said in an e-mail.  “We believe it is now time for policymakers to send more
positive regulatory signals to the market that better reflect
this evidence,” he said.  AFME represents lenders and brokers including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   An asset-backed security is a financial product whose value
derives from assets such as loans or credit-card debt, rather
than mortgages.  In 2011, new securitized debt issuance in the U.S. was $124
billion, down from a peak of $753 billion dollars in 2006,
according to data compiled by the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association . A lack of bank-capital rules may
have led to the securitization boom before the crisis, according
to the  International Organization of Securities Commissions .  Posing Questions  “What will come out before the end of the year will be
more a concept paper than a detailed set of rules,” Byres said.
“It’ll pose some questions.”  “Ideally, if the framework can be simplified that would be
good,” Byres said. A reduced reliance on credit-rating
companies, “would be good too.”  Richard Reid , research director for the International
Centre for Financial Regulation in  London , said by e-mail that,
it was “clear is that many aspects of the Basel process need
further study and assessment. My feeling is that the industry
will have to deal with regulatory uncertainty for a long time.”  The push on securitization adds to the Basel group’s list
of priorities as it seeks to set liquidity rules for lenders.
The committee plans to complete a review of the so-called
liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, at its next meeting in
December, Byres said.  Credit Squeeze  The measure, which is designed to make sure banks hold
enough easy-to-sell assets to weather a 30-day credit squeeze,
has been the subject of intense discussion over concerns that it
might restrict lending to businesses and make it harder for
central banks to implement their policies.  “We’ve had two years of extra time to do analysis, we’ve
had two years to observe what’s happening in markets and so it’s
natural that we will refine the LCR,” Byres said. “It would be
naive to think we got it perfect the first time.”  The  European Central Bank  and the Bank of  France  have
called for an expansion of the list of assets that banks can use
to meet the LCR, which is scheduled to take effect from 2015.
The ECB has said that the list should more closely reflect the
range of securities that it accepts from banks as collateral.  “There’s an added challenge when you look at central bank
eligibility, which is that the list of central-bank-eligible
assets is quite different across countries,” Byres said. “You
can’t have complete reliance on central bank eligibility if you
want to have a common standard.”  JPMorgan, Regulators  The committee in December will also discuss the preliminary
results of a probe into how different banks assess the risk of
losses on their assets.  Some U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., have called for regulators to
assess possible abuses of the current risk-weighting program,
which allows banks to use their own models to assess the safety
of assets, and therefore how much capital they need to hold.  “We are committed to publish something on the results as
soon as we’ve got something that we think is robust,” Byres
said. “It’s obvious that there are going to be differences
coming out of bank modelling choices. The difficult question is
to decide how much is too much.”  Byres said the committee was continuing to assess whether
to allow banks to make more use of so-called contingent-
convertible bonds, or CoCos, to meet Basel  capital requirements .  Easy, Attractive  “Conceptually, they are very simple and easy and
attractive, but there are lots of practical, operational issues
when you come to try and use them” in an international banking
group, Byres said. “For example, which legal entity should
issue them, which authority has the authority to pull the
trigger -- all sorts of complexities.”  CoCos, are a form of fixed-income security that would
automatically convert into ordinary shares if a bank’s capital
falls through a pre-determined floor.  The Basel group last year rejected calls for lenders to be
allowed to make some use of CoCos to meet  capital surcharges 
imposed on big banks whose collapse may roil the world economy.  Byres said the committee doesn’t intend to get involved in
debates in the U.S. and EU on whether to force banks to split
their activities or build internal risk firewalls. Still, he
said, the measures may impact capital rules lenders face.  “If those initiatives are implemented, we will have to
think about what they mean for the capital regime, because banks
will look different, they will have different risks,” he said.  European Union lenders would be forced to push much of
their trading activity into separately capitalized units and
face more bonus limits under proposals from an EU-mandated group
led by ECB Governing Council member Erkki Liikanen.  The committee’s priorities for 2013 including reviewing a
separate liquidity rule for lenders, known as the net-stable
funding ratio, and studying possible changes to the capital
rules banks’ face on assets they intend to trade, Byres said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  