-- Assurant to Cut California Rates 30.5%, Regulator Says
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-22T21:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/assurant-to-cut-california-rates-30-5-regulator-says.html
Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , under pressure from
 California ’s insurance regulator, will cut rates 30.5 percent at
its American Security unit on home coverage that borrowers must
buy when they miss payments on their initial policies.  The lower rate will save homeowners $42.7 million, with an
average annual savings of $577 per policyholder, according to a
statement today from state Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones.  The decrease is larger than the 20 percent reduction that
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts estimated as the “base case
scenario” in an Oct. 3 research note. Regulators in California,
 Florida  and New York have been pressing providers of so-called
force-placed policies to cut premiums amid inquiries into
whether they charge too much. The coverage is typically selected
by lenders and paid for by borrowers.  “We heard complaints from homeowners being forced into
lender-placed policies at exorbitant prices,” Jones said in the
statement. “American Security is to be commended for being the
first insurer to lower its rates.”  New rates will cut annualized net income by about $18
million, the New York-based insurer said today in a regulatory
filing. Assurant has slipped about 0.4 percent this year, one of
three insurers in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance
Index to decline since Dec. 31.  “We strive to set reasonable rates, and dedicate
significant resources to help consumers avoid lender-placed
coverage in the first place,” the insurer said in a statement.
“When someone’s insurance lapses, lender-placed insurance
provides a necessary safety net that protects the interests of
homeowners and lenders alike.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 Spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  