-- Tata Consultancy to Expand in China on Surging Asian Growth
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-10-23T06:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/tata-consultancy-to-expand-in-china-shrink-americas-dependence.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
India’s largest software services exporter, will hire more
workers in China as growth in Asia outpaces that of the Americas,
the company’s biggest by sales.  Revenue growth from Asia-Pacific will probably exceed the
Mumbai-based company’s overall rate this year, Vish Iyer,
president for the region, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Singapore office yesterday. Tata will “significantly” increase
headcount in China from its current 3,000 people, he said,
without elaborating.  Competition between Chinese cities presents an “immediate
opportunity” for companies such as Tata, which vies with
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Accenture Plc (ACN)  globally
for outsourcing contracts. Indian software companies are also
turning to China, the Philippines and Eastern Europe because of
a dearth of talent at home, Forrester Research said last year.  “We all know China is where the spending is taking
place,” said Iyer. “China is where the mayors are fronting
healthy competition between some 20 cities. They want to say
‘I’m better than the next guy.’ I think there’s an immediate
opportunity.”  The  company’s shares  fell 0.2 percent to 1,316.60 rupees as
of 12:08 p.m. in Mumbai trading, trimming the gains this year to
13 percent. The benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has advanced
21 percent.  Revenue from Asia-Pacific as a share of the total has
increased for Tata in each of the past three years, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The region accounted for 7.56
percent of revenue in the fiscal year ended in March compared
with 6.60 percent a year before.  Americas Contribution  Contribution from the Americas --  North America  and  South
America  combined -- declined to 56.39 percent from 57.50 percent
a year before, according to Bloomberg data.  Tata’s closest local rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  is also expanding
into China. The Bangalore-based company said in May last year it
plans to add as many as 4,000 employees in Shanghai in 18 months.
The company will spend $130 million to build a new office, then-
chief operating officer S.D. Shibulal had said. Shibulal is now
the chief executive officer of Infosys.  “The  emerging markets  are obviously going to show a good
growth for IT companies as multinational corporations are
expanding there,” said  Pankaj Kapoor , an equity analyst at
Standard Chartered Bank in Mumbai. “Also, many of these
countries have home-grown enterprises which are now reaching
global scales.”  Growth Forecast  Tata’s sales growth will be higher than the forecast made
by the National Association of Software & Services Companies,
Chief Executive Officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran said in July.
The association has predicted industrywide revenue growth of as
much as 14 percent in the year ending March 31.  Tata has a product that is used by Bank of China Ltd. in
over 40 provinces and provides health-care data using cloud
services, Iyer said.  “The best bet for us is to combine local talent and the
global talent,” Iyer said. “In addition, countries like
Philippines and  China  have talents groomed for export.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  