-- Latvia’s Krajbanka to Start Selling $347 Million Loan Portfolio
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-10-22T11:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/latvia-s-krajbanka-to-start-selling-347-million-loan-portfolio.html
Latvijas Krajbanka AS, a Latvian
bank that was seized by regulators last year, plans to sell part
of its 185 million lati ($347.2 million) credit portfolio in the
first quarter, according to its administrator, KPMG.  “The first round of due diligence has happened and we’ve
received indications of interest” Stephen Young, a senior
partner at KPMG Baltics, said Oct. 17 in an interview in Riga,
the capital. “We’d expect a reasonable proportion to be sold.”  Krajbanka is seeking to recover 167 million lati of missing
assets, regulators estimated in 2011. It will pursue any
transactions it deems were illegal or contravened the bank’s
interests and has filed complaints in courts outside of the
Baltic states, Young said, declining to elaborate.  Latvia took Krajbanka over in November after Lithuanian
regulators seized its parent Bankas Snoras AB on claims assets
had disappeared.  Lithuania  and Snoras have filed criminal and
civil suits in  London  against the bank’s former owners,  Vladimir Antonov  and Raimondas Baranauskas, for alleged fraud. Both deny
the charges.  Latvia and Lithuania are working together in their search
for assets and money transfers, with “competing cooperation”
occurring in areas where there’s a shared interest, Young said.  KPMG has sold 26 assets including a yacht, cars and real
estate, and has another 500 properties left to auction,
according to Oskars Firmanis, a spokesman for the administrator.  The lender has paid back about 50 million lati to the
state, leaving 286 million lati outstanding to the deposit
insurance fund, Firmanis said.  -- Editors: Andrew Langley,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  