-- Audi May Help Mercedes Overtake BMW in U.S. Sales Race
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/audi-may-help-mercedes-overtake-bmw-in-u-s-sales-race.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand,
beginning a push to improve customer service at its U.S.
dealerships, may be the spoiler in the U.S. luxury vehicle sales
race, helping  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz by shearing buyers from
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW.  The U.S. luxury sales race looks to be heading for another
close finish between Mercedes and BMW. Mercedes is ahead of BMW
by 5,221 deliveries this year through September after finishing
2,715 behind in 2011. A contest once dominated by  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus, No. 1 for 11 straight years, is now volatile,
making it difficult for BMW to repeat.  The U.S. is a significant piece of the tightening global
sales race, where fast-growing Audi is closing in on BMW and
both lead Mercedes. Audi models, with their reputations for
sporty driving, are more often compared with BMW’s than with
Mercedes vehicles, according to data provided by Edmunds.com, a
website that tracks online shopping.  “If you were going to blame anybody for BMW not making it,
I definitely would point toward Audi,” Ivan Drury, an industry
analyst with Edmunds.com, said in a telephone interview. The
data “shows a clear rivalry brewing,” he said in an e-mail.  About 27 percent of Audi shoppers considered BMW in
September while 16 percent considered Mercedes, according to
Edmunds data.  “Audi is BMW’s most heavily cross-shopped brand,” Drury
said in the e-mail.  ‘Spoiler’ Role  U.S. sales of Audi rose 18 percent to 100,694 through
September, according to researcher Autodata Corp. That exceeds
sales increases of 13 percent to 191,618 by Mercedes and 4.9
percent to 186,397 by BMW. The figures don’t include Daimler’s
cargo vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t
 luxury vehicles .  Audi “could be a spoiler,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry
analyst with IHS Automotive. “When there’s a third horse in an
election race, it can really throw off everything. For so long,
it was just Mercedes and BMW in that race, and now Audi. I don’t
know that you could call them an upstart anymore.”  Audi, helped by new products and aggressive marketing, has
announced it’s targeting annual sales of 200,000 by 2020.  “We’re going to do it significantly sooner,” Scott Keogh,
chief executive officer of Audi’s U.S. operations, said in an
interview in  Detroit . Keogh took over the operations in June
after Johan de Nysschen left to lead  Nissan (NISA)  Motor Co.’s
Infiniti luxury brand.  Audi plans to begin selling the A3 sedan and Q3 sport-
utility vehicle in 2014 in the U.S., Keogh said.  That “is the year where we’re really going to see a very
big lift for the business,” he said. With those new vehicles,
he said, “you’re going to quickly start to see us in the 170-
plus camp and 200 is just down the road from there.”  Customer Service  Keogh was in the Motor City to speak to 600 employees from
area dealerships and regional staff about the brand’s new
customer-service initiative. It was one of 16 live events in
eight cities that Audi is holding for about 12,000 dealer
employees and brand staff aimed at improving Audi’s 46 percent
loyalty rate, he said.  “The best is either  Lexus  or Mercedes, they kind of tap-
dance back-and-forth,” Keogh said. “Usually they’re hovering
in the mid-50s to high-50s.”  BMW ended Lexus’ U.S. streak in 2011 after the Toyota brand
was hurt by vehicle shortages stemming from natural disasters in
 Asia , including an earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Ludwig Willisch, head of BMW’s U.S. operations, in an
interview last month, reiterated that his brand will finish on
top for the year, helped by a new all-wheel-drive version of the
3 Series and new X1, a vehicle that’s a step below BMW’s X3
midsize SUV.  Global Battle  The U.S. fight for luxury leadership is just one front in
the global battle between BMW, Audi and Mercedes for upscale
buyers.  BMW’s lead against Audi as of Sept. 30 narrowed to 12,462
vehicles from a 48,801-delivery advantage a year earlier.
Munich-based BMW’s worldwide sales through September increased
8.6 percent to 1.11 million cars and SUVs. Ingolstadt, Germany-
based Audi reported a 13 percent jump in nine-month deliveries
to just under 1.1 million, while Mercedes posted a 5 percent
increase to 964,926. Volkswagen, Audi’s parent company, is based
in Wolfsburg,  Germany .  Audi’s increasing success in the luxury segment in the U.S.
means the composition of customers is changing, Keogh said.  “We used to be the seventh most cross-shopped brand‘‘
among imported luxury cars in 2008, Keogh said. ‘‘If you look at
it now, we’re at No. 2. We’re the second most cross-shopped
brand in our luxury segment.’’  U.S. sales of the redesigned A6 sedan rose 36 percent and
Q5 gained 5.9 percent last year. Audi has been further helped
this year by an updated A4 sedan with sales rising 4.3 percent
through September.  $206 Million  ‘‘What’s happened now is you’re seeing these people come
into our showrooms and these people obviously have very high
expectations and we need to meet those expectations,” Keogh
said.  Audi dealers have spent around $206 million renovating
their stores the past two years, Keogh said. The brand is
following up with its initiative to improve customer service,
dubbed “Kundenbegeisterung,” or customer delight. The program
includes emphasizing ideas such as valuing a customer’s time.  Keogh said some Americans may bungle the German
pronunciation.  “I’m not sure I have it perfected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  