-- Australia Regulator Plans ‘Simpler, Safer’ Securitization Market
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-10-22T06:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/australia-regulator-plans-simpler-safer-securitization-market.html
Australia ’s banking regulator is
working on securitization reforms that it says will make the
nation’s market for such debt simpler, safer and more attractive
to global investors.  The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority is preparing
a discussion paper that it plans to publish early next year
before adopting the new rules in 2014, Charles Littrell,
executive general manager at APRA, said in a  speech  in Sydney
today. Securitizations for funding purposes are proposed to have
a senior, top-rated ‘A’ portion that can be traded and a ‘B’
class of notes held by the originating lender, he said.  “We want to ensure that Australian securitization
arrangements do not encourage lax lending or tempt market
participants to take advantage of each other through excess
complexity,” Littrell told the Australian Securitisation Forum
 conference . “APRA expects that Australian ‘A’ notes will be
among the safest and simplest securitization investments
available globally. This should help restore and protect
Australian access to local and global securitization markets.”  The boom in the U.S. and European markets for securitized
debt in the years leading up to 2008 has been identified by
regulators as one of the main reasons for the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the financial turmoil that followed,
as lenders struggled with a plunge in the debt’s market value.  Australian entities were the “victims rather than the
instigators” of structured credit investments that were more
likely to fail than investors expected, Littrell said. The fact
that the securitization market slammed shut even for highly-
rated issues amid the global credit freeze showed that it
shouldn’t be heavily relied on for funding, he said.  While Australian lenders seeking capital relief can sell
some of their ‘B’ notes, the proposals would force them to hold
at least 20 percent of the securities to meet so-called skin in
the game requirements, according to Littrell’s speech. APRA
intends to discourage lenders from buying each other’s ‘B’ notes
by imposing capital penalties, he said.  Lenders “swapping ‘B’ notes create no net credit transfer,
but do shift risk from the original, fully informed lender to
less informed secondary lenders,” Littrell said. “APRA would
much prefer to see ‘B’ notes shifted to less levered investors,
such as insurance companies and superannuation funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  