-- Australia to Tighten Spending to Meet Budget Surplus Pledge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-22T02:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/australia-to-tighten-spending-to-meet-budget-surplus-pledge-1-.html
Australia ’s government will tighten
health-care spending and scale back family support payments to
help deliver an election-year budget surplus, giving the central
bank scope to further reduce interest rates.  The underlying cash surplus will be A$1.08 billion ($1.11
billion) in the 12 months ending June 30, compared with a A$1.54
billion surplus seen in May, the government said in a midyear
review released in Canberra today. Spending is forecast to be
A$363.2 billion compared with a May projection of A$364.2
billion, while the revenue estimate was cut to A$367 billion
from $A368.8 billion.  “While global headwinds, a high dollar and changing
consumer behavior are weighing on some sectors, the Australian
economy is expected to outperform every major advanced economy
this year and next, with growth underpinned by strong
investment, strong growth in export volumes and solid growth in
consumption,” Treasurer Wayne Swan said in a statement in
Canberra today.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard is bidding to end four years
of deficits heading into an election year with polls showing she
will lose to the opposition Liberal-National coalition. As the
government reins in spending, she’s putting the onus on the
central bank to further reduce the highest benchmark rate among
major developed nations to bolster a slowing economy.  Rate Outlook  For the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Nov. 6 policy meeting,
investors are pricing in a 99 percent chance of a 0.25-point
reduction to 3 percent, up from 96 percent before the release,
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The historically large turnaround in the budgetary
position hints at considerable fiscal drag which is already
starting to emerge,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian
economic and fixed-income strategy at RBC Capital Markets in
Sydney. “This will keep pressure on the RBA to cut further.”  The Australian dollar fell for a third day, buying $1.0313
at 1:19 p.m. in Sydney.  The government will save A$700 million over four years by
changing the private health-insurance rebate, and it will also
curtail the so-called baby bonus starting July 1. It will alter
the way companies pay their taxes, moving from quarterly to
monthly installments starting in January 2015, according to the
budget papers released today.  The economy is predicted to grow about 3 percent in
2012-13, he said, or 0.25 percentage point slower than predicted
in the May budget.  Economic Beacon  During a press conference in the nation’s capital, Swan
said that while the global economic slowdown makes delivering
the surplus harder to achieve, Australia remains a “beacon of
strength,” with trend growth and low unemployment.  The global slump is reflected in Australia’s terms of
trade, or export prices relative to import prices, which will
decline 8 percent this financial year compared with the 5.75
percent forecast at budget time, the papers showed.  Even so, the nation’s unemployment rate is predicted at 5.5
percent this fiscal year and next, Swan said, compared with the
5.4 percent recorded in September.  Australia’s budget surplus would make it one of the first
developed nations to end an era of red ink caused by the
worldwide financial crisis that started in 2008.  Resource rent taxes have been revised down by A$1.8 billion
in 2012-13 and 2013-14, mostly from minerals resource rent tax.
The changes reflect lower global commodity prices, particularly
iron ore prices, according to today’s budget papers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  