-- Bank of America Hires $2.5 Billion Adviser From Morgan Stanley
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-10-22T16:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/bank-of-america-hires-2-5-billion-adviser-from-morgan-stanley.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender
that moved last year to quell concern that top-performing
brokers would defect, recruited a financial adviser from  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  who manages about $2.5 billion for clients.  Rebecca Rothstein, who manages money for wealthy investors
in Beverly Hills,  California , joined Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch  unit  with her 11-person team on Oct. 19, Matthew Card, a
spokesman for the bank, said today in an e-mail. Rothstein was
ranked the No. 2 female adviser in the U.S. by  Barron’s  magazine
and worked for Morgan Stanley and  Smith Barney  since 1999.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch advisers and Morgan
Stanley’s Smith Barney unit became targets for recruiters after
the two banks took over the brokerages. Bank of America’s U.S.
Trust unit imposed new employment terms last year, seeking to
curb the ability of departing brokers to solicit clients.  Greg Fleming , president of Morgan Stanley’s wealth-
management unit, has been seeking to avert defections since the
bank finished integrating its brokerage unit with Smith Barney
in July, an effort that included developing a technology system
for all financial advisers.  David Darnell, Bank of America’s co-chief operating officer
who oversees Merrill Lynch, told the unit’s employees last year
he’ll do anything including “get out of the way” to help them
improve results. The brokerage, rescued during the 2008
financial crisis by the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank’s
takeover bid, had been beset by speculation that brokers would
leave as their new parent changed Merrill’s culture and pay.  Morgan Stanley had 16,829 financial advisers last month,
down from 16,934 at the end of the second quarter.  Christine Jockle, a spokeswoman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment. The change was reported earlier by
Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  