-- BASF Pays $1.35 Billion to Statoil to Expand Oil Production
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-10-22T11:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/basf-pays-1-35-billion-to-statoil-to-expand-oil-production-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS) ’s oil-production unit agreed
to pay $1.35 billion to  Statoil ASA (STL)  and contribute part of a
license in return for stakes in oil and gas sites owned by the
Norwegian company that will help it boost North Sea output more
than tenfold.  BASF will get minority stakes in three oil fields, taking
over the Brage platform, Wintershall said today in a statement.
Statoil will also receive a 15 percent share in the Edvard Grieg
license and Norway’s largest oil and gas company said the deal
“realizes significant value” for investors.  For BASF, the acquisition gives its Wintershall arm the
means to boost production from Norway’s continental shelf
without the risk and expense incurred with developing prospects
from scratch. Wintershall’s daily production from Norway will
increase to almost 40,000 barrels of oil equivalent from 3,000.
It will become among the top producers in the area, with a more
balanced global portfolio, BASF Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock said in the statement.  “It looks like a good price for Statoil, while for
Wintershall it means avoiding capital expenditure,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie, said by telephone. “It can
take some production without the spending risk.”  The two companies agreed to collaborate on researching
unconventional deposits, and Statoil will receive a 49 percent
stake in Wintershall’s concessions in the Rhineland and Ruhr
regions of  Germany .  Wintershall Shift  The two companies see potential for even broader
cooperation and will share technology, Wintershall Chief
Executive Officer Rainer Seele said today at a joint press
conference with his counterpart Helge Lund in Stavanger, where
Statoil is based. The Norwegian company has “unique
experience” with shale gas that Wintershall can benefit from,
Seele said.  “We started as an exploration company,” Seele said today
at the conference. “We are now in the mode to change the nature
of the company from an explorer to a producer and this is why
this step is so important for us at Wintershall.”  Wintershall, which is one of the largest license holders in
 Norway , boosted exploration activities in 2008 with the
acquisition of Revus Energy.  Bonus Payment  Statoil will hand over its 32.7 percent stake in the Brage
oil field and reduce its holdings in the Gjoea and Vega fields,
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF and Stavanger-based Statoil
said in the joint statement. Production from Statoil’s divested
areas was 39,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first
half of 2012.  An additional payment of as much as $100 million will be
made on successful development of the Vega field, BASF said.  The transaction demonstrates the value of Statoil’s
portfolio and further enhances financial flexibility, Statoil
CEO Helge Lund said in the statement. “We continue our effort
to optimize our portfolio, invest in core areas and utilize our
key competencies to support our growth strategy.”  Statoil is seeking to grow its production to at least 2.5
million barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2020 from about 2
million barrels today, and is expanding abroad to counter
falling output from aging fields off the coast of Norway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  