-- BBC Says Newsnight Editor Stepping Aside on Savile Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-22T12:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/bbc-says-newsnight-editor-stepping-aside-on-savile-probe.html
The British Broadcasting Corp. said
the editor of its “Newsnight” program is stepping aside hours
before another of its shows will claim that he was pressured to
cancel a segment on child abuse by TV star Jimmy Savile.  Peter Rippon’s move takes place with immediate effect while
the broadcaster investigates how executives handled the scandal,
the  BBC  said in a statement today. Rippon’s explanation on his
 blog  for dropping the program was “inaccurate or incomplete in
some respects,” it said.  “Panorama,” which is scheduled to be aired at 10:35 p.m.
London time, will say that BBC Director General George Entwistle
knew about the Savile segment before it was canceled, the
broadcaster said today. “Panorama” will also report that
“Newsnight” journalist  Liz MacKean  wrote to a friend that
Rippon was feeling under pressure and he said he couldn’t “go
to the wall on this one” if “the bosses aren’t happy.”  Savile, who was knighted for charity work in 1990, fronted
programs including “Jim’ll Fix It,” which granted children
wishes such as meeting celebrities. He has been accused of
sexually abusing dozens of children over the 30 years he worked
at the broadcaster.  London  police have opened a probe into the
abuse of as many as 200 victims by people, including Savile,
using claims dating from 1959 to 2006.  Parliamentary Probe  “We’re all appalled by the allegations of what Jimmy
Savile did, and they seem to get worse by the day,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  told reporters in London today. “The
developments today are concerning because the BBC has
effectively changed its story about why it dropped the
‘Newsnight’ program about Jimmy Savile.”  Helen Boaden, director of news, told Entwistle in December
that the revelations would clash with planned tributes to
Savile, who died two months earlier at the age of 84, according
to “Panorama.” While the tributes were aired, the
“Newsnight” segment was canceled.  Entwistle was managing the broadcaster’s television
channels at the time and became director general this year. He
will give testimony to a U.K. parliamentary committee
investigating the scandal tomorrow. The previous director
general,  Mark Thompson , is scheduled to start as  New York Times
Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive officer next month.  Thompson and Entwistle had “no involvement in the
investigation or the subsequent decision to drop it,” the
broadcaster has said.  Abusive Conduct  The BBC today corrected Rippon’s previous explanation on a
blog for why he pursued and then dropped the investigation into
Savile.  While Rippon had said that “Newsnight” had no evidence
against the BBC, there were some allegations of abusive conduct
on the broadcaster’s premises, the company said. Staff at the
Duncroft school for girls, where Savile volunteered, may have
also known about abuse, contrary to Rippon’s earlier statement,
the BBC said.  Rippon had also said there was no new evidence that would
have helped  law enforcement  investigate. The BBC now says that
police may not have been aware of all of the allegations.  MacKean also said that statements by the BBC about the
nature of the “Newsnight” story were “very misleading,”
according to “Panorama.”  When Entwistle wrote to all staff this month, he said that
the “Newsnight” investigation focused on the the enquiry of
U.K. police into Savile, according to the program. “Newsnight”
journalist  Meirion Jones , who also worked on the “Panorama”
probe, replied to Entwistle in an e-mail, saying that the focus
of the investigation had been on whether Savile was a paedophile
and not the work of the police, the BBC said.  Internal Probes  The broadcaster said “Panorama” asked Entwistle, Boaden,
Deputy Director of News Stephen Mitchell and Director of
Editorial Policy and Standards David Jordan for interviews and
hasn’t received a response yet. A BBC spokeswoman had no
immediate comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  The BBC last week appointed former Court of Appeal judge
Janet Smith and BBC journalist Nick Pollard to head two internal
investigations.  Rob Wilson , a member of Parliament, sent a letter to
Entwistle last week, saying the executive had failed to respond
to his requests for information about the BBC’s decision in
December 2011 to cancel the show about the claims against
Savile. Wilson asked Entwistle to confirm the existence of any
“managed risk lists” circulated at the BBC and whether the
list described risks associated with the Savile segment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  