-- Black’s Apollo Seeks Control of Athene to Gain Annuities
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-10-22T17:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/black-s-apollo-seeks-control-of-athene-to-gain-annuities.html
Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  is seeking to acquire control of Athene Holding
Ltd. as the private-equity firm increasingly turns to the
insurance business for assets to invest in high-yield and
distressed debt.  Apollo, which owns a nonvoting stake in Athene through an
affiliate, has asked the  Delaware  Department of Insurance to
approve a transaction involving the insurer’s voting stock, a
step that would subject Black’s firm to regulation as an
insurance holding company, according to a regulatory filing. The
deal would pave the way for Athene, which originates and
reinsures fixed annuities, to raise additional capital, said a
person with knowledge of the plan, who asked not to be named
because the information is private.  Black’s company, the third-largest buyout firm by assets,
is pushing into annuities as it seeks to reduce its reliance on
leveraged takeovers and secure long-term financing for less-
liquid investments. Money managers such as New York-based Apollo
and Guggenheim Partners are betting they can wring more profit
from annuity contracts than non-U.S. life-insurance companies
that are exiting the business as falling interest rates and
rising capital requirements cut their returns.  “Athene, Guggenheim and others believe they can manage the
risk and allocate capital at more economic levels” than the
insurers that have traditionally originated fixed annuities,
said Chris Stroup, chairman of Wilton Re, a Wilton, Connecticut-
based life reinsurer. “These companies are interested in
accumulating annuity liabilities to gain assets to invest.”  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, declined to
comment. James Belardi, one of the co-founders of Athene, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  Revenue Stream  Apollo, co-founded in 1990 by Black and three of his
colleagues from  Michael Milken ’s Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., is
one of several publicly traded buyout firms seeking to diversify
their revenue sources. Blackstone Group LP, the largest private-
equity firm by assets, has expanded its hedge-fund and credit-
investing businesses, with KKR & Co. and Carlyle Group LP taking
similar steps.  Apollo’s  capital markets group , which includes  hedge funds 
and the investment in Athene, surpassed private equity as the
firm’s largest business unit earlier this year, with $56.1
billion in assets as of June 30. The firm manages about $105
billion across all of its businesses.  Europe Plan  Apollo oversaw $10.7 billion for Athene at midyear,
including $3.5 billion invested in its hedge and real estate
funds and $7.2 billion for which the firm provides asset-
allocation services, according to an Aug. 2 earnings call. In
the second quarter, an Athene unit committed at least $133.7
million to three Apollo funds, state filings show: the AGRE U.S.
Real Estate Fund LP, the Apollo-Asia Private Credit Fund LP and
the Apollo European Principal Finance Fund II, which focuses on
nonperforming loans.  Black’s firm has hired RMR Advisors Ltd., started earlier
this year in  London  by former  UBS AG (UBSN)  bankers Jamie Robinson,
Deepak Rajan and Henrik Matsen, as consultants to build the
European life insurance and reinsurance unit, two people with
knowledge of the plan said. They may also look
to grow the business through acquisitions and insurance-linked
financing such as securitizations, the people said.  Assuming Risk  Belardi, the former chief investment officer of American
International Group Inc.’s retirement-services unit, and Chip
Gillis, the former head of insurance solutions at Bear Stearns
Cos., co-founded Athene in 2008 with financial backing from
Apollo. The Pembroke, Bermuda-based firm, which has offices in
 Manhattan Beach ,  California , was set up as a reinsurer for fixed
annuities, meaning it would assume some of the risk that life
insurers take when they write the contracts in return for the
right to manage and reap any additional gains from the
underlying customer deposits.  A fixed-annuity client typically makes an initial lump-sum
payment to an insurer in return for a series of guaranteed
payouts in the future. The insurer then invests the cash in
corporate, government and asset-backed bonds, seeking to earn a
return that exceeds the payments promised to the buyer.  ‘Significant Pool’  Marc Rowan, an Apollo co-founder and senior managing
director who also serves on Athene’s board, compared its annuity
contracts to the deposits a bank gets: both are long-term
liabilities that don’t have to be repaid for years and carry low
fixed-interest rates. Athene invests the money in higher-
yielding bonds and mortgage-backed securities, earning the same
type of spread a bank makes by lending out customer deposits at
higher interest rates.  “We have long-term, locked-in liabilities that give us the
ability to have a significant pool of capital to go after
illiquid investments,” Rowan said during a May conference call
for AP Alternative Assets LP, a publicly traded private-equity
fund that holds Apollo’s stake in Athene. He said “Athene is a
very large buyer” of structured assets, such as residential and
commercial mortgage-backed securities, “that the marketplace,
in its desire to go short and liquid, has overlooked,”
according to a transcript of the call.  Moreover, Athene positions Apollo to benefit from a
confluence of two demographic trends: the demise of the
traditional  pension plan  and the aging of the “baby-boom”
generation born between 1946 and 1964. Life insurers market
fixed annuities to people who want to ensure they have a certain
level of income in retirement.  ‘Massive Demand’  “You have 80 million  baby boomers  coming on line who want
annuities as part of their financial-planning strategy,” said
John Coughlin, chief executive officer of Safe Harbor Re Ltd., a
Bermuda-based company that is also reinsuring annuities. “When
interest rates rise, you are going to see a massive demand.”  Until now, Athene has been structured in a way that permits
Apollo to earn fees and a share of profits from the Bermuda-
based company’s annuity origination and reinsurance business
without Apollo coming under the jurisdiction of U.S. insurance
regulators. Apollo’s majority stake comprises nonvoting shares.
Athene’s voting stock is controlled by Belardi and 10 other
individuals through Cayman Islands-based Athene Group Ltd.,
filings show.  Transaction Proposed  In August, Apollo, Black, Rowan and  Joshua Harris , another
co-founder, submitted a Form A Statement Regarding the
Acquisition or Merger with a Domestic Insurer with the Delaware
Department of Insurance, according to a second-quarter filing by
Athene Annuity & Life Assurance Co., a unit of Athene Holding.
While Athene Annuity is based in Greenville,  South Carolina , the
company is domiciled in Delaware for regulatory purposes.  The confidential filing seeks the approval of the Delaware
Insurance Commissioner for a proposed restructuring so that
Apollo and its co-founders can acquire “indirect control” of
Athene Holding, according to the quarterly statement. Under the
Delaware Insurance Code, companies or individuals who want to
acquire 10 percent or more of a local insurer’s voting
securities must get approval from the state.  Delaware regulators can’t comment on whether an application
has been filed until the agency schedules a public hearing, said
Linda Sizemore, director of company regulation within the state
insurance department. At the hearing, an independent hearing
officer would receive testimony from the insurance staff and the
applicant and then make a recommendation to the insurance
commissioner, who makes the final decision, Sizemore said in an
interview.  Abu Dhabi  Apollo proposed the transaction, which will bring the firm
under increased regulation, because insurance has become an
increasingly large part of its business, a second person
familiar with the company said. It would also make it easier for
fast-growing Athene to raise additional capital, according to
the first person.  Among possible sources of capital, the  Abu Dhabi  Investment
Authority, a sovereign-wealth fund also referred to as ADIA, has
expressed interest in swapping its 40 percent stake in publicly
traded AP Alternative Assets for shares of Athene, this person
said. ADIA invested $600 million in Black’s management firm in
July 2007 and another $600 million in AP Alternative Assets,
which Apollo formed to invest alongside its buyout funds.  Athene has about $750 million in capital and is seeking to
raise that figure to $1.75 billion by the end of this year, the
person said.  Capital Base  Erik Portanger, a spokesman for ADIA, said he had no
immediate comment.  In 2013, Athene may hold a private sale of shares to
mutual-fund companies, the person said. Athene would typically
be required under the terms of a private placement to complete
an initial public offering within one year to create a liquid
market for the shares bought by the mutual funds.  Athene, which targets a 25 percent internal rate of return,
could use the capital to originate more annuities or invest in
assets that European and Canadian insurers are seeking to
divest. Guggenheim Partners, based in  New York  and  Chicago , is
also acquiring annuity assets from insurers in a bid to leverage
the expertise of its large money-management staff.  Guggenheim’s Strategy  “We have a 700-member investment team that allows us to do
things differently than insurers who are getting out of the
industry,” President Todd Boehly said in a telephone interview.
“Most insurance companies that have $10 billion to $15 billion
of assets can’t justify” that large a staff, he said.  Athene bought Liberty Life Insurance Co. of Greenville,
South Carolina, from Royal Bank of Canada in April 2011 for
$624.8 million, and agreed in July to acquire Presidential Life
Corp. for $414.3 million. It’s a potential bidder for the U.S.
life insurance division of  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-largest
insurer by market value, people familiar with the situation said
last month.  Regulatory filings by Liberty Life, renamed Athene Annuity
& Life Assurance Co. in February 2012, show different investment
approaches by Athene and RBC, as the insurer did less trading
under its former owner. State regulatory filings show that it
sold $150.4 million of debt securities and bought $861 million
of them in 2009, a year in which annuity sales boomed,
increasing the size of its bond portfolio to $3.4 billion. In
2010, Liberty Life sold $269.9 million of bonds and purchased
$926 million of them, lifting its holdings to $4 billion.  Bond Trading  In 2011, the year it was acquired by Athene, the insurer
sold $2.9 billion of bonds and bought $3.5 billion of the
securities. In the first half of this year, it sold $7.8 billion
of bonds and acquired $7.4 billion worth.  Athene also changed its bond mix, selling most of Liberty
Life’s municipal, corporate and agency debt while spending
almost $2 billion to buy residential mortgage-backed securities,
state regulatory filings show. The purchases included $1.5
billion spent on RMBS backed by subprime and Alt-A mortgages,
the types of securities that were most affected by defaults and
downgrades during the 2008 recession.  Athene’s annuity unit acquired many of the subprime
securities through a $3.1 billion reinsurance transaction with
Aegon NV at the end of last year, a person familiar with the
transaction said. Athene carried out the reinsurance deal
together with UBS.  Athene acquired the subprime securities at a discount to
face value, paying as little as 8 cents on the dollar, the
filings show. Its RMBS holdings, including both those purchased
at par and at a discount, had a face value of $3 billion.  UBS Swaps  That December, Athene Annuity and its affiliates entered
into total return swaps with UBS in which the Swiss bank assumed
the credit and market risk on subprime bonds with a book value
of $1.4 billion.  Under the swaps, which expire in 2014, UBS receives the
actual interest paid on the bonds, along with any realized gains
or losses on sales or any temporary gains or losses. In return,
UBS pays Athene a floating  interest rate  based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, plus 70 basis points, on the
book value of the bonds, the state filings show. A basis point
equals a hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  