-- Bolivia Pays Half of Venezuelan Rates in Bond Market Return
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-10-22T22:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/bolivia-said-to-sell-500-million-of-10-year-bonds-today.html
Bolivia  returned to the
international bond market for the first time since the 1920s,
selling $500 million of 10-year debt at half the yields its ally
Venezuela pays.  Bolivia sold the bonds to yield 4.875 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That rate is less than the 6.11
percent yield on similar-maturity Serbian bonds, which share
Bolivia’s BB- rating from Standard & Poor’s. Venezuelan dollar
bonds due 2023, which are rated one level below at B+, yield
10.99 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bolivia is joining countries from  Angola  to  Zambia  in
selling international bonds as near-zero benchmark rates in the
U.S. and  Europe  fuel demand for higher-yielding assets. The
average  yield  on emerging-market government bonds fell to a
record low 4.59 percent last week, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI indexes.  “The grab for yield remains in place,”  Edwin Gutierrez ,
who helps manage $9 billion of developing nation debt at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London , said in a phone
interview. Investors are looking “for anything these days that
has a modicum of yield.”  President Evo Morales, a 52-year-old ally of Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez, is issuing dollar bonds as Bolivia’s
economy is projected by the International Monetary Fund to grow
5 percent or more for a third straight year. A press official at
Bolivia’s Finance Ministry declined to comment.  Rating Boost  S&P raised Bolivia’s credit rating in May to BB-, or three
levels below investment grade, citing the country’s falling  debt 
levels and rising international reserves. Debt dropped to the
equivalent of 36.6 percent of gross domestic product last year,
the lowest level since Bloomberg started compiling the data in
2008.  Aberdeen’s Gutierrez said he wouldn’t buy the bonds because
Morales’s interventionist policies are similar to those in
Argentina and  Venezuela , countries that pay more than double the
yield. Morales has seized mines, oil refineries and power
companies since taking office in 2006.  “You can look at the debt ratios all you like, but Bolivia
is a country that has historically broken private contracts,
nationalized various industries,” he said. “Argentina and
Venezuela have done the same, but they pay you twice the
yield.”  Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. arranged
the sale. Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman at Bank of America, and
Michael Duvally, a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Angola, which is also rated BB- by S&P, sold in August $1
billion of debt in the form of loan participation notes maturing
in seven years to yield 7 percent for its first overseas issue.
Guatemala and Aruba also returned to the bond market this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  