-- Bradesco Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates on Provisions
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-10-22T19:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/bradesco-third-quarter-net-misses-estimates-on-higher-provisions.html
Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin America ’s
second-largest bank, said profit rose 1 percent in the third
quarter, missing analysts’ estimates as it increased provisions
for bad loans and lending expanded at a slower pace.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time items, climbed
to 2.89 billion reais ($1.43 billion), or 0.76 reais a share,
from 2.86 billion reais, or 0.75 reais, a year earlier, the
Osasco, Brazil-based lender said today in a statement. That was
less than the 0.77-real per-share  median estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bradesco, led by Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carlos Trabuco Cappi, 61, set aside 3.3 billion reais to cover loan
losses in the third quarter, down from 3.41 billion reais in the
previous three months and up from 2.78 billion reais a year
earlier. The bank has been slowing credit growth this year as
delinquencies for consumer loans in Brazil increase.  “Although operating trends were positive, net income was
5.7 percent below our estimate on lower trading gains and lower-
than-expected reduction in loan-loss provisions,” Banco Itau
BBA SA analysts including Regina Longo Sanchez wrote in a note
to clients today. “Loan growth was weaker than expected, at 1.9
percent quarter over quarter, versus our estimate of 3.8
percent.”  Bradesco  declined  1.9 percent to 31.75 reais at 5:07 p.m.
in  Sao Paulo , compared with a drop of 0.5 percent for  Itau
Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s largest bank. The Bovespa
benchmark index fell 0.4 percent.  Late Payments  The delinquency rate for debt overdue more than 90 days was
4.1 percent at the end of September, after reaching 4.2 percent
in the second quarter and 3.8 percent in the third quarter of
last year. The bank expects the rate to continue improving as
central bank reduces benchmark  interest rates  and the country’s
economy recovers, Luiz Carlos Angelotti, an  executive director 
at Bradesco, told reporters on a conference call today.  Brazil’s central bank cut the Selic rate by 525 basis
points since August 2011 to a record 7.25 percent this year to
revive the economy.  “The worst of the credit-delinquency cycle has passed for
Bradesco,” Eduardo Nishio, an analyst at Brasil Plural
Corretora de Cambio, Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios SA, wrote in
a note to clients on Oct. 1. The Sao Paulo-based brokerage has
an overweight  rating  on Bradesco.  Loan Growth  The loan book increased 12 percent to 371.7 billion reais
in the third quarter from a year earlier, after expanding 14
percent in the previous quarter and 22 percent a year earlier.
In June, the bank reduced its forecast for lending growth in
2012 to a range of 14 percent to 18 percent, down from 18
percent to 22 percent. Total assets reached 856.3 billion reais
in the third quarter, up almost 19 percent from a year earlier.  “Bradesco’s loan book will probably grow at the lower
range of the guidance,” Angelotti said today, adding lending
will expand at a faster pace in the fourth quarter as  Brazil ’s
economy recovers.  Bradesco and Itau slowed credit growth as delinquencies for
 consumer loans  in Brazil rose to 7.9 percent in May, a 30-month
high. The rate remained at the same level in July and August,
according to the central bank.  Itau cut its guidance for lending growth in 2012 as it
reduces its auto-loan portfolio. The total loan book, including
vehicles, will expand about 10 percent this year, Rogerio Calderon, the head of  investor relations , said in July. In
February, the bank said it expected credit to grow 14 percent to
17 percent.  Federally controlled  Banco do Brasil SA , based in Brasilia,
expanded credit 20 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier as it cut borrowing costs under pressure from Brazil
President  Dilma Rousseff .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  