-- Brazil Yacht Boom Faces Tax Drive as Wealthy Multiply
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-10-23T13:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/brazil-s-yacht-boom-faces-tax-crackdown-as-millionaires-multiply.html
(Corrects numbers of boats built in second paragraph of
story published Oct. 22.)  Brazil ’s government is cracking down
on luxury boat owners who allegedly evaded taxes and  customs
duties , as rising incomes in the world’s second-largest emerging
market drive demand for high-priced leisure goods.  The federal government’s tax authority yesterday instructed
a team of 30 employees, supported by boats and helicopters, to
inspect foreign-made yachts and other “suspect” vessels, some
of which may be used to launder money, the agency said in a
statement.  Brazil’s warm climate, long coastline and growing economy
have enticed both shipbuilders and boating enthusiasts to its
shores in recent years. Production of fiberglass recreational
boats grew to 4,700 in 2010 from 3,500 in 2006, according to the
national boat builders’ association. The value of motorboat,
sailboat and jet ski imports ballooned to $133 million from $13
million in the same period, the group said.  Among the companies seeking to profit from the boom is
Italian mega-yacht builder Ferretti S.p.A., which last year
opened a  factory  near  Sao Paulo  with the capacity to produce 120
cabin cruisers per year, some measuring as long as 83 feet.
About 30 percent of Ferretti’s sales globally come from Brazil,
compared with less than 5 percent in 2007, GQ Brasil magazine
reported in April, citing an interview with Marcio Christiansen,
head of the company’s local operations.  The tax agency can seize boats found to be in violation of
tax and customs rules until further information is forthcoming.
Alexandre Miguel da Silva, the chief customs inspector for the
Itaguai port, will hold a press conference at 3 p.m. local time
to report preliminary figures from the first day of the ongoing
operation.  In June, the tax agency announced plans to seize 12 luxury
aircrafts, with a combined value of more than 560 million reais
($276 million), for evading an estimated 192 million reais in
taxes.  The number of Brazilian millionaires jumped 6.2 percent to
165,000 last year, making the country the fastest-growing major
market for high net worth individuals, according to the 2012
 World Wealth Report  by Capgemini SA and RBC Wealth Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  