-- Buy Yen for Safety, State Street’s Goodwin Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-22T17:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/buy-yen-for-safety-state-street-s-goodwin-says-tom-keene.html
The yen will retain its status as a
refuge from financial-market turmoil even amid concern the  Bank
of Japan  will devalue the currency with more stimulus, according
to  Fred Goodwin , a strategist at State Street Corp.  “The markets are hugely vulnerable to some unknown
unknowns,” Goodwin said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. The yen is
“still the kind of place to bunker your money when you are
nervous.”  Investors should buy the yen and sell the euro with the
optimism from last week’s European Union summit unlikely to
last, Goodwin said. The euro hasn’t traded higher 10 days after
the previous meetings concluded, he said.  The Japanese currency slid versus a majority of its 16
most-traded counterparts after Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara 
pressed the central bank yesterday for more stimulus and as U.S.
Treasury  two-year notes  yielded the most since July against
their Japanese counterparts.  Japanese exports slid 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, leaving a trade deficit of 558.6 billion yen ($7
billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.9 percent
decline. The decrease was the most since May 2011, two months
after a magnitude-9 quake struck northeastern  Japan .  The Bank of Japan announces its next policy decision on
Oct. 30 and will also issue its revised economic projections for
the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years and its first set of forecasts
for 2014.  Japan’s currency declined 0.8 percent to 104.14 per euro at
1:47 p.m. in New York. It has weakened 2.6 percent against the
shared European currency in the past month.  The yen “will reverse the recent losses,'' Goodwin said. The
currency is “driven more or less by risk on or risk off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  