-- California City Facing SEC Probe Drained Road Funds
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/california-city-facing-sec-probe-drained-road-funds.html
San Bernardino, the bankrupt
California city facing an inquiry by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, masked its growing deficits by using funds
meant for sewers, roads and construction to cover current
expenses, according to city records.  In the year ended June 30, San Bernardino added $33 million
to its $177.7 million general fund from a payroll trust fund and
accounts designated for sewer-line maintenance, storm-drain
constriction and other purposes, exhausting most of the special
funds, according to a city budget document.  Now, as the city of 209,000 about 60 miles (100 kilometers)
east of Los Angeles faces the scrutiny of a bankruptcy judge and
the SEC, it’s $1 million in default on pension bonds issued in
2005 and late on $5.3 million owed to the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , of which $1.2 million is
delinquent. The city’s broke because its leaders resorted to
accounting tricks, rather than reduce spending as the recession
drove down property taxes and sales levies, City Treasurer David Kennedy said.  “I didn’t say we were careening toward bankruptcy, but I
told them we were hemorrhaging cash and needed to get our budget
in order,” Kennedy said in an interview, referring to the mayor
and City Council. “It was hard to ignore that, but they pretty
much did.”  The SEC’s “informal inquiry” was revealed in an Oct. 11
letter from Robert H. Conrrad, a senior enforcement lawyer in
Los Angeles, to City Attorney James Penman. The letter asked the
city to preserve documents and data on bonds, underwriters,
audits and financial information presented to elected officials.  Conrrad didn’t respond to a voicemail requesting details of
the investigation. Judith Burns, a commission spokeswoman in
 Washington , said policy prevented her from confirming the
existence of a probe.  SEC Enforcement  The SEC has stepped up enforcement of rules requiring
public officials to disclose financial problems to investors in
the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market. In July, the agency
said it may sue Miami over the issue.  New Jersey  agreed to
settle with the SEC after accusations it misled investors by
masking underfunding of pension plans. Four former San Diego
officials were fined in a case involving similar issues.  In San Bernardino, investigators will probably scrutinize
bond disclosures to see whether they reflected the true budget
picture at the time, said Kennedy, the city’s part-time
treasurer since 1991. He said the agency hasn’t contacted him.  San Bernardino’s bond disclosures have been accurate and
complete “as far as I know,” he said.  ‘Fishing Around’  “I don’t know that anything is going to come out of the
SEC,” Kennedy said by telephone. “Most of this is just fishing
around to see if they can find anything.”  San Bernardino has $90 million of outstanding general-
obligation debt, according to an Aug. 29  report  to the City
Council. It’s responsible for another $200 million in securities
issued for its redevelopment agency, closed this year under a
law eliminating the function statewide.  The city last sold general-obligation debt in a 2005
offering of $50.4 million in pension-obligation bonds, the ones
that went into  default  this month. The issue carried no official
statement, which typically lays out city finances, because it
was a private placement. The only continuing disclosure was the
Oct. 16 notice of non-payment of $1 million due Oct. 1.  San Bernardino has been absent from debt markets because of
its deteriorating credit, Penman said by telephone.  “The city was told informally in 2008 that the state
didn’t want us involved in certificates of participation because
of our credit situation,” said Penman, the elected city
attorney since 1987.  Budget Illusion  In a July 10 City Council meeting, Penman said officials
had “falsified” budget documents for 13 of the preceding 16
years to create the illusion of a balanced budget. Mayor Patrick Morris, in office since 2006, said Penman hasn’t offered
evidence.  While Penman declined to provide details in a telephone
interview Oct. 18, he said he hasn’t retracted the assertion.  San Bernardino has tapped single-purpose funds to balance
its general fund, which is typically used for day-to-day
operations such as payroll, city budget documents show.  For example, the city pulled $1.1 million from its workers-
compensation fund, $1.5 million from liability insurance, $2.9
million from storm-drain construction and $6.1 million from
regional mobility, emptying all of those accounts, a budget
document indicates.  In July, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department
said it was investigating “allegations of criminal activity
within departments of the San Bernardino city government.” A
spokeswoman for the sheriff’s department referred questions
about the status of the probe to the San Bernardino Police
Department. Police Captain Gwendolyn Waters, an acting assistant
city manager, said she isn’t aware of any “specific criminal
allegations being investigated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 