-- Cameron Says Companies to Look at Helping Suppliers Get Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-23T13:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/cameron-urges-u-k-s-largest-firms-to-help-suppliers-get-credit.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
office said 38 large companies in the U.K. will look at taking
part in a program to help their suppliers gain access to credit
as part of efforts to boost lending in the economy.  The companies, including Tesco Plc and BAE Systems Plc,
agreed to evaluate a “supply-chain finance” initiative at a
meeting in Cameron’s residence in central London today, his
office said in an e-mailed statement. This requires the company
buying goods or services to notify its supplier’s bank that
invoices have been approved for payment. The supplier can then
borrow against those invoices.  Cameron’s office estimates the move might see as much as 20
billion pounds ($32 billion) of cheaper finance released.
Business Secretary Vince Cable said last month that the
government had struggled to increase lending to smaller
businesses, holding back the economy, with banks trying to
reduce their exposure to risks and reluctant to lend against
commercial property.  “This government is determined to back all those
businesses who aspire to get ahead and take on more people,”
Cameron said in the statement. “In the current climate, viable
businesses can struggle to get the finance they need to grow --
this scheme will not only help them secure finance and support
cash flow, but will help secure supply chains for some of our
biggest companies and protect thousands of jobs.”  Among the other companies to sign up were  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , Marks & Spencer Plc and
 Statoil ASA (STL) , Cameron’s office said.  The government is looking at where it can adopt the system
itself, starting with neighborhood pharmacies, who supply
medicines on behalf of the state-funded  National Health Service .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  