-- Cameron Won't Rule Out Inquiry Into Savile Sex Scandal
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-22T21:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/cameron-won-t-rule-out-inquiry-into-savile-sex-scandal.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
won’t rule out the possibility of a public inquiry into
allegations of child sex abuse by late TV star Jimmy Savile.  Savile, who was knighted for charity work in 1990, has been
accused of sexually abusing dozens of children over the 30 years
he worked at the broadcaster. The British Broadcasting Corp. has
set up two inquiries into the matter, one into the abuse
allegations and one into why its “Newsnight” program canceled
its investigation of Savile.  “I don’t rule out further inquiries,” Cameron told ITV’s
“The Agenda” program tonight, although he added: “we’ve got
about six under way and I think if you added another one it
might slow down the search for the truth.”  A television and radio star from the 1960s, Savile fronted
the program “Jim’ll Fix It,” which granted children wishes
such as meeting celebrities and presented chart music show “Top
of the Pops.” He died last year.  Alongside the  BBC  probes, the state-run  National Health
Service  has set up three investigations into allegations of
abuse by Savile at two hospitals and a high-security unit for
psychiatric patients. Those investigations are being
independently overseen, Cameron said.  London police are reviewing the abuse claims of as many as
200 people, including allegations against Savile, dating from
1959 to 2006.  Earlier the BBC said the editor of its “Newsnight”
program is stepping aside hours before another of its shows
claimed that the editor was pressured to cancel a segment on
child abuse by Savile.  Immediate Effect  Peter Rippon’s move takes place with immediate effect while
the broadcaster investigates how executives handled the scandal,
the BBC said in a statement today. Rippon’s explanation on his
 blog  for dropping the program was “inaccurate or incomplete in
some respects,” it said.  Another BBC program, “Panorama,” which covers current
affairs, said that BBC Director General George Entwistle knew
about the Savile segment before it was canceled.  “Panorama”
also reported that “Newsnight” journalist  Liz MacKean  wrote to
a friend that Rippon was feeling under pressure and he said he
couldn’t “go to the wall on this one” if “the bosses aren’t
happy.”  Entwistle was managing the broadcaster’s television
channels at the time and became director general this year. He
will give testimony to a U.K. parliamentary committee
investigating the scandal tomorrow. The previous director
general,  Mark Thompson , is scheduled to start as  New York Times
Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive officer next month.  Asked whether Entwistle should resign, Cameron replied, “I
don’t think it’s a question of that at this stage.”  He added that the BBC needs to ask itself “some very
searching questions.”  Thompson and Entwistle had “no involvement in the
investigation or the subsequent decision to drop it,” the
broadcaster has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  