-- Canadian Natural Gas Follows U.S. Market Lower on Mild Weather
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-22T19:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/canadian-natural-gas-follows-u-s-market-lower-on-mild-weather.html
Canadian natural gas dropped,
following the U.S. market lower on mild weather and after prices
failed to break through a technical price level.  The front-month  gas contract in Alberta  declined 4.8
percent after rising on Oct. 19 to its highest level since Nov.
10. Gas on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange dropped after
traders failed to break above $3.65 per million British thermal
units, and as weather reports showed mild weather.  “On Friday, the price action tested the $3.65 level twice
and couldn’t get through, and then we saw a test of that level
again in pre-market trading today and also couldn’t get above
that,” said Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at Gelber &
Associates in Houston. Failing to break through that level
allowed short-sellers to take prices lower, he said.  Alberta gas for November delivery tumbled 15.75 cents to
C$3.13 per gigajoule ($2.99 per million British thermal units)
at 2:15 p.m. New York time on the NGX, a Canadian electronic
exchange.  Natural gas for November delivery on the New York
Mercantile Exchange fell 15.7 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $3.46
per million Btu.  Weather will be mixed across North America this week, with
hot weather dominating the central and eastern U.S., until a
cold front in western  Canada  reaches the Midwest this weekend,
according to MDA EarthSat Weather of Gaithersburg,  Maryland .
U.S. heating demand will be 31 percent below normal this week,
Weather Derivatives of Belton,  Missouri , said.  Alberta Weather  Cold weather over the next week in Alberta will lend
support to Canadian gas prices, said Peter Linder. president of
the DeltaOne Energy Fund in Calgary. “Gas consumption in this
province will be very high for October,” he said. “Clearly
demand is here.”  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 16.2 billion cubic
feet at 1:30 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.86 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 2.01 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 307
million cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.36 billion cubic feet today, 82 percent of
estimated capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.85 billion cubic feet at 1:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  