-- Canadian National Quarterly Profit Rises on Shipments
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-23T02:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/canadian-national-profit-rises-10-as-shipments-gain.html
Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the
country’s biggest railroad, said third-quarter profit rose less
than 1 percent as revenue from grain, petroleum and chemical
carloads increased.  Profit excluding some items rose to C$1.52 ($1.53) a share
from C$1.38 a year earlier, the Montreal-based company said in a
statement today. That beat the C$1.51 a share average  estimate 
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Canadian National benefited as its trains carried more oil
amid rising demand from shippers. Still, the company said it
won’t announce profit targets for 2013 until January and
reaching the upper end of its earnings guidance for this year is
not a “foregone conclusion.”  “The cautionary comments regarding the outlook do not come
as a complete surprise to us,”  Fadi Chamoun , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, said in an e-mailed note to clients.
“Management is executing well,” and the company “should
benefit from several areas of growth in 2013 including the U.S.
housing recovery,” said Chamoun, who has a market perform
rating on the stock.  Net income increased less than 1 percent to C$664 million,
or C$1.52 a share, from C$659 million, or C$1.46. Revenue rose
8.2 percent to C$2.5 billion, in line with the C$2.52 billion
average estimate.  Canadian National also today approved a new plan to buy
back as much as C$1.4 billion in stock. The shares, which have
gained 8.6 percent this year,  fell  61 cents to C$87.07 by 4 p.m.
in Toronto today.  Railroad Outlook  Canadian National’s operating ratio, which measures
expenses against revenue, rose to 60.6 percent from 59.3 percent
a year earlier. The company reiterated that adjusted full-year
earnings may increase as much as 15 percent.  “We see a challenging end to the year,” Chief Financial
Officer Luc Jobin said on a conference call. “Given the weak
economic context, we certainly have our work cut out, and the
expectation of reaching the upper end of our guidance is not a
foregone conclusion.”  Canadian National won’t announce profit targets for 2013
until the fourth-quarter earnings call in January, Jobin said.  Intermodal shipments, the company’s biggest source of
revenue, rose about 6 percent to C$510 million. Petroleum and
chemicals jumped about 15 percent to C$416 million, while grain
and fertilizers advanced 10 percent to C$368 million.  Canadian National said Oct. 18 that it agreed with Tundra
Energy Marketing Ltd. to build a rail-car loading terminal to
handle crude oil from producers in the Bakken shale in Manitoba
and Saskatchewan.  Crude Oil  The railroad plans to move 30,000 carloads of crude oil in
2012 and may be able to double the business next year, Chief
Marketing Officer Jean-Jacques Ruest said on the call.  Canadian National said separately today that it’s still
seeking to recover C$3 million of retirement benefits paid to
former Chief Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison , who was hired to
lead smaller rival  Canadian Pacific Railway (CP)  Ltd. in June.
Canadian National said Harrison “failed to fulfill the terms”
of his employment agreement.  Harrison’s plan to improve efficiency and boost profit at
Canadian Pacific means Canadian National will “have to get even
better faster,” CEO Claude Mongeau said on the call.  Mongeau dismissed concern that Harrison may seek to recruit
some Canadian National executives.  “Hunter has a good strategy undergoing, he and I go way
back,” Mongeau said. “He’s a man of his word and I would
expect him to focus on driving change at CP without having to
poach CN. If he does poach CN, we have a lot of retention tools,
and a lot of bench strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  