-- Carbon Plan Hurts EU Credibility as Regulator, Traders Say
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-22T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/carbon-plan-hurts-eu-credibility-as-regulator-traders-say-1-.html
A plan by the European Commission to
prevent emitters from using some Emission Reduction Units issued
after the end of this year damages the regulator’s credibility,
said a lobby group representing traders.  The proposal does not follow due process and the commission
should have proposed a change to the emissions trading system
law instead of the carbon registry regulation, Jeff Swartz,
Geneva-based international policy director at the International
Emissions Trading Association, said today.  “It has an impact on the commission itself and its
credibility as a regulator,” Swartz said by phone. “The market
hates major changes being dropped on it from on high.”  Emission Reduction Units for December dropped as much as 16
percent to a record 77 euro cents ($1.01) a metric ton today on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , after plunging 27
percent on Oct. 19. They slumped after the regulator proposed
the ban on certain credits issued from next year by countries,
potentially including  Russia , that fail to adopt new emission-
cutting targets.  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, proposed draft
rules for the use of United Nations-sponsored ERU offsets as of
2013 in a modified draft amendment to the bloc’s carbon registry
regulation at a meeting of officials from national governments
on Oct. 17, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because the gathering was
private. The EU doesn’t comment on draft regulations.  ERUs are generated under the rules of the Joint
Implementation mechanism of the  Kyoto Protocol , known as JI.  “In line with the principle of the Kyoto Protocol, the
continuation of JI after 2012 is subject to new quantified
emission targets being in place,” the commission said in an EU
document published on its website last year.  Predictability Requested  Traders were assuming they could use ERUs for EU compliance
at least for the 2012 year, which has a compliance window
through  April (APR)  2013, Swartz said. Investors have entered into
contracts that extend many months into the future.  IETA, whose  members  include  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., says any policy changes should
include a “predictable time line,” he said.  “There has been no notice to the EU emissions trading
system of this change,” Swartz said. “The way they are doing
this isn’t healthy. Not only does it offend investors, but it
offends member states as well.”  EU member governments usually have a role explaining EU
rules to businesses, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  