-- China’s Stocks Rise to Six-Week High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-22T08:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-on-earnings-property-concerns.html
China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index to a six-week high, on speculation the
government will introduce measures to boost equities before a
leadership transition next month.  GF Securities Co. (000776)  climbed 2.6 percent, leading gains among
brokerages, after the regulator scrapped administrative reviews
on securities firms’ asset management businesses. Henan
Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., the listed unit of
China’s biggest hog processor, added 1.8 percent after third-
quarter profit more than doubled.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel
Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. (600111) , China’s biggest producer of rare earth,
declined the most in a month after earnings slumped.  “Investors anticipate the market will be stable before
November’s Party Congress as the government will usually try to
create a good environment for important events,” said Wu Kan, a
 fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co. in Shanghai, which
oversees $285 million.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.2 percent to 2,132.76
at the close, the highest level since Sept. 10. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.4 percent to 2,341.59. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  rose
0.3 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.7 percent in
New York on Oct. 19.  The Shanghai Composite rose 1.1 percent last week, a fourth
week of gains and the longest winning stretch since April, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the economy has started to stabilize as
data including industrial production and retail sales beat
forecasts.  Party Congress  The Shanghai index has rebounded 6.4 percent since reaching
a three-year low on Sept. 26 on expectations regulators will
introduce measures to stabilize the market ahead of the 18th
Communist Party Congress slated for Nov. 8. The gauge is still
down 3 percent this year and trades at 10 times estimated
earnings for this year, compared with the 17.9 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Vice President  Xi Jinping  is forecast to replace President
 Hu Jintao  as party chief in the congress, which may run for at
least a week.  The government is likely to intensify market stabilization
efforts before the meeting, Hao Hong, managing director of
research at Bank of Communications Co., said in an Oct. 19
report. This year, the China Securities Regulatory Commission
has expedited approvals of foreign investors, cut stock-trading
fees by 25 percent and allowed individual investors to advise on
pricing IPO shares as part of efforts to boost the market.  Margin Cap  The securities regulator will ease limits and cancel
administrative review on brokerages’ asset management
businesses, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a
statement on Oct. 19 after the market closed.  GF Securities, the third-biggest listed brokerage by market
value, gained 2.6 percent to 14.09  yuan .  Industrial Securities
Co. (601377)  added 2.2 percent to 11.05 yuan. Huatai Securities Co.
advanced 2 percent to 9.99 yuan.  Henan Shuanghui climbed 1.8 percent to 59.90 yuan after the
pork processor said third-quarter profit jumped 111 percent from
a year earlier.  China’s stocks fell earlier fter the China Securities
Journal reported Shaanxi province will prevent property
companies from reaping profit margins of more than 10 percent.  Shaanxi issued a cap on profit margins from property sales
for cities in the northwest province, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing a document issued by the province’s
housing and pricing authorities. Property projects with margins
of more than 10 percent won’t be given sales licenses, it said.  Shaanxi Construction Machinery Co. plunged 4.9 percent to
6.98 yuan.  Earnings Drop  Baotou Rate-Earth slid 3 percent to 32.46 yuan, its biggest
decline since Sept. 20. Third-quarter net income fell 90 percent
from a year earlier, according to an exchange statement.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.3 percent today after
earnings at U.S. bellwether General Electric Co. missed
estimates and Japan’s exports dropped more than forecasts.  The U.S. is China’s second-largest export market, making up
about 17 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according
to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 19.7
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.2. About 6
billion shares changed hands in the gauge, 22 percent lower than
the daily average in 2012.  Investors should maintain their current holdings of China’s
stocks as there’s lack of convincing evidence of fundamental
improvement, Ling Peng, a strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co., wrote in a report dated Oct. 19. Shenyin was
ranked No. 1 for equity strategy research by New Fortune
magazine in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  