-- China Mobile Profit Increases on New Users, Data Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-22T16:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/china-mobile-quarterly-profit-rises-as-subsidies-lure-new-users.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone company by subscribers, increased third-quarter
profit as handset subsidies helped attract data users to its
high-speed network.  Net income climbed 1.3 percent to 31.1 billion  yuan  ($5
billion), from 30.7 billion yuan a year earlier, according to
figures derived from nine-month data the Beijing-based carrier
released to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. Profit was
projected at 30.8 billion yuan, according to the median of seven
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue in August said he’d boost
handset subsidies by 30 percent to 26 billion yuan this year as
he fights to maintain the lead in smartphone users over  China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and China Telecom Corp. Smartphone users
attracted by the subsidies are boosting China Mobile’s sales
from downloading videos, games and music.  “The net profit was slightly ahead of our forecast,” said
Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd.
who had projected net income of 30.1 billion yuan. “Overall
growth was still only 1.3 percent year-on-year, so growth is
still a problem for China Mobile,” said Soh, who  rates  the
stock neutral due to the weak profit outlook.  Sales in the quarter rose 6.2 percent to 142.1 billion
yuan, from 133.8 billion yuan, compared with an estimate for
141.7 billion yuan.  China Mobile rose 1.1 percent to HK$85.45 at the close in
Hong Kong trading, before the earnings were announced. The  stock 
has gained 13 percent this year, against an 18 percent gain in
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Data Surge  China Mobile had 698.5 million subscribers at the end of
September, including 75.6 million users of the high-speed,
third-generation service that allows smartphones faster  Internet
access .  During the first nine months,  data traffic  over the
carrier’s wireless networks surged 61 percent to 626 billion
megabytes, from 389.2 billion in the year-earlier period, China
Mobile said. Data traffic was driven by users downloading videos
and e-books, and accessing e-mail, the company said.  “The favorable development of the data business and in
particular the wireless data traffic was effective in
stabilizing the”  average revenue per user , Chairman  Xi Guohua 
said in the statement. Average revenue per user for the nine
months was 67 yuan, unchanged from a year earlier, it said.  While China Mobile’s total wireless subscribers in August
represented 65 percent of the market, it held just 38 percent of
the 3G segment that month as China Unicom and China Telecom
gained share, according to the user data for all three carriers.  ‘Smartphone Promotion’  “We expect China Mobile’s increased focus on 3G network
quality and smartphone promotion will gradually boost data
revenue growth and will likely start to drive overall revenue
growth” from the second half of next year, Bin Liu, a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., wrote in
an Oct. 15 report. China Mobile “may see some challenges in
revenue growth and margins in the next half year.”  The company is counting on the move to a 4G network, based
on technology known as TD-LTE, to stem the decline in market
share among users who watch videos and play games on phones.  China Mobile in August said its state-owned parent company
will  expand a 4G trial  to 20,000 base stations in 13 cities in
the second half, from seven cities in the first six months. That
expansion will provide 90 percent coverage in key areas of
Hangzhou, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, the company said then. By next
year, the carrier plans to expand the trial to 200,000 4G base
stations.  China  Unicom (UNCK)  will report  earnings  for the period on Oct.
25, followed by China Telecom Oct. 29.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  