-- China Beefs Up Its Security Before Communist Party Congress
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-22T11:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/china-beefs-up-security-before-communist-party-meeting-correct-.html
China  is tightening security before
the Nov. 8 Communist Party Congress that will see more than
2,000 delegates gather in Beijing to formally anoint the
country’s next generation of leaders.  Since August, Beijing has cracked down on unlicensed taxis,
gambling, prostitution and bicycle theft, the China Daily
newspaper  reported yesterday , quoting Beijing deputy party chief
Ji Lin. City police are also monitoring migrant workers more
closely, the official Legal Daily reported Oct. 19.  The congress, which is expected to run for at least a week,
is forecast to name Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping general
secretary of the 82-million-member party, clearing the way for
him to take over from  Hu Jintao  as president next year. On Oct.
19, Politburo member Zhou Yongkang urged authorities around the
country to safeguard the congress’s security, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  “We must soberly realize that various factors exist which
can lead to disharmony, insecurity and instability, bringing
many risks and challenges for the security work of the Party
congress,” Zhou said, according to Xinhua.  The central province of Hubei ordered its 60,000 police to
cancel holidays from Oct. 20 to Nov. 20 to “fight a tough war”
ahead the party congress, the provincial police authority said
in an Oct. 19 statement on its website.  Tighter security won’t hinder the lives of Beijing
residents,  China Daily  said. It quoted Ji as saying that
security agencies should take people’s “feelings and opinions
into consideration when they carry out their duties.”  The congress “is a very important conference to be held at
a critical time when China is building a moderately prosperous
society in an all-round way,” Xinhua said today, citing a
statement from a meeting by the Politburo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  