-- China Bans Foreign Ships From Rivers as Local Operators Struggle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-22T16:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/china-bans-foreign-ships-from-rivers-as-local-operators-struggle.html
China will ban foreign vessels from
sailing on domestic waterways including the  Yangtze River , the
world’s busiest for freight, as local operators struggle to make
money amid a global shipping glut.  Overseas investors will also be barred from engaging in
river shipping, including through the use of Chinese vessels,
according to a  statement  posted on the government’s website
yesterday. The ban, which comes into effect Jan. 1, doesn’t
apply to vessels registered in  Hong Kong , Macau and Taiwan.  The new rules are designed to help promote a “healthy”
domestic shipping sector and to ensure safety standards,
according to the statement. The government also this month
announced tax and financial support for local shipping companies
after  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and China Shipping Container
Lines Co., the nation’s largest listed operators, both posted
wider first-half losses.  Shippers will be able to seek exemptions from the transport
ministry for using foreign ships if there is a capacity
shortage, according to the statement. Otherwise, companies found
to be using overseas vessels on rivers will face penalties
including fines of as much as 1 million  yuan  ($160,000), it
said.  About 1.5 billion tons of cargo were shipped along the
Yangtze in 2010,  China Daily  said in May 2011, citing the
Changjiang (Yangtze River) Administration of Navigational
Affairs. That’s more than three times the amount carried on the
Mississippi River, it said. The river runs 6,300 kilometers
(3,915 miles) to Shanghai from Tibet.  China Cosco, the nation’s largest operator of container and
dry-bulk ships, has forecast a nine-month loss as rising
capacity in the global fleet and slowing trade saps cargo rates.
For instance, The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for commodity-
shipping costs, has plunged 53 percent in the past year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai  at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  