-- Coach Loses Luster With Coupons Cited in Quest for Share
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/coach-loses-luster-with-coupons-cited-in-quest-for-share.html
Wall Street is hedging its bets on
 Coach Inc. (COH)  as the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker’s once-
stellar growth falters.  Coach’s fiscal first-quarter earnings report tomorrow may
show that adjusted per-share profit growth slowed to about 3.4
percent from 16 percent a year earlier, according to the average
of 28 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales growth
may ease to 10 percent from 15 percent, analysts project.  The luxury retailer has resorted to more 25 percent coupons
recently, according to at least three analysts, suggesting that
the Legacy line it introduced just months ago isn’t providing
the boost Coach had sought. That’s fueling investors’ concerns
that  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and other rivals are encroaching
on the market Coach long dominated.  “The sentiment is very negative,” Eric Cha, an analyst at
Brown Advisory LLC in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview.
“The biggest negative on them as far as sentiment is people are
worried about them losing share.”  Brown Advisory held more than 4.6 million Coach shares as
of June 30 among the about $30 billion in assets it manages.  At least three analysts have removed their buy or
equivalent ratings since the New York-based company last
reported earnings. Analysts on average have reduced their 12-
month share price targets and have cut their sales and earnings
estimates. Andrea Resnick, a spokeswoman for Coach, declined to
comment.  Legacy Line  Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort is seeking alternate
sources of growth, investing in the men’s category and
continuing to add stores in  China . The Legacy line, which rolled
out in the U.S. in mid-July and globally the following month, is
a big part of Frankfort’s efforts to goose sales.  Coach delved into its archives for the classic leathergoods
and updated them using lighter-weight materials. Frankfort
called Legacy Coach’s most significant product introduction
since 2001.  The collection is targeting muti-generational consumers who
are both classic and stylish in their taste, Frankfort has said.  It “is in many ways back to the future,” he said in June.  The coupons indicate that Legacy “may be off to a slow
start,” Corinna Freedman, an analyst with Wedbush Securities in
New York, said in a phone interview.  Coach generates about 70 percent of its sales from North
America, making home-market demand the most important near-term
investment consideration, Christian Buss, an analyst with  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in New York, wrote last month in a report
downgrading the stock.  ‘Investment Year’  Frankfort warned in July that Coach’s results in its
current fiscal year -- which he called “an investment year” --
would be reduced by accelerated acquisitions and increased
spending on e-commerce. Still, on the call, he expressed
confidence that Coach could “drive our business at a double-
digit pace.”  Coach said its North American handbag and accessory sales
in its own stores and through its website rose “similarly” to
the total market’s 10 percent growth rate in the company’s most
recent fiscal year. A year earlier, such sales increased 17
percent, surpassing the market’s 10 percent gain.  “If they are only growing at the rate of the handbag
category, they are no longer a high-growth company,” Freedman
said. “So where does that leave Coach, because it has been 10
years of high-flying growth? The growth multiple they used to
garner is at risk.”  ‘Valuation Sensitive’  Coach, which traded at an average of about 18.6 times
estimated earnings per share in the past seven years, is going
to become much more “valuation sensitive,” said Freedman, who
rates the shares neutral, the equivalent of a hold.  The stock traded at about 14.6 times estimated earnings as
of Oct. 19, a 30 percent  discount  to  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  and a 62
percent discount to Kors, whose sales in the current fiscal year
may gain more than 52 percent to $1.97 billion, the average
estimate of 11 analysts.  Other analysts who cut Coach to the equivalent of hold in
recent months include  Eric Beder  at Brean Murray Carret & Co.
and Randal Konik at Jefferies & Co. As a result, the percentage
of analysts who recommend buying Coach has fallen to 71 percent
from 81 percent before July 31, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  Analysts’ average 12-month target share price was $67.08 at
the close of trading Oct. 19, when the shares finished at $56.
That target had topped $80 earlier in the year.  ‘Entry Point’  The recent declines offer “an attractive entry point,”
according to  Laura Champine , a New York-based analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Corp., who upgraded the shares to buy from
hold on Aug. 7.  “Coach has a tremendous management record of knowing their
brand,” David Schick, a Baltimore-based analyst with  Stifel
Financial Corp. (SF)  who recommends buying the shares, said in a
phone interview. “I would point to the longer-term.”  However, the short-term trends may indicate a long-term
problem, according to Wedbush’s Freedman.  Coach earlier this month still was honoring a Facebook
promotion that had been due to expire Sept. 16, she said. Buss
saw longer-lasting Coach promotions at retailers such as  Macy’s
Inc. (M)  and  Dillard’s Inc. (DDS)  this fall. While Coach offered 25
percent off a single item at its full-price stores in September
2011, last month it offered that discount off an entire
purchase, Freedman said. Coach also has sent e-mails touting its
factory outlet clearance merchandise on EBay, she said.  “They are having to work a little harder to get their
customers in the stores,” Freedman said. “We’re just nervous
about what that means for the  brand (BRND)  over the longer-term. We
think they are losing market share to nearly everyone. The
handbag segment has become much more fragmented and much more
competitive than it was in Coach’s heyday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  