-- Commerzbank Said to Seek Custody Business Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-22T13:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/commerzbank-said-to-seek-custody-business-sale-amid-review.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest lender, is exploring the sale of its custodian business
as Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  reviews company
strategy, according to people familiar with the matter.  The Frankfurt-based lender is working with  UBS AG (UBSN)  to help
find buyers, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because talks are private. The business is likely to attract
strategic players already in that sector, said the people. The
business may fetch more than 200 million euros ($261 million),
they said.  Commerzbank, which may sell the business by the end of the
first quarter, could also decide against a sale if the bids are
deemed too low, said one of the people.  Commerzbank has said that it will review its business
areas amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. Custody banks have been
affected by competing forces as gains in stock prices boost fees
for overseeing and managing client money, while low interest
rates force them to waive fees on money funds, erode yields on
portfolios and reduce returns on securities lending.  At the end of June there were 48 active custodian banks in
Germany with total funds amounting to 1.2 trillion euros,
according to the German Funds Association BVI. Commerzbank’s
custodian unit had 24.4 billion euros in mutual funds, 46.1
billion euros in special funds and 20.7 billion euros in real
estate funds under management, BVI said at the end of June.  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp.,  State Street (STT)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are the world’s largest custody banks. Custody banks
keep records, track performance and execute trades for
institutional investors including mutual funds, pension funds
and hedge funds. They can also handle foreign exchange
transactions and lend cash and securities.  Officials at Commerzbank and UBS declined to comment.  Last month, Blessing forecast a “more challenging” second
half of the year as lower client activity and regulatory costs
weigh on earnings. He is scheduled to present a business review
on Nov. 8 as well as discuss plans for the consumer-banking unit
and the bank’s strategy for the portfolios it’s winding down,
including public finance, commercial real estate and ship
finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
achoudhury@bloomberg;net;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  