-- Corporate Default Swaps Rise in Europe as Credit Rally Stalls
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-10-22T14:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/corporate-bond-risk-little-changed-in-europe-as-rally-stalls.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European corporate debt rose after the biggest weekly rally
in more than a month.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose six
basis points to 500 at 3:30 p.m. in London, after falling 48
basis points last week.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, is
selling 10-year subordinated bonds.  The rally, which is into its fifth straight month in the
longest streak since  April (APR)  2011, has stalled before earnings
reports from companies including tiremaker Michelin & Cie today
and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  on Oct. 25. Sales of corporate bonds
slowed to 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) last week from 16
billion euros the week before.  “The coming week will be punctuated by the results season,
with more than 30 European firms presenting their quarterly
results,” Guillaume Thomas, a quantitative analyst at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  in Paris, wrote in a note to investors. “At the end
of the week we should have a good indication of the state of the
economy’s health and thus the trend for the end of the year.”  Corporate bond yields relative to government debt held at
124 basis points, the lowest since July 2011, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates Non-Financial Index.
The spread has shrunk from 201 at the start of the year amid
increasing investor confidence that  Europe ’s leaders can contain
the region’s debt crisis.  UniCredit LT2  UniCredit is selling 1.25 billion euros of lower tier 2
bonds at a yield of 510 basis points more than the swap rate,
down from a spread of about 530 in initial marketing, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  Deutsche Bahn AG,  Germany ’s state-owned railway, sold 300
million pounds ($481 million) of five-year bonds in its second
offering in the U.K. currency in four months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose two basis points to 123. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose one basis point to 163 and the
subordinated index increased three to 290.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  