-- Crescent Point Purchases to Extend to U.S.
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/crescent-point-purchases-to-extend-to-u-s-.html
Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , the
most acquisitive of Canadian energy companies this year, is
searching for U.S. buying opportunities as far afield as  Texas 
to increase oil production.  After spending $2 billion for smaller operators and land
near the Calgary-based company’s Saskatchewan and Alberta light-
oil fields, Crescent Point is seeking targets to ply its
“technical expertise” in the U.S. and help boost its output 44
percent by 2017, Chief Executive Officer Scott Saxberg said.  Crescent Point employees in Denver are looking for assets
across the continent, Saxberg, 44, said in an Oct. 18 interview
in his Calgary office.  “There’s more opportunities than there are dollars chasing
them,” in the U.S., he said. “In Texas, there are more assets
for sale than any other time.”  The company, Canada’s seventh-biggest oil and natural gas
producer by market value, could tap equity markets for
acquisition funding as oil prices have recovered since June,
while not neglecting another 20 years of drilling on existing
acreage, Saxberg said.  Crescent Point’s six Canadian energy purchases this year
top four acquisitions by  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  and three
by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  Crescent Point’s experience using horizontal drilling to
discover new fields in Western Canada and coaxing oil from
reservoirs with water floods give it an edge in the U.S.,
Saxberg said, declining to identify areas of interest.  North Dakota  “We’re always looking for opportunities, so on a macro
basis for our company, we’re still continuing to consolidate in
our main core areas and look for that new area,” Saxberg said.
The company plans to lift oil  production , 90 percent of output,
to 137,000 barrels a day in five years, from 95,000, he said.  A  North Dakota  expansion could be strategic for Crescent
Point, and the proximity to its Saskatchewan operations might
comfort investors, said Gordon Currie of Salman Partners.  “Going to Texas and the offshore  Gulf of Mexico , that
would be a stretch,” Currie, an analyst who rates the company a
buy and doesn’t own the shares, said in a phone interview from
Calgary.  Crescent Point moved into North Dakota in 2010, acquiring
more than 85,000 acres in the Bakken and Three Forks formations,
 according  to the company’s website.  The foothold in the state is “pretty small” relative to
the company’s position in the southeast Saskatchewan Bakken and
Shaunavon in the province’s west, Saxberg said. Crescent Point
has kept North Dakota drilling low in a high-cost environment
set to deflate as competitors slow activity, he said.  Asset Purchases  Crescent Point  picked  up Calgary-based oil and gas
companies Wild Stream Exploration Inc., Cutpick Energy Inc. and
Reliable Energy Ltd. and made three other asset purchases this
year to expand in Western  Canada , many of the deals having taken
several years to develop, Saxberg said.  The company now controls 95 percent of the Shaunavon area
and 80 percent of the Saskatchewan Bakken, he said.  Willing investors allow Crescent Point to pay “healthy
prices,” regularly over $100,000 a flowing barrel, Currie said.
The company issued no  debt  to make acquisitions this year and
raised about C$1.24 billion ($1.25 billion) in two equity
issues.  “They’re simultaneously the most acquisition-oriented
company in their peer group but also pretty liberal with
equity,” Currie said. “The market’s pretty happy with what
they’re doing.”  Crescent Point  rose  93 percent on the Toronto Stock
Exchange in the five years through Oct. 19, compared with a 17
percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index.
Crescent Point has lagged this year, falling 4.7 percent, while
the energy index is little changed.  Dividend Yield  The company has a dividend yield of 6.5 percent, and the
highest rate of reinvestment among its peers, with 57 percent of
dividends declared in 2011 reinvested, Currie said. It ranks No.
11 in dividend yield among companies in the index.  Among analysts  rating  the stock, 17 recommend to buy, five
advise to hold and one suggests selling. Crescent Point is
scheduled to release third-quarter results on Nov. 8, when it is
 projected  to report profit excluding one-time items of C$36.2
million, or 11 Canadian cents a share, based on average
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors remain “very supportive” of Crescent Point, but
there’s a limit to how much equity the company can issue, said
Mason Granger, who manages C$500 million at Sentry Investments
Inc. in Toronto, with Crescent Point as a “core” holding.  “From time to time, I feel like there’s deal fatigue,”
Granger said in a telephone interview. “They issue paper a
lot.”  ‘Different’ Game  Trent Stangl, a Crescent Point spokesman, didn’t return a
telephone call and e-mail on Oct. 19 seeking comment.  Saxberg will probably buy in the U.S. next, with fewer
large targets left in western Canada, Granger said.  “It’s a whole different ball game on the U.S. side and
transaction multiples have been pretty high,” he said. “Can
they make that work?”  Crescent Point’s biggest challenge is “not getting too
carried away,” Saxberg said. “Not going too fast too hard, not
driving costs up and maintaining a good growth rate and a good
development strategy and not overdoing it,” he said.  The company is one of the most “proactive” companies in
Calgary to hedge  oil prices  to reduce risk, Currie said. “These
guys are very good about it,” Currie said. “They do it two or
three years out in the future.”  Investments to connect Crescent Point’s Saskatchewan fields
to rail lines that began three years ago are paying off, Saxberg
said.  As pipeline bottlenecks depressed Canadian crude prices in
the second quarter, the company was making C$10 a barrel more
moving oil by rail to eastern Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, he
said. Crescent Point is doubling its rail capacity, a “safety
valve” against pipeline disruptions, he said, to 45,000 barrels
a day this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  