-- David Lerner Banned by Finra for Misleading on REITs
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-10-22T16:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/david-lerner-banned-by-finra-for-misleading-on-reits.html
David Lerner was banned from the
securities industry for a year and his firm ordered to pay $12
million for misleading investors into buying real estate
investment trusts, regulators said.  Lerner, whose David Lerner Associates Inc. has underwritten
about $7 billion of its Apple REITs, was also fined $250,000,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today in a
 statement . The Syosset, New York-based brokerage, known for its
founder’s “Take a tip from Poppy” advertising slogan,
persuaded elderly customers to invest by exaggerating the
performance of older Apple REITs, Wall Street’s self-funded
regulator said.  Lerner personally misled over 1,000 customers at four or
more seminars, calling the Apple REITs “a fabulous cash cow”
and a “gold mine,” Finra said. He cited the success of
previous investment pools without telling prospective investors
that those REITs were partially funding their payouts by
borrowing money, the regulator said.  “David Lerner and his firm targeted unsophisticated and
elderly customers, grossly failing to comply with basic
standards of suitability,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s chief of
enforcement, said in the statement. “Firms must conduct a
thorough suitability analysis before selling products, and make
accurate disclosure of risks and features.”  Lerner’s Suspension  Lerner agreed to repay the $12 million to investors without
admitting or denying Finra’s claims. The firm “decided it is
time to move the company past these distractions and settle with
the regulators,” said Joseph Pickard, its general counsel. His
statement was e-mailed by David Chauvin, an outside spokesman at
Zimmerman/Edselson Inc.  “I am thankful for the tens of thousands of investors who
have remained steadfast and loyal to David Lerner Associates,”
Lerner said in the statement. “Most of all, I am confident that
the future remains bright.”  John Dempsey, who’s worked for Lerner for 33 years, will
run the firm during the suspension, according to the statement.  Finra also fined David Lerner Associates $2.3 million for
overcharging on municipal bonds and mortgage investments.
William Mason, the firm’s head trader, was ordered to pay
$200,000 and suspended for six months, according to the
statement. The company marked up bonds by as much as 23 percent,
Finra said.  Boca Raton  Finra cited a presentation Lerner made to about 100
customers and prospective investors at the  Boca Raton  Marriott
in  Florida  last year. The regulator claimed he said one of the
Apple REITs “averaged 7.62 percent over the last four years.
That’s been the return -- the dividend return for our
investors.”  Lerner told investors that the program’s prospects were so
good that they’d name their children after him, Finra said.  Last year, a group of investors sued David Lerner
Associates over the Apple REITs, saying the firm didn’t disclose
“substantial unrealized losses.”  The brokerage earned $600 million selling the investment
pools, accounting for more than 60 percent of its business since
1996, Finra said. It charged a 10 percent fee on each sale, the
regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  