-- Dead Sea’s Record Loss Grows With Potash Makers Demand
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-10-23T15:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/dead-sea-s-record-loss-grows-with-potash-makers-demand.html
The Dead Sea is shrinking at a
record rate, prompting calls for Israel and Jordan to stop
fertilizer makers from siphoning so much of the water whose
restorative powers have attracted visitors since biblical times.  The salty inland lake bordering the nations dropped a
record 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) over the last 12 months because of
industry use and evaporation, the Hydrological Service of Israel
said. That’s the steepest Dead Sea decline since data-keeping
started in the 1950s. Half the drop was caused by  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  and Jordan’s  Arab Potash Co. (APOT) , said Gidon
Bromberg, Israeli director of the Friends of Earth Middle East.  “This is unacceptable and speaks to the urgency of the
need to force industry to change their extraction process,”
Bromberg said in an interview from Tel Aviv.  The makers of potash, a raw material for fertilizer, are
competing for water with a centuries-old tourism industry on the
Dead Sea, Israel’s most crowded leisure destination last year
with 857,000 visitors. That’s more packed than Tel Aviv and
Eilat’s beach resorts, the Tourism Ministry said.  It isn’t only pumping causing the degradation of the Dead
Sea, a biblical refuge for King David. Agriculture diverts water
for crops from the Jordan River that feeds into the Dead Sea,
adding to a decline that’s created potentially life-threatening
sinkholes by the shore.  Medicinal Benefits  On the north shore of the Dead Sea, 75 kilometers (47
miles) long 50 years ago and 55 kilometers now according to the
environmental group, spas offer the medicinal benefits of mud
baths and mineral springs. Those wanting to bob in waters about
10 times as salty as the ocean must either ride in a cart for
several minutes or take a hike that’s a little longer.  Dead Sea Works, owned by  Israel  Chemicals, denied any
increased pumping, saying it has used 150 million to 170 million
cubic meters a year from the sea for two decades.  “The main reason for the declining sea level is the
increased usage of the water that used to flow to the Dead Sea
in the past, especially from the Jordan River, by all countries
in the region,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  It’s already paying to use Dead Sea water through royalties
that it said have doubled since the beginning of the year, Dead
Sea Works said. Israel Chemicals agreed in December that royalty
payments on potash production above certain levels would double
to 10 percent.  “Charging the Dead Sea Works per water usage by cubic
meter will not affect the pumping volume since the amount of
pumping is a function of the evaporation ponds’ surface area and
changing climate conditions alone,” it said.  “We’re keen on doing all possible to preserve the Dead
Sea, which is shrinking annually,” Issa Shboul, spokesperson of
Jordan’s Ministry of Environment, said yesterday by phone.  ‘Negative Impact’  “We regularly request the potash companies and other
companies that benefit from the Dead Sea water for their
business to adopt the latest technological advances to reduce
the negative impact on the Dead Sea level,” Shboul said.  Jordan and Israel should reinvigorate a joint committee
that hasn’t met for more than a decade to work on developing
extraction techniques that use less water, Bromberg said.  Israel’s  Environment Ministry  said it’s working on a
proposal with the government that examines the use of all
resources, including phosphates and mineral water.  Israel allocated 850 million shekels ($223 million) this
year to rehabilitate and develop the Dead Sea’s tourism
potential. Spencer Tunick’s group photo in 2011 of naked people
at a beach raised awareness of sinkholes and shrinking shores of
the lowest place on Earth at 414 meters below sea level.  Sinkholes Common  About one-third of the Dead Sea’s surface area has
disappeared and sinkholes are increasingly common as the waters
shrink amid drought, agricultural diversion, largely from the
Jordan River, and pumping to extract minerals for fertilizers.  The initiation of charges for pumping may affect Arab
Potash, which has outperformed the Amman SE General Index this
year, rising 8 percent compared with a 4.6 percent drop of the
measure. Net income has advanced for three years to $423 million
in 2011. The Jordanian company had no comment to the
environmental group proposals after being called several times.  Israel Chemicals has advanced 16 percent this year compared
with a 10 percent gain by the TA-25 index as corn prices climbed
in the U.S. drought. The shares fell 2.1 percent today to almost
a six-week low. Farmers apply potash to help strengthen roots
and make crops more drought-resistant. The company had net
income of $1.5 billion last year.  Mixing Waters  Jordanian, Palestinian and Israeli policymakers, under the
auspices of the World Bank, have been examining various plans to
halt the Dead Sea’s decline. These include two tunnels and a
pipeline that may cost as much as $10 billion. These would
transfer water about 110 miles from the Red Sea and brine from
desalination plants to keep Dead Sea levels stable.  Preliminary reports from the Red Sea-Dead Sea Water
Conveyance Study Program have shown that mixing sea water,
desalination brine or both with Dead Sea water entails risks,
especially when amounts exceed 300 million cubic meters a year.  The Dead Sea has a current annual deficit of 700 million
cubic meters, Bromberg said. The risks include gypsum and other
microorganism growth caused by mixing different types of water.  Major parts of the study are expected to be completed and
posted online by the end of the month, according to an official
with knowledge of the report. These include drafts of final
reports on alternatives, feasibility and environmental
assessments.  More can be done to stop the deterioration to an area home
to rare wildlife including leopards, ibex and the griffon
vulture, Bromberg said.  “We are calling on Jordan and Israel to introduce
legislation that would require Dead Sea waters to have a price,
with pumping rates and licensed, monitored meters,” he said.
“All other sources of water are extracted under license.”  The beach photographed by Tunick meanwhile has changed
beyond recognition in a year with salt-encrusted rocks more
common now as Dead Sea waters recede, environmentalists say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  