-- Australia to Toughen Reporting Rules for Mortgage-Backed Bonds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-10-22T05:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/debelle-says-new-mortgage-bond-reporting-rules-to-boost-market.html
Australia ’s central bank announced
stricter reporting standards for residential mortgage-backed
securities as it prepares to hold the notes as collateral in
return for a standby funding facility for lenders.  The  Reserve Bank  will demand more information on
securitizations and the underlying mortgages for the debt to be
eligible for repurchase agreements, according to a  statement 
today. The central bank is making the changes ahead of the 2015
introduction of a liquidity backstop, which will help banks meet
so-called Basel III rules forcing them to hold more easily
saleable assets.  “RMBS will potentially comprise a significant share of the
securities that authorized deposit-taking institutions will hold
to access the facility,” the RBA said in its statement. The
additional requirements announced today will allow the central
bank to “more precisely value these securities and assess their
risk,” according to the statement.  Australian lenders accessed cash by lodging securitized
mortgages from their own balance sheets with the RBA after the
U.S. subprime mortgage collapse in 2008 sparked a global credit
freeze and saw asset managers shun bonds backed by home loans.
The new reporting rules will also help the market recover from
the financial crisis by making more information available to
investors, according to Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle .  ‘More Transparency’  “There is an increasing demand for more transparency in
securitization from both investors and regulators alike,”
Debelle, who heads the Reserve Bank’s financial markets
division, said in a speech today in Sydney. “One objective for
improving transparency is to ensure that investors, other market
participants and regulators all have access to relevant and
reliable information in order to monitor risk.”  Debelle, who didn’t address monetary policy or the economy
in his prepared remarks, said the proposed reporting templates
are open for comment until the end of December. Draft templates
for other type of asset-backed securities, such as those backed
by auto loans, credit cards and commercial mortgages, will be
published next year, according to the central bank’s statement.  “An increased transparency that extends down into
individual loans backing RMBS will be a good development, as
such information is generally hard to access,” said Raymond Lee, a portfolio manager in Sydney at Kapstream Capital, which
oversees A$4.9 billion.  Tougher Regulation  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is seeking to
bolster banks’ liquidity and capital to prevent a repeat of the
credit crisis that deepened when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008. Australia’s lenders largely stayed profitable
and didn’t require bailouts during that crisis, which forced
financial institutions worldwide to raise $1.6 trillion of
capital amid more than $2 trillion of losses.  While banks in most countries will meet the liquidity
requirements predominantly through holding government debt,
there aren’t enough sovereign bonds outstanding in Australia for
lenders to buy, the banking regulator and the RBA said in a
statement in December 2010, when they announced the plan for the
central bank to offer contingency loans.  Debelle said that while the nation’s mortgage bond market
has “gradually improved,” it shouldn’t be expected to return
to pre-crisis levels.  “But there is scope for it to recover further yet,” he
told the Australian Securitization Forum. “One avenue that may
facilitate further growth is the availability of more
information, and more standardized information, than exists
currently.”  Responding to questions from the audience, Debelle said the
RBA doesn’t see any particular trend developing in a “very
low” rate of mortgage arrears. Mortgage-backed securities in
Australia are “well protected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  