-- Delek Surges on Woodside’s Leviathan Field Bid: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-22T14:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/delek-surges-on-woodside-s-leviathan-field-bid-tel-aviv-mover.html
Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which has an
indirect stake in Israel’s largest natural  gas field , surged
after partners in the prospect said Australia’s Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. submitted a bid for a project stake.  Delek Group advanced 5.7 percent to 761 shekels at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the highest close since April 11.  Ratio
Oil Exploration 1992 LP (RATIL) , a partner in the Leviathan field, rose
6.6 percent to 0.34 shekel, the highest level since April 24.
Delek Drilling-LP and  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL) , also partners,
advanced 3.5 percent and 3.7 percent, respectively.  The Leviathan partners said today that international
exploration and production gas firms have submitted bids to
acquire as much as a 30 percent stake. Woodside, Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer, submitted “a bid which is
being studied by the partners,” the companies said in a filing
in the  Tel-Aviv  Stock Exchange.  “This is excellent news, Woodside has expertise in
liquified natural gas and piping and this is what Leviathan
partners are looking for,” Ella Fried, a senior analyst at  Bank
Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd., said today by phone.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  discovered the Leviathan gas field in
Israel’s deep waters in 2010, when it was the world’s largest
find of its kind in a decade. The explorer plans a deeper well
next year to search for Israel’s first offshore crude finds,
Chief Executive Officer Charles Davidson said on a July 26
conference call with investors.  Development Strategy  A partnership with an international company is part of the
strategy for developing the field, Delek Drilling said in a
filing with the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange on Sept. 9. Woodside
Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman met today with Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , according to an e-mailed message
from the premier’s office today.  Woodside is seeking to broaden its portfolio of oil and gas
assets to meet growth targets. In August the Perth company said
it is studying expansion options in the Eastern Mediterranean,
Southeast Asia and the Americas.  Delek Drilling and Avner each hold a 22.67 percent stake in
the Leviathan project, while Ratio holds 15 percent. Noble
Energy Mediterranean Ltd. owns a 39.66 percent stake, the filing
today said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  