-- DeNA Tempts Matsuzaka Back to Japan to Boost Baseball Challenge
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-10-22T00:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/dena-tempts-matsuzaka-back-to-japan-to-boost-baseball-challenge.html
Daisuke Matsuzaka, whose six-year
$52 million contract with the  Boston   Red Sox  has expired,
already has an invitation to pitch next season in the Japanese
city where he became a high school hero.  DeNA Co. (2432) ’s Yokohama DeNA BayStars has made an offer to the
32-year-old, according to club president Jun Ikeda. Matsuzaka,
who signed with the Red Sox in December 2006, may view a return
to the port city as welcome after the past  four injury-plagued
seasons  with Boston in which he compiled a 17-22 record.  “Our message has reached him and we’re making
preparations,” Ikeda, 36, said in an interview earlier this
month. “We can offer a comprehensive appeal, not just money.
There’s the significance of joining a young team and the city’s
proximity to  Tokyo .”  Acquiring Matsuzaka, who carried Yokohama Senior High
School to a national championship in 1998, might also restore
the hopes of BayStars fans who have watched the team crash to a
 five-year run of last-place finishes  in Nippon Professional
Baseball’s Central League.  As the ace of his high school team, Matsuzaka dominated the
1998 summer tournament at Koshien Stadium, pitching a no-hitter
in the final game after having earlier thrown more than 400
pitches over three days to win two successive games and save a
third.  He went on to an eight-season career and a record of 108-60
with the Seibu Lions of NPB’s Pacific League, winning rookie of
the year honors in 1999 and the Sawamura Award as NPB’s best
pitcher in 2001, and twice leading the league in Earned Run
Average.  There was no response to two e-mails and a phone call to
Rachel Viglietta, assistant to Matsuzaka’s agent  Scott Boras .  ‘Need Time’  DeNA wants the BayStars to top the league within five years
and boost season attendance to at least 1.3 million, Ikeda said.
Matsuzaka’s presence on the pitching staff might go a long way
toward both goals, with his fame helping to attract fans and his
Major League Baseball experience bringing veteran leadership.  “We need time to build a foundation,” Ikeda said. “We
didn’t have enough time to construct a team this season after
buying the ballclub in December.” The 2012 season started March
30.  DeNA, Japan’s biggest social-game operator, bought the team
for 9.5 billion yen ($120 million) from  Tokyo Broadcasting
System Holdings Inc. (9401)  Ikeda, who headed the company’s marketing
and communication division, was sent to the club and became the
youngest president among  Japan ’s 12 professional baseball teams.  Losing Favor  Baseball, long Japan’s most popular professional sport, has
been losing favor in recent years with the departure of many top
players to the U.S. major leagues.  Attendance in the six-team Central League fell 4.2 percent
to 11.8 million in 2011, with average attendance per game down
to 27,293, from 35,309 in 1992, according to the  Nippon
Professional Baseball Organization .  Yokohama attracted 1.1 million people, compared with
Hanshin Tigers’ 2.9 million and Yomiuri Giants’ 2.72 million,
the 2011 data showed.  Since DeNA acquired the BayStars, fans have already seen
some benefits. In April, the team sold 300 refundable tickets
for unsatisfied customers and in August offered discounted
field-seat tickets for fathers with housing loans. The BayStars,
who count a gasoline-station operator among their sponsors, also
sold tickets for games between Sept. 28 and Oct. 3 that came
with a coupon good for three liters of free gasoline if the team
lost. The team’s  record  for those days was 2-3 with one tie.  “DeNA has been trying to change the old Japanese style of
baseball team management by using business marketing sources,”
said Yasuaki Muto, a professor in the Faculty of Sport Sciences
at  Waseda University  in Tokyo. “It’s been good so far.”  ‘Maybe Even Win’  The company’s efforts have paid off with a 5.3 percent rise
in attendance this season to 859,207 through Aug. 23, compared
with 816,056 in the same period of the 2011 season, according to
the team. DeNA said in August that acquiring the BayStars helped
boost its first-quarter sales 37 percent to 47.6 billion yen,
even as ownership did increase costs.  “By having Matsuzaka at the team, more people would come
to the stadium, the team may sell more corporate boxes and maybe
even win a few games,” Muto said in an interview. “If the team
can use Matsuzaka to attract fans and show that having a
baseball team can benefit the owner company in terms of gaining
name recognition and trust, I think more and more new companies
will begin financing and owning teams.”  The Red Sox haven’t said for sure that they won’t try to
re-sign Matsuzaka, who’ll be eligible for free agency after the
MLB season concludes.  World Series  He helped the Red Sox win a  World Series  during his first
year in 2007 and then went 18-3 with a 2.90 ERA in his second
season, when he was among the best pitchers in the majors.  Matsuzaka has since seen his career derailed by injuries
and ineffectiveness. In 11 starts this year coming back from
surgery on his pitching elbow, he had a 1-7 record and an 8.28
ERA for a Red Sox team that finished 69-93, its worst season
since 1965.  The BayStars won’t be entirely reliant on Matsuzaka and
will seek other trades and draft amateur players to strengthen
their roster, Ikeda said.  Next season, the team’s goal is to finish in the top half
of the six-team Central League standings, Ikeda said, a result
that would put the team into the postseason playoffs for the
first since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  