-- Detroit Taxpayers Won’t Be Handed Tigers’ World Series Party Tab
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-10-22T16:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/detroit-taxpayers-won-t-be-handed-tigers-world-series-party-tab.html
A potential World Series celebration
for the  Detroit Tigers  won’t cost the city’s taxpayers a penny,
a spokesman for the mayor said.  Facing a $265 million annual deficit, Detroit avoided a
state takeover in April by adopting a recovery plan that
includes a nine-member oversight board and a list of reforms.
The board warned Mayor Dave Bing on Oct. 8 that the city could
run out of cash in a few months unless he acted more swiftly to
rein in spending.  “Historically, the city has paid for celebrations of this
type,” Anthony Neely, press secretary for Bing, a member of the
Basketball Hall of Fame, said via e-mail. “Due to the financial
stress the city finds itself in, we have requested and received
the assistance of foundations and corporations to cover the
cost.”  Neely wasn’t specific as to how much a  World Series 
celebration would cost or which companies and foundations would
assist.  The Tigers will represent  Major League Baseball ’s American
League in the best-of-seven World Series, which is scheduled to
begin Oct. 24. The  St. Louis Cardinals  and the  San Francisco
Giants  will play a decisive Game 7 of the National League title
round tonight in San Francisco, with the winner hosting the
first two World Series games. The NL won the All-Star Game,
giving its representative home-field advantage in the best-of-
seven championship round.  Lakers Paid  Basketball’s Los Angeles Lakers agreed to cover the cost of
the team’s championship parade in 2010, when the city faced a
$485 million budget shortfall. The year before when the Lakers
won, private donors covered half the city’s $1.8 million in
costs for police and other services.  The Tigers are owned by Mike Ilitch, who founded the Little
Caesar’s Pizza chain and has a net worth of about $2.5 billion.
Ilitch also owns hockey’s  Detroit Red Wings . He bought the
Tigers in 1992 for $82 million, according to Forbes, which says
the team is now worth $478 million.  Tigers spokesman Ron Colangelo said in an Oct. 19 e-mail
that the team hasn’t discussed plans for a World Series
celebration. The team hasn’t won the championship since 1984.  The economic crisis in Detroit, with the area the center of
the U.S. automotive industry, is heightened by the flight of
one-quarter of its residents since 2000, falling property values
and resulting loss of  tax revenue .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  