-- Deutsche Telekom CEO Said to Hand Off Oversight of U.S. Unit
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-22T16:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/deutsche-telekom-ceo-said-to-hand-off-oversight-of-u-s-division.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  plans to hand off responsibility for the
U.S. unit so he can focus on boosting sales outside traditional
phone services, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges will assume
oversight of T-Mobile USA on the executive board to allow
Obermann to concentrate on new services, including online
offerings and telemedicine, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the plan isn’t public. The reorganization may be
ratified by the supervisory board of the Bonn-based  company  in
December, the person said.  The company wants to turn new services into dependable
sales more quickly to offset declining phone revenue, another
person has said. Obermann took charge of innovation strategy
this year after board member Ed Kozel stepped down. The CEO
spent much of 2012 revamping subscriber-losing  T-Mobile USA 
after the unit’s failed $39 billion sale to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year.  When T-Mobile chief Philipp Humm left in June to join
competitor  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Obermann travelled to the U.S. to
find a successor. John Legere assumed the post in September.
This month, the CEO presented an agreement to merge the U.S.
unit with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , an attempt to make the
operations more competitive against rivals  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
 Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc.  Client Losses  T-Mobile USA, which had lost 2.76 million contract
customers in the two years through June, aims to overtake Sprint
to become the third-largest U.S. mobile-service provider, Legere
said in an internal interview published on Deutsche Telekom’s
website, adding the operator may not reach that goal by 2014.  The division is adding 18,000 new subscribers to its
unlimited data plan every day, he said. Getting  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone “is more a question of ’when’ than of ’if,’” he said.  Deutsche Telekom  shares  closed down 0.8 percent at 8.93
euros in Frankfurt today. MetroPCS rose 0.8 percent as of 11:47
a.m. in New York trading, while Sprint stock was little changed.  Deutsche Telekom has said it plans to raise revenue from
new businesses, which include mobile data and TV services, to
about 29 billion euros ($37.9 billion) in 2015 from 15 billion
euros in 2009.  The German phone company has taken steps this year to
accelerate expansion into non-phone offerings. Its venture arm
may now take majority stakes in startups. The operator has
rolled out its De-Mail secure electronic letter service and
announced a partnership for mobile payments with  Mastercard Inc. (MA)   Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined to
comment on the reorganization. Handelsblatt reported the plan
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  