-- LDK Advances as Leaders to Act on Growth: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-22T21:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ldk-advances-as-leaders-to-act-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose in  New York ,
extending a four-week rally, on speculation next month’s
leadership change will provide the impetus for further measures
to stimulate growth in  Asia ’s largest economy.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 1.2 percent to 96.65
yesterday, the strongest close since May 11.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) 
soared the most in a year on plans to sell new shares to state-
owned investors.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  jumped to a five-
month high after saying third-generation service users grew.
 China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  rose to trade at the widest premium over its
Hong Kong shares in more than a month after reporting an
increase in third-quarter profit.  China ’s new leaders, to be formally announced on Nov. 8,
will inherit an economy showing signs of recovery after seven
quarters of decelerating growth.  Industrial production  rebounded
last month from a three-year low and retail sales climbed the
most in six months. Policy makers have cut  interest rates  and
banks’ reserve ratios twice this year and will have more leeway
to ease monetary policy further after inflation slowed to 1.9
percent in September, Song Guoqing, an adviser to the People’s
Bank of China, said Oct. 18 in Beijing.  There’s a “shift in the level of pessimism over Chinese
equities as recent data have all started to reverse declines.”
Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion in assets, said by phone
from Philadelphia yesterday. “With the inflation rate having
fallen to 1.9 percent, they have the cover to lower interest
rates or banks’ reserve ratios, or both.”  LDK Shares  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.5 percent to $37.67,
the highest level since May 3. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
was little changed at 1,433.81.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2 percent yesterday to
reach a six-week high of 2,132.76. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
climbed 0.6 percent to 10,742.79, the strongest level since May
4. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on China’s yuan
strengthened 0.06 percent to 6.3640 versus the dollar, after the
currency traded little changed at 6.2547 per dollar in  Shanghai 
yesterday.  LDK, the world’s second-biggest maker of wafers that
convert the sun’s energy to electricity, surged 21 percent to 86
cents, the biggest advance since October 2011.  The solar company, based in Xinyu, China, is issuing new
shares to Heng Rui Xin Energy Co., which is owned by Xinyu
State-owned Asset Management Co. and Hi-Tech Wealth Investment
and Developing Co., LDK said yesterday in a statement. Heng Rui,
which is buying the shares for 86 U.S. cents each, will own a
19.9 percent stake in LDK, according to the statement.  Push Mergers  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, jumped 9.3 percent to 82 cents in the U.S., after
slumping 8.5 percent last week.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  added 4.1
percent to $4.30 and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. rallied 3
percent to a one-week high of $1.71.  China aims to expand domestic demand, push mergers and
acquisitions and encourage industry innovation in the solar
energy sector amid an industry slowdown, the Shanghai Securities
News reported Oct. 19, citing an unidentified official from the
National Energy Administration.  American depositary receipts of China Mobile climbed 2.8
percent to $55.6, the steepest jump since March 9. The ADRs,
each representing five underlying shares in China’s largest
wireless network carrier, traded 0.9 percent above stock traded
in Hong Kong, the widest premium since Sept. 13.  Cnooc Pares  Third-quarter net income for Beijing-based China Mobile
rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier to 31.1 billion  yuan  ($5
billion), according to figures derived from nine-month data the
carrier reported yesterday to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Profit was projected at 30.8 billion yuan, according to the
median of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
in the quarter rose 6.2 percent to 142.1 billion yuan, compared
with an estimate for 141.7 billion yuan.  China Mobile’s third-generation service users increased
3.46 million to 75.6 million by the end of September, compared
with an addition of 3.16 million the prior month, according to
its data released yesterday. The company is counting on the move
to a 4G network, based on technology known as TD-LTE, to stem
the decline in market share among users who watch videos and
play games on phones.  “The results were better than street consensus due to
strong top-line growth,” Jun Zhang, an analyst at Wedge
Partners Corp. wrote in a note yesterday. “There are more
catalysts to come from 3G user growth and the TD-LTD roll-out.”  Subscriber Growth  China  Unicom (UNCK) , the second-biggest mobile-phone company,
climbed 2.1 percent to $17.54, the highest since May 4. Unicom
added 3.18 million 3G subscribers last month to 66.86 million,
the largest monthly growth this year, figures released Oct. 19
showed. The company is scheduled to report results for the third
quarter on Oct. 25.  ADRs of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the largest offshore oil explorer in
China, rose 0.8 percent to $208.63, paring an earlier gain of as
much as 1.5 percent, after its acquisition target  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
fell to a three-month low in Toronto.  The Canadian government rejected Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s
C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) bid for Calgary-based  Progress
Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19, spurring concern that Cnooc’s
$15.1 billion purchase of Calgary-based Nexen may not win
government approvals.  Renren Gains  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a real-name social networking website in
China, advanced 3 percent to $3.46, rising for the first time in
12 days.  The Beijing-based company started a timeline feature on its
users’ account pages, PRNewswire reported Oct. 18. PRNewswire
said in that statement that 1 million Renren users have already
used the timeline feature so far.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge fell
to 16.9, the lowest level since Sept. 18, and compares with this
year’s average of 23.2.  Traders increased bets Hong Kong will end a 29-year-old peg
to the dollar after the currency reached the upper limit of its
permitted range and triggered intervention by the city’s
monetary authority.  Two-Year forwards on the currency rose 0.11 percent to
HK$7.74 per dollar yesterday, the biggest gain since Jan. 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its value is kept at
HK$7.75 to HK$7.85. Hedge-fund investor  William Ackman , the
founder of New York-based Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
said Oct. 20 he is keeping a wager that would profit if Hong
Kong allows its currency to appreciate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  