-- LDK Surges on Sale of Minority Stake to Chinese Investors
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-10-22T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ldk-surges-on-sale-of-minority-stake-to-chinese-investors.html
  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest
maker of wafers that convert the sun’s energy to electricity,
rose the most in almost a year after Chinese investors purchased
a minority stake.  LDK’s American depositary receipts climbed 21 percent to 86
cents at the close in New York, the most since Oct. 27, 2011.
Each ADR is worth one regular share.  The solar company is issuing new shares that Heng Rui Xin
Energy Co. will buy for 86 cents each. When the deal closes,
Heng Rui, owned by the Xinyu State-owned Asset Management Co.
and Hi-Tech Wealth Investment and Developing Co. will own 19.9
percent of LDK’s outstanding shares, Xinyu, China-based LDK said
today in a statement.  LDK had $3.6 billion in short and long-term  debt  as of June
30. “Some companies, such as LDK, have balance sheets so
strained that further borrowing is impractical,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
Houston, said today in an e-mail. “In those cases, issuing
extremely dilutive equity may be the only viable option.”  Heng Rui will have the right to place three additional
directors to LDK’s board and the companies will add two
independent directors, according to the statement. The
transaction is subject to government and regulatory approval.  LDK Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peng Xiaofeng said
in a Sept. 17 conference call that the company is in advanced
talks with two potential investors.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , based in  Hong Kong , was the
largest solar wafer company by capacity last year, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  