-- Dog-Friendly Napa Winery Pampers Pooch While You Drink
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/dog-friendly-napa-winery-pampers-pooch-while-you-drink.html
Frenchie, a stubby-legged white
French bulldog, lolls happily on a leopard-skin patterned carpet
under a Baccarat crystal chandelier.  Handing me a glass of bubbly, his flamboyant owner,
Burgundy native Jean-Charles Boisset, gets down on all fours,
gives the dog a kiss, then picks him up and leads me on a tour
of Frenchie’s eponymous  Napa Valley  winery.  Dog-friendly wineries are on the rise in California. There
are 96 in the Napa Valley alone, but Boisset’s  Frenchie Winery 
outdoes them all.  The idea is part of Boisset’s vision for Napa’s Raymond
Vineyards, a winery founded in the 1970s he bought three years
ago. Raymond’s tasting spaces are a kind of adult wine
experience playground -- a combo of Disney World,  Las Vegas  and
tongue-in-cheek stage sets.  Boisset, 43, heads up the American arm of the Burgundy-
based wine empire  Boisset, La Famille des Grands Vins , founded
by his father in 1961. His 2009 marriage to winemaker Gina Gallo
united two of the world’s most powerful wine families.  Fizzing Enthusiasm  In slim black jeans, a black and white plaid Gucci jacket
and black t-shirt, he fizzes with enthusiasm as he pauses to
caress a visitor’s hand, trade quips with his staff, check
messages on his mobile.  Frenchie Winery -- the back story is that his dog has taken
charge -- turns out to be a large white shed at the back of
Raymond’s two-acre demonstration biodynamic garden.  It boasts an enclosed play yard and five individual kennel
spaces complete with luxurious wine-barrel dog beds. Above them
hang paintings of Frenchie as Napoleon, Louis XIV,  George
Washington , and even cross-dressed as Marie Antoinette.  Despite his wacky sense of fun, Boisset is a shrewd
businessman: many of the U.S.’s 46 million dog owners are also
wine lovers who don’t want to leave their pets at home.  As a visiting couple’s pink-ribboned brindle-colored French
bulldog, Tilly, runs up, Frenchie does his part, greeting her
with a friendly sniff and nudge.  Pup Cam  Boisset points out the webcam in the shed’s ceiling, a way
for owners to keep tabs on a pup while they’re in Raymond’s
standard tasting room. “It’s like daycare, it’s awesome,” says
Elizabeth Schroeter, Tilly’s co-owner.  “We treat the dogs the same as humans,” Boisset replies,
with a grin.  I rate Frenchie, the dog, and his winery, which has its own
 website , a solid 95 points. His wines don’t score as well,
though they’re better than most label-driven “lifestyle”
wines.  The 2011 Frenchie  Marie Antoinette  chardonnay ($18), with
round, appley flavors, has a lemon-lime soda pop bite.  The 2009 Frenchie Louis XIV cabernet sauvignon ($30) is
balanced and a bit herbal, pleasant but no stunner.  Best is the 2009 Frenchie Napoleon red blend ($30) of six
varietals. It’s plush-textured, with the fresh bright fruit
often missing from Napa reds at this price point.  The charismatic Boisset likes to push the wine envelope. He
was the first to bottle $200 grand cru Burgundy with a screw
cap, one of the first to package wine in recyclable Tetra Paks,
and his most recent experiment, JCB #3, is a spicy $123 pinot
noir blend of grapes from Burgundy and Sonoma’s Russian River
Valley.  Emotional Visit  He thinks a winery visit “should reflect the fact that
wine is about emotion, dreams, and capture the feeling inside a
glass.”  So he designed Raymond’s members-only Red Room with a red-
velvet-heavy Moulin Rouge atmosphere that seems over-the-top for
laid-back  California . Still, visitors ooh and ah.  “I love red,” says Boisset, handing me a glass of a $150
lush, velvety cabernet and merlot blend made to match the room.
“This wine is beyond orgasm in a bottle.”  Frenchie curls up at his feet, lulled by the voice of Louis
Armstrong singing “Our love is here to stay” wafting from
hidden speakers.  The glitzy Crystal Cellar tasting room is hung with mirrors
and scantily clad female mannequins are posed on catwalks next
to shiny stainless steel wine tanks behind the bar.  Baccarat Crystal  Light pings off glass cabinets filled with Baccarat crystal
decanters, part of Boisset’s partnership with the luxury glass
company. On another wall, a line of plaster hands hold jars
filled with wine scents for visitors to inhale.  Boisset studied in the U.S., then returned to Burgundy in
1999, intent on transforming the family’s negociant business
into one focused more on quality and began converting vineyards
to biodynamics.  In the past few years, he’s snapped up a half dozen
wineries in California that have historic significance. So far
his best wines come from Sonoma’s DeLoach Vineyards.  “I believe in destiny,” he insists. “I first visited
Sonoma’s 19th century  Buena Vista Winery  with my grandparents
when I was 11 years old.” Late last year, he finally succeeded
in buying it.  History is its marketing draw. Boisset hired a local actor
to play (in costume)  Agoston Haraszthy ,  Buena Vista ’s Hungarian
founder, who disappeared in an alligator-infested river in
 Nicaragua  in 1869.  Boisset smiles. “I want to create tasting places where
people -- and dogs -- can have a blast.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on  architecture  and
Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 