-- Dong Halts Work on German Offshore Wind Farm on Grid-Link Delay
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-10-22T13:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/dong-halts-work-on-german-offshore-wind-farm-on-grid-link-delay.html
Dong Energy A/S suspended work on a
North Sea wind farm because the company lacked a deal on
connecting it to the grid, adding to pressure on  Germany  to end
delays in linking offshore turbines to the power system.  “Due to the lack of the contract for the grid connection
for the Borkum Riffgrund II project being awarded, we have been
forced to suspend the development and construction,” Christoph
Mertens, director of Dong Energy Wind Power in Germany, said
today in an e-mailed statement. Dong will place the project back
into the company’s “development pipeline,” Mertens said.  Siemens AG (SIE) , which had a deal to supply turbines, has seen
“no effect as we haven’t yet booked the order,” said Eva-Maria
Baumann, a Siemens spokeswoman. The farm in waters off Emden was
expected to use about 96 turbines generating as much as 346
megawatts, according to Dong’s  website . Dong canceled an order
for 97 Siemens turbines,  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday.  The suspension is a setback to Germany’s plan to install 25
gigawatts of sea-based turbines by 2030 as work is being held up
by delays in linking farms to the grid.  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s
second-biggest utility, said in July it stalled a decision on
building the Innogy Nordsee 1 offshore site until next year as
it waits for the government to set out who will pay for delays.  Germany added 45 megawatts of offshore  wind turbines  in the
first half, less than expected, mainly because of the holdups.  Lawmakers from the main political parties today questioned
experts over a bill backed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet
of Ministers that seeks to fix the liability issue. It includes
charging operators and consumers for installation risks.  The bill as it stands “would fail to attract investors
because the risk is too high and can’t be insured,” Ulrike Hoerchens, a spokeswoman for TenneT, responsible for connecting
North Sea offshore farms to the grid, said today by phone.  “We’ve called for tenders and haven’t received acceptable
offers,” Hoerchens said. Possible contractors declined to give
delivery dates “because of the uncertainty due to the missing
liability rules,” she said. Dong’s Borkum Riffgrund II farm was
due to be linked to the Dolwin3 converter station, she said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net  and Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
   snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  