-- LME to Adjust Warehouse Rules to What’s Good for Broader Market
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-22T07:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/lme-to-adjust-warehouse-rules-to-what-s-good-for-broader-market.html
The London Metal Exchange, the
world’s largest metals market, will adjust its warehouse rules
to be “what’s good for the broader market,” said Charles Li,
chief executive officer of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  LME CEO  Martin Abbott  said last week a review of warehouse
delivery rates will take six months. In April, the exchange
increased the minimum amount that must be delivered daily, after
getting complaints about delays since at least 2009. The Hong
Kong bourse is buying the LME for $2.2 billion.  “We have no reason to favor the producers, the consumers,
the warehouse operators, or the banks,” Li said in an interview
in London on Oct. 18. “The only thing we have on our mind is
what’s good for the broader market. People hopefully will feel
that this jury’s verdict is fair.”  Withdrawing metal from warehouses monitored by the LME can
take as long as 56 weeks at the Dutch port of Vlissingen and 48
weeks in  Detroit , data compiled by Bloomberg showed Oct. 19.  The question is whether consumers are really waiting weeks
for metal from warehouses or whether long waits are just a
“mathematical queue,” Li said. “If it’s a physical queue,
meaning real consumers cannot have normal production because
they have to wait for a year for aluminum to show up, that’s a
physical queue and that’s a very big problem,” Li said. “The
canceled warrants divided by your load-out rate. That’s a
mathematical queue.” Canceled warrants are orders to withdraw
metal form warehouses and the load-out rate is the amount of
metal that must be delivered out of warehouses.  Aluminum Premiums  Premiums buyers pay for aluminum for immediate delivery in
the U.S. and Europe have climbed even with aluminum prices down
2.5 percent this year and  inventories  near a record high. The
LME has more than 600 registered warehouses in locations from
 Singapore  to the U.S. that ensure physical delivery against
futures. Metals traders  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan & Chase Co. own some of the
warehouse companies.  “A lot of the frustration comes from everybody’s
perception that the other side has a bigger voice in that
boardroom and therefore the management is being beholden,” Li
said. “That’s not the case. We’re really going to be
transparent.”  Aluminum is locked in some financing deals that typically
involve a simultaneous purchase for nearby delivery and a
forward sale for a later date. The transaction is profitable so
long as the difference between the two exceeds costs including
storage, insurance and debt.  Not LME  “Quite a few things seem to have happened and almost all
of them have nothing to do with the LME necessarily,” Li said
in the interview. “If the LME stops existing tomorrow, those
leasing deals will continue to grow, as long as  interest rates 
are there, as long as there is oversupply of aluminium, as long
as there is contango, they will be there. And they will
disappear with or without the LME.”  Aluminum premiums may drop if the so-called load-out rates
were raised again, according to Atlanta-based Novelis Inc.,
which processes about 3 million tons of aluminum a year.  A steering committee including Abbott, Deputy CEO and
Director of Compliance and Regulation Diarmuid O’Hegarty and
Head of Physical Operations  Robert Hall , was set up to review
warehouse rules, the exchange said in August. The review is
proceeding and will take six months, Abbott said Oct. 15. The
debate is “complicated” and the LME cannot afford a short-term
view on waiting times, Abbott said Oct. 16.  ‘Big Issue’  “If the consumers actually are ending up having to pay
more than they should because of the LME system we also have a
big issue,” Li said at a seminar on Oct. 15. Li was in London
for LME week, which attracts thousands of miners, refiners and
traders for talks on metals markets and supply contracts.  Premiums buyers pay for aluminum for immediate delivery in
the U.S. are 11.25 cents a pound, while the European fee has
jumped 47 percent in a year to $280 a ton, Metal Bulletin data
on Bloomberg show. At an average LME price of $2,064.12 a ton in
September, the average premium in  Europe  of $279.38 a ton means
14 percent of costs can’t be hedged, or futures bought to
protect against unexpected price changes.  Aluminum stockpiles at 5.04 million tons account for about
73 percent of the metal stored in LME warehouses, according to
bourse data. The aluminum total was a record 5.13 million tons
in February. The exchange in April will introduce new daily
levels for the minimum amount of nickel and tin that warehouses
must deliver, the bourse said in August. The LME has also this
year delisted Vlissingen as a delivery location for copper.  The LME takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges is expected to be
completed by the fourth quarter, according to Abbott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  