-- LME Will Adjust Warehouse Rules for Good of Market, Li Says
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-22T11:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/lme-will-adjust-warehouse-rules-for-good-of-market-li-says.html
Charles Li, chief executive officer
of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., comments on a review of
warehouse rules at the London Metal Exchange. Li made the
comments on Oct. 19 in London.  “Quite a few things seem to have happened and almost all of
them have nothing to do with the LME necessarily.  Interest
rates , oversupply, ownership changes of the warehouses, a lot of
the stocking because of leases, very large financing deals, very
concentrated aluminum in few locations. Half a dozen
factors, maybe a dozen factors, resulted in some simple issues
that are being articulated as long queues and high premiums.  “If the LME stops existing tomorrow, those leasing deals
will continue to grow, as long as interest rates are there, as
long as there is oversupply of aluminum, as long as there is
contango, they will be there. And they will disappear with or
without the LME. So the LME is not part of the reason for
these leasing deals. The LME warehouses are not part of it. So
that needs to be really clearly articulated.  “Is that a physical queue, or is that a mathematical
queue? Because if it’s a physical queue, meaning real consumers
cannot have normal production because they have to wait for a
year for aluminum to show up, that’s a physical queue
and that’s a very big problem. Warehouse cancelations or stocks
movement is only a small fraction of what is going on in the
real economy. It is a mathematical queue -- basically the
cancelled warrants divided by your load out rate -- that’s a
mathematical queue.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  “And then finally they need to also understand whether or
not doing something would create  unintended consequences  that
turn out to create bigger problem than you initially wanted.”  “The jury is out. We will continue to work on it when we
become an owner. The only thing we have on our mind is what’s
good for the broader market. We have no reason to favor the
producers, the consumers, the warehouse operators, or the banks.
People hopefully will feel that this jury’s verdict is fair.  “We’re really going to be transparent. A lot of the
frustration comes from everybody’s perception that the other
side has a bigger voice in that boardroom and therefore the
management is being beholden. That’s not the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  