-- Meaty Restaurants Put Scotland on Gourmets’ Map: Richard Vines
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/meaty-restaurants-put-scotland-on-gourmets-map-richard-vines.html
Visitors to the U.K. seeking great
food outside London face a dilemma: There are many fine
restaurants, yet they’re seldom concentrated in one city.  The highest density of first-class dining options is in
enclaves such as Padstow ( population 3,162  in the last census),
home to  Rick Stein ’s Seafood Restaurant and its spawn; and Bray
(population 8,245), for the Waterside Inn, the Fat Duck and its
ducklings.  A gourmet vacation might involve much traveling. So how
about Edinburgh? The Scottish capital (population 448,624) is
home to restaurants so good, it’s worth a special trip.  The Kitchin: Tom Kitchin has worked with some of the
world’s greatest chefs -- including  Alain Ducasse  and  Guy Savoy 
-- and formed an unlikely friendship with one of the toughest of
them all, Pierre Koffmann. Koffmann has been a mentor to Kitchin
since the young Scot proved himself at La Tante Claire.  Kitchin uses mostly Scottish produce to create dishes that
are big on flavor. Yes, they are pretty and he cares about
presentation, but everything on the plate is there because of
what it can add to the main ingredients.  Dishes such as bone marrow and ox are not for timid eaters,
though the textures and rich flavors of roasted bone marrow,
crispy ox tongue, button mushrooms and jambon de Bayonne are
rewarding. This appeared on the Chef’s Land and Sea Surprise
tasting menu when I ate at Kitchin last month.  Service under Kitchin’s wife, Michaela, is outstanding.
Kitchin, whose second restaurant is Castle Terrace, may be
 Scotland ’s finest chef. The bill? 120 pounds ($194) for one.  Information:  http://www.thekitchin.com/kitchin/home  or +44-
131-555-1755.  The Honours: Martin Wishart also has claims to be
Scotland’s finest chef, and his eponymous restaurant in
Edinburgh (which I have reviewed previously) should not be
missed. The Honours, which opened last year, is his brasserie.  The service is relaxed while the cooking is serious. The
dishes are French: They are polite, as though they have traveled
over on the Eurostar, have learnt to speak English and chosen to
eschew Gallic extremes in favor a lighter European style.  I started with buttered tagliatelle with new season’s
morels. This dish was so good, I had to put my wine glass down
and stop talking for 10 seconds to appreciate it. My main of
calf’s liver (with confit shallot jus) was a chunk of pinkish
meat about the size of my fist, like a big buttery steak.  There’s a three-course prix fixe menu of 17.50 pounds. My
bill was 130.95 pounds for two.  Information:  http://www.thehonours.co.uk/  or +33-131-220-
2513.  21212: I’ve never been so confused in a restaurant before
having a drink and I’ve rarely been so happy persevering.  The waitress explained to me once how to order. I asked her
to tell me again. Still baffled, I asked another time. Please
pay attention: you have a choice of two starters, one soup, two
mains, one cheese and two desserts. It’s 21212. Clear enough?  Here’s a single dish from course three, or should that be
two? Tender best end of lamb, braised and diced breast, barley
and leeks, kidney beans, white asparagus and mange-tout, thyme
and pease pudding, Bayonne ham and mortadella, blueberry puree.  When the food arrived it was a riot of colors and flavors:
Not a bad riot, like people setting fire to furniture stores,
but a good riot, like people overthrowing dictators.  Chef Paul Kitching just lets his imagination run a little
mad, as though he comes up with ideas in the middle of a rave
and works out how to execute them while coming down the next
day. The disparate ingredients become friends and chill out.  I still had trouble imagining the genius responsible for
such exuberant bonsai gastronomy. (The portions are small.) Then
I sat down for a drink afterwards. He’s one of the most down-to-
earth, amusing chefs I’ve met. I can’t wait to go back. Five
courses are 52 pounds for lunch, 68 pounds for dinner.  Information:  http://www.21212restaurant.co.uk  or +44-131-
523-1030.  Galvin Brasserie de Luxe: The Galvin brothers are well
known in  London  for great restaurants such as Galvin La Chapelle
and Galvin Bistrot de Luxe. This first venue outside the English
capital is cut from the same cloth, and very fine it is.  Chris and Jeff Galvin have worked in some of the U.K.’s
finest restaurants and it shows in their food, which is
thoughtful yet unfussy, classic yet original. It also shows in
their attention to detail front of house, with friendly service
and the generosity on which true hospitality is built.  The menu at Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, in the newly restored
Caledonian Waldorf Astoria, features tweaked versions of some
London favorites, such as tagine of lamb. (La Chapelle serves
tagine of pigeon.) Enjoyment comes dish by dish.  I’d only question the wine list, which is divided by theme.
If you want to pick between New Horizons, Purity in a Glass, the
Mix Bag, Kings and Queens etc., good luck. The food bill for
three was 124.50 pounds, plus service and wine.  Upstairs in the same hotel is the Pompadour by Galvin, in a
grand dining room that dates back to 1925 and offers views of
Edinburgh Castle. Here are more elaborate French-inspired dishes
using seasonal Scottish ingredients. The sommelier piles on the
pleasure with adventurous wine pairings.  My bill was 92.35 pounds, including wine.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 