-- Lebanese Clashes Spread to Beirut After Security Killing
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-23T02:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/lebanese-clashes-spread-to-beirut-after-security-killing.html
Lebanese troops fought with gunmen
in Sunni Muslim areas of  Beirut  following the assassination of a
senior security official that is being blamed on neighboring
Syria.  Sniper fire rang out in southeast Beirut during the morning
rush hour yesterday after overnight clashes that left one dead
and nine wounded, according to the official National News
Agency. In the northern city of Tripoli, four people have been
killed and 18 people injured since Oct. 21, NNA said. A man died
from wounds he sustained during an exchange of fire in the
southern town of Wadi Zaina, the agency reported.  The army said it will take “firm measures” to prevent
sectarian violence after security forces clashed with protesters
in the capital. “Security is a red line,” the army said in a
statement. “The fate of the country is at stake.”  The violence is the most serious in Lebanon since the
beginning of the 19-month uprising against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. The country is divided into pro-and anti-Assad
groups that have fought intermittently, mostly in Tripoli,
raising fears of a spillover of the Syria crisis.  The U.S. is concerned that the upheaval in Syria could
spread across the border into Lebanon and other neighboring
countries, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said during a
briefing yesterday in  Washington .  Oil prices  fluctuated, with crude for November delivery
falling 1.5 percent to $88.73 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Brent for December settlement gained 14
cents, or 0.1 percent, to $109.58 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Risk Premium  “The movement in the price of  Brent crude  shows that a
substantial political  risk premium  remains in the global
benchmark,” Edward Bell, commodities analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Violence in Lebanon should have little impact on the oil
market’s supply fundamentals but the prospects of a broader
regional conflict -- dragging in  Iran  or threatening  Iraq ’s oil
production -- appears to have spooked investors to locking in
futures,” Bell said. Any disruption to oil transit routes such
as the Suez Canal or Strait of Hormuz “would contribute to a
momentary upward shift in oil prices,” he said.  The unrest began when Brigadier-General Wissam al-Hassan,
who headed the information branch of the Internal Security
Force, and his bodyguard were killed in an Oct. 19 bombing.
Colonel Imad Othman has been appointed to replace al-Hassan, NNA
said.  Funeral Ceremony  Toner said yesterday that a team from the U.S.  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation would travel to Lebanon to help with the
probe of the bombing that killed al-Hassan.  Members of Lebanon’s anti-Syrian March 14 coalition blame
Prime Minister  Najib Mikati , whose Cabinet is backed by the
Shiite Muslim militant Hezbollah group, an Assad ally, for the
killing.  Thousands of people attended a funeral ceremony for al-
Hassan in Beirut Oct. 21 in which politicians from the anti-
Syria March 14 coalition accused Mikati of ties to Assad and
called on him to step down.  Former Prime Minister Fouad Siniora lashed out at Mikati
during the funeral, saying that the Lebanese people “will no
longer accept the continuation of the cabinet of
assassination.”  The army brought in tanks and other reinforcements to the
Beirut neighborhoods of Tareek al-Jadida, Cornich al-Mazra and
Qasqas and later managed to open most roads that had been
blocked with burning tires and trash cans. Troops shot and
killed a Palestinian man who had opened fire at soldiers in
Qasqas, the army said in a statement carried by NNA yesterday.  Grand Serail  At least 15 police officers protecting the Grand Serail,
Mikati’s headquarters, were injured on Oct. 21 in scuffles with
protesters who tried to storm the premises, according to a
statement e-mailed by the premier’s office. March 14 supporters
have pitched tents near the Serail and say they plan an open-
ended sit-in until he resigns.  Some protesters held posters showing Mikati and Hezbollah
chief Sheikh  Hassan Nasrallah , suggesting both were implicated
in the bombing.  Lebanon’s anti-Syrian activists are maneuvering to exploit
Hezbollah’s difficulties as its traditional allies face internal
unrest: Assad is fighting an armed uprising while President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s Iran contends with a currency crisis and
domestic unrest.  The Syrian opposition has accused Hezbollah of sending
fighters to shore up the Assad regime and of firing at the
rebels across the border.  ‘Toughest Predicament’  Almost two years since the start of what became known as
the Arab Spring, Hezbollah is becoming engulfed in the Middle
East turmoil.  “The crisis now certainly has the potential to be the
toughest predicament Hezbollah has ever faced,” said James Petretta, principal analyst at Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk
consultant. “The conflict in  Syria  and the pressures mounting
on Iran will certainly test Hezbollah’s resilience and maturity,
and this will only get harder for the organization.”  The fighting is also hurting the Lebanese economy. Pierre
Achkar, president of Lebanon’s Syndicate of Hotel Owners since
1995, said hotel cancellations were reported among tourists who
had been expected to visit Lebanon during the Muslim Eid al-Adha
holiday that starts later this week.  “If the clashes continue, we expect more business to be
lost,” said Achkar in a phone interview. He said some hotels
and restaurants are laying off staff while others are closing
down parts of their business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  