-- EE to Sell 4G in the U.K. With 36-Pound Plan, Kevin Bacon Ads
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ee-to-sell-4g-in-the-u-k-with-36-pound-plan-kevin-bacon-ads.html
EE,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s U.K. mobile-phone venture, will begin selling the
country’s first fourth-generation wireless service in plans
starting at 36 pounds ($57.65) a month with a two-year contract.  EE is also mounting an advertising campaign that will cost
the company tens of millions of pounds and will feature
appearances by actor Kevin Bacon, Mat Sears, a spokesman, said
in an interview. The first print ads for the new service will
appear on Oct. 30, the day the plans go on sale. The TV campaign
will debut during “X-Factor” on Nov. 3, he said.  EE, the U.K.’s largest wireless operator, priced its 4G
service at 10 percent to 20 percent higher than plans for third-
generation technology and promised performance about five-times
faster than the older network. The company, called Everything
Everywhere until a rebranding last month, has a six-month head
start on rivals who will bid for 4G spectrum in an auction in
2013.  “There’s been a lot of competition in the market, and with
the benefit of a new brand, we want to slip back and say, ‘How
can we make this simpler for customers?’” Pippa Dunn, chief
marketing officer for EE’s consumer business, said at a
presentation.  The new plans will include unlimited calls and texts and
will range from 36 pounds to 56 pounds a month for between 500
megabytes to 8 gigabytes of data with a two-year contract.
Customers who sign up for a 12-month contract will pay 10 pounds
more, Dunn said.  iPhone 5 Plan  Customers on EE’s T-Mobile and Orange brands who bought
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 will be able to upgrade to the new EE-
branded plans free if they stay on an equivalent or more
expensive plan, Dunn said. EE is also rolling out 4G plans for
businesses from 35 pounds to 50 pounds for unlimited calls and
up to 16GB of data. The new plans will primarily appeal to EE’s
existing customers, Dunn said.  “We had a look at some of the markets around the world --
there are markets where the adoption of 4G is moving very slowly
because of high premium pricing and a focus on broadband,”
Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee said in an interview. “Our
business model is built around a fast-adoption strategy.”  The service will be available in 10 cities and parts of
Southampton on Oct. 30 and in 16 by the end of the year. The
company has been operating 4G in four test markets in the U.K.  EE got regulatory approval this year to use licenses in the
1,800 megahertz spectrum, which works with the antenna in the
iPhone 5, to deliver the faster connections, giving it a head
start on  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA. (TEF)  The auction of
800 MHz and 2,600 MHz frequencies is set to begin later this
year, allowing a general rollout of faster data services in
2013, regulator Ofcom has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  