-- Eisai Epilepsy Medicine Wins U.S. Approval for Seizures
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-22T19:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eisai-epilepsy-medicine-wins-u-s-approval-for-seizures.html
Eisai Co. (4523) ’s epilepsy drug won U.S.
approval to treat patients who suffer seizures as a result of
the disease.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared perampanel to
treat partial onset seizures, the most common associated with
epilepsy, in those older than age 12, the agency said today in a
statement. Epilepsy is a general term for conditions involving
abnormal electrical activity in the brain. The ailment affects
about 2 million Americans, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  Eisai, based in  Tokyo , is looking for novel medicines to
replace dwindling sales of Aricept, its best-selling medicine
for  Alzheimer’s disease  that lost patent protection in 2010.
Eisai markets at least two anti-seizure drugs in the U.S. and
three in the European Union, according to company’s website.  The drugmaker’s epilepsy franchise will be “substantially
enriched” with the approval of perampanel, Haruo Naito,
president and chief executive officer of Eisai, said in an
earnings call in November. The company expects to become one of
the world’s top three firms in the field, Naito said.  Results from three clinical trials show improvement in
seizure control in patients taking perampanel, to be known as
Fycompa, the agency said in its statement. Among the side
effects were dizziness, tiredness, irritability, headaches and
falls, according to results from a late-stage clinical trial
released in April 2011.  “Some people with epilepsy do not achieve satisfactory
seizure control from treatments they are currently using,” said
Russell Katz, director of the Division of Neurology Products in
the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. “It is
important to have a variety of treatment options available for
patients with epilepsy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  