-- Ellie Mae Slides as Existing-Home Sales Dip: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-10-22T20:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ellie-mae-slides-as-existing-home-sales-dip-san-francisco-mover.html
Ellie Mae Inc. (ELLI) , the provider of
mortgage-origination software and services, fell to its lowest
since August on news that U.S. existing-home sales declined last
month and investors took advantage of recent record highs.  Shares of the Pleasanton, California-based company fell 5.6
percent to $23.51 at the New York close, after earlier dropping
as low as $21.34. The stock closed at $28.92 on Oct. 3, the
highest price since its initial public offering in April 2011.  “We’ve been seeing a pullback among the software names as
they had gone up so fast, really straight up in the past three
months,” Brian Schwartz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  San
Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “It’s follow-through
on the volatility that occurred during the past week, and Ellie
Mae reached a 50-day moving average, then pulled back.”  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes declined in September
from the highest level in two years, restrained by a lack of
supply that may keep pushing prices up, an industry group
reported Oct. 19.  Existing-home sales , including completed transactions for
single-family houses, townhouses and condominiums, fell 1.7
percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.75 million in
September from 4.83 million in August, the National Association
of Realtors said.  Ellie Mae said in a statement that it had been contacted by
the  New York  Stock Exchange about activity in its shares and had
“informed the NYSE that its policy is not to comment on unusual
market activity.”  ‘Sustainable Recovery’  “There may be some misunderstanding as folks try and grasp
what the news is, but there is a sustainable recovery in
housing,” Schwartz said. He has an outperform rating on the
stock, with a target price of $32 a share.  “The growth trajectory is likely to be higher for these
software companies than people think. People should look at
Ellie Mae as a dominant industry leader with huge market gains
still ahead,” Schwartz said. “There are numerous growth
opportunities and emerging opportunities, including among the
mega banks.”  Ellie Mae, known as a software-as-service company, provides
“data quality assurance and complex software in what was a pen-
and-paper market,” Schwartz said. Its software offers ways of
automating the mortgage process and improving risk management.  “All the mortgage origination data seems to indicate that
there is a recovery in the housing market and the demand for
their services is increasing, not decreasing,” Schwartz said.
Ellie Mae is “the market leader in what they do. They only sell
in the U.S. so have no exposure to  Europe . The  price drop  today
is a wonderful buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  