-- Emirates NBD Holding Talks With Central Bank on New Loan Rules
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-10-22T14:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/emirates-nbd-holding-talks-with-central-bank-on-new-loan-rules.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest bank by total assets, is talking with the
central bank about how to conform to new caps on government
lending even as the deadline to comply with the rules passed.  “We are talking on a continued basis with the central bank
to get to a satisfactory solution,” Chief Executive Officer
 Rick Pudner  said on a conference call today. The Dubai
government-controlled bank hopes to conclude talks with the
regulator “in the not too distant future,” he said.  The  U.A.E. central bank  sought to reduce concentration risk
when it said April 4 banks cannot lend more than 100 percent of
their capital to local governments and the same to government-
related entities known as GREs. Institutions had until Sept. 30
to comply. There was no limit under previous rules.  The exposure of Emirates NBD to sovereign and quasi-
sovereign clients is 192 percent of regulatory capital, while
that of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  and  Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the second- and third-biggest U.A.E. lenders by total
assets, are 199 percent and 108 percent, respectively according
to Deutsche Bank AG estimates in  April. (APR)  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi said Oct. 9 it secured a six-month extension to comply
with the rules.  Emirates NBD boosted loans to the Dubai government by 6.1
billion dirhams ($1.7 billion) in the third quarter, a statement
showed today. The bank’s loans to the Dubai government, which
owns a 56 percent stake in the bank, rose to 72.2 billion
dirhams at the end of September from 66.1 billion dirhams at the
end of June, the results show.  “The lending is mostly quasi-project finance to finance
on-going infrastructure projects and facilities in Dubai as well
as normal working capital requirements for some of the
ministries and departments,” Pudner said on the conference
call.  Emirates NBD reported it more than tripled third-quarter
profit from a year ago to 640 million dirhams today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  