-- Emirates NBD Net Income More Than Triples as Loan Losses Decline
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-10-22T06:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/emirates-nbd-net-income-more-than-triples-as-loan-losses-decline.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  more than tripled
third-quarter profit as lower provisions for loan losses at the
 United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets outweighed a
decline in income from lending.  Net income of the Dubai-based lender advanced to 640
million dirhams ($174 million), or 10 fils a share, from 175
million dirhams, or 2 fils a share, a year earlier, Emirates NBD
said in a  statement  today. Profit almost met the 648 million-
dirham median estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
The bank’s allowances for impairments fell 36 percent to 1.01
billion dirhams.  Emirates NBD, which is  56 percent owned  by the Dubai
government, posted drops in profit in the  prior four quarters  as
it booked losses from loans to some state-run companies as they
restructured debt. Dubai’s economy is recovering as the
emirate’s retail and tourism industries extend their best year
since the 2008 property crash. Some Dubai-linked companies have
successfully rolled over loans this year.  “This performance demonstrates our ability to take
advantage of gradually improving economic conditions,” Chief
Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said in the statement. “While the
outlook continues to be cautious and uncertain, our strong
levels of capitalization and liquidity” will enable us to take
advantage of selected growth opportunities, he said.  Emirates NBD’s ratio of non-performing loans to total loans
climbed to 14.4 percent in the third quarter from 14.3 percent
in the preceding three months. The bank is one of the biggest
lenders to investment company Dubai Group LLC, which is in talks
to restructure $6 billion of debt.  Lending Limits  Banks in the U.A.E., a federation of seven sheikhdoms
including  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai, are extending less credit to
government and quasi-sovereign clients to comply with central
bank rules limiting their exposure to each at 100 percent of
regulatory capital.  Emirates NBD’s third-quarter net interest income fell 11
percent to 1.73 billion dirhams as the net interest margin
narrowed to 2.35 percent from 2.96 percent a year earlier, the
bank said. The bank’s loan book expanded 2 percent in the year
to Sept. 30 to 212.5 billion dirhams, while deposits grew 3
percent to 214.2 billion dirhams, the data show. Non-interest
income jumped 21 percent to 790 million dirhams.  Shares of Emirates NBD  fell 0.7 percent to 2.94 dirhams
yesterday, valuing the bank at 16.3 billion dirhams. The shares
are unchanged this year compared with a 22 percent advance in
the benchmark DFM General Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  