-- Erdogan’s Turkey Is Number One in Jailing Journalists
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-22T14:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/erdogan-s-turkey-is-number-one-in-jailing-journalists.html
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s  Turkey  leads the world in jailing reporters and is
engaged in “one of the biggest crackdowns on press freedom in
recent history,” the Committee to Protect Journalists said.  The Turkish government has criminalized basic news-
gathering activities, intimidated the press into self-censorship
and imprisoned more journalists than  China  and Iran combined,
the New York-based group, also known as CPJ, said in a 53-page
report on Turkey released today.  “Erdogan has publicly deprecated journalists, urged media
outlets to discipline or fire critical staff members, and filed
numerous high-profile defamation lawsuits,” the report said.
“Turkey’s press freedom situation has reached a crisis point.”  While Erdogan’s government started official membership
talks with the European Union in 2005 and boasts of expanding
democracy in the nation of 75 million, the report underlines
concern about intolerance of criticism after 10 years in power.
About 30 percent of Turkey’s imprisoned journalists are accused
of plots to overthrow the government, according to CPJ. The rest
are mostly reporters from Turkey’s Kurdish minority who are
accused of aiding and abetting terrorism, it said.  There were 76 journalists imprisoned in Turkey as of Aug.
1, at least 61 of whom were being held in direct relation to
their work, CPJ said. That’s the highest figure globally in the
last ten years, it said.  ‘Right Balance’  “Turkey’s imprisonments surpass the next most repressive
nations, including  Iran , Eritrea, and China,” it said. Iran had
42 journalists in jail, Eritrea 28 and China 27, it said.
Turkey’s imprisonments have accelerated in the past two years,
with two-thirds of those imprisoned detained in 2011 and 2012,
according to the report.  Turkey’s government disputes both the allegations and the
number of journalists in jail, rejecting many of the
journalists’ credentials and citing a record of passing
legislation to harmonize with the EU.  “Turkey is making an effort to strike the right balance
between preventing the praising of violence and terrorist
propaganda, and the need to expand freedom of speech,” Justice
Minister Sadullah Ergin was quoted as saying in a letter to the
group published with the report.  In one of the most high-profile cases, journalist Nedim
Sener faced charges of forming the media wing of an alleged
secularist network that plotted to topple Erdogan’s Islamic-
rooted government. Sener had written a book alleging official
negligence in the 2007 assassination of an ethnic Armenian
journalist, Hrant Dink.  Free Expression  Ahmet Sik, who was tried along with Sener, had been
preparing a book about the alleged infiltration of Islamists
into the police force. Both Sener and Sik were released in March
pending trial. Sik was promptly charged upon his release with
“insulting a public official” for saying that the judges and
prosecutors behind the detentions should be in jail instead. He
faces as much as seven years in prison for the remark, according
to the state-run Anatolia news agency on June 3.  Joel Simon, executive director of the CPJ, called on
Erdogan to “cease his attacks on the press and instead provide
justice for journalists while pursuing reforms that guarantee
freedom of expression,” according to a statement accompanying
the report.  ‘Serious Concern’  The European Commission expressed “serious concern” over
the growing number of court cases related to freedom of
expression in a report published Oct. 10. Pianist Fazil Say
stood trial last week for blasphemy after making what he said
was a comment in jest about religion on the website Twitter.
Writer Orhan Pamuk was tried for “insulting Turkishness” in
2005. Pamuk went on to win Turkey’s first Nobel Prize for
Literature the next year.  The report is evidence of the government becoming more
“autocratic,” Erdogan Toprak, deputy leader of the main
opposition Republican People’s Party, was quoted as saying on
Milliyet newspaper’s website. “There is a major operation of
pressure and intimidation underway against newspapers,
televisions, media in general, intellectuals, artists and
democrats.”  ‘Airbrushed Coverage’  Turkey’s penal code already allows authorities to
“criminalize basic news-gathering activities such as talking to
security officials or obtaining documents,” CPJ said.
Meanwhile, frequent court cases brought by government officials,
including Erdogan himself, for alleged defamation or insult
“have resulted in toned-down, airbrushed coverage of news
events” in a trend that may get worse, it said.  A proposed clause in the government’s draft for a new
constitution would further restrict coverage of everything from
court cases to issues concerning “public morality” and would
“enshrine in the nation’s governing document the suppression of
critical news and opinion,” the CPJ said.  As many as 5,000 criminal cases were pending against
journalists at the end of 2011, the CPJ said, citing Turkish
press freedom groups. The group also criticized Turkey for
“increased filtering of domestic news sources, including
opposition and pro-Kurdish media” and for broad bans on
websites.  “Prime Minister Erdogan and his government must exert the
political will to abandon the systemic suppression of critical
views and dismantle the country’s vast system of media
repression,” the CPJ said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  