-- Merkel’s Tough Love Crisis Stance Key to 2013 Vote, Tillich Says
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-10-22T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/merkel-s-tough-love-crisis-stance-key-to-2013-vote-tillich-says.html
Germany ’s second most-powerful
politician from the formerly Communist East says  Angela Merkel 
will win re-election next year because of her approach to
Europe’s debt crisis.  Merkel, Germany’s first chancellor from the former east, is
banking that her austerity-first policy toward indebted euro
nations will play well with German voters in elections due in
the fall of 2013, said Stanislaw Tillich, premier of the eastern
state of Saxony. She is planning to use her tough love approach
as a key plank of her campaign for a third term, said Tillich, a
member of her  Christian Democratic Union ’s 20-strong executive
board.  “She’s sharpened her profile with this and increased her
level of voter support,” Tillich said in an interview in the
18th century  St. Marienstern  abbey in his hometown of
 Panschwitz-Kuckau  in eastern Saxony state. “Out of principle,
we’re forcing the others to make their own contribution to
stabilization.”  With Germany’s economy growing amid euro-area recession and
unemployment near a two-decade low, Merkel is insisting that
Europe pursue a mix of budget austerity and steps to raise
competitiveness while rejecting sharing liability for debts.
 Polls  suggest it’s paying off domestically, with her CDU-led
bloc as many as eight percentage points ahead of the main
opposition  Social Democrats , who advocate doing more to stem the
crisis.  German Temperament  Public trust in Merkel, 58, is rising due to her insistence
that she is prepared to help indebted euro nations, “but not
without a quid pro quo,” Tillich said in the Oct. 12 interview.  “She knows her cautious euro policy matches the German
temperament, at least up to now,” Bild, Germany’s best-selling
newspaper, said Oct. 19 in an op-ed following her speech to
lawmakers before a European summit in Brussels.  A member of Germany’s Slavic Sorbian minority, Tillich, 53,
grew up like Merkel in communist East Germany before the 1990
reunification. He also has the chancellor’s ear in part due to
the success of the CDU in Saxony, where a recent poll put the
party’s backing at 44 percent, the highest level of support in
any of the 16 German Laender, or states.  As she gears up for the election, Merkel will also stress
traditional CDU values of freedom and individual responsibility,
said Tillich. That signals she’s pushing back against lawmaker
accusations that she has shifted the party’s ideological ground.  Banker Pay  “That means all of the steps that we took in the past
years, for example to aid banks,” are “not measures that have
significantly changed the course of the CDU,” Tillich said.  During the campaign, the party must also address themes
“such as the very, very high executive and banker salaries,”
he said.  That’s ground already occupied by Merkel’s first-term
finance minister,  Peer Steinbrueck , who was nominated this month
as her Social Democratic Party challenger. Steinbrueck is
calling for more aggressive bank regulation, including a
separation of lenders’ investment banking and deposit
businesses, and said Oct. 18 that “no rescue fund can be too
big” to fight the crisis.  Support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc rose a point to 37
percent in a weekly Forsa poll on Oct. 17, compared with 33.8
percent in the last election in September 2009. Steinbrueck’s
SPD had 29 percent, down one point, though better than the 23
percent it took in 2009.  Leipzig, Dresden  Yet with backing for Merkel’s Free Democratic Party
coalition partner having collapsed to 4 percent, she can’t rely
on a rerun of her current government. Neither does the electoral
math allow the SPD to form a coalition with its traditional
Green Party ally, which had 11 percent support in the poll. That
increases the likelihood of another “grand coalition” between
the CDU and SPD. Five German states are governed by grand
coalitions.  Ruled by the CDU for an unbroken 22 years since unity,
Saxony has attracted factories from Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
Volkswagen AG, Porsche SE and Globalfoundries Inc. Leipzig
Airport is the European hub for Deutsche Post AG’s DHL Express
parcel-delivery unit.  Students in Saxon schools have some of the nation’s highest
test scores and the University of Dresden is the only eastern
German university to win extra federal funding as a “center of
excellence.”  Injection Moldings  “The people here are technology friendly,” said Tillich,
a trained engineer who says at that at home he can “repair the
entire electrical system myself” and who worked for a company
making injection molding machinery before going into politics.  A “passionate” horseback rider, Tillich is chairman of
the abbey’s development association that takes care of the
restored baroque church and complex which includes a school for
the handicapped.  Saxony -- with the second lowest per capita debt of the 16
states after Bavaria -- and its frugal spending policies are
“definitely” a model for southern  Europe , Tillich said.
States, like parents, must leave the next generation whatever
inheritance they can with the debt paid off, he said.  “Everybody loves a party, the Saxons too,” said Tillich.
“But the question is can you afford it or are you running up
debt to pay for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  