-- Hollande Says Irish Special as He Joins Merkel Bid to Ease Fears
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-10-22T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/merkel-says-ireland-special-case-seeking-to-calm-concern-1-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  said Ireland is a “special
case,” seeking to calm concern sparked by the German leader’s
comments last week ruling out retroactive bank recapitalizations
by the European rescue fund.  “Ireland is a special case and should be treated as such”
Hollande said in Paris today at a press conference with Kenny,
repeating the phrase used by Irish and German leaders in a joint
statement yesterday. Merkel and Kenny spoke by phone about the
“unique circumstances behind Ireland’s banking and sovereign
debt crisis, and Ireland’s plans for a full return to the
markets,” according to the statement.  Ireland stepped up its efforts for a retroactive
recapitalization after a June 29 euro-region leaders’ decision
paved the way for direct European bank aid. The Irish government
has pledged or injected 64 billion euros ($84 billion) into the
financial system, making it the world’s costliest banking rescue
per capita since the Great Depression.  Merkel and Kenny “reaffirmed” the June commitment “to
examine the situation of the Irish financial sector with a view
to further improving the sustainability of the well-performing
adjustment program,” according to the e-mailed statement.  Spanish Aid  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said after Merkel’s
comments on Oct. 19 that the chancellor was answering a question
specifically in relation to  Spain  and not Ireland. Hollande said
that the  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund could begin investing
in the region’s banks next year and that  France  would be
“supportive” if Spain decided to request a rescue program for
the sovereign.  Spain secured a 100 billion-euro financial-sector lifeline
earlier this year and so far hasn’t asked for aid that would
unlock European Central Bank bond-buying. Ireland is aiming to
exit its bailout program at the end of 2013, having already
partly returned to long-term international credit markets in the
wake of the June 29 commitment.  “While the use of terms such as ‘unique’ and ‘ special (SPEC) 
case’ will presumably soothe some of the concerns that followed
Merkel’s recapitalization remarks, the lack of any explicit
commitments on the bank-debt issue means that these concerns are
unlikely to entirely go away,” Philip O’Sullivan, an economist
at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said in a note.  ‘Tax Money’  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark security due in October
2020 was little changed at 4.73 percent at 3.22 p.m. in Dublin,
after earlier touching a new 12-month low of 4.69 percent. The
yield on the bond has fallen from about 7 percent before the
June summit and is down from 14 percent in July of last year.  Steffen Seibert, the German government’s chief spokesman,
said in Berlin today that the Irish government has recapitalized
the country’s banks “with large amounts of tax money and this
will surely have to be looked at when the euro group takes up
the topic of Ireland again.”  “The Germans and others recognize because we were the
first to go into a program and because the previous government
socialized our private bank debt and put a noose around the neck
of the people of this republic, it is a noose that frankly if we
don’t get some relief in time, we won’t be sustainable as an
independent state,” Irish Education Minister Ruairi Quinn said
in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today.  Ireland sought an 85 billion-euro international rescue
program in 2010 as the nation’s banking woes threatened to push
it into bankruptcy and shut it out of credit markets. The
country, which obtained a cut in the  interest rate  on its
bailout as the Greek debt crisis worsened, is now aiming to
capitalize on European Union steps to sever sovereign and bank
debt.  “Merkel will have a hard time giving Ireland a special
deal without the Spanish looking for the same treatment on
direct bank recaps” from the European Stability Mechanism, said
 Megan Greene , an economist at Roubini Global Economics LLC in
 London . “In either case, however, retroactive bank recaps won’t
be a game changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  