-- Merkel’s CDU Loses Mayor’s Post in Porsche Bastion of Stuttgart
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-22T10:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/merkel-s-cdu-loses-mayor-s-post-in-porsche-bastion-of-stuttgart.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union lost control of city hall in  Porsche
AG (PAH3) ’s home town of Stuttgart for the first time in 38 years as a
Green candidate won the mayoral race.  Fritz Kuhn, 57, a former national lawmaker and chairman of
the Greens, won 52.9 percent of the vote in yesterday’s
election, defeating CDU-backed opponent Sebastian Turner, who
received 45.3 percent, according to results on the city  website .  The defeat extends losses for Merkel in the state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg, a one-time CDU stronghold that boasts  Germany ’s
second-lowest  jobless rate , less than 12 months before federal
elections. The CDU’s 58-year rule in the state was ended in
March last year, when Winfried Kretschmann became the country’s
first Green state premier after winning elections held in the
wake of the Fukushima nuclear disaster in  Japan .  “Nobody can say nowadays that green is bad for the state
or bad for business,” Kuhn said on ARD  television  late
yesterday. “You can even make a profit with green ideas.”  Kuhn ran on a platform of “thrifty” city finances and
“ecological modernization,” such as promoting so-called green
technology at auto companies such as  Daimler AG (DAI)  and Robert Bosch
GmbH, both based in the Stuttgart area.  In opposition at the national level, the Greens have
declined from a high of 28 percent in the weekly Forsa poll in
April 2011, when the Fukushima disaster buoyed voter support, to
11 percent in the latest poll published Oct. 17.  The mayor’s post became vacant when 16-year CDU incumbent
Wolfgang Schuster declined to run again. The post was previously
held since 1974 by Manfred Rommel, the son of World War II Field
Marshal Erwin Rommel, the Africa Corps commander known as the
Desert Fox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  