-- Erste’s High Exposure to Czech Bonds No Concern, Executive Says
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-10-22T12:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/erste-s-high-exposure-to-czech-bonds-no-concern-executive-says.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s large holdings
of Czech sovereign bonds doesn’t represent a risk concern, Chief
Risk Officer Gernot Mittendorfer said.  “It’s a fact that this is our biggest exposure, but it
doesn’t cause me any sleepless nights,” Mittendorfer said in an
interview in  Prague  during a banking conference. “There’s no
reason why to get rid of the notes and I don’t have a problem
with it.”  Czech state bonds represent as much as 6 percent of
Austrian Erste’s total balance, Mittendorfer said. The lender’s
holdings of these assets has reached the limit, but it won’t
start to go down dramatically, according to the executive.  Czech bonds are the highest-rated in emerging  Europe , on
par with Estonia, and the cheapest to insure against non-payment
with credit-default swaps. Budget-deficit reductions have helped
make Czech  government bonds  a “safe haven” in emerging Europe,
according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service from Oct. 15.  Rising demand for Czech debt from foreign investors seeking
refuge from the euro area’s debt crisis and falling interest
rates have reduced the yield on the benchmark 10-year koruna
notes by 132 basis points, or 1.32 percentage point, this year,
reaching an all-time low of 2.25 percent a week ago, according
to generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg.  The Czech economy is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised sales taxes to
trim the deficit. The central bank cut the benchmark  interest
rate  to a record-low 0.25 percent on Sept. 27 and said it may
weaken the koruna if it needs to ease monetary policy further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  