-- Eskom Seeks 16% Power Tariff Increase Yearly in South Africa
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-22T12:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eskom-seeks-16-power-tariff-increase-in-south-africa-next-year.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., the state-owned
supplier of about 95 percent of South Africa’s power, is seeking
a 16 percent increase in average electricity prices to avoid a
repeat of energy shortages that halted mines in 2008.  Eskom, which has to apply to the  National Energy Regulator
of South Africa  for permission to raise tariffs, wants annual
increases of that size from 2013 up until 2018, according to a
statement today. An annual 16 percent increase, which includes 3
percent to support independent power producers, would raise
prices to 128 cents per kilowatt hour by 2017 from 61 cents.  Eskom is spending about 500 billion rand ($58 billion)
through 2017 on reviving old  power plants  and building new ones
to overcome a generation capacity shortage that halted gold,
platinum and chrome mines in January 2008. It increased tariffs
by an average 25 percent for the last six years.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s aluminum, ferro-
chrome and platinum smelters are among its largest customers.  “It’s very important that we do invest in the future,”
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  told reporters at a briefing
yesterday in Johannesburg, where the company is based. Outdated
capacity will be decommissioned, he said, at a time when the
utility added 155,000 customers last year.  ‘Big Issue’  “Coal is the big issue” with price pressures driving
costs up to 250 billion rand for the next five years while the
company strives to keep manpower costs below inflation, Dames
said. Eskom is “very concerned” about mining projects due to
supply the company after 2018, he said in a presentation today.  Higher prices boosted Eskom’s net income 57 percent to 13.2
billion rand in the year ended March 31 while volumes sold were
little changed from a year earlier.  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade
of Eskom’s credit rating last week to match a lower sovereign
rating is a concern, the utility said Oct. 17.  Eskom expects power shortages to last until the end of 2013
when the first unit of the Medupi coal power plant it’s building
in the north of the country starts generating power. The nation
had rolling blackouts across the country in the first quarter of
2008 as Eskom rotated the limited power available.  The government prevented Eskom from expanding between 2004
and 2008 as it sought to attract investments in the power
industry.  Renewable Support  The tariff increases account for 13 percent a year through
2018 for Eskom’s returns and depreciation of capacity expansion
up to the completion of the Kusile power plant. It also includes
3 percent to support the introduction of independent renewable
energy power producers through a bid program of 3,725 megawatts
and the Department of Energy’s 1,020-megawatt peak plant.  “Residential tariffs should be restructured to simplify
understanding and optimize the protection of the poor, while
high-usage residential customers pay more cost-reflective
prices,” Eskom said in the tariff determination summary.  Protests that have spread through  South Africa ’s mining and
trucking industries also took hold last month at the site where
Eskom is building the 4,764-megawatt Medupi power plant, due to
start generating power next year.  Civil engineering contractors, whose grievances were
unclear, damaged equipment and vehicles at the construction area
in northern South Africa, Eskom said in a Sept. 6 statement.  “We cannot afford any more industrial action,” Paul O’Flaherty, the utility’s finance director, said at the
presentation. The last interruption at Medupi lasted for three
weeks, he said.  Eskom has approached South Africa’s Chamber of Mines, which
negotiates wages for most of the country’s gold and coal
producers with unions, about ensuring coal supply for the state-
owned power utility, chamber spokesman Vusi Mabena said in a
Oct. 12 phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  