-- Esprit Plans $671 Million Rights Offer After Sales Drop
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/esprit-plans-671-million-rights-offer-after-sales-drop.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  plans to raise
as much as HK$5.2 billion ($671 million) in a rights offer to
fund efforts to revive its brand after reporting a first-quarter
sales decline.  The apparel company will offer existing investors the right
to buy one new share at HK$8 each for every two held, Esprit
said in a statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange yesterday.
Sales dropped 23 percent to HK$6.6 billion in the first quarter,
it said in a separate statement.  Esprit is planning a rights offer after missing earnings
estimates for five straight years and losing customers to rivals
such as  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara. Chief Executive Officer Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez took over in September after the previous CEO
and chairman quit within 24 hours of each other earlier in 2012.  “This is definitely going to be a blow to investors,”
said  Steven Leung , a Hong Kong-based institutional sales
director at UOB Kay Hian Ltd. “The rights issue may reflect a
bigger cash flow problem. The company is spending way more than
it earns and we haven’t seen much progress in the
transformation.”  Esprit will issue no more than 656 million rights shares,
it said yesterday. Excluding store closures, sales declined 11
percent on a local-currency basis, it said. First-quarter sales
declined 0.2 percent on a comparable basis.  Total proceeds from the issue will be at least HK$5.02
billion, the company said. Esprit doesn’t have plans for further
fundraising and will stick to the existing budget of HK$18.5
billion for its transformation strategy, Chief Financial Officer
Thomas Tang told reporters on a conference call yesterday.  Management Change  Martinez took the place vacated by Ronald Van der Vis, who
announced his departure in June. Chairman Hans Joachim Koerber
quit a day after Van der Vis. The departure of both executives
had raised doubts over succession as Esprit struggles to
restructure its business.  Esprit will see “a slow turnaround,” Martinez said on
yesterday’s call. Van der Vis, hired in 2009, last year laid out
a turnaround plan that included makeovers of existing stores and
new ones in  China .  Esprit reported sales of HK$30.2 billion in the 12 months
to June 30, a decline of 11 percent. Net income in the second
half was HK$318 million, compared with a loss of HK$2.06 billion
a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Esprit’s capital expenditure is expected to reach HK$1.5
billion in the current financial year, compared with HK$1.4
billion in the year just ended.  The Hong Kong-traded apparel company was established in
1968 in  San Francisco , when Susie and  Doug Tompkins  started
selling clothes out of the back of their station wagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  