-- Let’s Put America’s Bankers Out of Business Now
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-10-22T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/let-s-put-america-s-bankers-out-of-business-now.html
America may soon be changing
bankers, shifting its business from China back to Japan.  Japan had long been the U.S.’s main creditor. That is until
September 2008, when China became the biggest foreign owner of
Treasuries. This worried many in  Washington  who would rather be
indebted to a friendly democracy than an ambitious communist
power. One of  Mitt Romney ’s big talking points, in fact, is that
the U.S. is too beholden to China.  The presidential candidate’s I-won’t-be-borrowing-money-
from-China pledge may soon be moot. Japan now holds $1.12
trillion of U.S. Treasuries to China’s $1.15 trillion. Japanese
purchases are steadily rising, while China’s holdings have
 declined  more than 10 percent since mid-2011.  Yet all this obsessing about who holds America’s debt is a
distraction. The real issue is whether it makes sense for any
major economy such as the U.S. to export more than 50 percent of
its IOUs. Shouldn’t countries redouble efforts to build bigger
domestic customer bases for their debt? Shouldn’t they be more,
well, Japanese?  “People reflexively bash Japan -- they hold it up as an
example of what not to do in every case,” says  Ed Rogers , chief
executive officer at Tokyo-based Rogers Investment Advisors.
“To them I would say not so fast. Debt is but one example.”  Japanese Arrangement  This notion is anathema to the free-market fundamentalists
out there. Nor would it be easy to achieve. As  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International Monetary Fund ,
sees it, reversing financial globalization “would be akin to
persuading a billion people not to use Facebook.” Yet it is
worth exploring whether the U.S. might profit from a more Japan-
style debt arrangement.  In his book “ The New Depression ,” published earlier this
year, economist Richard Duncan builds a sobering case for
another Franklin D. Roosevelt-like New Deal to restore growth,
strengthen competitiveness and achieve energy independence.
Financing it means tapping the vast amounts of private-sector
cash sitting on corporate balance sheets. If U.S. companies
believed they were investing in their future profit potential,
they might not mind buying more Treasuries.  Few words strike greater fear in the hearts of economists
than “Japanization.” The prospect of chronic malaise,
deflation and dwindling global relevance has central bankers
such as  Ben S. Bernanke  in the U.S. and  Mario Draghi  in  Europe 
pumping out a deluge of liquidity to avert a lost-decade
scenario.  Among its most prominent features is the revolving door of
prime ministers and finance chiefs, making it impossible to
address Japan’s well-known systemic problems.  This political incoherence is coupled with a reliance on a
weak yen to undergird an export-driven economy. Japan’s iconic
companies are so dependent on the currency crutch that when it
disappears the damage can be stunning.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Sony Corp.
and Panasonic Corp. had combined losses of more than $20 billion
last year, in part because the yen’s strength hurt overseas
sales. For decades, these names played a pivotal role in Japan’s
prosperity, much as  Detroit ’s automakers did for America’s. Now,
their plight is accelerating the hollowing out of Japanese
industry.  Little attention is paid, though, to how many western
economies would be lucky to become Japan and what it got right.
True, Japan’s two-decade-long bout with negligible growth and
deflation wiped out trillions of dollars of wealth and left many
banks as insolvent zombies. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  is a
quarter of what it was in 1989, when it achieved an all-time
high of 38,957.  Recession Hits  In all that time, the nation never even came close to
unraveling. Crime didn’t skyrocket; homelessness never exploded;
and huge numbers of job weren’t lost as they so often are in
U.S. recessions. There were adjustments, of course, for workers
who found themselves with part-time employment, women who saw
fewer career opportunities and students facing a dismal job
market.  And let’s not forget the incredible calm that accompanied
last year’s devastating earthquake. Japan never suffered the
riots and looting that flared up in the U.S. in the aftermath of
 Hurricane Katrina  in 2005. Supply-chain disruptions that
affected top corporations such as Apple Inc. were addressed in
short order. Power blackouts were few and far between as all of
the nation’s nuclear reactors went offline. How many nations
could do that?  The glue holding  Japan  together is the huge ratio of
government debt owned domestically. Keeping more than 90 percent
of its debt at home allows Japan to have the world’s largest
public debt and 10-year yields of just 0.78 percent. It’s why
credit-rating companies haven’t pushed Japan toward the
precipice of junk status. It’s why short-sellers betting on
Japan being the next  Greece  have never made money.  This self-contained system gives Japan the ultimate escape
valve if it were ever on the verge of default: debt forgiveness
from its own people and companies. Such a step would be
unthinkable for Japan’s government. But look at it this way:
What other nation has this kind of Judgment Day put option?  Romney is right that borrowing so much from  China  is bad
for America. So is doing the same from Japan. Maybe the U.S.
will think about borrowing more at home. Debt should never be a
nation’s biggest export.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  