-- EU Cocoa Processing May Have Been Bigger on Fuchs & Hoffmann
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-22T14:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-cocoa-grind-may-have-been-bigger-if-fuchs-hoffmann-counted.html
European cocoa-bean processing may
have been bigger than reported in the third quarter because
Fuchs & Hoffmann GmbH, a grinder in  Germany  that provided no
figures for the period, was processing at full capacity.  Cocoa grinding in  Europe  fell 16 percent to 316,676 metric
tons in the three months through September, the lowest for the
period since 2005, the  European Cocoa Association  said Oct. 16.
Processing may have been higher if unreported grindings were
counted,  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at Marex
Spectron Group in London, said. Marex Spectron was allowing for
a further 11,000 tons in its own calculations, he said.  Fuchs & Hoffmann, owned by  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany-based
Kruger GmbH & Co., is operating its factory at full capacity,
Managing Director Olaf Reichardt said by phone on Oct. 19. He
declined to disclose the plant’s annual processing capacity. The
company opted in July to stop reporting the figures because the
European Cocoa Association wouldn’t publish data by country and
because of previous reporting errors, Reichardt said.  “The factory is running at full capacity,” he said. “We
are not slowing down. In the last three years, I can show you at
least five examples that raise doubts as to whether the figures
were reported correctly.”  National Associations  The ECA has been publishing cocoa-processing figures for
the last 10 years, according to Isabelle Adam, general secretary
at the Brussels-based industry group. Data from companies is
reported by the ECA after being compiled by an independent third
party, Adam said in an e-mailed response to questions by
 Bloomberg News  on Oct. 17. The ECA bases some of the grind data
on numbers provided by national associations.  Fuchs & Hoffmann 
usually reports to the Association of the German Confectionery
Industry, or BDSI.  “We would immediately return to reporting to the BDSI
under the condition that the ECA starts to publish a breakdown
by country,” Reichardt said. He also said corrections by the
ECA to processing figures cast doubt on the accuracy of
reporting practices by all companies.  Third-quarter grind figures were drawn from 23 companies,
the ECA said. In the previous period, Fuchs & Hoffmann and
Ludwig Schokolade were on the list of reporting companies even
though Ludwig hasn’t processed since shutting its factory in
2009, Ludwig said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Ludwig directly has not been reporting to us since 2009,
but their figures were included in the Fuchs & Hoffmann figures
since then, as both belong to the Kruger group,” Torben
Erbrath, a managing director of BDSI, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Oct. 17.  Cocoa climbed as much as 2.4 percent in  London  trading on
Oct. 16, when the European grinding figures were published.
Traders expected grindings to fall about 20 percent, according
to Marex Spectron. The beans for March delivery climbed 0.3
percent to 1,611 pounds ($2,584) a ton by 2:20 p.m. on NYSE
Liffe in London, reversing a loss of as much as 1.3 percent
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 