-- EU Rejects French Request to Monitor Korean Car Imports
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-22T17:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-may-survey-imports-of-korean-cars-after-french-request.html
European Union regulators rejected
 France ’s demand to monitor imports of South Korean cars more
closely, according to the EU and South  Korea ’s Trade Ministry.  “The European Commission told us on Oct. 22 that they
officially notified the French government that it will not
introduce prior surveillance on South Korean cars, as France had
requested,” the ministry said in a statement late today in
Seoul.  EU spokesman John Clancy confirmed that France’s request
had been rejected because the legal conditions for taking action
weren’t met. The European Commission will remain “vigilant”
and won’t hesitate to use available tools when needed, he said.  “Even if imports into the EU of cars from Korea indeed
increased over the last months, there was no indication that
such an increase was concentrated in France,” Clancy said in a
statement.  The Commission was due to decide whether to act on the
French call for EU-wide surveillance of imports of Korean autos
barely a year after the bloc began phasing out a 10 percent
duty. France made the request on Aug. 3 after  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG) , the country’s largest carmaker, said it would close a
factory near Paris and eliminate 14,000 jobs.  France’s Foreign Ministry’s press office declined to
comment today when called by Bloomberg News.  The free-trade accord with Korea took effect in July 2011.
European carmakers opposed the agreement, saying it would give
an unfair edge to companies such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  because of a disparity in auto trade.  Duty Free  The deal, which will make 99 percent of EU-Korea commerce
duty-free by 2016, phases out the EU’s tariff on Korean cars
over three to five years and ends an 8 percent duty on European
autos in the same period. The accord includes procedures to
protect against any surge in imports of cars.  “While it is true that the car sector in the EU, and in
particular in France, is going through a difficult period, this
cannot be attributed to the entry into force” of a free trade
agreement between the EU and South Korea, the EU’s Clancy said.
“In general, trade figures more than one year after the entry
into force of the agreement are rather encouraging and indicate
that the EU mostly benefited from this FTA so far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  