-- EU Parliament Panel Opposes Mersch Move to ECB Executive Board
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-22T19:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-parliament-panel-opposes-mersch-move-to-ecb-executive-board.html
A European Parliament committee
opposed the appointment of Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the
European Central Bank’s Executive Board because of unhappiness
about a lack of female candidates for the job.  The non-binding opinion by the European Union assembly’s
economic and monetary affairs committee today in Strasbourg,
France, is a political appeal to euro-area government leaders to
put forward women for top ECB posts. The recommendation on
Mersch, Luxembourg’s central bank governor, now goes to the full
EU Parliament for a vote on Oct. 25.  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of Austria, previously sat on the ECB’s six-
member Executive Board. If the five men currently there serve
their full terms, another position won’t become available until
June 2018 when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  retires.  “We are objecting to the EU’s most powerful institution
being run by only men for the next six years,”  Sharon Bowles ,
who chairs the 27-nation Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “At a time
when we are doing all that we can to change the culture of
financial services and to avoid a repeat of the financial
crisis, it is baffling that member states are not pushing for
more women in key finance positions.”  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez-
Paramo of  Spain  ended his eight-year term on May 31. Euro-region
finance ministers then wrangled over his replacement until July.
As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-setting
Governing Council, Mersch is the 17-nation euro area’s longest
serving central bank chief and has earned a reputation as an
inflation hawk.  Bowles praised Mersch’s qualifications and held out the
possibility that she would urge the full 754-seat Parliament to
ignore the committee’s recommendation and endorse his candidacy
should EU President Herman  Van Rompuy  pledge action to promote
women in top European jobs. Van Rompuy is due to speak to the
Parliament tomorrow about an EU summit last week.  “Van Rompuy now has the last opportunity tomorrow, when he
addresses the plenary, to show us that member states are ready
to commit seriously to encouraging women into top positions,’
Bowles said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said that, while the gender
imbalance calls for action, Mersch’s appointment to the
Executive Board should go through to help the central bank
tackle  Europe ’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis. The
workload of the Frankfurt-based ECB has multiplied as it embarks
on unprecedented unconventional monetary policy measures and
takes on additional supervisory roles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  