-- EU Says ‘Politically Untenable’ for Dalli to Stay in Job
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-10-22T14:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-says-politically-untenable-for-dalli-to-stay-in-job.html
The European Union said it was
“politically untenable” for  John Dalli  to remain an EU
commissioner after findings of a fraud investigation were
revealed last week as Dalli maintained that he was pushed to
stand down.  Dalli resigned as commissioner for health and consumer
policy on Oct. 16 after a report by the EU’s anti-fraud office,
OLAF, said he had been aware of attempts by a Maltese
entrepreneur to sell access to him. Dalli has refuted the
allegations.  “On the basis of these elements” in the OLAF report, “we
consider that it was politically untenable for Mr. Dalli to
remain in his sensitive function,” Olivier Bailly, a spokesman
for the EU, told reporters today in Brussels. “He stopped being
a commissioner on Tuesday.”  Giovanni Kessler, director general of OLAF, said on Oct. 17
that the agency had uncovered “a number of unambiguous pieces
of circumstantial evidence” indicating that Dalli was aware of
the effort to sell access to him to lobbyists. The report has
been sent to the judicial authorities of Malta, the EU said.  “We have no evidence of any illegal behavior by Mr.
Dalli,” Bailly said. “The possible legal consequences of all
this will have to be decided in Malta.”  ‘Explicitly Demanded’  Jose Barroso , president of the 27-member European
Commission, today endorsed the candidacy of Tonio Borg to
replace Dalli on the commission. Borg, foreign minister in the
cabinet of Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi, was put forward over
the weekend, Bailly said. Maros Sefcovic, commissioner for
inter-institutional relations, has taken over Dalli’s portfolio
until a new commissioner is appointed.  In a letter to Barroso, Dalli said his resignation was
“explicitly demanded” by the commission president and that he
was refused access to the OLAF report. The undated letter was
released today by Dalli.  His resignation is the first by an EU commissioner over
corruption allegations since the entire commission resigned in
1999 after several members were accused of financial wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  