-- EU’s Barnier to Propose European Bank Resolution Body Next Year
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-22T10:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-s-barnier-to-propose-european-bank-resolution-body-next-year.html
Michel Barnier will present a plan
next year to create an authority to shore up or wind down
failing banks as a second stage of the European Union’s bank-
rule overhaul.  Establishing a European body for ailing banks will follow
completion of the EU’s first priority, which is creating a
single bank supervisor, Barnier, the bloc’s financial regulation
chief, said at a press conference in Vienna. The common
supervisor will be set up this year and implemented through
2014, as decided by European leaders last week, he said at the
briefing in the Austrian capital.  “The second stage is that I will, in the course of 2013,
present the European Commission a proposal for a European bank
resolution authority,” Barnier said. “If we have a single
supervisor, there’s a need for a single resolution authority,
which has a certain amount of legal power.”  He said the plan was “that banks pay for banks, not the
taxpayer.”  Barnier, as well as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, have called for the supervisor to be the first step in
building a so-called banking union. EU leaders in June embarked
on plans to build a common supervisor as a step toward offering
direct bank bailouts from the firewall fund for the countries
that share the euro.  Barnier offered, as part of a draft law on failing lenders
that he proposed in June, a plan to provide for national
backstops that could to borrow from each other as a last resort,
and require them to join forces to stabilize a struggling cross-
border bank.  He described the measure as an interim step, yet even this
incremental move has proved highly controversial. While Italy
and  France  supported the proposals, Germany and  Sweden , two EU
nations that already have pre-financed funds to stablize failing
banks, have both called for the plan to be scrapped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  