-- EU’s Van Rompuy Pressed on ECB Gender After Mersch Vote
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-22T22:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-s-van-rompuy-pressed-on-ecb-gender-after-mersch-vote.html
A panel of European Union lawmakers
opposed the appointment of Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the
European Central Bank’s Executive Board while signaling a
readiness to lift the objections should EU President Herman  Van Rompuy  pledge to promote more women for top finance jobs.  In a non-binding opinion late yesterday in Strasbourg,
France, the European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee voted against Mersch’s appointment because of a lack
of female candidates for the job. The full EU Parliament is due
on Oct. 25 to give its verdict on Mersch, 63, who is
Luxembourg’s central bank governor.  The committee’s chairwoman,  Sharon Bowles , held out the
possibility that she would urge the whole assembly to ignore the
recommendation and endorse Mersch’s candidacy should Van Rompuy
ease concerns about gender imbalance on the ECB in a speech to
the assembly at about 10 a.m. today. The committee voted 20 to
13 against Mersch’s appointment as an appeal to euro-area
national leaders, whom Van Rompuy represents, to address the
absence of women in ECB governing posts.  “Van Rompuy now has the last opportunity, when he
addresses the plenary, to show us that member states are ready
to commit seriously to encouraging women into top positions,”
Bowles said in an e-mailed statement after the committee vote.  All 17 central bank governors in the euro area are men and,
within the ECB itself, few of its managers are women. The ECB
added one more female senior official on Oct. 19 when it
announced that it hired Christine Claire Graeff, 39, as Director
General for Communications and Language Services.  Two Women  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , previously sat on the ECB’s six-
member Executive Board. If the five men currently there serve
their full terms, another position won’t become available until
June 2018, when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  retires.  “We are objecting to the EU’s most powerful institution
being run by only men for the next six years,” Bowles said.  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez- Paramo of  Spain  ended his eight-year term on May 31. Euro-region
finance ministers then wrangled over his replacement until July.
As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-setting
Governing Council, Mersch is the euro area’s longest-serving
central bank chief.  Gender Imbalance  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said that, while the gender
imbalance calls for action, Mersch’s appointment to the
Executive Board should go through to help the central bank
tackle  Europe ’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis. The
workload of the Frankfurt-based ECB has multiplied as it embarks
on unprecedented unconventional monetary policy measures and
takes on additional supervisory roles.  Mersch refused to withdraw his nomination when asked to do
so by Olle Schmidt, a Swedish member of the EU parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee. Mersch said he was
nominated by EU governments and, if the process were to be re-
run, it would leave the ECB “for many more months” without a
full board.  “An engine with six cylinders that runs on five is
suboptimal,” he said, adding that deeply ingrained gender
imbalances “cannot be resolved in one single nomination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  