-- EU Weighs Money-Laundering Curbs in Online Gambling Action Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-22T17:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/eu-weighs-money-laundering-curbs-in-online-gambling-action-plan.html
The European Union may toughen
safeguards against  money laundering  through online betting sites
and promote hotlines against match fixing as part of a push to
boost protection of gamblers and counter fraud.  The  European Commission  will also speed up probes into
whether national restrictions on  online gambling firms  are legal
in a bid to clarify market-access rules for the industry,
according to an EU official.  The measures will be included in an action plan for the
online gaming and betting industry to be published tomorrow by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the plans
aren’t yet public.  The EU’s top court in recent years has examined a series of
cases brought by betting companies including  Bwin.Party digital
entertainment Plc (BPTY) ,  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and  Betfair Ltd. (BET)  over whether
it is legal for state monopolies to block them from operating
freely across the 27-nation region. Online gambling firms have
also called on the EU to take action against what they say are
unjustified national restrictions on cross-border gambling.  Since 2006, the Brussels-based commission has probed
whether national rules in states such as Germany, France and
 Italy  comply with EU laws. Many investigations are ongoing.  Market Access  The Brussels-based commission has received complaints about
 market-access  curbs in 20 EU nations, the official said.  Nations tend to justify the curbs on the basis that they
are needed to protect citizens from gambling addiction and to
prevent crime.  Barnier has said that any moves at EU level to remove
market barriers mustn’t harm these consumer protection and law
enforcement objectives.  The commission has considered and rejected proposing
legislation to clarify competition rules for the industry, the
official said.  On money laundering, the commission will weigh whether to
extend legislation for casinos to online gaming firms, the
official said.  The law sets out identity checks and other monitoring that
gaming companies must carry out on their customers. It also
requires casinos to report suspicious activities to the
authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  