-- European Stocks Drop for Second Day; Veolia, Nexans Fall
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-22T16:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/european-stock-futures-little-changed-philips-might-move.html
European stocks  fell for a second
day as Japanese exports tumbled and investors speculated that
victory in regional elections for Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  reduces pressure for him to seek a bailout.  Veolia Environnement SA retreated 5 percent after denying
it’s working on a merger with Suez Environnement.  Nexans SA (NEX)  slid
6.6 percent after cutting its forecasts. Royal Philips
Electronics NV climbed the most in more than a year after the
world’s largest lighting company reported profit that beat
estimates. Scania AB advanced 3.2 percent as the truckmaker’s
orders declined at a slower pace.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.4 percent to 272.95 at
the close, having earlier risen as much as 0.3 percent. The
measure lost 0.8 percent on Oct. 19 as European Union leaders
failed to discuss additional assistance for Spain at a summit in
Brussels. The gauge has still rallied 17 percent from the June 4
low as the  European Central Bank  unveiled a bond-purchase
program to support the economy.  “There remains plenty of uncertainty surrounding Spain and
its next move, together with the fact that we still don’t have a
firm date for when  Greece  will be injected with the second round
of bailout funds,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX
Capital in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “Both issues will surely
come back to haunt investors in the sessions ahead.”  Japan Economy  Japan’s  exports  slid 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, leaving a trade deficit of 558.6 billion yen ($7
billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo  today. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of analysts was for a 9.9 percent
export decline. The drop was the most since May 2011, two months
after a magnitude-9 quake struck Japan’s northeast, triggering a
tsunami and a nuclear disaster that led to the shuttering of
most of the nation’s reactors.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  slipped 0.2 percent and
France’s CAC 40 lost 0.6 percent. Germany’s DAX dropped 0.7
percent. Greece’s ASE surged 2.7 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 20 percent less than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In Spain, Rajoy’s party extended its majority in the
stronghold region of Galicia, winning 41 of the 75 seats in the
regional assembly. Spanish bonds fell, sending the yield on 10-
year debt up 11 basis points to 5.48 percent.  Greek Budget  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will meet with the
heads of the parties supporting his coalition government
tomorrow to discuss 13.5 billion euros ($17.6 billion) of budget
measures for 2013 and 2014 to persuade creditors to release
further funds for the debt-stricken nation.  “We have been a little bit defensive going into the year
end,”  Stephen Cohen , head of investment strategy in Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa  at BlackRock Inc.’s iShares unit, said on
Bloomberg Television in London. “The impact of central-bank
liquidity is easing off a little bit so we are back to the big
picture question -- can some of the big structural issues be
resolved?”  In the U.S., of the six companies in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  to report results today, four had revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates, including Caterpillar Inc., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-nine percent of companies in
the gauge have missed third-quarter sales projections since Oct.
9, the data show.  Veolia, Suez  Veolia, the world’s largest water company, fell 5 percent
to 8.09 euros and Suez Environnement dropped 1.6 percent to 8.30
euros after denying merger talks.  Suez Chief Executive Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade contacted
 Veolia (VIE) ’s Antoine Frerot in August to propose a merger, Le Monde
reported on Oct. 20. Discussions were called off following
meetings the next month involving Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Rothschild, the newspaper said.  Nexans tumbled 6.6 percent to 34 euros, dropping the most
in almost six months. The world’s second-biggest maker of cables
reduced its full-year revenue forecast, predicting “stable”
sales compared with a previous prediction for “slight organic
growth.”  Valeo SA (FR) , France’s second-largest car-parts maker, slid 3.9
percent to 34.57 euros as the stock was reduced to hold from buy
at Deutsche Bank. A gauge of auto shares was the worst performer
in the Stoxx 600.  Aggreko Downgrade  Aggreko Plc (AGK) , the world’s biggest provider of mobile power
supplies, slipped 3 percent to 2,073 pence. The company was cut
to underweight, the equivalent of sell, from neutral at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Philips advanced 5.8 percent to 20.11 euros, the biggest
gain since September 2011. The company said third-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time items
rose 43 percent to 562 million euros. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey had predicted 520 million euros. Sales of 6.13 billion
euros beat a 5.95 billion-euro prediction.  Scania rose 3.2 percent to 124.20 kronor. The Swedish
truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG said orders for its
trucks and buses fell 10 percent in the third quarter, compared
with a 14 percent drop in the previous period. Net income of 1.5
billion kronor ($230 million) was in line with analysts’
estimates.  OC Oerlikon AG rallied 3.7 percent to 9.43 Swiss francs.
The Swiss maker of textile machinery and car gears said Chinese
regulators approved the sale of its solar division to Tokyo
Electron Ltd.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker, gained
2.6 percent to 34.38 euros as Credit Suisse Group AG raised the
stock to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from neutral.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  surged 5.3 percent to 1.16 euros with bank shares
the biggest gainers on the Stoxx 600.  National Bank of Greece
SA (ETE) , the nation’s largest lender, advanced 5.2 percent to 2.42
euros. Commerzbank AG added 2.9 percent to 1.56 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  