-- Euro-Area Bailout Fund Faces Challenge at Highest Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-23T16:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/euro-area-bailout-fund-faces-challenge-at-eu-s-highest-court.html
The euro area’s 500 billion-euro
($652 billion) bailout fund faces another test as the European
Union’s highest court weighs claims that the firewall violates
EU law and should be banned in its current form.  A complaint by Thomas Pringle, an independent member of the
Irish parliament, today reached the  EU Court of Justice , which
has the power to topple the European Stability Mechanism, or
ESM. A ruling is possible as soon as the end of the year under a
fast-track procedure.  “Developed in haste, the ESM treaty is at odds with and
undermines the EU legal order,”  John Rogers , a lawyer for
Pringle, told the court in Luxembourg today. “In trying to
defend the compatibility of the ESM with the EU treaties, the
intervening member states and institutions have had to engage in
mischaracterization and distortion in the confusion of form and
substance and in legal and conceptual contradictions.”  The EU court case follows a separate decision last month by
 Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe not to block
the ESM. The German ruling handed a victory to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who championed the bailout facility as vital to save the
euro area from a fiscal meltdown as it lurches between crises.  The EU court has engaged all 27 judges for the first time
in a case referred by a national tribunal.  No-Bailout Provision  Pringle argues that the ESM, which was declared operational
on Oct. 8, violates the  no-bailout provision  under EU law and
encroaches on the bloc’s role in economic and monetary policy.  Koen Lenaerts, vice-president of the court, asked Pringle’s
lawyer about the meaning of the word bailout.  “Are you really saying that  member states  would, as a
matter of union law, be prohibited to help one another in
whatever framework it would be?” Lenaerts asked.  Lenaerts is the reporting judge and will write the draft
judgment that will serve as a starting point for discussion
among the judges. The court’s final decision won’t show
dissenting judges’ views or how the vote was split.  The creation of the ESM, which like the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility can offer financial aid in return
for budget-austerity conditions on governments, needed  a change 
in the  treaty on the functioning of the EU .  The  March 2011 decision  by EU governments to change a legal
provision in the treaty to allow for the ESM’s creation was
adopted incorrectly, Pringle argues. The amendment will enter
into force on Jan. 1, 2013, at the earliest.  Even if legal, the ESM can’t function until this treaty
change has come into effect, Pringle claims.  Circumvent Prohibition  He also describes the ESM as an inter-governmental treaty
done outside the EU and an illegal mechanism to “circumvent”
the bailout prohibition, according to court documents.  “We are concerned that a body outside the union and not
subject to union law could take measures in connection with the
union and dictate conditions that will be imposed on member
states in matters so fundamental and integral to the union as
its economy and its currency,” said Rogers.  There is no indication of any infringement of EU law and
member states are allowed to let the ESM start before a treaty
change has come into force, Thomas Henze, a lawyer for the
German government, told the court.  Unforeseeable Situation  “The current financial crisis has led to the unforeseeable
situation where some member states have been pushed to the brink
of insolvency,” Henze said. “In such cases other member states
can provide financial support to these countries, otherwise it
would trigger a  chain reaction  which would bring about the
collapse of the euro area.”  Ireland regards “the amendments to be fully compatible
with the treaties,” Michael Cush, a lawyer for the country,
told the court.  Pringle’s arguments “ignore the actual wording of the
amendment” and “above all its purpose, which is to confirm
that the euro-area member states may in times of crisis
establish a stability mechanism,” said Cush.  The ESM will replace the EFSF, which has spent 192 billion
euros of its 440 billion euros on loans to Ireland,  Portugal  and
 Greece . The two funds will run in parallel until the stability
facility is phased out in mid-2013.  “The ECJ is likely to see the ESM for what it is: a
necessary complement to the existing European monetary union
structures, plugging a hole in the existing treaties,” said
Marco Incerti, an analyst at the  Centre for European Policy
Studies  in Brussels. “Why would they consider it unlawful?”  German Ruling  The German court’s interim decision on Sept. 12 rejected
efforts to block the ESM, in response to several cases after
lawmakers approved the ESM and the fiscal pact, a deficit-
control treaty designed to impose budget discipline on  European
Union members .  Ireland’s  Supreme Court , which is handling Pringle’s
challenge, decided in July to refer three questions to the EU’s
top court that could each put at risk the validity or immediate
functioning of the ESM.  The EU court  decided  on Oct. 4 to treat Pringle’s case
under an accelerated procedure “to remove as soon as possible
that uncertainty, which adversely affects the objective of the
ESM treaty, namely to maintain the financial stability of the
euro area.”  The case is:  C-370/12 , Thomas Pringle v. Government of
Ireland, Ireland and the Attorney General.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  