-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Earnings MIssing Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/texas-instruments-forecasts-earnings-below-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast fourth-quarter profit that fell
short of most analysts’ estimates, as chip resellers cut
inventory on concern that economic growth will remain weak.  Net income will be 23 cents to 31 cents a share on revenue
of $2.83 billion to $3.07 billion, the Dallas-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The forecast includes a 6-cent
restructuring and acquisition charge. Analysts on average had
predicted earnings of 37 cents on sales of $3.22 billion in the
current period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments has thousands of customers ranging from
home-appliance providers to manufacturers of space hardware,
making its earnings an indicator of economic demand. Concern
that global growth will remain sluggish has led distributors to
reduce orders to bring down inventory levels.  “The fourth quarter is going to be a tough quarter, like
last year,” said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. “Customers are basically delaying and waiting.”  Texas Instruments  shares  fell to $27.71 in extended trading
following the announcement. They had declined less than 1
percent to $27.79 at yesterday’s close in New York, leaving the
stock down 4.5 percent this year.  Orders slowed throughout the quarter and customers are
giving the company very little indication as to when they might
increase purchases, according to Chief Financial Officer Kevin March. He said that was the case across most of the chipmaker’s
business lines.  Slower Quarter  “We’ve got a lot of cautious customers out there,” March
said in an interview. “They’re quite uncertain as to their end-
demand.”  Third-quarter sales fell 2.2 percent to $3.39 billion.
Analysts had predicted revenue of $3.3 billion.  Net income was $784 million, or 67 cents a share, compared
with $601 million, or 51 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, Texas Instruments said. The results in the recent
quarter included a 7-cent charge related to the acquisition of
National Semiconductor Corp. last year, as well as a 22-cent
benefit from changes in the company’s Japanese pension plan and
taxes.  Texas Instruments is the latest chipmaker to report
earnings that aren’t getting the usual boost from increasing
demand during the end-of-year holiday shopping season. Last
week,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  said demand
for personal computers has fallen below typical seasonal
patterns.  The company, which predicted a 9.4 percent to 16.5 percent
decline in fourth quarter revenue from the previous period,
typically sees sales fall 4 percent in the the last three months
of the year from the preceding period, March said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  