-- Farallon’s Steyer to Step Down as Spokes Named Manager
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-10-22T18:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/farallon-s-steyer-to-step-down-as-spokes-named-manager.html
Thomas Steyer, the founder of $20
billion hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC, will exit
the firm after more than a quarter century to focus on public
service, leaving Andrew Spokes as the sole managing partner.  Steyer, 55, who previously worked at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s risk-arbitrage team under former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Robert Rubin , started Farallon in 1986. Steyer will remain the
second-largest investor in the hedge fund after he departs at
year-end and his partners will buy his share of the firm,
according to an investor letter.  “My role has shrunk over time, his has grown, and
rightfully so,” Steyer said in the letter. “The transfer to
Andrew has proceeded steadily and deliberately for five years.
Now it is time for him to take the reins alone.”  Steyer, a fundraiser for President  Barack Obama , said he
will focus on “giving back” to the community. Wearing his
signature red plaid tie, Steyer gave a  six-minute speech  at this
year’s Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North
Carolina, focusing on Obama’s energy policy.  Several prominent hedge-fund managers have stepped away
from the industry in the past few years, either by transferring
leadership to a new generation of managers or by returning money
to clients.  Bruce Kovner , 67, the billionaire co-founder of
Caxton Associates LP, in January handed control of the hedge
fund he started in 1983 to Andrew Law, 46. Billionaire  George
Soros , 82, last year returned money to investors, ending a
career that spanned more than four decades, while Stan
Druckenmiller, 59, two years ago closed his 30-year-old fund.  Farallon’s Returns  In 2010, Steyer designated Spokes, 47, as his likely
successor in the event of his departure, naming him the second
so-called key man. Spokes, a U.K. native,  joined  the San
Francisco-based firm in 1997, and became the co-managing partner
in May 2007, based in  Asia  and Europe. Before joining Farallon,
he worked in Goldman Sachs’s investment-banking group for 10
years. He moved to  San Francisco  in 2007 from London, where he
oversaw strategy and portfolio management at Farallon’s Noonday
Global Management Ltd. unit.  Spokes wrote in a letter today that investors should not
expect any “dramatic changes” in the firm’s investment
approach. Farallon, a multistrategy firm whose investments
include credit and real estate, gained 9.5 percent through
September, according to a person familiar with the returns,
compared with an average gain for  hedge funds  of 3.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Farallon, ranked in
2005 as the world’s largest hedge fund, returned an annualized
13 percent since its inception, the person said.  Energy Policy  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Farallon, said Steyer and
Spokes declined to be interviewed.  “I want my life to revolve around service in one form or
another, including continuing participation in our community
bank, in encouraging the advanced energy economy and in specific
policy initiatives here in California,” Steyer wrote.  In his convention speech, he told the audience that
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  would do nothing to reduce the
nation’s dependence on fossil fuels and would gut Obama’s
investments in clean energy.  In 2010, he helped defeat a California ballot measure that
would have suspended the state’s global warming law. This year,
he has donated at least $21.9 million to support a California
ballot measure that would eliminate a tax break for out-of-state
businesses.  Buffett’s Billionaires  In 2007, Steyer and his wife, Kat Taylor, co-founded One
PacificCoast Bank, an Oakland, California community development
bank.  Steyer, who was born in  New York  City, started Farallon
after joining San Francisco-based buyout firm Hellman & Friedman
LLC, which invested in his hedge fund at its start. A graduate
of  Yale University  who has a master’s degree in business
administration from  Stanford University , Steyer worked as a
financial analyst at Morgan Stanley’s mergers and acquisitions
group and later joined Goldman Sachs as an analyst.  Farallon was the Yale endowment’s first investment in hedge
funds in 1990, according to “More Money Than God” by  Sebastian
Mallaby  (Penguin Press, 496 pages, $17).  Steyer had a net worth $1.3 billion as of September,
according to Forbes magazine. He’s among the billionaires who
have agreed to devote the majority of their wealth to
philanthropy under billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Giving Pledge 
program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  