-- Ferguson and Ferdinand Hold Talks Over Race Row: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-22T06:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ferguson-and-ferdinand-hold-talks-over-race-row-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ferguson and Ferdinand  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  held talks with Rio Ferdinand yesterday in which he accepted that the defender won’t
apologize for refusing to wear a “Kick It Out” anti-racism T-
shirt before the Premier League game against Stoke a day
earlier, the  Independent reported .  Ferdinand apologized to Ferguson for not warning him of his
intention to protest against the campaign, though didn’t voice
any contrition for the act itself, the newspaper said.  The outcome of the meeting at United’s Carrington training
ground allows both manager and player to save face over the
issue, the newspaper added.  Personal Protest  Ferdinand’s right to make a personal protest was defended
by the Professional Footballers’ Association, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  “Everyone has a right to free speech,” PFA Chairman
Clarke Carlisle was cited as saying by the Telegraph. “Just
like you can’t coerce anyone into shaking hands, you can’t make
somebody wear a T-shirt, although I do personally believe that
joining in with the campaign is the best way forward.”  ‘Some Idiot’  Queens Park Rangers manager  Mark Hughes  said racism may
never be eradicated from soccer, the  Sun reported .  “You’ll never totally get rid of racism in football,” the
Sun cited Hughes as saying. There’ll always be some idiot who
feels it is something he wants to do. And when you have that
it’s very, very difficult to stamp out.’’  Adebayor’s Unrest  Tottenham striker Emmanuel Adebayor is ready to quit the
club two months after joining on a 5 million-pound ($8 million)
permanent transfer from  Manchester City , the  Sun reported .  Adebayor, 28, hasn’t started a Premier League game this
season and has played a total of 82 minutes as a substitute, the
newspaper added.  Butt’s Back  Former Manchester United midfielder Nicky Butt has returned
to Old Trafford as a reserves coach while he considers trying to
become a manager, the  Daily Mail reported .  “He’s completed his badges and is just getting a bit of
experience with us so there’s every chance of that,” the Mail
cited United manager Ferguson as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  