-- Finnish Power Needs to Rise 40% for Russian Supply, Broker Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-22T14:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/finnish-power-needs-to-rise-40-for-russian-supply-broker-says.html
Electricity prices in  Finland  would
need to rise more than 40 percent to trigger imports from
Russia, according to power broker Energiameklarit Oy.  “Finnish power prices probably need to climb close to 60
euros ($78.42) a megawatt-hour before they trigger imports from
Russia,” Energiameklarit Managing Director Esko Kytoemaeki said
today by e-mail from Kankaanpaeae, Finland.  Exports from Russia to Finland slumped 63 percent to 2.8
terawatt-hours from January through August, mainly because
Russia levies a capacity tariff of 25 to 30 euros a megawatt-
hour on power exports for peak-load demand hours, Risto
Lindroos, leading expert at Finnish grid operator Fingrid Oyj,
said on Sept. 21. Russia shipped as much as 12 terawatt-hours a
year to Finland from 2003 to 2011, according to data from the
Finnish Energy Industries association.  “The drop in power exports from  Russia  to Finland is
permanent, pushing Finnish prices somewhat higher than the
Nordic average,” Jussi Maekelae, a SKM Market Predictor AS
analyst in Helsinki, said today by e-mail. “The Finnish supply-
demand balance for the winter will be clearly more squeezed than
it has been before, increasing the risk for price spikes.”  Electricity for baseload delivery in western Russia cost
25.30 euros a megawatt-hour on average this month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Finnish power cost 38.33 euros for
the same period, according to information from the Nord Pool
Spot AS exchange in Oslo.  A structural dependence on imports combined with reduced
supplies from Russia will also break the traditional correlation
between prices for Finland and  Sweden ’s Stockholm area during
the colder November-to-March period, Maekelae said.  “Finnish power will probably cost more than in Stockholm,
due to the chronic dependence on imports,” he said,  Finland will need to ship in as much as 1,900 megawatts, or
12.5 percent of domestic demand, to secure the power balance
during cold snaps over the next four to five months, the
country’s Energy Market Authority said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  