-- Five Reasons College Enrollments Might Be Dropping
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-10-22T22:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/five-reasons-college-enrollments-might-be-dropping.html
Parents who are desperately trying
to get their children into a top school may not believe this:
U.S. higher education enrollments this fall might be lower --
perhaps significantly so at some institutions -- than they were
a year ago.  Official national data won’t be published for some time.
Yet state by state, enrollments appear to be down, mostly at
community colleges and at some four-year schools as well. In
 Ohio , preliminary  numbers  from the Board of Regents of the
University System of Ohio show a 5.9 percent decline, and the
drop-off at one  community college  (Hocking) was so precipitous
(more than 20 percent) that it had to  dismiss  staff. In other
Midwest states such as  Michigan  and  Wisconsin , numbers at some
institutions have fallen as well. In  Arizona , one large Tucson-
area community college ( Pima ) shows a decline of 11 percent.  Some flagship state universities are full up -- the
 University of Arizona , for example, reports that total
enrollment is at an  all-time  high -- though the  University of
Colorado , for one, has enrolled  fewer  students. In several
cases, state funding cuts may have precipitated some of the
declines, but that isn’t the whole story.  The huge  decreases  in the number of students in the past
couple of years have been at for-profit universities. They have
been hit by stricter federal regulations, a major reason that
some of the biggest for-profits have shifted away from a
business model focused on large enrollment growth.  Deciphering Data  There are five possible reasons cited for dropping
enrollments.  First, the population of 18-year-olds is in decline, and
that is where most freshmen come from. Although this is a
legitimate explanation, the decline in this age group isn’t
large enough (roughly 2 percent in the past year) to explain big
enrollment decreases.  Second, some admissions officials have been arguing that
the turnaround of the economy  is working  to lower the numbers.
It is true that enrollments are somewhat anti-cyclical. When the
economy tanks, young people and even older adults who are unable
to get jobs head to college, and go back to work when the job
situation improves. Yet the year-to-year job growth in the U.S.
is pretty anemic, certainly not enough to trigger much of an
enrollment decline in most states.  Third, eligibility for federal financial assistance has
been tightened. For example, a Pell Grant recipient formerly
could receive grants for nine -- yes, nine -- years; now the
limit is six years. Believe it or not, a fair number (more than
100,000, according to Pauline Abernathy of the  Institute for
College Access and Success ) of previous recipients of that money
were cut off, possibly leading them to drop out of school. This
might be of some importance at schools with large economically
disadvantaged populations.  Fourth, colleges may in some cases be pricing themselves
out of the market. Although full tuition-increase data aren’t
available, it is virtually certain that this fall tuition fees
rose a good deal more than the rate of inflation.  For example, the National Association of Independent
Colleges and Universities has announced that its members raised
fees an average of 3.9 percent for 2012-2013, almost double the
2 percent increase in the  consumer price index . In recent years,
public school tuition fees have risen even more (largely because
of stagnant state subsidies). If that trend continues this fall,
then public university fees are probably up close to 5 percent,
about 3 percent after adjusting for inflation.  Lower Returns  Last and possibly most important, concern appears to be
rising about the rate of return on college investments. One
estimate is that as many as  53 percent  of recent college
graduates are either unemployed or have relatively low-paying,
low-skilled jobs.  For most, the college investment decision involves the long
run, because the gains from higher education are presumed to
accrue over many decades. Parents and students must look to the
lifetime earnings prospects associated with a degree. College is
at least as much a device to help employers screen applicants as
it is a creator of human capital in the form of vocationally
specific skills. And it is a very expensive screening device,
the cost of which is borne by employees, not prospective
employers.  To me, the long-term challenge is one of simple math. Two-
fifths of adult Americans have associate degrees or more, yet
less than that fraction of actual jobs are in the technical,
professional or managerial fields that historically have been
the vocational home for new college graduates.  Moreover, the proportion of graduates is growing faster
than the number of high-paying jobs. A majority of the top  30
jobs  forecast to have the most growth by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in the next decade require less than formal higher
education. We are  projected  to need only 10,000 more biomedical
engineers but 340,000 more customer sales representatives by
2020.  The math problem is even more fundamental. Not everyone can
be above average. We don’t live in a Lake Wobegon world. Some
public leaders recognize the problem: Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , for example, recently called for more emphasis on
vocational education and less on four-year college degrees.  If the proponents of near-universal higher education get
their way, in another couple of decades, more than half of
adults will be college graduates -- and by definition some of
them will be in jobs that pay below average. The higher
education establishment will then claim that in our complex
world, post-graduate degrees are vital: a master’s in janitorial
science, for example. Isn’t this over-credentialization leading
to a huge waste of scarce human resources?  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, teaches economics at Ohio
University, and is an adjunct scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s aggressive crackdown 
on press freedom; William Pesek on what the U.S. can learn from
 Japan’s debt management ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  Barack Obama
doesn’t deserve another term ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and the modern family ;  Michael Feroli  on
why the Fed should  tie interest rates to the unemployment rate .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 