-- For $26 Million Museum, Herzog & De Meuron Taps Seascape
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/for-26-million-museum-herzog-de-meuron-taps-seascape.html
The $26 million  Parrish Art Museum 
takes the form of a long barn rooted in a meadow off Montauk
Highway in Water Mill, 100 miles east of  New York City .  It also takes inspiration from its setting: The endless
plane of the sea, the mist-filtered sunlight and the low rumpled
dunes of the Hamptons at the east end of  Long Island . These have
attracted generations of artists, including William Merritt
Chase,  Jackson Pollock  and  Chuck Close .  The 34,510-square-foot Parrish was designed by Basel,
Switzerland-based Herzog & de Meuron. Senior partner Ascan
Mergenthaler pairs two identical white shed roofs that sit on
mottled concrete walls. Wrapped by a flat concrete plinth, the
building appears to hover just above the mixed grasses and
wildflowers that will ultimately grow thigh high.  Up close the Parrish is quietly monumental. Its great
length -- 615 feet, or about two football fields -- and almost
windowless solidity exude a powerful primordial calm. It makes
the many dormers of the wannabe French Provincial winery next
door look tortured.  A recess in one of the long walls signals the entry, where
I found cabinetry crafted from recycled local pine.  The classically proportioned galleries rise high to the
underside of the peaked sheds. A white-painted steel-tube
skeleton frames the spaces, supporting wood rafters and an
unfinished plywood ceiling.  Roof windows facing both north and south beautifully mix
and balance the ever-changing daylight. Electric lighting should
rarely be needed.  Visitors will be able to appreciate the works in the kind
of light most artists prefer.  (Herzog & De Meuron also installed rows of fluorescent
lights. They’re not as warm as conventional spotlighting, but
they appear to be effective.)  Barns, Studios  The galleries, not surprisingly, put you in mind of barns
and artist studios, which in the Hamptons are often one and the
same. The long, rectangular layout accommodates a variety of
gallery sizes, displaying both large and small works gracefully
in the 7,500-square-foot suite for the permanent collection and
the 4,500 square feet devoted to temporary exhibitions.  With a collecting and gift-giving class largely based in
 New York  City, the museum, founded 1897, has struggled to expand
since the 1990s.  More people now spend more time in the Hamptons, and
director Terrie Sultan figured out how to tap its enormous
wealth and collecting acumen to develop a museum far more
ambitious than anyone would have thought possible a few years
ago. She had to move the museum from its small, charming red-
brick building in the village of Southampton to the current
site, about a mile east.  ‘Bird’s Nest’  Her choice of Herzog & de Meuron was risky because the
firm’s work has become expensively acrobatic. It devised the
steel-tubed intricacy of the “bird’s nest” Olympic stadium in
Beijing. A shiny tentlike structure for a concert hall in
Hamburg has been beset with cost overruns and delays.  Mergenthaler had first proposed a tiny village of wooden
exhibition structures, evoking artists’ studios. But
constructing such an intricate composition became prohibitively
costly.  In the final plan, Mergenthaler went in the opposite
direction, stripping the design to its essence. He has achieved
a kind of unself-conscious beauty found in the local landscape.  In that way, the new Parrish evokes the Hamptons before the
mist-wreathed flat fields were carved into privet-hedged plots
surrounding exactingly curated clapboard concoctions.  Ricola Roots  Mergenthaler’s strategy also returned Herzog & de Meuron to
its roots. The firm came to fame with storage buildings for the
Swiss herb-drop maker Ricola that evoked centuries-old
agricultural structures.  I rushed a visit (the museum opens Nov. 10) to see it in
the yellow sunlight and deep green foliage of summer, when most
people will visit. (Winter will transform the experience since
the light then is an ethereal Nordic white and the landscape a
stolid brown.)  Out on the 6,000-square-foot porch at the building’s
western end, the white-metal framing extends the monumental
Greek temple allusion in the light of the low setting sun.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Susan Antilla 
on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 