-- GDF Suez Drills at Touat in Algeria for Biggest E&P Project
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-22T14:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/gdf-suez-drills-at-touat-in-algeria-for-biggest-e-p-project.html
GDF Suez SA, owner of  Europe ’s
biggest natural-gas network, has drilled the first of 24
production wells at the central Algerian field of Touat and
expects to begin output in 2016.  “The well was successfully drilled,” Jerome Chambin, a
spokesman for the company, said by telephone from Paris.  GDF Suez has 65 percent of Touat and Sonatrach Group, the
Algerian state oil and gas company, the rest. The project will
be the Paris-based utility’s biggest for exploration and
production with investment of 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion).  Production at Touat, about 1,400 kilometers (870 miles)
southwest of Algiers, depends on the construction by Sonatrach
of a pipeline linking the field to its northern network.  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  will build a plant to treat gas before it’s transported.  Algeria is GDF Suez’s third-biggest supplier through long-
term contracts after  Norway  and  Russia , providing 12 percent of
its total demand, according to the company’s 2011 annual report.  The utility signed a supply deal last year with Sonatrach
for 1 billion cubic meters a year of gas over 20 years through
the Medgaz undersea pipeline linking Algeria and  Spain .  Developing the Touat project has been repeatedly delayed
amid discussions about how the natural gas will be transported.
GDF Suez, which became a partner a decade ago, expects 40 wells
to be drilled in various phases of the project, expected to
produce as much as 4.5 billion cubic meters a year at plateau.  The company also drilled a well in the eastern Sud-Illizi
bloc in July and is evaluating its commercial viability.  The utility’s proven and probable gas reserves at the end
of 2011 were 789 million barrels of oil equivalent of which
nearly three quarters was natural gas. These were mostly in
Norway,  Germany , the Netherlands and the U.K., the 2011 annual
report shows. Touat’s proven and probable reserves are estimated
at 68.5 billion cubic meters of natural gas and 8.5 million
barrels of condensates, according to data on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  