-- GE-Backed Trust Said to Seek $700 Million in Singapore
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-10-22T08:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ge-backed-aircraft-trust-said-to-seek-700-million-in-singapore.html
Aircraft Capital Trust, a business
trust backed by  General Electric Co. (GE) , is seeking about $700
million in a Singapore initial public offering, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company plans to start trading by next month and may
offer a yield of 8 percent to 9 percent, the people said, asking
not to be identified as the process is private. The trust will
be backed by planes from  GE’s aircraft leasing unit , which will
also own a minority stake in the company, they said.  Airlines will turn to new sources of funding for plane
purchases as European banks pare lending and trade rules curtail
the use of government-backed loans, Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.
said in February. With as much as $90 billion needed to fund new
plane deliveries this year, Boeing said carriers may make
greater use of financing from leasing companies and Asian
lenders to pay for them.  Stamford , Connecticut-based  GE Capital  Aviation Services
owns and manages more than 1,700 aircraft from Boeing, Airbus,
Bombardier Inc. and Embraer SA, with about 220 customers around
the world, according to information from its  website . It has
$48.8 billion in assets and $1.2 billion in net income for 2011.  Singapore regulators approved the Aircraft Capital IPO
today, two of the people said. David Cook, a spokesman for GE
Capital, said the company was unable to comment on the IPO.  Aircraft Capital will initially be backed by more than 10
commercial aircraft leased to mainly Asia-based airlines and
low-cost carriers, the people said. The fleet will increase to
more than 20 planes after the listing, they said.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA are managing the offering, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  