-- German Economy May Contract in Fourth Quarter, Bundesbank Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/german-economy-may-contract-in-fourth-quarter-bundesbank-says.html
The German economy,  Europe ’s
largest, may shrink in the current quarter after expanding in
the previous three months as weaker global growth weighs on
export demand, the Bundesbank said.  “There are increasing signs that a perceptible expansion
of economic growth in the third quarter of 2012 will be followed
by stagnation or even a slight decrease in gross domestic
product in the final quarter of the year,” the Frankfurt-based
central bank said in its monthly report today. German GDP rose
0.3 percent in the second quarter.  The German economy is showing signs of a slowdown after the
debt crisis in the euro area, the country’s largest export
market, pushed at least five  member states  into recession.
German business confidence unexpectedly fell to the lowest in
more than 2 1/2 years in September and unemployment edged higher
for a sixth months.  “While industrial orders from the euro region haven’t
declined further after a massive drop in the previous quarters,
the expansion of demand from third countries has come to a
standstill given the global economic dip,” the Bundesbank said.
“Surveys are also reflecting the clouded export outlook and
uncertainty over perspectives of global economic development.”  The  International Monetary Fund  earlier this month cut its
world growth forecast for this year and next, and said there’s
an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown. It also
lowered its euro-region growth forecasts and predicted weaker
German expansion in 2013.  “The German economy continues to be in robust shape but
increasingly feels the inner-European adjustment process and
uncertainty stemming from the sovereign debt crisis,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on Oct. 12. “For the
second half of the year, we expect stagnation.”  The German economy continues to be supported by housing
construction and private consumption, the Bundesbank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  