-- Giants Force Game 7 in MLB’s NLCS With 6-1 Win Against Cardinals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-22T05:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/giants-defeat-cardinals-6-1-to-force-decisive-game-7-in-nlcs.html
The  San Francisco Giants  will host a
decisive seventh game in the National League Championship Series
after Ryan Vogelsong pitched them to a 6-1 win over the  St.
Louis Cardinals .  One day after Barry Zito and two Giants relievers combined
on a 5-0 shutout, Vogelsong allowed only one run for the third
straight start this postseason. San Francisco’s back-to-back
wins tied the best-of-seven Major League Baseball playoff series
at three games apiece.  Game 7 is today at AT&T Park in San Francisco, with the
winner advancing to face the  Detroit Tigers  in the  World Series .  “This place is going to be electric,” said Vogelsong, who
had a career-high nine strikeouts in seven innings yesterday.
“We’ve been through a lot and we’re not ready to go home yet.
We seem to play better when our backs are against the wall.”  Pitcher  Matt Cain  gets the start for the Giants today and
will be opposed by the Cardinals’ Kyle Lohse. It’s a rematch of
the starting pitchers from the rain-delayed Game 3 of the NLCS,
won 3-1 by  St. Louis .  “We’ve got one game,” Cardinals third baseman David Freese said. “Both these teams don’t take the easiest road, but
having this opportunity, we’re blessed for that. This is going
to be a heavyweight bout and it’s going to be fun.”  The defending World Series-champion Cardinals have won six
straight postseason games when facing elimination, tying the
longest streak in MLB history. The Cardinals have an 11-4 all-
time record in the deciding game of best-of-seven postseason
series, while the Giants are a major-league worst 0-5 in Game 7.  Seventh Game  The last NLCS to go to a seventh game was in 2006, when the
Cardinals beat the  New York Mets  and then went on to defeat the
Tigers in the World Series.  The Tigers this year swept the New York Yankees 4-0 in the
American League Championship Series.  San Francisco scored five runs in the first two innings
last night against Cardinals starting pitcher  Chris Carpenter .  After taking a 1-0 lead on a first-inning groundout by
 Buster Posey , the Giants pushed across four runs in the second
inning, which was extended by an error by Cardinals rookie
shortstop Pete Kozma.  Marco Scutaro  had a two-run double with
two outs and Pablo Sandoval followed with a run-scoring single.  Carpenter gave up five runs -- two earned -- over four
innings to fall to 0-2 in the playoffs this season.  Vogelsong allowed four hits and had a career-high nine
strikeouts to improve to 2-0 with a 1.41 earned run average in
his three starts this postseason. The only run he allowed last
night came in the sixth inning, when  Carlos Beltran  doubled with
two outs and scored on a single by Allen Craig.  ‘Feel Comfortable’  “I just feel comfortable on the mound right now,” said
Vogelson in a televised interview. “I was just trying to pound
the zone and hit Buster’s glove as many times as possible.”  The Giants added another run in the eighth inning on a two-
out, run-scoring single by pinch-hitter Ryan Theriot that
slipped under Kozma’s glove. Giants relievers, meanwhile,
allowed only one hit over the final two innings, with Sergio Romo getting the last three outs to close out the victory.  “Having this opportunity and being in the playoffs, that’s
what you work for in the whole offseason and spring training,”
said Giants infielder Scutaro, who’s hitting .458 (11-for-24) in
the NLCS. “To be here, that’s priceless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  