-- Glaxo Fund Looks for Early-Stage Alzheimer’s Detectors
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/glaxo-s-venture-fund-looks-for-early-stage-alzheimer-s-detectors.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s venture-
capital fund is seeking to invest in a biotechnology company
that has both a brain-imaging dye to detect warning signs for
Alzheimer’s disease and a drug treatment for the ailment.  “The big change will come with imaging agents,” Jens Eckstein, president of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  SR One 
fund, said in a webcam interview. “We’re really interested in
that area.”  Imaging agents detect proteins called amyloid that define
the disease. The illness can be identified at an early stage
through routine scanning if started when patients are still
healthy, Eckstein said. Recent studies of treatments to slow or
stop progression of Alzheimer’s were flawed as they recruited
patients with advanced forms of the disease, where “70 percent
of the damage was already done,” he said.  The comments show Glaxo isn’t giving up on Alzheimer’s
disease after recent high-profile failures of experimental
treatments.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s bapineuzumab as
well as  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s solanezumab failed to help Alzheimer’s
symptoms in people with advanced disease in separate study
results announced over the past two months. Still, both target
amyloid plaque and showed promise for use in early-stage
patients.  “My goal is to find players around the table who have both
an imaging approach with a therapeutic approach and have them
collaborate really closely,” Eckstein said. “You cannot have
one without the other.”  Disease Growth  In a study of 141 healthy subjects, those with clumps of
amyloid beta plaques in their brains at the start of the study
had as much as a 20 percent greater decline in memory and
thinking over an 18-month period than those with fewer plaques.
The study, conducted by Australian researchers, was published in
the journal Neurology on Oct. 16.  The number of Alzheimer’s cases globally is expected to
double within 20 years as the world’s population ages, to as
many as 65.7 million people in 2030 and 115 million by 2050, the
Geneva- based  World Health Organization  said in April.  SR One invests in about 30 public and private companies,
half of which have compounds in human testing, and invests $30
million to $50 million in five or six companies a year,
according to Eckstein.  While Glaxo has “high interest in our portfolio,” the
fund acts largely independent of the drugmaker, with a strict
firewall between the two entities and no special product rights,
he said.  The company’s investments include  iPierian Inc. , which is
developing treatments for neurodegenerative diseases such as
Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s diseases using induced
pluripotent  stem cells . Shinya Yamanaka, who won the  Nobel Prize 
in medicine this month for his discovery of iPS cells, sits on
iPierian’s scientific advisory board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  