-- Globeleq’s Tanzanian Unit Gas Output May Drop as Program Ends
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-10-22T07:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/globeleq-s-tanzanian-unit-gas-output-may-drop-as-program-ends.html
Gas output at Globeleq Inc.’s
Tanzanian unit may drop 30 percent in December after a temporary
program to increase daily capacity ends, said Sebastian Kastuli,
commercial manager at Songas Ltd.  Production may decline to 70 million standard cubic feet a
day, which is the company’s installed capacity, from 105 million
standard cubic feet, known as mscf, Kastuli said in an interview
Oct. 17 in  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania’s commercial hub. The company
had boosted output through a process called re-rating, which
involves modifications to equipment such as compressors to give
a temporary boost to existing capacity.  “We are not sure if re-rating may continue,” he said. The
government is considering whether to extend the plan, since re-
rating is “time-bound and should be done as a short-term
strategy,” he said.  Songas owns a gas processing plant on Songo Songo Island
and a 225-kilometer (140-mile) pipeline from the plant to Dar es
Salaam. The company began re-rating in 2009 after the Tanzanian
government, which holds 38 percent of the company, rejected a
permanent expansion to double output, Kastuli said.  The government declined because the 20 percent interest
rate being sought for the $120 million debt required was too
high, according to Kastuli. The state asked Songas to get debt
with interest of less than 4 percent, and ensure the expansion
didn’t dilute their shareholding, he said.  ‘Expansion Expensive’  The Songas expansion option is “expensive,” Michael
Mwanda, chairman of the state-run Tanzania Petroleum Development
Corp., said by phone on Oct. 19. The government plans to build
its own pipeline from Songo Songo to Dar es Salaam, he said  “There will be a shortfall of gas for sometime after re-
rating ends, but we think government-owned infrastructure at a
cheaper cost is a better option,” he said.  The anticipated drop won’t affect Songas’ power generation
business in Dar es Salaam, where they transport the gas to
produce 180 megawatts of electricity that is all sold to the
state-controlled Tanzania Electric Supply Co.  “We have an amount of protected gas, up to 70mscf a day,
and we use about 45mscf a day to produce the 180 megawatts, and
sell some to Tanzania Portland Cement Co., with which we have a
supply contract,” Kastuli said.  Pan African Energy Ltd., a unit of  Orca Exploration Group
Inc (ORC/A) , operates Songas’s plant, and pays processing and transport
fees, according to Kastuli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 