-- GM Introducing Seven Models Into Brazil to Reverse Loss
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-22T00:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/gm-introducing-seven-models-into-brazil-to-reverse-loss.html
As Nessim Azar walked the lot at one
of his  Chevrolet  dealerships in Sao Paulo last week, he pointed
to a white  Chevrolet Cruze .  “It’s very popular,” he said. His Chevy showrooms sold
100 Cruze compact cars last month. “Today, if you want to buy a
Cruze, I don’t have a Cruze to sell you,” he said.  The Cruze,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s top-selling vehicle
worldwide, went on sale in Brazil late last year as part of GM’s
most aggressive new-product push ever in the country and part of
a plan to become solidly profitable again in South America. The
effort is highlighted by seven new vehicles going on sale this
year, including the subcompact Onix that will be displayed at
the Sao Paulo auto show this week.  “Have we had seven new vehicles in our lineup? Of course,
but not seven new vehicles in one year,” Gustavo Colossi,
Chevrolet marketing director for Brazil, said last week in an
interview in Sao Paulo.  The stakes in Brazil are high for GM. The region’s largest
country accounted for 58 percent of GM’s  South America  sales in
the first half of last year. With GM losing money in  Europe  and
facing slowing growth in  China , it can’t count only on its
strong profits in the U.S. It’s looking to turn around its
operations in South America in a hurry -- after a decade of
other automakers eating into its market share.  The automaker’s  South American operations  lost $122 million
last year before interest and taxes after posting an $818
million profit in 2010. For the  first half , GM reported profit
before interest and taxes in South America of $64 million.
Profit from Brazil isn’t broken out.  Sao Paulo  The Sao Paulo auto show, which opens to the public on Oct.
24, is the largest in  Latin America , according to show’s
organizers. The Brazilian light-vehicle market is the world’s
fifth-biggest, according PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  GM’s market share in Brazil fell to 18.3 percent last year
from 24.3 percent in 2002 as new competitors such as  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) ,  Nissan (NISA)  Motor Co. and Chinese automakers arrived,
according to industry researcher LMC Automotive. The increased
competition comes as the market slows. Brazil’s light-vehicle
sales fell 2 percent through August to 2.26 million, according
to LMC.  “Brazil has typically had these models that have been
around for decades, in some cases taking up a lot of the volume
because they’re very affordable,”  Jeff Schuster , an analyst at
LMC, said of the industry. “It seems like collectively everyone
is pulling back from that.”  Old Lineup  GM’s old lineup turned off Nelson Munhoes, 40, and led him
to Hyundai and BMW after owning an Astra, an Opel model now sold
in Brazil as a Chevy.  “A long time ago I was a good client of General Motors,
but they were not changing the cars like the other companies, so
I stopped buying General Motors,” said Munhoes, who is a
partner in a transportation company. He returned to GM in
December when he saw the new Cruze. “It’s a very good car,” he
said. “It’s different from the others that we have here.”  More important than the Cruze will be the smaller Onix,
which will debut at the  Sao Paulo  auto show today.  “The Onix is pretty much this inflection point of moving
out with the old and coming in with the new,” said Guido Vildozo, an industry analyst with IHS Automotive. “It’s a
critical product because most of the market belongs to the B-
segment. It’s a segment you have to be in and it’s a segment
that’s seen a lot of competition.”  The Onix, once fully introduced with different variants,
will make up as much as 30 percent of  Chevrolet  sales in 2014 in
Brazil, Colossi said. Subcompact, economy and small cars
combined make up as much as 60 percent of Brazil’s auto sales,
he said. Cars with smaller engines are taxed less.  ‘Very Important’  “Onix is very important for us,” he said. “It’s a big
innovation for our product line, the largest innovation in terms
volume for the last 15 years.”  The new vehicle, designed and developed for the  Brazil 
market, will be offered with an automatic transmission and that
should make it appealing to buyers wanting a premium touch in a
segment not accustomed to such features, said Azar, the dealer.  “Ten years ago, nobody wanted an automatic transmission;
now everybody wants automatic transmission,” he said.  GM sales rose 1.9 percent to 470,000 through September in
Brazil, according to the automaker’s regulatory filings and
Klaus-Peter Marin, a company spokesman. GM sold 30,872 Cruze
cars through August, LMC said. GM sold 13,769 of the small car
last year in Brazil after its introduction, according to LMC.  Prices Rising  GM’s average transaction price has increased by as much as
20 percent on the new vehicles compared with their predecessors,
Colossi said.  The company may even offer Cadillac models for sale in
South America within five years, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told reporters in Sao Paulo. The Detroit-based automaker
sees the Brazil market growing to 4 million vehicles by 2015,
said Grace Lieblein, who runs GM’s unit there. GM has invested
about $3 billion in Brazil in the past five years to develop new
products and update factories, she said.  Dan Ammann, GM’s chief financial officer, attributed a $100
million improvement during the first quarter to shifting sales
in Brazil to higher-margin vehicles such as the new Cruze and
S-10 pickup, which was designed by GM’s staff in Brazil.  Even with new products, challenges remain in Brazil, such
as greater exposure to changes in the local currency, Chuck Stevens, GM’s chief financial officer for North and South
America, said in August.  “On our new products, we’ve got a pretty significant level
of imported content and we’ve got exposure to the weakening real
from that basis, so we need to work on that,” he said.  Cutting Costs  Another area GM has been working on is lowering its fixed
costs. About two-thirds of GM’s operations are in high-cost
locations in the Sao Paulo area, Stevens said.  “When you look at Fiat, Volkswagen, the vast majority of
their capacity is in low-cost regions of the country,” he said.
“Estimated cost penalty associated with that is $300 million to
$400 million a year just from a footprint standpoint.”  A total of 900 workers in Brazil accepted buyouts last
year, GM said in a regulatory filing.  The company also has an opportunity to cut as much as $100
million a year in selling, general and administrative costs in
South America, primarily in Brazil, Stevens said.  At Azar’s dealership, he walked through the service
department where customer Luis Fernando, 50, was having his
Corsa sedan repaired.  “I feel good in this car,” Fernando said. “People here
in Brazil think Chevrolet is a good  brand. (BRND) ”  His wife owns a Chevy as well, he said, and he hopes one
day to own a more-expensive Chevrolet sport-utility vehicle for
its roominess.  “I don’t know if it will be possible, but I will work for
this,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  