-- GM’s Seeks Investment-Grade Rates for Larger Revolver
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-22T20:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/gm-s-seeks-investment-grade-rates-for-larger-revolver.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which has junk
credit ratings, aims to double its revolving credit line to $10
billion at the same  interest rates  as if it were an investment-
grade company, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said.  “We think we can get it priced as if we’re investment
grade, which is kind of one of our goals going into 2013, to
achieve investment grade,” Akerson said yesterday in an
interview in advance of the Sao Paulo show, which begins with
press conferences today.  Securing access to lending at investment-grade interest
rates would signal that the lending markets see GM’s turnaround
plan as a success. GM, which went through government-backed
bankruptcy reorganization in 2009, earned an annual record of
$9.19 billion profit last year and reclaimed its title of
world’s top-selling automaker from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Doubling the  credit line  would give GM capacity similar to
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has $9.3 billion in revolving credit
facilities.  “We look at other companies our size, not only in the
industry -- Ford -- but outside the industry. And with the
amount of global operations, I think it’s a good insurance to
have,” Akerson said. It would not be for funding pension
liabilities, he said.  GM has “substantial cash requirements going forward,”
including pension obligations and reinvesting in operations,
according to an Aug. 3 GM regulatory filing.  Akerson declined to say when GM may close on its new credit
line. “We’ve had good meetings with the banks,” he said.  Lowest Rates  Borrowing costs for high-yield, high-risk companies are at
the lowest level in decades. Yields declined to 6.84 percent as
of Oct. 18, down from this year’s high of 8.465 percent on Jan.
3 and the lowest since at least 1990, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  U.S. High Yield Master II index . GM is
rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ at  Standard &
Poor’s , the highest speculative grade for each.  GM had $32.6 billion in automotive cash and marketable
securities on hand on June 30. It also has a $5 billion
revolving credit line that was set up in October 2010.  “Old rule of thumb for a CFO: Get liquidity when you don’t
need it,” Matthew Stover, an analyst with Guggenheim Securities
LLC in  Boston , said in an e-mail in August. “GM’s revolver is a
bit small for a company its size, money is cheap and who knows
what the rest of the year holds,” such as a possible deepening
financial crisis in Europe.  GM rose 0.1 percent to $24.62 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Sao Paulo  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  