-- Goldman Worker Warned Roommate on Banker’s Insider Tips
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-22T13:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/goldman-worker-warned-roommate-on-banker-s-insider-tips.html
Jean Wang, who works in fixed-income
sales for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in London, told her roommate
in 2009 that buying shares based on tips from a Mizuho
International Plc banker she was in a relationship with was
insider trading.  Wang’s former roommate, Jessica Mang, a British
chiropractor, is on trial accused of making 65,000 pounds
($104,000) trading on illegal tips about  Canon Inc. (7751) ’s
acquisition of OCE NV in 2009 that she got from her then-
boyfriend, former Mizuho banker Thomas Ammann.  “I basically said I don’t think Thomas should be doing
that, that’s insider trading,” Wang testified at a London court
today. “My impression was it was the deal he was working on and
he was relatively sure it would happen.”  Mang is on trial with another of Ammann’s girlfriends,
Christina Weckwerth. The U.K. Financial Services Authority,
which is prosecuting the case, said Weckwerth took in nearly
2 million pounds from her trading on the same deal. Both paid
half the profits they made to Ammann, a lawyer for the FSA said
during the first day of trial last week.  Wang and Mang, who were high school classmates, lived
together in central London from 2007 until April 2010. Wang said
they were friends and she didn’t like Ammann because he didn’t
treat Mang with enough respect, failing to show up for Mang’s
birthday and once keeping her waiting for three hours at a
Haagen Daz ice cream shop.  Canon Adviser  Ammann, who worked for the Mizuho mergers and acquisitions
team that advised Canon on the OCE deal, pleaded guilty earlier
this year to  insider trading  and encouraging both women to
commit insider trading. Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras
and photocopiers, agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro (953
million) deal in November 2009.  Wang said she was surprised to hear Ammann wanted Mang to
make an investment and told her it was insider trading. Wang
said she didn’t explain what insider trading was to her then-
roommate and only mentioned it once -- a mention that was
“probably not something she recognizes as significant.”  “It was more the suggestion that he should know better,”
Wang said. “I didn’t go further into details with it with
Jess.”  Mang bought OCE shares and then sold them five days later
for almost twice what she invested, the FSA said. She wrote in
her diary that Ammann advised her to invest.  The trial is scheduled to last as long as five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  