-- Goldman’s LEG Property Unit Said to Consider Second-Quarter IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-22T13:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/goldman-s-leg-property-unit-said-to-consider-second-quarter-ipo.html
LEG NRW GmbH, the German residential
landlord owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall Street
Real Estate Funds, is considering an initial public offering as
early as the second quarter of 2013, two people with knowledge
of the plan said.  LEG, based in Dusseldorf, plans to select banks to run the
share sale by the end of the year, said one of the people. Both
of them asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. LEG’s  90,000 apartments  are valued at about 4.7 billion
euros ($6.1 billion), according to LEG’s 2011 annual report. The
homes are in North Rhine-Westphalia,  Germany ’s most populous
state.  Manfred Neuhoefer, a spokesman for LEG, and Roland Leithaeuser, a spokesman at Goldman, declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs, which bought LEG from the state government
for about 3.5 billion euros in 2008, is seeking to profit from
the boom in German residential real estate. The FTSE EPRA/Nareit
index of German property stocks has gained 32 percent this year
as investors seek a safe place to put their money amid the
European sovereign-debt crisis.  Goldman Sachs is one of the most active foreign investors
in German real estate. In 2011, the firm spun off  GSW Immobilien
AG (GIB) , now Germany’s third-largest residential landlord by market
value, in an  IPO that raised about 468 million euros .  Goldman’s Whitehall Street made a failed bid to buy
Baubecon, the residential property portfolio that  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
agreed to sell to Deutsche Wohnen AG in May in a deal valued at
1.24 billion euros.  More Liquidity  An IPO would help make Germany more attractive to real
estate investors by adding liquidity to the market, said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research in Hamburg.  “The German residential listed market is too small by
international standards and fairly illiquid,” Klingner said.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien GmbH, Germany’s largest owner
of apartments, also plans to sell shares in an IPO next year.
Annington, which has 186,000 apartments, is controlled by Guy Hands’ Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.  LEG is preparing to access capital markets and an IPO is
possible, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Hegel said at a press
conference in September.  LEG reported a net loss of 15 million euros for 2011,
compared with a profit of 29 million euros a year earlier, after
spending money to upgrade its technology and refinancing debt,
according to Neuhoefer. The company generated rental income of
244 million euros, up from 241 million euros. Funds from
operations excluding sales of properties, a measure of a
property company’s ability to raise cash, amounted to 112
million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 