-- GrainCorp Surge Says ADM’s $2.77 Billion Bid Isn’t Enough
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-10-22T21:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/graincorp-surge-indicates-adm-s-a-2-7-billion-offer-isn-t-enough.html
GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  jumped to a record as
investors bet  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ’s A$2.68 billion ($2.77
billion) cash takeover bid won’t be enough to win control of
eastern  Australia ’s largest grain handler.  GrainCorp climbed 39 percent to A$12.30 in Sydney trading,
a record high and 4.7 percent more than Decatur, Illinois-based
ADM’s A$11.75-a-share offer. GrainCorp said today it’s reviewing
the bid, which is subject to due diligence and other conditions.
ADM, the world’s biggest corn processor, said last week it had
boosted its stake in the Sydney-based company to 14.9 percent.  “The market is suggesting that A$11.75 is not high enough
and that a higher offer is required or that there could be other
interested parties,”  Belinda Moore , an analyst at RBS Morgans
Ltd. in Brisbane, said in a phone interview today. “A bidding
war could emerge,” Moore said earlier in an e-mailed note.  Buying GrainCorp, the only major publicly traded grain
merchant in Australia left after the nation deregulated its
wheat export system, would give control of seven of the eight
ports that ship grain in bulk from the nation’s east coast as
well as a substantial malt producer. Australia is the world’s
second-largest wheat exporter.  Companies that may be interested in GrainCorp’s assets
include Cargill Inc., Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV, Bunge Ltd.,
Wilmar International Ltd., Olam International Ltd., Noble Group
Ltd., COFCO Hong Kong Ltd., China Foods Ltd. and Bright Foods
Group, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Stuart Jackson wrote in an
Oct. 19 note.  Normal Premium  Spokesmen for Bright Foods, Olam, Noble Group and China
Foods Ltd. declined to comment. Yin Jiaohao, a Beijing-based
spokesman for Cofco, didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone
numbers.  Susan Burns , a spokeswoman for Bunge Ltd., and Mark Klein, a spokesman for Cargill Inc., didn’t return e-mail or
phone messages today seeking comment.  Wilmar, in which ADM has a 16 percent stake, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  GrainCorp is  valued  at A$9.77 a share, implying a takeover
price of A$12.70 when including a premium of about 30 percent,
RBS Morgan’s Moore said. GrainCorp has three buy, five hold and
five sell recommendations from analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore International Plc and Hong Kong-based commodity
trading company Noble Group are among companies that have
targeted agricultural assets, betting on rising demand from  Asia 
as living standards rise and diets improve.  Asian Revenue  Last year, GrainCorp’s revenue from Asia more than doubled
from the previous 12 months, making the region the company’s
second-biggest  sales  generator. ADM earned 52 percent of its
revenue in the U.S. in fiscal 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “This appears to be a well-placed asset for ADM in helping
them penetrate the faster growing Asian markets,”  Ian Horowitz ,
an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc., said in an Oct. 19
note.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Greenhill & Co Inc. (GHL)  are advising
GrainCorp while Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. are acting for
ADM. The U.S. company last week paid A$269 million for a 10
percent stake. ADM declined 1.7 percent to $28.04 at the close
in  New York .  “The GrainCorp board is reviewing the proposal and has not
yet formed a view on its merits and will keep the market
informed of any material developments,” the company said in a
statement. The offer is subject to due diligence, exclusivity
and approval by ADM’s board, GrainCorp said.  Storage Capacity  GrainCorp, which produces more than 1 million metric tons
of malt annually, handles as much as 60 percent of the grain
crop in eastern Australia. It has about 20 million tons of
storage capacity at more than 280 inland grain-handling sites,
according to the company.  The Australian company, which traces its roots to 1916 and
the Grain Elevators Board of the New South Wales state
agriculture department, has seen its revenue surge since
Australia’s 2006 decision to strip AWB Ltd. of its wheat export
monopoly. An inquiry found AWB was among firms that made illegal
payments to win contracts from the former Iraq regime of  Saddam
Hussein  under the  United Nations ’ oil-for-food program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  