-- Gupta to Urge Probation From Judge Who Defended Insiders
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-10-23T02:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/gupta-to-urge-probation-from-judge-who-defended-insiders.html
As a lawyer, Jed Rakoff once
persuaded a judge to give probation to a client convicted at an
 insider-trading  trial alongside former  Wall Street  Journal
reporter R. Foster Winans. Now a federal judge himself, Rakoff
must weigh Rajat Gupta’s similar request to stay out of prison.  Gupta, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, will
come before Rakoff in Manhattan federal court on Oct. 24 to be
sentenced for leaking stock tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors say Gupta, convicted by a jury in
June, deserves as long as 10 years in prison. Gupta seeks
probation.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, argued his client’s
crime was an “aberrational” event in a “lifetime of good
works” that merited a punishment for a man who has suffered an
extraordinary fall from grace. He asked Rakoff to impose a term
of community service, suggesting Gupta work with troubled youth
in  New York  or with the poor in  Rwanda .  “Good works help, but on their own they are rarely a ‘Get
out of jail free card,’” said Gordon Mehler, a former federal
prosecutor who’s now in private practice in New York. “So, it
seems as if probation, even in Rwanda, is unlikely.”  Gupta, 63, is the most prominent of 70 people convicted
since a nationwide insider-trading crackdown by U.S. prosecutors
began four years ago. Gupta also served as managing partner of
McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003 and on the board of  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  from 2007 to March 2011, when he also resigned from
the boards of Goldman Sachs,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and two other companies.  Buffett’s Berkshire  After a four-week trial in June, jurors found Gupta guilty
of tipping Rajaratnam about dealings at New York-based Goldman
Sachs, including a $5 billion investment by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Rajaratnam, 55, is serving 11 years in
prison for trading on tips from Gupta and others.  In his 17 years as a judge, Rakoff has sentenced at least
nine defendants for insider trading, including seven who pleaded
guilty and two whom he jailed after they were found guilty by
juries. Rakoff has a track record of imposing a sentence that is
half what the government recommends.  “If there is any judge who’s sensitive to the draconian
impact of the sentencing guidelines with respect to white-collar
offenders, it’s Judge Rakoff,” said J. Bruce Maffeo, a former
federal prosecutor now in private practice. “That being said,
he’s equally sensitive to the need to fashion a sentence that
takes into account both the defendant’s personal background and
the need to deter others in the financial world, where this kind
of activity appears to be more prevalent than previously
assumed.”  Winning Leniency  Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor in New York who headed
the office’s  securities-fraud  unit, was a white-collar criminal-
defense lawyer before taking the bench.  As a defense lawyer, Rakoff won leniency for a client
convicted of insider trading who was also facing prison.  Rakofff’s client, David Carpenter, went on trial in 1985
with his lover, journalist R. Foster Winans, and broker Kenneth
Felis. Prosecutors said Winans leaked tips to Felis about
forthcoming market-moving articles in his “Heard on the
Street” column, Felis traded on the news and Carpenter allowed
Winans to place trades through his account. All were convicted.
Carpenter died in 1991.  Wife, Husband  At the sentencing, Rakoff compared Carpenter’s relationship
with Winans to that of wife-and-husband and said Carpenter
merely acquiesced to Winans’ trades, according to Winans’s
lawyer, Don Buchwald. Carpenter got probation while Winans was
given an 18-month prison term.  “He was following Foster,” Buchwald said in a phone
interview last week. “Carpenter was a very sympathetic
figure.”  This week, Gupta will be seeking sympathy of a different
sort from Rakoff. Gupta’s lawyer, Naftalis, said in a court
filing that Gupta deserves probation because his crime was an
aberration in a life “defined by helping others.”  Naftalis cited Gupta’s work as chairman of the Global Fund,
an initiative to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, as well
as his work with the  United Nations  to improve world health.
Naftalis declined to comment on a comparison of the Gupta and
Carpenter cases. The defense submitted more than 400 letters to
the judge describing Gupta’s accomplishments.  In their pre-sentencing court filings, prosecutors gave a
different portrait of Gupta and asked Rakoff to consider the
personal relationship between Gupta and Rajaratnam.  ‘Very Close Friend’  In asking for a term of 97 months to 121 months, which they
say are called for by U.S. sentencing guidelines, prosecutors
say Gupta violated confidences and breached his duty as a senior
corporate official by leaking news to his “very close friend”
and business partner.  “Gupta’s interests often were aligned with those of
Rajaratnam and Galleon such that Gupta stood to benefit if
Galleon was successful,” prosecutors wrote in a filing, citing
Gupta’s investment in Galleon and their partnership in another
investment fund.  In court papers filed today, Gupta’s lawyers also argued
against a request by the U.S. to order Gupta to pay restitution
to his victims, including one by Goldman Sachs seeking $6.7
million in legal fees and a percentage of the compensation it
paid him as a director. Naftalis argued the request was
“flawed” and that there was “no basis for the request.”  “It ignores the fact that Mr. Gupta received no profits,”
Naftalis said, noting that when Rajaratnam was sentenced in Oct.
2011 and ordered to forfeit $53.8 million, Goldman Sachs never
sought restitution from the  fund manager , who traded on
information Gupta passed him in September and October 2008.  Goldman’s Claim  “Goldman trades by Galleon formed a significant aspect of
the conspiracy charges against Rajaratnam,” Naftalis said.
“Goldman made no claim to restitution at the time of
Rajaratnam’s sentencing. And the government’s submission here
provides scant explanation and no documentary support for
Goldman’s claim.”  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a filing today argued that
the court should stand by a sentencing guideline of eight years
to 10 years.  The U.S. doesn’t dispute that “in most respects” Gupta,
as described in support letters sent to the court, has led an
“exemplary and law-abiding life,” according to the filing.
Those facts must be balanced against Gupta’s conviction for an
offense that threatened the “integrity of the financial markets
in a serious way,” Bharara argued.  Deterrence  Richard Holwell , the former federal judge who presided over
Rajaratnam’s trial and sentenced the fund manager, said judges
consider “general deterrence,” or whether the sentence they
impose will deter others from committing similar crimes.  “The nature and circumstances of the crime weigh in the
government’s favor, because insider trading is a serious white-
collar crime that undermines the integrity of the markets” said
Holwell, who is now in private practice.  “The government will lean on general deterrence because
insider trading has to be eradicated and one way to do that is
by taking highly visible cases and making examples of them,”
Holwell said. “That will weigh heavily on Rakoff.”  Other criminal defense lawyers said Gupta’s fall from grace
may work in his favor.  Kevin O’Brien , a former federal
prosecutor in New York, said the judge must weigh Gupta’s
achievements against his crimes.  ‘Human Drama’  “There is human drama there,” O’Brien said. “You can
make the argument that for a guy like this who was on top of the
world to have fallen so low and to have been so humiliated and
exposed by a lengthy public trial, that is punishment enough.”  “What is smart about the Rwanda option is that it makes
vivid Gupta’s commitment to public service and brings out with
some clarity his history of good deeds,” he said. “It’s a
creative approach.”  Federal sentencing guidelines are advisory. Rakoff’s
history has been one of imposing sentences well below the
recommended federal guidelines, which he has called a “mirage
of something that can be obtained with arithmetic certainty.”  Last year, he sentenced James Fleishman, a former executive
at expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, to 2 1/2
years in prison for passing tips to fund managers while the
guidelines called for more than seven years. He also ordered
Primary Global consultant Winifred Jiau to serve 48 months for
selling information. Her guidelines suggested a term of 78
months to 97 months in prison.  Rarely Silent  Still, Rakoff has rarely been silent about the contempt he
has for insider traders, often expressing his sentiments in open
court. In Fleishman’s case, he said insider prosecutions over
“the last 30 or 40 years” have not “done enough to deter this
serious and sophisticated crime.”  With Jiau, whose scheme ran for two years, he said the
leaks undermined “the integrity of the financial markets” and
demanded a “meaningful sentence.”  Maffeo said he believes Rakoff will impose some term of
incarceration upon Gupta.  Rakoff has demanded prison in cases in which, unlike Gupta,
the defendants have admitted trafficking in illicit information.
He sentenced ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Donald Longueuil
to 30 months instead of the 46 months to 57 months urged by the
guidelines. He ordered a former  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (TSM)  manager to spend 18 months behind bars.  Love Families  “Why is it that defendants always remember how much they
love their families after they’ve committed the crimes that
place that relationship in jeopardy?” Rakoff said at the
sentencing of former Galleon trader  Adam Smith , who won
probation largely because he cooperated with prosecutors and
testified against Rajaratnam.  Rakoff imposed an 18-month prison term on Manosha
Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
manager who pleaded guilty to passing nonpublic information
about his company’s orders to fund managers as part of an
insider-trading scheme. Karunatilaka cooperated with the U.S.
and accepted responsibility for his crimes.  As Karunatilaka’s infant child cried in the courtroom,
Rakoff rejected a bid by defense lawyer Brad Bailey to impose a
term of six months’ in prison and six months of home
confinement.  Gupta, after two days of deliberations by a jury, was found
guilty of three counts of securities fraud and one count of
conspiracy. The tips came in September and October 2008 and
concerned Buffett’s $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs and
the bank’s losses in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Jurors acquitted Gupta of charges that he leaked
information that Cincinnati-based P&G’s organic sales growth
would fall below estimates and that he tipped Rajaratnam about
Goldman Sachs’s earnings in the first quarter of 2007.  Deserves Leniency  In his filing, Naftalis argued that Gupta deserves leniency
because his crimes were limited to a two-month period in 2008.  Peter Henning , a professor at  Wayne State University Law
School  in  Detroit , said Rakoff will focus on the nature of the
crime and Gupta’s background. Henning predicted that the former
Goldman Sachs director will get a prison term of two years to
three years.  “That’s not a deleterious prison term, but it is prison
and it doesn’t mean he will get a free pass,” Henning said in a
phone interview. “It has to be a term to get everyone’s
attention, and by everyone, I mean Wall Street.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  