-- Tidal-Turbine Maker Oceanflow in Talks on Europe, China Funding
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-22T15:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/tidal-turbine-maker-oceanflow-in-talks-on-europe-china-funding.html
Oceanflow Energy Ltd., a U.K. maker
of turbines to generate power from tides, and adviser Turquoise
International Ltd. are talking with engineering companies in
 Europe  and utilities in  China  over possible investments.  They are talking with European industrial and engineering
groups and the Chinese on helping Oceanflow bring its technology
to market, Turquoise Managing Director Ian Thomas said by phone.  “The important thing is to have a partnership and
investment from one of these players and ultimately you’d
imagine that they would want to acquire the whole business to
incorporate these technologies,” Thomas said in an interview.
Turquoise began looking for an investor about two months ago and
fundraising like Oceanflow’s takes about six months, he said.  Marine energy companies have been gaining investments from
larger industrial groups that have necessary funds. Siemens AG,
Europe’s largest engineering company, bought Marine Current
Turbines Ltd. in February. Alstom SA last month bought Tidal
Generation Ltd. from Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. ABB Ltd. last
year invested in wave technology maker Aquamarine Power Ltd.  An investor active in marine construction or installation
work would make a “good fit” for Oceanflow, the company’s
Managing Director Graeme Mackie said today by e-mail.  “When people talk about industrial players they always
mention, because they are so high profile, the likes of ABB and
Alstom,” Thomas said. “But I think the potential universe of
industrial investors is much broader. The Chinese utilities are
making a big push in marine in all its forms from hydro through
to tidal and wave and they’re looking to acquire technologies in
that area in the same way they have done in wind and solar.”  20 Percent  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to meet
as much as 20 percent of the U.K.’s current electricity demand,
according to Department of Energy and Climate Change estimates.  Turquoise, a London-based finance adviser, is also raising
money for bioethanol maker Vireol Plc, RockTron International
Ltd., a recycler of fly-ash from coal-fired power stations, and
Controlled Power Technologies Ltd., a designer of carbon cutting
products for vehicles. It was hired last month to raise funds
for Irish geothermal developer GT Energy, working with EON AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  