-- India’s Always Bullish Analysts Are Turning Bears
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i ,   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-10-23T11:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/india-s-always-bullish-analysts-turning-bearish-as-mobius-adds.html
Indian stock analysts who predicted
gains in the nation’s benchmark index while the gauge fell last
year are now turning bearish as equities surge the most since
2009.  More than 1,200 estimates compiled by Bloomberg on Oct. 4
showed analysts projecting a 1 percent drop for the  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  in the next 12 months, after they overestimated
returns by an average 21 percentage points in 2011. The
benchmark measure has climbed 21 percent this year, the best
performance among the largest emerging markets, as international
money managers bought a net $18.1 billion of Indian shares, data
compiled by the country’s market regulator and Bloomberg show.  While Mumbai-based securities firm Dolat Capital Market
Pvt. advises cutting holdings of  State Bank of India  because of
loan losses and Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. has downgraded  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  on slower earnings growth, Templeton Emerging
Markets Group’s  Mark Mobius  is increasing his Indian holdings.
Mobius, who oversees $48 billion, cites Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to open up the economy for his bullish stance.  “They are going through a reform process so there’s a lot
of opportunities,” Mobius said in an Oct. 12 interview in
Singapore. “We are adding now.”  The Sensex index is valued at 16 times reported earnings,
the most expensive of the so-called BRIC markets after  Brazil 
and about 5 percent below its average since 2000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge  trades  for 2.7 times book
value, or assets minus liabilities, a 15 percent discount to its
historical average, the data show.  Growth Plan  Singh began a campaign in September to revive  India ’s
economic  growth  from the weakest level since 2009 and avoid a
credit-rating downgrade. He lowered taxes on companies’ overseas
borrowing and announced plans to open the country’s retail and
aviation industries to foreign investment.  The 80-year-old leader unveiled more policy changes this
month, including proposals to boost overseas investment in the
insurance and pension industries, which require support from his
party’s coalition partners to win parliamentary approval.
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Oct. 12 that he plans further changes in
 capital markets , banking and infrastructure in the next few
weeks.  Political Support  “India has shown us time and again that with a few fairly
simple policy moves, you can ratchet up growth very fast,”
 Arjuna Mahendran , the Singapore-based head of Asia investment
strategy at  HSBC Private Bank , which manages about $500 billion,
said in an Oct. 11 interview on Bloomberg TV India.  Mahendran expects the Sensex to  climb  above 20,000 in the
next six months, he said in a separate interview on Oct. 1.
That’s at least 6.9 percent higher than the index’s close of
18,710.02 in Mumbai today.  Singh may struggle to win the political support needed to
enact his recommendations,  Daphne Roth , the Singapore-based head
of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 9. Returns from Indian
stocks may be limited by inflation, the government’s budget
shortfall and the current-account deficit, she said.  Inflation  quickened  to 7.81 percent in September, the
fastest level among the BRICs and above the  Reserve Bank  of
India’s comfort level of about 5 percent, according to
government data released on Oct. 15. The budget shortfall may
reach 6 percent of gross domestic product in the year through
March 2013, compared with the government’s target of 5.1
percent, according to  Standard & Poor’s . The current-account
deficit in the three months ended June was 3.9 percent of GDP.  BRIC Outlook  The wave of policy announcements has failed to convince
equity analysts the surge in Indian stocks will continue. Their
12-month return forecasts for the Sensex index turned negative
this month for the first time in two years and the projection as
of yesterday was for a 1.9 percent gain, down from 19 percent
five months ago. That compares with estimated increases of at
least 18 percent for benchmark indexes in China, Brazil and
 Russia , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indian analysts have been too bullish every week since
Bloomberg began compiling the projections in July 2010,
overestimating returns by an average 21 percentage points, the
data show.  Analysts cut fiscal 2013 profit  forecasts  for Sensex
companies by 1.4 percent since June, when earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell to 19.5
percent of sales, the data show. The so-called Ebitda margin, a
 gauge  of profitability, for the quarter ended June matched the
lowest level since 2003.  Refining Margins  Deepak Pareek, an analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage
Prabhudas Lilladher who cut his recommendation on Reliance
Industries to reduce from accumulate on Aug. 23, said in an Oct.
11 phone interview that refining margins are unlikely to rise
“significantly” from current levels. Reliance is also
struggling to win government approval to develop new gas
discoveries, he said.  Pareek maintained his rating in an Oct. 16 note and said he
expects Mumbai-based Reliance to  trade  at 805 rupees in the next
12 months, compared with its closing level of 823 the previous
day. On Oct. 17, 2011, he predicted the stock would reach 952.
It peaked at 905 in intraday trading on Nov. 4 before slumping
to as low as 673.05 on May 16.  Analysts covering  State Bank , India’s largest lender,
reduced their share-price estimates by 2.7 percent this year
even as the stock surged 38 percent.  State Bank  Rakesh Kumar, an analyst at Dolat Capital Market, lowered
his recommendation on the lender to reduce from accumulate on
Aug. 13 and gave a price target of 1,810 rupees, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 19 percent below State Bank’s
closing price of 2,240.95 rupees in Mumbai trading yesterday.  Kumar predicted on Oct. 19, 2011, the stock would rally
about 24 percent to 2,317. The shares fell to as low as 1,571.10
rupees on Dec. 20 after State Bank reported an increase in
defaults. Now, Kumar is advising investors to cut holdings as
there are few signs of improvement in loan  quality , he said in
an Oct. 15 phone interview.  Overseas investors increased their stake in State Bank to
9.1 percent of the shares from 7.9 percent in December,
according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign
 inflows  into Indian stocks this year are the biggest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s not the time to be bearish on India,” David Gaud, a
senior money manager at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management in
Hong Kong, which oversees about $18 billion in equities and
convertible bonds, said in an Oct. 15 phone interview.  Falling Valuations  State Bank is valued at a 4 percent discount versus the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Financials Index, compared with a premium
of as much as 26 percent two years ago, according to price-to-
book ratios compiled by Bloomberg. Reliance Industries’ price-
earnings ratio has fallen to a 18 percent discount to Rio de
Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-run oil
producer, from a 22 percent premium at the start of the year.  The Sensex  returned  an average 29 percent in 12 months
during periods from 1980 to 2011 when the combined budget and
current-account deficits were more than 8 percent of GDP,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. India’s budget shortfall was 5.8
percent of GDP and the current-account gap was 4.2 percent in
the 12 months ended March 2012.  “When the twin deficits are high like now, something
happens,” Ajay Kapur, Deutsche Bank’s head of Asian equity
strategy in  Hong Kong , wrote in an Oct. 8 report. “Policy
reforms get enacted while valuations already reflect the grim
situation.”  Still Skeptical  Singh cut taxes, reduced tariffs and removed restrictions
on foreign investment in the auto and pharmaceutical industries
during his five years as finance minister from 1991 to 1996.  India’s economy  expanded at an average annual pace of about
6 percent in the period, compared with 3.6 percent for emerging
markets, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
Sensex climbed about 170 percent during Singh’s term.  “Most Indian analysts are still skeptical about how the
government can push forward the reforms,” said Edmond de
Rothschild’s Gaud, who’s been adding to infrastructure-related
companies. “India is probably the market where we’ve been
turning more active and more positive over the past three to
four months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  