-- Indonesia Investments Rose Last Quarter on Mining, Transport
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-10-22T05:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/indonesia-investments-rose-last-quarter-on-mining-transport.html
Indonesian investment rose last
quarter as mining, transportation and food companies started
new operations or expanded existing ones.  Investment  climbed 25.1 percent to 81.8 trillion rupiah
($8.5 billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30 from a year
earlier, M. Chatib Basri, chairman of the Investment
Coordinating Board, said in Jakarta today. In the first nine
months of 2012, investments rose 27 percent to 229.9 trillion
rupiah from a year earlier, the board said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is increasing spending
and wooing overseas funds to spur growth in Southeast Asia’s
largest economy and create new jobs as more people enter the
labor force. Companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Taiwan’s
 Foxconn (2038)  Technology Group are mulling investment opportunities
in Indonesia, and  L’Oreal (OR)  SA will expand a cosmetics factory
this month, Basri said in September.  “Strong foreign direct investment will offset a slowdown
in exports,” Basri said today. The agency forecasts total
investments may be more than 300 trillion rupiah this year,
exceeding its previous target of 290 trillion rupiah, he said.  Foreign direct investment climbed 22 percent to 56.6
trillion rupiah last quarter from a year earlier, mainly
supported by companies in mining, chemical, pharmaceutical,
transportation and telecommunication industries, the board said.
Domestic investments during the July-to-September period rose
32.6 percent to 25.2 trillion rupiah, supported by mineral non-
metals, food and textile industries, the agency said.  Singapore was the biggest contributor to third-quarter
foreign investment, accounting for $1.5 billion.  Indonesia  is
targeting foreign and local investment of about 500 trillion
rupiah in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  