-- Iran Vies With Saudi Arabia for Top OPEC Job
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-10-22T12:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/iran-vies-with-saudi-arabia-for-top-opec-job.html
Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries governors gather in Vienna to select a new secretary-
general for the first time in six years, with four countries
vying for the position.  The governors started their two-day meeting at 10 a.m.
local time at OPEC’s headquarters and will interview nominees
from  Iran  and  Iraq  as well as the group’s biggest and smallest
exporters,  Saudi Arabia  and  Ecuador . The governors will
recommend a successor to  Libya ’s Abdalla el-Badri, who completes
a second, three-year term at the end of this year. A final
decision will be taken by ministers in December.  “The secretary-general does play an important role, with
implications beyond the oil markets,” Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior
market consultant at KBC Energy Economics, a unit of KBC
Advanced Technology Plc, said by phone from Walton-on-Thames,
 England  on Oct. 19. “He has to represent all opinions despite
differences between member countries.”  The producer group controlling 40 percent of global oil
supply has boosted output in the past two years as fighting in
Libya and sanctions on Iran disrupted exports from those two
members, keeping prices volatile. The secretary-general can
coordinate emergency meetings when needed and the post holds
political gravitas within OPEC even though policy decisions are
made by oil ministers from the 12 member states. OPEC supply
quotas will be discussed by ministers on Dec. 12, and are not
for debate this week.  Founded in 1960, OPEC has previously had one secretary-
general from each of the four nominee countries; Ecuador in
1979-1981 and the others in the 1960s.  Former Ministers  This time, Saudi Arabia nominated its former OPEC governor,
Majid al-Moneef, while Iran selected Gholamhossein Nozari, a
former oil minister. Iraq, OPEC’s second-biggest producer, is
backing  Thamir Ghadhban , another former oil minister. Ecuador,
the organization’s smallest producer, nominated Wilson Pastor,
who is that country’s current oil minister.  Ministers will make a final decision on any selection at
the full OPEC meeting on Dec. 12 at the group’s headquarters in
the Austrian capital.  The competition to fill the OPEC secretariat’s top job
comes amid rising tension between Saudi Arabia and Iran.  Saudi-Iran Tension  Saudi Arabia’s Sunni monarchy has accused Shiite-led Iran
of interfering in the affairs of Arab countries in the Persian
Gulf, a charge denied by Iran who in turn accuses Sunni rulers
in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia of discriminating against Shiites.
Saudi Arabia  increased output  this year to replace volumes lost
from Iran, whose exports have been curbed by U.S. and European
Union sanctions, relegating it from the rank of OPEC’s second-
largest producer.  Suleiman al-Herbish, who was nominated for the secretary-
general position by Saudi Arabia in 1999, is backing the
kingdom’s nominee. Al-Moneef wrote his doctorate thesis on the
impact of  oil prices  on producing nations and is respected in
the  energy industry , al-Herbish said.  “Other members should be delighted that the kingdom is
putting forward someone with so much knowledge and experience,”
al-Herbish, now the director-general of the OPEC Fund for
International Development, said in a phone interview from Vienna
today. “Saudi Arabia is balancing the market, it is the main
exporter, it is putting its weight behind the organization,
playing the major role in charting the future of OPEC, and it
hasn’t held the secretary-general position for a long time.”  Required Experience  The  OPEC Statute  defines the requirements for a secretary-
general, who must be at least 35 years old with a degree from a
recognized university, and have at least 10 years experience in
the oil industry.  “It may be difficult to elect someone from Iran because of
the embargo,”  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Vienna, said by phone Oct. 19. “It may also
be difficult to get agreement about a Saudi Arabian person
because the kingdom may push for an oil price of around $100 a
barrel while the other members would prefer higher prices.”  For those reasons, the Ecuadorean or Iraqi candidates may
be “more convenient,” Loacker said.  Still, Ecuador’s candidate, Pastor, told reporters in  Quito 
on Oct. 19 that he had “few possibilities” of securing the job
because his country is a small producer and doesn’t have the
same weight as other member nations.  Ending Deadlock  El-Badri’s selection as secretary-general in 2007 over
candidates from Iran and  Kuwait  ended a three-year deadlock over
a permanent appointment for the post. A former chairman of
Libya’s National Oil Co., el-Badri’s tenure at OPEC has now
outlived the deposed Libyan government of  Muammar Qaddafi  that
nominated him.  Each member state appoints a governor and a national
representative to OPEC. The governor sits on the board, helping
to manage the organization and its budget, while the
representative’s duties include analyzing the oil market. Each
country’s oil minister usually leads their delegation at OPEC
conferences, which occur at least twice a year, when the group’s
supply targets and any other policies are decided.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria ,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  