-- Italy’s Finance Minister Grilli to Leave Treasury After Vote
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-22T16:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/italy-s-finance-minister-grilli-to-leave-treasury-after-vote.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said he won’t seek a government post or a Treasury
position after general elections due by May.  “I will go back to private citizenship,” Grilli, 55, said
at an event in Verona, northern Italy today. He also said he
won’t return to the Treasury, adding his successor as director
general is a “valid” one. Grilli’s comments, originally
reported by news agency Ansa, were confirmed by the minister’s
spokesman Filippo Pepe.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  picked Milan-born civil servant
Grilli as his deputy at the  finance ministry  at the start of his
caretaker government in November to aid efforts to lower Italy’s
borrowing costs and stave off a European bailout. Grilli had
been head of the Treasury under the governments of  Silvio Berlusconi  and Romano Prodi, helping to craft an emergency
budget last year. Grilli replaced Monti as finance minister on
July 11.  Grilli, who served as president of the European Union’s
Economic and Financial Committee last year, started at the
Treasury in 1993 and in 1994 was named to help carry out one of
Europe’s biggest privatization programs in support of Italy’s
entry for the euro. He was appointed by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , then-head of the Treasury, and oversaw
the sale of stakes in in many state companies until 2000.  After a stint as managing director of  Credit Suisse First
Boston , Grilli returned to the ministry in 2002 as chief
controller and became director general three years later. He
holds a doctorate in economics from the University of Rochester
in New York and has taught economics at Yale University and the
University of London.  On March 23 Monti named World Bank Group Chief Financial
Officer Vincenzo La Via as director general of the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  