-- Mitsubishi Drops Most in Five Months on Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-10-22T01:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/mitsubishi-drops-most-in-five-months-on-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which together
with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  owns the world’s largest coal exporting
business, fell the most in five months after cutting its annual
profit target by 34 percent and reducing the dividend forecast.  The shares dropped as much as 5.6 percent on the  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange. The stock was down 4.6 percent to 1,364 yen as
of 9:30 a.m. and a close at that price would be the biggest
decline since May 18.  Mitsubishi cut the annual dividend forecast to 50 yen from
70 yen. That compares with the 65 yen payout last year.  “There was no real surprise in the revised profit outlook
but the major downward revision in dividends was more than the
market expected,” Jiro Iokibe, an analyst at Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. said today in Tokyo. “It seems that the negatives
are cleared out now, but there’s a lack of clarity on when the
profits will rise and hence drive the share price.”  Profit this year may drop to 330 billion yen ($4.16
billion), compared to an initial forecast of 500 billion yen,
Mitsubishi said on Oct. 19 after the market closed. A slide in
 iron ore  and coal prices due to a slowdown in  China’s economy 
this year, and strikes at the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance
mines in Australia have shrunk profits at the trader’s metals
unit, its biggest earner last year.  Mitsubishi’s profit target cut was bigger than expected by
brokers.  UBS AG (UBSN)  Tokyo-based analyst Katsuya Takeuchi said in an
Oct. 2 report that he expected Mitsubishi to revise the profit
forecast to 350 billion yen. Barclays Plc. Tokyo-based analyst
Kazuhisa Mori forecast a drop to 380 billion yen in an Oct. 3
report.  Mitsubishi Chief Financial Officer Ryoichi Ueda said Aug. 2
that the company will review its 500 billion yen profit target
at the end of the next quarter on worsening demand for bulk
commodities and strikes at Australian operations.  The trader also cited the  European debt crisis , poor
conditions in the chemical markets and the risk of writedowns of
marketable securities as factors for the profit forecast
downgrade last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  