-- Former Chinese Leader Resurfaces Before Political Transition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-23T08:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/jiang-zemin-resurfaces-as-china-s-communist-congress-approaches.html
Jiang Zemin , the former Chinese
president who was declared dead by a Hong Kong television
station last year, is back in the headlines on the eve of a
once-a-decade leadership transition in  China , where retired
elders have long influenced the political horse-trading process.  On Oct. 19 the official People’s Daily reminded readers
that late paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping  once called Jiang, 86,
a “qualified” Communist Party leader. The paper’s website the
next day reported Jiang met university officials in Beijing and
included a picture. Xinhua News Agency said Oct. 21 he
congratulated his old middle school on its 110th anniversary.  Jiang’s appearances less than three weeks before the start
of the Communist Party Congress signals to fellow cadres that he
is healthy and involved in negotiations over who will run China
for the next decade, according to analysts including  John Lee  of
the University of Sydney. The reports may be aimed at projecting
stability during a transition that’s been roiled by the ouster
of Politburo member Bo Xilai and heir-apparent Xi Jinping’s two-
week public absence in September.  “His public appearances are probably calculated to advance
both his presence and the standing of his preferred candidates
within the party,” said Lee, an adjunct professor at the
university’s Centre for International and  Security Studies .
“The involvement of elders is seen by the Party as a
stabilizing rather than destabilizing factor since the
psychological factor of continuity rather than radical change is
much more comforting.”  Elders Involved  Party elders have long been involved in the succession
process, with their blessing of the next generation seen as
crucial. Deng supported Jiang’s promotion to party general
secretary after the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown. Hua
Guofeng, who succeeded Chairman  Mao Zedong  in 1976, claimed the
leadership mantle by touting the endorsement of the Great
Helmsman, who reportedly told him that “with you in charge, I
am at ease.”  Jiang served as party general secretary from 1989 to 2002.
 China’s economy  more than tripled in size during his time in
power and is now the world’s second-largest.  This year has seen new challenges for the party, including
Bo’s ouster and expulsion from the Communist Party over the
murder of British businessman Neil Heywood, along with Xi’s
unexplained absence. On Oct. 18, China reported third-quarter
economic growth eased to 7.4 percent from a year earlier, the
seventh straight deceleration.  Prominent Proteges  Jiang’s most prominent protege is Xi, the current vice
president who is set to succeed President  Hu Jintao  as general
secretary at the congress beginning Nov. 8 and assume the mantle
of president next year, according to Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an
adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese University  of Hong
Kong. Other proteges include Chongqing Party Secretary  Zhang
Dejiang  and propaganda chief Liu Yunshan, he said.  Jiang has waged a power struggle with Hu for more than a
decade and the fact that the incoming Politburo Standing
Committee, China’s most powerful ruling body, is forecast to
include Zhang and Liu -- and not Hu ally Wang Yang -- suggests a
victory for Jiang, according to Lam.  “These media appearances so close to a major event mean
something -- he is definitely out on maneuvers,” said Kerry
Brown, a former British diplomat in Beijing who is now a
professor at the  University of Sydney . “He wants people close
to him in the new line up. And I suppose a more benign
interpretation is that is stresses continuity.”  Weak Methods  Jiang’s involvement also exposes the weakness of the
methods by which China’s leaders are chosen, illustrating the
complex and informal transition process, University of Sydney’s
Lee said. The prolonged influence of elders makes it “more
rather than less difficult to change policy direction in the
absence of dramatic events,” he said.  Jiang largely disappeared from public view last year, and
his absence from the Communist Party’s 90th anniversary
celebrations in July 2011 led to speculation about his health.
On July 6 of that year,  Hong Kong ’s Asia Television Ltd.
reported that Jiang had died, prompting Xinhua to issue a
rebuttal that reports of his death were “pure rumor.”  Jiang met with the president and party secretary of
Shanghai Ocean University on Oct. 9 in Beijing, the People’s
Daily website reported Oct. 20. A photograph of the meeting
showed a white-haired Jiang wearing a gray suit and blue tie. On
Oct. 15 Xinhua reported Jiang sent condolences on the passing of
Cambodian King Norodom Sihanouk.  Crucial Role  “The signal is clear -- the new leadership team is
something Jiang has played a crucial role in picking,” said
Minxin Pei, a professor of political science at  Claremont
McKenna College  in  California .  Pei said he expected mentions of Jiang to stop once the
party congress ends, since more appearances could take attention
away from Xi and the party’s other new leaders.  “He has to be careful about not overshadowing the new
leader, Xi, after the party congress is over,” Pei said. “If
Jiang keeps appearing in public after Nov. 15, this could send
the wrong signal, something suggesting his continuing
influence.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  