-- KKR, Goldman Said to Eye Kion IPO for Second Quarter
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-10-23T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/kkr-goldman-said-to-eye-kion-ipo-for-second-quarter.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  plan an initial public offering of Kion Group GmbH, the
world’s second-largest maker of forklifts, in the second quarter
of 2013, according to people familiar with the matter.  Kion’s owners are likely to choose banks to advise on the
Frankfurt IPO alongside Goldman Sachs by the end of November,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. KKR, the buyout firm run by Henry Kravis and
 George Roberts , and Goldman will likely sell a stake of less
than 40 percent in order to remain the largest shareholders,
although a final amount and timing has not been set, the people
said.  The IPO plans follow a move by KKR and Goldman in August to
sell 25 percent of Kion to  Weichai Power Co. (2338) , China’s biggest
maker of heavy-duty trucks, helping to trim debt. Kion also sold
70 percent of its hydraulics unit to the Chinese firm. The moves
brought Kion 738 million euros ($964 million) in investment from
Weichai, which would keep its stake in Kion, or raise it to
almost 30 percent in an IPO, the people said.  Officials at KKR, Goldman and Kion declined to comment on
plans for an IPO.  Kion Chief Executive Officer Gordon Riske said on Aug. 31
that shareholders aim to do an IPO. Weichai Chairman Tan Xuguang
said on Sept. 3 that an IPO was planned no later than 2014, as
decreasing financing costs at Kion will be a “very good
foundation´´ for an IPO.  Reducing Debt  Kion may also discuss with its lending banks what options
it has to further reduce debt in conjunction with the IPO, in
order to boost investor interest in the shares, one of the
people said.  The investment in August secured new products and access to
German engineering for Weichai as slowing growth in  China  saps
demand for its trucks and engines. It also gave Kion better
access to the world’s largest forklift market as the Wiesbaden,
Germany-based company plans to overtake  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) ,
an affiliate of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , as the global leader in
forklifts by 2015 or 2016, according to Riske.  Revenue Rises  Revenue at Kion rose 6.4 percent to 1.17 billion euros in
the second quarter, with earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization gaining 6.6 percent to 190 million
euros. The company had 22,250 employees as of June 30, with net
financial debt at 2.74 billion euros.  On Oct. 2, German insurer  Talanx AG (TLX)  completed the largest
IPO in  Germany  in five years, raising optimism for initial share
sales in Europe’s largest economy.  Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to sell almost a quarter of its
German mobile business in an IPO this month, seeking to raise as
much as 1.68 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  