-- Kuwaitis Clash With Police in Protest Over Voting Law Change
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-22T05:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/kuwaitis-clash-with-police-in-protest-over-voting-law-change-1-.html
Clashes broke out at a demonstration
in  Kuwait  last night when thousands of protesters opposed to
government-imposed changes to the voting law were confronted by
security personnel in the oil-producing state.  Smoke bombs were used and shots fired near Kuwait Towers in
 Kuwait City , the capital, sending hundreds running from the area
as flashes lit up the night sky and a helicopter circled above.
Armed riot police blocked the roads, beat protesters and made
arrests, according to people fleeing the area. One, Reem al-
Fadala, said her husband Rashed al-Fadala, a political activist,
had been arrested along with his brother.  “We only wanted a peaceful demonstration,” she said.  The cabinet held an extraordinary meeting Oct. 20 to issue
a draft decree changing the voting system by reducing the number
of candidates each voter can elect to one from four. The
opposition has alleged the change will make it easier for
corrupt candidates to buy votes. The cabinet issued a separate
draft decree setting elections for Dec. 1.  The country’s benchmark  stock index  tumbled 3.1 percent,
the most since July 2009, to 5,729.38 at the close in Kuwait
City yesterday.  Kuwait’s emir said Oct. 19 he asked the government to amend
the electoral system “to protect national unity, bolster the
democratic practice and achieve equality among all Kuwaitis.”  “I have followed the latest developments in Kuwait with
sorrow, pain and serious concern,” Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Jaber Al Sabah said in a televised address to the nation. The ruler
called for unity and said he wouldn’t accept “the culture of
violence” or “chaos on the street.”  Illegal Marches  The  Interior Ministry  said in a statement it would deal
harshly with any violation of the law. Protest marches are
illegal without prior approval in Kuwait. Groups of
demonstrators “deliberately” ignored the ministry’s calls and
“walked through commercial areas causing disruption of
traffic” and hurling stones at security forces, injuring 11 of
them, the ministry said in a statement. A number of people were
arrested when security officers were forced to deal with
“blatant violations and public breach of law,” it said.  Protesters had assembled at the Kuwait Towers after being
prevented from marching from certain points in the city when a
first round of clashes erupted. Protesters filing down the main
coast road said they were following instructions via Twitter to
relocate the protest to the towers, where police were already
gathering in preparation.  Most opposition groups, and a number of former lawmakers
who hadn’t previously supported opposition-led protests,
criticized the voting changes and vowed to boycott the
elections. Other former parliamentarians welcomed it, saying the
change would bring stability to the country.  Steps toward democracy in OPEC’s third-biggest producer
have led to repeated clashes between lawmakers and governments
chosen by the ruling Al-Sabah family, straining an economy that
trails Gulf peers as projects to diversify from oil become mired
in political disputes.  Al-Sabah family members met the emir late yesterday and
affirmed the “loyalty and obedience” of all members of the
family, the state-run KUNA news agency reported.  Street protests last year, amplified by the wave of unrest
across the Arab world, drove out a government headed by the
emir’s nephew amid calls for more power-sharing with elected
politicians. The emir dissolved parliament on Oct. 7, the third
dissolution in less than a year.  Court Ruling  The step followed a  Constitutional Court  ruling against a
government bid to amend the voting system. The emir had
dissolved that same parliament in December, after a dispute over
alleged corruption fed unprecedented anti-government protests.  A new parliament was elected in February, with the
opposition winning most of the 50 seats, only to be dissolved
four months later when the Constitutional Court voided the vote
and reinstated its predecessor. The opposition had considered
the reinstated parliament to be illegal.  The election law, last amended in 2006, “showed a set of
imbalances and problems that pose a serious threat” to national
unity, security, and values and “fomented sectarianism and
tribalism,” the emir said in his speech.  Kuwait’s opposition includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups that draw inspiration from
the Arab Spring uprisings. Some groups want a constitutional
monarchy and an elected government, while others say their focus
is fighting corruption and bringing about reform without
amending the constitution.  Kuwait was the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries last month after  Saudi Arabia  and
 Iraq , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  