-- New York Life Hedges Yield Jump as Rate Nirvana Elusive
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-22T20:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/new-york-life-hedges-yield-jump-as-rate-nirvana-elusive.html
New York Life Insurance Co., the
insurer with a portfolio of more than $170 billion, limited the
investment duration and hedged against higher yields to prepare
for a rise in  interest rates  after U.S. bond buying ends.  The firm has “hedges designed to produce substantial
payoffs in the event of a spike-up in rates,” Chief Financial
Officer Michael Sproule said today. “We’re at the end of a 30-
year period of rates coming down.” He spoke at a panel
discussion at the  American Council of Life Insurers ’ annual
conference in Washington.  While a rise in rates will boost income from new bonds, it
can also depress the value of existing securities. That may
strain insurers’ balance sheets, he said.  Yields will remain depressed as the Federal Reserve buys
bonds and targets low rates through the middle of 2015 to boost
growth in the world’s largest economy. An eventual rise in rates
probably won’t be gradual, Sproule said.  “We all have our goldilocks scenario in mind which is the
forward curve, rates go up 30 to 50 basis points a year for a
decade,” he said. “That’s nirvana. And the chances of that
happening are probably pretty darn low.”  New York Life, the largest U.S. life insurer owned by
policyholders, had $174.9 billion in cash and invested assets as
of Dec. 31, including $132.7 billion of fixed-income securities.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  is limiting the duration of its
overall portfolio, said Chief Investment Officer Dan Sheehan.
The Richmond, Virginia-based insurer is investing in higher-
quality bonds at longer durations while taking credit risk in
securities that mature more quickly.  Credit Risk  “There was a time when we were willing to take lower-rated
credit risk at long durations,” Sheehan said. “We’re much more
invested in higher quality in the long-duration assets than we
had been traditionally.”  Sheehan said  the Fed’s  program of buying agency mortgage
bonds has soaked up supply and limited investment options.  “We were I think a beneficiary because we were in early in
that market and we benefited from the aggressive Fed buying, but
it makes it much less attractive going forward,” Sheehan said
in an interview in  Washington . “All of us have less places to
go, so it affects the spreads across the whole market.”  Genworth’s $73 billion investment portfolio included $59.8
billion in fixed-maturity securities as of June 30.  Sheehan said he prefers asset-backed securities that the
Fed isn’t buying, because Fed purchases have pushed down yields
on agency mortgage-backed securities by about 25 to 30 basis
points. That will reverse when stimulus efforts end, he said.  “I’d hate to be in the agency market when the Fed lets
go,” he said. “When they stop playing in that market, there’s
going to be a bounce back up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  