-- Nexen Shares Plunge Following Petronas Rebuff
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-22T21:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/nexen-shares-plunge-following-petronas-rebuff.html
Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the target of the
largest overseas takeover by a Chinese company, fell the most in
more than three months on concern its $15.1 billion purchase by
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  may not win government approvals following Canada’s
rejection of a bid for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)   Nexen, a Calgary-based oil and natural gas producer,
dropped 4.4 percent to close at C$24.04 in Toronto and fell 5
percent in New York, about 12 percent below Cnooc’s $27.50 offer
price.  The Canadian government rejected Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s
C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) bid for Calgary-based Progress
Energy on Oct. 19, minutes before the midnight review deadline.
Industry Minister Christian Paradis said he wasn’t satisfied the
bid is in Canada’s interest.  Progress Energy  fell 9.3 percent to
C$19.64 at 5:06 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest drop since March,
2009.  “The odds of the proposed acquisition by Cnooc getting
approval have fallen,” Philip Skolnick, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. in New York, wrote in a note e-mailed today. “We
now give the deal over a 50 percent chance of closing versus our
previous ‘high probability it closes’ view, with risk to the
offering price.”  Petronas, as the Malaysian company is known, and Progress
Energy will meet with officials from the Canadian government to
“better understand” objections to the takeover, according to a
release today.  “The sector in general will be under pressure,
particularly those names that have been viewed as potential
targets,”  Jim Byrne , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in
Calgary, said in an interview.  ‘Greatest Downside’  Companies including  NuVista Energy Ltd. (NVA) ,  Advantage Oil &
Gas Ltd. (AAV) ,  Birchcliff Energy Ltd. (BIR) ,  Paramount Resources Ltd. (POU)  and
 Painted Pony Petroleum Ltd. (PPY)  pose “the greatest downside in our
view,” said Byrne.  NuVista fell 3.2 percent to C$5.13 at the close in Toronto,
while Birchcliff fell 5.3 percent to C$8.17.  Canada’s oil and natural gas industry “is heavily
dependent on foreign capital and any movement to lessen Canada’s
attractiveness will result in lower activity levels,” Peters &
Co., a Calgary-based research company, said in a note today.  Cnooc, based in Beijing, has said it will retain Nexen
employees, make Calgary the headquarters for its enlarged North
American business and will have a secondary listing on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  