-- No. 1 Bookseller Seen Needing Amazon Takeover: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-22T14:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/no-1-bookseller-seen-needing-amazon-takeover-corporate-brazil.html
Saraiva SA Livreiros Editores (SLED4) ,
Brazil’s largest bookseller, is counting on products from
tablets to textbooks to fuel growth, spurring takeover talks
with Amazon.com Inc.  Amazon, the world’s largest seller of goods through the
Internet, is in talks to buy Sao Paulo-based Saraiva, said a
person with direct knowledge of the matter last week, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.
Saraiva said in a regulatory filing Oct. 18 that it’s always
“willing to look at” business opportunities, and that there’s
no deal to report.  Saraiva is attracting Amazon while seeking to transform
itself into an  online retailer  with a network of brick-and-
mortar outlets including 48 megastores and five iTown locations
to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products.  Rising incomes  and better education
in Brazil, the world’s largest emerging market after  China , are
fueling demand for books, electronics and entertainment, Saraiva
Chief Financial Officer Joao Luis Ramos Hopp said.  “Amazon is a well-known  brand (BRND)  in the U.S. and  Europe , but
Latin America is an opportunity that has not been grasped yet,”
Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co., said by telephone from
New York. “Brazil would be a good kickoff, given the size of
the country’s market.”  Shares of the Brazilian retailer have  gained  30 percent in
Sao Paulo since Aug. 31, giving it a market value of 700.6
million reais ($345.6 million) on Oct. 19. Saraiva trades at 7.1
times its estimated 2013 earnings, compared with a ratio of 62
for  Amazon. (AMZN)   Saraiva advanced 0.4 percent to 26.89 reais at 12:16 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, while the Bovespa index rose 0.3 percent.  No Deal Yet  While Hopp declined to comment on whether the bookseller is
in talks with Amazon, he said Saraiva’s publishing unit is
negotiating to sell its products through Amazon.  “Amazon has been around in Brazil for a while,” Hopp said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo on
Oct. 16. “Amazon is present and saying, ‘I want to sell my e-
book in Brazil’.”  Mary Osako, an Amazon spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Livraria Cultura , the second-biggest bookstore chain, is
also expanding into the market for digital content and signed an
exclusivity agreement with Kobo, a provider of e-readers and e-
books, to make more than 3 million titles available. Booksellers
are more concerned with the decline of readers in Brazil than
increased competition, Cultura Chairman Pedro Herz said.  Going ‘Backwards’  The number of people who said they read books, newspapers
or magazines in Brazil fell to 88.2 million in 2011, from 95.6
million in 2007, according to a  research  report released in
March by Instituto Pro-Livro, a non-profit organization that
aims to stimulate readership.  “Education is moving backwards,” Herz said. “Most people
don’t have the habit of reading, and that’s worrisome.”  Saraiva now gets 56 percent of its retail revenue from
products other than books, up from 48 percent five years ago,
Hopp said. It’s the second-biggest seller of Apple’s iPad and
the third-largest seller of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy
tablets in Brazil.  “We don’t see the bookstore as a temple of consumption for
intellectuals,” Marcilio Pousada, the head of Saraiva’s
bookstore unit, said in an interview on Oct. 16. “Everything
related to human knowledge -- entertainment and leisure -- we
are in.”  ‘Magic of Amazon’  Both Amazon and Saraiva have also said they want a bigger
presence in the market for textbooks. Saraiva’s publishing arm
is the biggest provider of textbooks in Brazil, Hopp said.
Seattle-based Amazon in August started offering electronic-
textbook rentals to draw more young people to its Kindle
electronic reader.  “This acquisition would be a way for Amazon to enter the
broad  retail  sector in  Brazil ,” Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by phone from New York. “The
magic of Amazon’s business model is that it creates loyalty
among customers with books, but in the end sells to these
clients all kinds of stuff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at   hmarinho@bloomberg.net  