-- Noda’s Support Slides as Policy Deadlock Weighs on Economy
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-22T06:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/noda-s-support-slides-as-legislative-deadlock-weighs-on-economy.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s popularity sank to a new low as a standoff deepened with
opposition leaders who want him to schedule new elections in
exchange for considering legislation needed to fund the budget.  Support for Noda, leader of the Democratic Party of  Japan ,
fell five percentage points to 18 percent, according to an Asahi
newspaper poll published today, after he failed last week to
persuade the opposition to back him on the legislation without
promising a specific election date. A survey by broadcaster
Nippon Television showed support for his cabinet down seven
points to 20.8 percent.  A scandal involving the justice minister has also
undermined Noda’s efforts to boost his party’s chances in
elections that must be called by August. The legislative
deadlock leaves him with few options to revive a faltering
economy being hit by plummeting exports amid a territorial
dispute with  China , Japan’s biggest trading partner.  “If they hold an election now the DPJ will obviously
lose,” said Katsuhiko Nakamura, director of research at Asian
Forum Japan. “Having said that, Noda cannot resign because the
 Democratic Party  has no one else to offer as a leader. They are
in an impasse.”  Talks with main opposition Liberal Democratic Party leader
Shinzo Abe and New Komeito leader Natsuo Yamaguchi, whose
support is needed to pass bills in the upper chamber of
parliament, fell apart last week. The two opposition party
leaders said they could not cooperate on the passage of bills
without a firmer commitment on the election.  Falling Exports  A government report today showed September exports fell the
most since the aftermath of the March 2011 earthquake, as a
strong yen and the dispute with China increased the chances of a
contraction in the world’s third-largest economy. Finance
Minister Koriki Jojima has said the government will run out of
money at the end of November unless a bill authorizing the
issuance of deficit-financing bonds is passed.  Noda reached a deal with the opposition in August to double
the five percent sales tax in return for promising to call
elections “soon.” Last week he said he wanted support on
changes to electoral constituencies and on establishing a
framework for revising the social security system, as well as on
the bond bill, before fulfilling his pledge.  Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  said yesterday that he
expected an election to come before the end of the year.  “It seems to me that ’soon’ doesn’t mean next year,” he
said on Fuji Television.  Personal Capacity  Almost 50 percent of respondents to the Asahi poll said
they favored an election by the end of the year. Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura declined to comment on the polls at a
press briefing in Tokyo and said he believed Maehara had been
speaking in a personal capacity.  The government will hold a special session of parliament
starting Oct. 29 for about a month, DPJ acting secretary general
Jun Azumi told reporters today.  In a blow to Noda’s administration, Justice Minister Keishu Tanaka was hospitalized on Oct. 19 after NHK television said he
would resign for attending a gangster’s wedding decades ago and
accepting donations from a foreign national. Tanaka has returned
the donations, saying they were received without his knowledge,
and said he didn’t know gangsters were involved in the wedding.  The 18 percent approval rating was Noda’s lowest in an
Asahi poll since he took office in September 2011. Asked how
they would vote in the proportional representation section of
the next election, 13 percent of respondents opted for the DPJ,
down four percentage points on the previous poll three weeks
ago. About 36 percent picked the LDP, up six percentage points.  The Asahi surveyed 1,620 people by telephone on Oct. 21 and
22. No margin of error was given for either the Asahi or the
Nippon TV poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  