-- Norilsk Setback May Work in Favor of Buybacks, Lawyers Say
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-10-22T14:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/norilsk-court-setback-may-work-in-favor-of-buybacks-lawyers-say.html
OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, may end up having to make an
offer to repurchase more shares should an appeal court uphold a
ruling against its latest buyback, lawyers say.  A regional court earlier this month ruled that the board of
Norilsk had no right to approve the $4.5 billion buyback, on the
grounds that it broke the law on foreign investments.  The court said that Norilsk and billionaire  Vladimir
Potanin ’s Interros Holding should be regarded as one
shareholder, giving them a combined stake in excess of 30
percent. That may force the company to make a mandatory offer to
minority shareholders, according to Dmitry Lobachev, a lawyer at
Khrenov & Partners in Moscow.  “Should the court’s decision become effective after an
appeal, that would mean Norilsk and Interros passed the 30
percent threshold and may need either to offer a buyback to the
minority shareholders or lose the rights to vote 17 percent of
stock held by Norilsk and its units,” Lobachev said. “This may
create the ground for an offer,” agreed Artur Rokhlin, a
partner at Moscow law firm UST.  Potanin has been embroiled in a conflict with United Co.
Rusal Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  since 2008. Rusal,
the world’s biggest aluminum producer, owns 25 percent of
Norilsk and has objected to share buybacks by the company, which
have been supported by Potanin.  Should Norilsk’s management lose  voting rights  for the 17
percent of stock, Rusal may only gain one additional seat on
Norilsk’s board, said Kirill Chuyko, co-head of research at BCS
Financial Group.  Rusal has rejected three offers since October 2010 to sell
out of Norilsk, including an approach of $8.75 billion for a 15
percent stake that was rebuffed in September 2011.  Interros supports Norilsk’s intention to appeal against the
original ruling, its press service said by e-mail. Alisa Fialko,
a spokeswoman for Norilsk, declined to comment. Rusal’s press
office wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Units of Norilsk last year spent $9 billion to buy back 17
percent of its shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  