-- Norway Corporate Bond Sales Set to Top 2007 Peak: Nordic Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-22T09:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/norway-corporate-bond-sales-set-to-top-2007-peak-nordic-credit.html
Sales of Norwegian corporate bonds
look set to beat a 2007 record as falling  interest rates  and an
oil boom stoke demand for the higher-yielding securities.  “The market looks very strong,” Lars Kirkeby, a credit
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo, said by phone on Oct. 18. “I
can’t really see that there should be any slowdown in  Norway  in
the near future.”  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) , the world’s biggest oil-rig owner, and
billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke’s  Aker ASA (AKER) , have led a surge in
debt sales that’s tapped global demand for assets sold out of
 Europe ’s second-largest oil exporter. A 45 percent increase in
North Sea crude prices over the past three years and Norway’s
biggest oil finds in four decades have also driven offshore
investments to record levels.  So far in 2012, 82 billion kroner ($14.5 billion) in
corporate bonds have been sold in Norway, compared with a record
83 billion kroner five years ago just before the onset of the
global financial crisis, Nordea estimates. Issuance this year is
split evenly among junk bonds and investment grade debt,
compared with an 83/17 percent split in 2007, according to
Nordea, which last month helped manage a 700 million-krone sale
for  Teekay Corp. (TK)   Whole Points  “There is a lot of demand out of continental Europe for
Nordic or Norwegian high yield,” Arne Eidshagen, who helps
manage about 400 million euros ($521 million) in high-yield debt
at Alfred Berg Asset Management in Oslo, said in an e-mail.
“This trend is a result of the combination of Nordic safe haven
and yields measured in whole percentage points in the high-yield
market.”  Recent sales include a 625 million-krone, four-year secured
deal last week from department store operator Steen & Stroem AS,
which priced at 140 basis points above the three-month Norwegian
interbank offered rate.  Ship Finance International Ltd. (SFL)  on Oct.
12 sold 600 million kroner in five-year debt at 5 percentage
points over three-month Nibor, which was fixed at 1.91 percent
on Oct. 19.  Part of the market growth comes from foreign companies
seeking willing investors in Norway, which boasts Scandinavia’s
biggest corporate  bond market . Denmark’s A.P. Moeller- Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) 
set a record for Norway with a 3 billion-krone floating rate
offering in March, which priced at 2.1 percentage points more
than Nibor.  Nibor Spreads  Aker, a holding company with stakes in oil producers and
offshore service companies among others, has issued four bonds
this year, the most recent in September, when it sold a 1
billion-krone, 10-year bond that priced at 5 percentage points
more than Nibor. One of the debt issues was sold through its
Ocean Yield AS subsidiary.  “We still see a good pipeline with new issuance activity
both from regular issuers and certainly also companies that are
new to the bond market,” said Jonas Shum, an analyst at  SEB AB (SEBA) 
in Oslo. “What’s driving this is that the prices have come down
to a level which are more acceptable for companies and that’s
very much linked to the Itraxx cross-over index because a lot of
the Norwegian issuers are high-yield.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Crossover index, a benchmark
measure of credit risk, fell to 460.6 on Sept. 14, the lowest in
more than a year, signaling an improvement in credit demand. The
index traded at 496 basis points on Oct. 19, compared with a
high of more than 800 basis points last year and more than 750
basis points earlier this year as Europe’s debt crisis deepened.  Spreads on Norwegian  junk bonds  have failed to keep pace
with the larger rally in debt markets in part because of the
surging supply, said Eidshagen.  ‘Less Pronounced’  “Spreads have contracted just like you have seen in the
global markets, but my impression is that in the domestic Nordic
markets the contraction has been less pronounced,” he said.
“This goes particularly for the Norwegian high-yield market.
One reason for this is the large amount of supply.”  Benchmark rates plunged in September after policy makers
from  Washington  to Frankfurt pledged a new wave of stimulus to
generate a recovery. The measures also fed through to Norway,
where Nibor last month fell to 1.89 percent, the lowest in three
years. The three-month rate was as high as 2.41 percent in June.  Interbank rates may soon start to rise after Norway’s
central bank signaled it’s preparing to increase its benchmark
rate as soon as December, in part to cool credit growth and
surging home prices.  The Economy  Norway, the world’s fourth-richest country per capita,
boasts the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation. It
has largely been shielded from the financial crisis thanks to a
boom in oil and gas investments, which are estimated to reach a
record 185 billion kroner this year and top 200 billion kroner
in 2013. That’s filtered through to the rest of the economy,
keeping registered unemployment below 3 percent.  Norway’s  Finance Ministry  estimates the economy, excluding
income from oil and shipping, will grow 3.7 percent this year
and 2.9 percent next year, according to the budget released this
month. The euro area, by contrast, may contract 0.3 percent,
according to European Commission forecasts. The Norwegian
government this month also pledged spending a record amount of
its oil wealth next year, stimulating growth ahead of next
year’s election.  The strong economic fundamentals will keep supporting
demand, said SEB’s Shum.  “There’s still a good inflow of funds to bond asset
managers and as long as the macroeconomic backdrop works in the
right direction you will still see a good appetite for bonds,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 