-- NY Regulator Urges Small Bank Exemption from Basel III Ru
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-10-22T18:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ny-regulator-urges-small-bank-exemption-from-basel-iii-ru.html
Benjamin Lawsky , the  New York 
banking superintendent, said capital ratio requirements being
considered by federal regulators should be eased for community
banks with less than $10 billion in assets.  Lawsky wrote today to U.S. bank regulators in Washington,
who are incorporating so-called Basel III capital rules into
regulations under the Dodd-Frank law on banking,  Wall Street  and
consumer protection. Proposed regulations on risk-weighted
assets would place an undue burden on community banks, he said.  “Implementing the proposals as they stand now would place
regional and community banks at a further competitive
disadvantage, with potential ripple effects on the local
markets, small businesses and consumers,” wrote Lawsky, who
heads the state Department of Financial Services.  The Basel rules require banks to assess the risk of losses
on their assets and raise sufficient capital to hold against
those potential losses.  In an 11-page letter to officials of the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the  Federal Reserve , Lawsky expressed support for the
overall goal set forth in Basel III of forcing banks to increase
their  capital ratios .  Smaller banks should be allowed to keep the risk-weighting
calculations allowed by Basel I instead of adopting the more
stringent calculations of Basel III, he argued. All but six of
the banks he supervises would be covered by his proposal, Lawsky
said in the letter.  Adopting his suggestion “may help allay community banks’
concerns that the additional costs to comply with Basel III will
be another factor pushing them to consolidate with larger
banks,” Lawsky wrote.  ‘Essential’ Banks  “We believe that vibrant community banks are essential to
small business development and the health of the  U.S. economy ,”
he wrote.  Basel I, the first round of international rules, set out
fixed so-called risk-weightings for different kinds of assets.
Subsequent updates of the rulebook rely on assessments made by
credit-ratings companies and banks’ internal models.  The letter isn’t Lawsky’s first attempt to use his position
to effect change on a national level. In August, he threatened
to pull  Standard Chartered  Plc’s license to operate in New York
after learning that the U.K. bank had conducted $250 billion
worth of “round-trip” clearing transactions in the past decade
without disclosing the names of the Iranian clients behind those
trades.  The action rankled federal regulators who were already
reviewing Standard Chartered’s conduct. The bank agreed to
settle with Lawsky by paying a $340 million fine. Federal
regulators haven’t reached a settlement with the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York
at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 