-- O’Neill Says Brazil Criticism of QE3 No Fix for Economic Woes
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-10-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/o-neill-says-brazil-criticism-of-qe3-no-fix-for-economic-woes.html
Jim O’Neill , the economist who bound
Brazil to Russia, India and China to form the BRIC investing
strategy, has some advice for Latin America’s biggest economy:
Stop criticizing Federal Reserve efforts to revive the U.S. and
do more to fix your own problems.  Blaming the Fed is “frequently an excuse to distract
attention from the contradictions of monetary and fiscal policy
in Brazil,” O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from London. The U.S.
is the world’s biggest economy, and “if the Fed does something
which is going to reduce the scale of the recession or boost the
economy, that is really important for every other country, end
of story.”  The Fed’s latest stimulus package dominated this month’s
 International Monetary Fund  meetings in Tokyo, with policy
makers from the Philippines to China warning that yield-seeking
investors will flood  emerging markets  with capital. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  used the talks to rebut those arguments after
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  at the  United Nations  last
month slammed rich nations for “fraudulent” protectionism.  Bureaucratic bottlenecks and inefficient tax and judicial
systems have left Latin America’s top economy less competitive
than Bangladesh and Uganda, according to the  World Bank . While
Rousseff has lowered  interest rates  that are still among the
highest in the world and taken steps to improve poor
infrastructure, she’s raising tariffs to protect local industry
even as she accuses the U.S. of “trade manipulation.”  ‘Selfish’ Fed  The Fed last month announced a third round of quantitative
easing, or QE3, saying it intends to buy $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month until the labor market shows sustained improvement.
It also expects to keep the federal funds rate near zero at
least through mid-2015.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  repeated in Tokyo
that QE3 threatens to reignite a “currency war,” the phrase he
coined back in 2010 during a previous round of stimulus, as
nations competitively devalue their currencies to boost exports.  “It is a selfish policy that weakens the efforts for
concerted action,” Mantega told officials on Oct. 12, adding
that Brazil “will take whatever measures it deems necessary to
avoid the detrimental effects of these spillovers.”  Brazilian officials want to avoid a repeat of 2011, when
capital inflows doubled and the currency rose to a 12-year high
even as they raised taxes on foreign investment and stepped up
dollar purchases.  ‘Diplomatic Rhetoric’  Such concerns may be misplaced this time, said former
Brazilian central bank President Gustavo Franco. Unlike the
previous Fed stimulus in 2010, when Brazil’s  economy expanded  a
decades-best 7.5 percent, growth this year is forecast by the
central bank to reach 1.6 percent. Globally, the outlook has
also dimmed with Europe’s debt crisis dragging into its fourth
year and  China’s economy  in the third quarter growing at the
slowest pace since March 2009. The IMF this month reduced to 3.3
percent from 3.5 percent its estimate for world growth in 2012.  Rousseff and Mantega’s criticisms of the Fed are a “tool
of diplomatic rhetoric” that don’t reflect the economic
reality, said Franco, who served as monetary chief under former
President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso  of the opposition Social
Democracy Party.  Press officials for Rousseff and Mantega declined to
comment.  With controls on inflows still in place, the real has
weakened 24 percent since July 2011 and is little changed since
QE3 was announced. Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said Oct. 18
that the government wants to keep the currency stable at its
current 2 reais per dollar rate so exports stay competitive amid
the U.S.-led “monetary tsunami.”  Distraction  “It’s a shame because it draws their attention away from
doing other more important things, such as  tax reform  and other
measures that could improve competitiveness,” Franco, who is
also the founder of asset manager Rio Bravo Investimentos, said
in a phone interview from Rio de Janeiro.  O’Neill said Rousseff’s recent moves to lower borrowing
costs and shift to private investors the burden for developing
the country’s infrastructure were steps in the right direction.
The central bank has reduced interest rates 525 basis points
since August 2011, more than any other Group of 20 nation, to a
record 7.25 percent.  Still, Brazil’s benchmark rate is the highest in the G-20
after Russia and India, making it a magnet for investors
borrowing at near-zero rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan. At
the same time a surge in public spending and loans by state
banks to propel growth are adding to  inflation  that’s running
above the government’s 4.5 percent target since September 2010,
limiting the room for further rate cuts.  Brazilian Protectionism  Another distortion is Brazil’s own protectionist push,
which relieves pressure on manufacturers to become more
competitive. Last month, the government raised tariffs on
hundreds of goods ranging from petrochemicals to steel, drawing
a complaint from U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk . Mantega
responded that “the U.S. has adopted many more protectionist
measures than Brazil,” and that one of QE3’s goals is to
“increase American exports.”  At the IMF meetings, Bernanke tried to refute arguments
that it was U.S. monetary policy that was undermining
competitiveness in the developing world.  “It is not at all clear that accommodative policies in
advanced economies impose net costs on emerging-market
economies,” Bernanke said. “Monetary easing that supports the
recovery in the advanced economies should stimulate trade and
boost growth in emerging market economies as well.”  Exports Down  One reason for Brazil’s irritation with U.S. monetary
policy is the poor performance of its exports to the world’s
largest economy.  Trade between Brazil and the U.S. has swung from a $1
billion goods surplus in favor of Brazil in 2007 to a deficit
that last year reached $11.5 billion, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. Brazil and the U.K. were the only nations among
the top 15 U.S. trade partners to see their trade advantage
reverse over that timeframe.  Brazil ranked 126th out of 183 nations in the World Bank’s
2012 study of  competitiveness , trailing Bangladesh at 122nd and
Uganda at 123rd for the ease of doing business.  Brazilian officials aren’t the only ones who have
criticized QE3.  China Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai told reporters in
Brussels on Oct. 16 that the policy is adding to commodity price
uncertainty, financial market instability and inflationary
pressures in developing markets, echoing concerns expressed in
Tokyo by People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang .  Collateral Damage  “We remain concerned about the collateral consequences
such actions may cause, such as volatile capital flows, erratic
exchange rate and asset price movements, commodity price surges,
and the associated complications for macroeconomic management in
other countries,” Yi said in an Oct. 13 statement.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said monetary
easing is likely to cause large and volatile flows that could
lead to “overheating, asset-price bubbles and the build-up of
financial imbalances” in emerging economies, even as she
applauded Fed efforts to boost growth.  Still, Mantega “is the only one who seems, at the moment,
to be talking so repeatedly,” O’Neill said. “I don’t have a
lot of sympathy because it doesn’t seem to make a lot of
sense.”  QE3 has its American critics too. Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  said that the Fed policy of “printing
more money” isn’t getting the economy back on track and could
stoke faster inflation. He’s called for replacing Bernanke when
the chairman’s term expires in January 2014.  ‘Just Stop’  Despite two completed rounds of quantitative easing, the
U.S.  unemployment rate  has remained above 7.5 percent since
January 2009, while growth slowed to an annual pace of 1.3
percent in the second quarter from 2 percent in the first three
months.  The Fed has “been very unsuccessful in stimulating the
economy in this process, and they should just stop it,”  David Kelly , chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York,
said in a phone interview.  Brazil’s warnings aside, policy makers should be cheering
on the Fed because of it has the capacity to revive the global
economy, said Franco. At $15.1 trillion, the  U.S. economy  is
about 12 percent larger than all the BRICs combined, World Bank
data shows.  “The quantitative easing policies by the United States
have been positive for Brazil because they have prevented the
United States from falling into a deep depression,” Franco
said. “That’s positive for the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 