-- Obama Edge With Hispanics Hinges on Election Day Turnout
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-10-22T15:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/obama-edge-with-hispanics-hinges-on-election-day-turnout.html
For 19-year-old Denise Cruz, a
community college student in Manassas, Virginia, picking a
presidential candidate is simple: She’s a first-time voter who
will back  Barack Obama  because his immigration policies will
allow her cousins from  Mexico  to stay in the U.S. and continue
their education.  Cruz is the norm, not the exception in the Latino
community, the fastest-growing block of eligible voters in the
U.S. and a group that may be most affected by the electoral
results on Nov. 6. Obama has a big advantage with this
constituency, although his ability to defeat Republican Mitt Romney will hinge on how many turn out to vote in such
competitive states as  Nevada ,  Colorado (COL) ,  Florida  and Virginia.  “Enthusiasm in swing states is higher than it is anywhere
else,” said Gary Segura, a political science professor at
 Stanford University  in  California  and founder of Latino
Decisions, a political opinion research firm. “In some
respects, the narrowing of the race in the last two weeks has
made it more likely that the Latinos are going to make a
difference.”  Nationwide, Latino registered voters prefer Obama to Romney
by 69 percent to 21 percent, according to the Washington-based
Pew Hispanic Center, a nonprofit research organization. In 2008,
Obama received 67 percent of the Hispanic vote, compared with
 Arizona  Senator  John McCain ’s 31 percent.  Growing Influence  Of the nation’s 52 million Hispanics, 24 million are
eligible to vote because of their age and legal status, which
makes up about 11 percent of the U.S. electorate, according to
Pew. That is up from 9.5 percent in 2008.  “Historically speaking, we have seen a record number of
Hispanic voters in each election cycle since 1986,” Mark Hugo
Lopez, associate director of the Pew Hispanic Center, said in a
telephone interview.  Still, at most, only about half of them -- 12 million --
are expected to cast ballots in the election. That compares with
a record 9.7 million in 2008, according to Arturo Vargas,
executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials Educational Fund. A Pew poll found that
77 percent of Latino registered voters say they are certain to
go to the polls on Election Day, compared with 89 percent of the
general public.  Obama Appeals  Obama’s campaign must maximize that turnout. “From
bilingual phone banks, canvasses and voter-registration drives,
to one-on-one conversations on the president’s accomplishments,
Obama for America is reaching out to Latinos in their
neighborhoods and in their language,” Gabriela Domenzain,
director of Hispanic press for the campaign, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The campaign has deployed Julian Castro, the Latino mayor
of  San Antonio , who became the first Hispanic to deliver the
keynote address at the Democratic convention, to help with voter
outreach in Nevada, Florida and Virginia.  Romney’s team, too, has expanded its outreach to Hispanic
voters. Craig Romney, one of the nominee’s sons and a Spanish
speaker, has been going door-to-door in Colorado, according to
Bettina Inclan, the  Republican National Committee ’s director of
Hispanic outreach.  “There is a large number, and a growing number, of
Hispanic voters that vote for the candidate, not the party,”
Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican of Cuban descent and a
top Romney surrogate, said in an interview. “And those are the
folks that we’re going to try to persuade, not just in this
election, but moving forward.”  Florida Registration  In Florida, one of the few states where 2012 data is
available, Latino registration has surpassed that of 2008.
According to the Florida Department of State’s Division of
Elections, 1.6 million Latinos were registered to vote, with
592,000 declaring as Democrats and 463,000 as Republicans.  In Virginia, a state Obama won in 2008, 65 percent of
Latinos voted for him and 34 percent chose McCain, exit polls
show. A Latino Decisions poll released Oct. 15 found that 66
percent of Virginia Latinos plan to vote for Obama compared with
22 percent for Romney.  Keiri Villanueva, a 24-year-old sales associate in
Manassas, said this election carries higher stakes than the 2008
contest and she’ll vote for Obama. Standing at the cell-phone
counter at the Global Food market in Manassas, she said it’s
important that immigrants “get an education” and build “their
lives” even when they don’t have papers.  ‘Not Fair’  “It’s not fair when  Mitt Romney  says it’s not his problem
to worry about us. So if is not a problem for him to worry about
us, voting for him is not our problem either,” she said.
Manassas, where Villanueva lives, has the second-largest
percentage of Hispanic residents in Virginia, with about 31.4
percent.  The Obama administration in June announced that it would
immediately stop deporting some illegal immigrants brought to
the U.S. as children and make them eligible for work permits.
The policy affects about 800,000 undocumented immigrants who
were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have been in the country
for at least five years, have no criminal record and are in
school or have a high school diploma or equivalent, according to
the Homeland Security Department.  Dream Act  The administration’s action would bypass Congress, where
legislation known as the  Dream Act  designed to provide a path to
legal status for younger undocumented immigrants has been
stalled. Romney, who opposes the Dream Act, has backed the idea
of self-deportation through which undocumented immigrants would
choose to leave the country.  Obama’s new policy “has energized people to get involved
more in this election,” said Edgar Aranda-Yanoc, chairman of
the  Virginia  Coalition of Latino Organizations, a nonpartisan
organization. Immigration is the most important issue for
Latinos in Virginia, he said, because many in the community are
naturalized immigrants.  The argument isn’t persuasive to all voters. Teresa
Cabrera, 58, of Manassas, said Romney’s stance on immigration
doesn’t bother her.  “I plan to vote for Romney because of my beliefs,” said
Cabrera, a Catholic who doesn’t support abortion rights and
same-sex marriage.  Hispanic Catholics support Obama over Romney by a margin of
more than 3 to 1, according to Pew. Hispanic support for Obama
far exceeds that of non-Hispanic white Catholics, who are evenly
split between the candidates, Pew said.  Health Care  Access to health care and education grants are also factors
in voting decisions. Chris Garcia, 19, a pre-med student at the
Manassas campus of the Northern Virginia Community College, said
being able to stay on his parents’ health insurance as he
furthers his education is a reason he’ll vote for Obama.  Under Obama’s  health-care  law, young adults are allowed to
remain on their parents’ insurance plans until age 26. An
estimated 31 percent of Latinos are uninsured, compared with 16
percent of all Americans, according to the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services.  The Obama campaign’s Spanish-language ads, more than
English-language ones, have focused on benefits of the 2010
health-care law. They include an ad narrated by talk-show host
Cristina Saralegui, who has been dubbed the “Spanish Oprah.” A
point the campaign emphasizes is that 9 million previously
uninsured Latinos now have access to health care.  “A lot of people cannot afford it,” said Keisy Chavez,
41, from Centreville, Virginia, who has volunteered for the
Obama campaign to get out the Latino vote. She said in a
telephone interview that she often shares how the health-care
law helps her and her family. Being denied health insurance is
something that can “affect you every day,” so it’s an issue
that people can relate to, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  