-- Obama-Romney U.S. Auto Spat Turns on Saving U.S. Economy
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-10-22T14:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/obama-romney-u-s-auto-spat-turns-on-saving-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  and Mitt Romney’s debate exchange over auto bailouts reignited a long-
running dispute over whether the government’s financial-crisis
rescue plan was a good deal for taxpayers. The answer: It
depends.  There’s little doubt the government won’t recoup the full
$417 billion spent on the program. Proponents reply that
whatever the loss, it was worth it to pull the world’s largest
economy back from the brink of collapse and prevent the
disappearance of whole sectors, like domestic carmakers.  “We saved an auto industry that was on the brink of
collapse,” Obama said in the Oct. 16 presidential debate at
Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York. Republican challenger
Romney wanted to put  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC
into bankruptcy “without providing them any way to stay open.
And we would have lost a million jobs,” Obama said. Romney
countered that bankruptcy was necessary “to get those companies
back on their feet,” though at the time he opposed using
taxpayer dollars.  Obama’s Treasury Department is seeking to wind down the
Troubled Asset Relief Program that includes the auto bailouts,
rescues for banks and insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
and programs to stem home foreclosures. How much money the
rescues end up costing taxpayers will depend largely on the
government’s ability to sell its 32 percent stake in GM and 74
percent ownership of auto lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Small Price  The administration argues that its projected $63 billion
loss was a small price to stabilize a $13.2 trillion  economy .
Critics in both political parties say the program was too
generous to  Wall Street  and too weak to help the housing
industry. The portion of TARP used to bail out banks has been
profitable.  “The principal purpose of TARP was to save the financial
system, especially the banking system, from a possible total
meltdown,”  Alan Blinder , a former Federal Reserve vice chairman
who’s now a professor at Princeton University, said in an
interview. “It can only be considered a resounding success.”  The rescues of GM, Chrysler and Ally cost taxpayers $79.7
billion, and $40.8 billion was returned. Taxpayers have invested
$51 billion in GM and received $24 billion back.  “If that’s success, I’d hate to see what failure is,”
 Phillip Swagel , Treasury assistant secretary for economic policy
under President  George W. Bush , said of the auto bailouts.  Congress approved $700 billion for the financial rescue
four years ago this month, and the bill was signed into law by
Bush in the midst of a presidential election campaign that Obama
won. That quarter, the economy was shrinking at an 8.9 percent
annual rate, and 1.95 million jobs were lost.  Growth Resumes  Growth resumed in the third quarter of 2009, and
 unemployment  last month fell to 7.8 percent, the lowest rate
since Obama took office. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index has
more than doubled since reaching a 12-year low on March 9, 2009.  Stocks were little changed as investors watched third-
quarter corporate results. The  S&P 500  was at 1,433.00 at 10:20
a.m. in New York.  In other reports today, Japan’s exports fell in September
by the most since the aftermath of last year’s earthquake as a
global slowdown, the yen’s strength and a dispute with China
increase the odds of a contraction in the world’s third-largest
economy.  The euro region’s combined debt burden surged last year to
the highest since the start of the single currency, the European
Union’s statistics office said today, as governments struggled
to fill budget gaps and contain the fiscal crisis.  Program Broadened  TARP, initially aimed at U.S. financial firms, was
broadened to housing and autos as the crisis unfolded, though
less than two-thirds of the $700 billion authorized by Congress
was used. Bush first gave GM and Chrysler federal money, and the
companies received additional help through managed bankruptcies
under Obama’s administration.  Since then, the auto industry has rebounded. Dealers sold
new cars and light trucks last month at an annualized rate of
14.9 million, according to researcher Autodata Corp. That’s the
best pace since March 2008.  GM posted a record full-year  net profit  of $9.19 billion
last year and regained its position as the world’s top-selling
automaker from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said GM’s troubles in Europe are pushing down its
share price. The automaker has lost $16.8 billion in Europe
since 1999.  2008 Loss  Ed Whitacre , who was chosen by the White House as GM’s
chairman in 2009 and left the job at the end of 2010, said in
September that the bailouts saved millions of jobs and if the
company had failed, other automakers and suppliers would have
followed. In the fourth quarter of 2008, GM lost $9.6 billion.  Christy Romero , TARP’s special inspector general, told
Congress in July that the Treasury would need to sell its
remaining 500 million shares for about $52 to $54 apiece to
recover all of its investment.  The stock is 25 percent below the $33 initial public
offering price. People familiar with the matter have said the
Treasury doesn’t want to sell at a price that low.  “There’s political pressure not to want to lock in a loss,
but there’s no guarantee what direction the stock is going to
go,” said  Neel Kashkari , TARP’s first administrator and now a
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Newport Beach, California.  When it comes to large financial firms, even TARP critics
say the bailouts have been a success.  700 Banks  Taxpayers have earned $22 billion on $245 billion invested
in more than 700 banks ranging from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to small
lenders. The Treasury is trying to sell its stakes in some of
the 291 banks that haven’t repaid the money, such as NewBridge
Bancorp of Greensboro, North Carolina.  The U.S. recovered its full $182.3 billion commitment to
New York-based insurer AIG with a profit after Treasury’s latest
stock sale in September. The $15.1 billion return includes
results from the Fed portion of the rescue, such as a credit
line and the purchase of mortgage-linked securities.  “Taking action to stabilize AIG during the financial
crisis was something the government should never have had to do,
but we had no better option at the time to protect the American
economy,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
statement in September.  Geithner, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York at the time the bailouts began, has said he plans to
leave the Treasury by the end of Obama’s current term.  Senate Candidate  Among TARP’s critics was  Elizabeth Warren , formerly the
head of a congressional panel overseeing the program and now a
Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts.  The bailouts created a “moral hazard” by letting large
banks think they are “too big to fail,” Warren’s panel said in
a July 2010 paper. TARP “worked really well for the Wall Street
banks, but it didn’t work well for the rest of the banks in the
system,” she told Bloomberg Television that same month.  U.S. banks have recovered much of the ground lost during
the crisis.  The combined $63 billion in profit reported by the six
biggest lenders over the four quarters through June is more than
they earned in any calendar year since the peak in 2006.  All told, banks have posted 12 consecutive quarterly
increases in net income through the first half of 2012,
according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s midyear
tally, the most recent available. Only 11 percent of the lenders
were unprofitable, down from 16 percent a year earlier. Lending
remained slow, with total loans and leases increasing just 1.4
percent, the FDIC reported.  Costs, Benefits  Andrew Lo , a finance professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management, said he
wants economists to conduct cost-benefit studies to determine
whether TARP is a success.  “Was it the best possible use of that money?” Lo said.
“What would have been the likely impact of giving, say, $40
billion to the manufacturing industry or to the pharmaceutical
industry? We don’t know the answer yet.”  Outside of TARP, taxpayers have also invested $187.5
billion in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and received dividends of
$50.4 billion. The Obama administration wants to overhaul the
housing-finance system and wind down Fannie and Freddie, which
pool home loans for sale to investors and guarantee interest and
principal payments. The firms have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008.  Helping Homeowners  The Obama administration’s use of TARP funds to help
homeowners, an effort that’s not designed to produce a return on
investment, has generated the most criticism.  The Treasury has used $5.54 billion of the $45.6 billion
set aside to combat the housing crisis. The administration said
in February 2009 that it wanted to help as many as 3 million to
4 million homeowners through a plan to avert foreclosures, the
Home Affordable Modification Program. The plan has helped about
1 million.  Neil Barofsky , TARP’s special inspector general from 2008
to 2011, called the housing program “disastrous” in his book
“Bailout.” He said the Treasury should have done more to get
banks to reduce principal payments for homeowners.  Spending on a “massive scale” would have been required to
help homeowners “in a meaningful way,” said Stephen Myrow, a
Treasury official in the Bush administration who worked on TARP
under then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson .  Declaring Victory  Even with the housing setbacks, Timothy Massad, Treasury
assistant secretary for financial stability, and TARP’s other
implementers under both Bush and Obama aren’t waiting to declare
the bailout program a victory.  “Because we acted with speed and force to put out the
financial fire, we were able to stabilize an economy in freefall
more quickly and at a lower cost than many had expected,”
Massad said.  Alex Pollock, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute
in Washington, isn’t impressed. He says the program should have
earned a return because the government bought assets cheaply.  “If you did it right, it should make money, because you’re
going in at the bottom, a panic bottom,” said Pollock, former
president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago.  Kashkari, one of the Paulson Treasury’s central figures who
helped plan TARP during the depths of the crisis, said the
program is misunderstood as a bailout of Wall Street, when it
was really aimed at Main Street.  “We did this because American blue-chip industrial
companies were calling us saying that they were not going to be
able to fund themselves, they were not going to be able to make
payroll,” he said. “It was done to support the economy for
everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 