-- Obama, Netanyahu Rein in Iran Feud
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-10-23T13:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/obama-netanyahu-rein-in-iran-feud.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu advised President  Barack Obama  last month to back off,
saying the U.S. had “no moral right” to stop Israel from
attacking Iran in a bid to cripple its nuclear program.  In turn, Obama decided not to meet the Israeli leader on
his next visit to the U.S. The president compounded the snub
when he said in a “60 Minutes” interview that he would “block
out the noise” if Netanyahu kept pushing for military action.  What a difference a month makes when both Obama and
Netanyahu are fighting for re-election. Heeding advisers who
said the nasty exchanges were hurting them both, Netanyahu
pushed his  horizon (HOR)  for an assault against Iranian nuclear
facilities from October to next spring while speaking at the
United Nations Sept. 27. Obama issued a press release the next
day saying the two chatted by phone and were in “full
agreement” on  Iran , easing the confrontation between them.  “There’s a great feeling of relief that Netanyahu switched
gears,” David Makovsky, an Israel-watcher at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.
“The only people who win when the U.S. and Israel are
squabbling are the Iranians.”  Israel is the world’s biggest recipient of U.S. foreign
aid, collecting more than $3 billion a year. While 78 percent of
American Jews voted for Obama in 2008, Israelis are less
enthusiastic. A poll released June 15 showed 38 percent had a
positive attitude toward the U.S. leader, the same number were
neutral and 23 percent had negative views.  Support for Attack  If diplomatic efforts fail, two-thirds of the Israelis said
they would support a military strike against Iran. The survey of
540 Israeli Jews, sponsored by Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv
and the Anti-Defamation League, had a margin of error of 4.5
percentage points.  Obama, a Democrat, and Republican  Mitt Romney  competed at
last night’s presidential debate in Boca Raton,  Florida , to show
who was the bigger supporter of Israel.  Romney faulted the president for failing to visit the
Jewish state during his term in office, saying Obama would
“create daylight between ourselves and Israel.” Obama said his
administration has developed “unprecedented military and
intelligence cooperation” with Netanyahu’s government, noting
that he visited Israel in 2008 during his campaign for
president.  Joint Exercise  With both nations eager again to play up their alliance,
the Pentagon announced that the U.S. and Israel will begin the
largest joint air and missile defense exercise, which started
this week. The war-games -- billed as “another milestone in the
strategic relationship” by Assistant Secretary of State for
Political-Military Affairs Andrew Shapiro -- involve some 3,500
U.S. personnel performing exercises on mock battlefields and at
sea with 1,000 Israeli soldiers.  The two countries also signed an agreement last week
tearing down a trade barrier between them on quality testing for
the sale of telecommunications equipment, according to the
office of U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk.  The Obama administration has publicly disagreed with
Netanyahu on how to halt Iran’s nuclear capability and the
timing of any military strikes. Iran’s leaders say the nuclear
program is just for civilian purposes.  ‘Red Lines’  Netanyahu has called for setting “red lines” for military
action if Iran continues to enrich uranium. Obama responded that
setting deadlines would only limit his options, saying pressure
should be applied through economic sanctions.  “For several weeks, there was weekly, almost daily
criticism from the Israeli government as to how the U.S.
administration is handling Iran,” Isaac Herzog, a parliamentary
representative from the opposition Labor party, said in an
interview today at Bloomberg’s Tel Aviv office. “The most
sensitive matters should be dealt with in intimate close
quarters between the Oval Office and  Jerusalem .”  The policy disagreement on Iran follows earlier clashes
with Netanyahu over settlement construction in the West Bank and
the collapse of U.S.-backed peace talks with Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. Tensions were on clear
display when Netanyahu was unceremoniously ushered from the
White House in March 2010 without joint press statements, photo
sessions or the usual trappings of such visits.  “The personal dislike of Obama for Netanyahu is almost an
established fact,” Avraham Diskin, a political scientist at the
Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said in a phone interview. “We
know the background, we can read the body language.”  Developing a close relationship between U.S. and Israeli
leaders is not necessary to working together on sensitive
diplomatic issues, former President Jimmy Carter said.  ‘Warm Relationship’  “I didn’t have a particularly warm relationship with”
former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin, “but we managed
to work together,” Carter said yesterday at a press conference
in east Jerusalem after speaking with Israeli and Palestinian
leaders.  Carter brokered the 1978 Camp David Accords that led  Begin
and former Egyptian President Anwar Sadat to sign a peace treaty
six months later, the first between Israel and an Arab state.  The strains between Netanyahu and Obama only increased
during the U.S. presidential campaign when Romney came to
Jerusalem, met with the prime minister, and raised $1 million
during a breakfast with contributors.  Netanyahu Tribute  A month later at the Republican National Convention in
Tampa, Florida, he accused Obama of having “thrown Israel under
the bus.” Romney was accompanied to Jerusalem by his biggest
contributor, casino owner  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of  Las Vegas
Sands Corp. (LVS)  and publisher of a pro-Netanyahu daily newspaper in
Israel, Yisrael Hayom.  Obama campaign officials condemned an anti-Obama  campaign
commercial  produced last month by the “Secure America Now”
super-PAC that features a Netanyahu speech calling for united
action against Iran. Netanyahu aides said permission to use the
speech was never requested and pointed to Obama’s own  campaign
video  that features a tribute from the prime minister, which he
also didn’t authorize.  Netanyahu may also have decided to bury the hatchet with
Obama because he was “persuaded that the Iran issue is real but
maybe it’s not as urgent as he made it out to be,” said Mark Heller, principal research fellow at the Institute for National
Security Studies at Tel Aviv University.  Corporate Advisers  That may have included “new intelligence information or
political advice that he can afford to wait,” Heller said.  Netanyahu and Romney said during the Republican candidate’s
trip that they have known each other since 1976 when both worked
for the Boston Consulting Group as corporate advisers.  Tensions between the U.S. and  Israel  have repeatedly
surfaced since the Jewish state was founded six decades ago,
without ending the alliance. Netanyahu’s military commanders and
Defense Minister Ehud Barak played a part in smoothing the
latest fracas, emphasizing the close security ties between the
two nations, Makovsky said.  “Each side has lowered its tone,” he said. “They’re
trying to find quiet ways to work things out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  