-- Oil Advances; Keystone Pipeline Set to Start
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-10-22T12:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/oil-slides-a-third-day-amid-demand-concern-pipe-start-delayed.html
Oil advanced from a two-week low in
New York on speculation last week’s losses were excessive.
TransCanada Corp. planned to start its Keystone pipeline today
after a second delay.  Futures climbed as much as 0.8 percent after falling the
most in more than two weeks on Oct. 19. Prices also advanced
after the White House denied a New York Times report that
administration officials agreed to one-on-one talks with  Iran ’s
government over its nuclear program. TransCanada originally
planned to resume operations Oct. 20 on the line that runs from
 Alberta  to the main U.S. oil-storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  “I would expect a small rebound after heavy losses on
Friday, given continued supply risks,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. Geopolitical tensions in
the  Middle East  and delays in loadings of  North Sea  Forties
crude lent some support to prices, he said.  Crude for November delivery rose as much as 75 cents to
$90.80 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $90.61 at 12:50 p.m. in London. Oil fell 2.2
percent on Oct. 19 to $90.05, the lowest close since Oct. 8. The
contract expires today. The more actively traded December
futures were 54 cents higher at $90.98 a barrel.  Brent for December settlement added 32 cents to $110.46 on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark crude was at a premium of $19.85 to New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate grade, compared with $19.70 on Oct. 19.  Technical Support  Oil in  New York  is rising after rebounding from long-term
technical support at $89.83 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. On the weekly chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the decline to $32.40 in December 2008 from an
intraday record high of $147.27 in July that year. Buy orders
tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  While the U.S. remains open to negotiations with Iran,
there was no deal to meet with officials after the Nov. 6
presidential election, National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said yesterday.  International sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation in
response to its nuclear program have removed 1 million barrels a
day of oil from the global markets, Maria van der Hoeven, the
executive director of the  International Energy Agency , said at a
conference in Singapore today.  Hedge Funds  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in crude futures in the week ended Oct.
16, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Managed money bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 166,278
futures, the Washington-based regulator said in its weekly
Commitments of Traders report. Net long positions rose by 5,274
contracts, or 3.3 percent, from a week earlier.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers also raised
bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 5,098 contracts in the week ended
Oct. 16, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 119,576 lots,
the exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders
report. That compares with 114,478 a week earlier.  The 590,000 barrel-a-day Keystone pipeline will resume
today, James Millar, a  TransCanada (TRP)  spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. The company shut down Keystone on Oct. 17 after
routine maintenance testing revealed an “anomaly” on the
outside of the line. The Calgary-based company had estimated the
pipeline inspections would be complete in three days, and
initially planned a resumption of operations on Oct. 20.  The U.S. imported 1.65 million barrels of oil a day into
the midcontinent, or PADD 2 region, in the week ended Oct. 12,
according to the Energy Department. Most of the crude imported
into the Midwest comes from  Canada , which is the U.S.’s largest
source of overseas oil.  North Sea  Brent may decline as the Buzzard field in the North Sea
resumes production, according to Morgan Stanley.  The price difference between the first and second month
futures, or time spread, for Brent has also narrowed, pushing
prices lower,  Hussein Allidina , the bank’s head of commodities
research, said in a note dated today.  The 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard field has had its return
from maintenance delayed by two days past its Oct. 21 resumption
date, the note said.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries governors
gather in Vienna to select a new secretary-general for the first
time in six years, with Iran, Iraq,  Saudi Arabia  and Ecuador
vying for the position. The governors started their two-day
meeting at 10 a.m. local time at OPEC’s headquarters and will
interview nominees. A final decision will be taken by ministers
in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  