-- Oil Snaps Three-Day Decline in New York; Keystone Curbed
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-10-23T07:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/oil-rebounds-from-lowest-in-two-weeks-keystone-supply-curtailed.html
Oil snapped a three-day decline in
 New York  while London’s Brent futures swung between gains and
losses. The Keystone pipeline won’t resume full deliveries until
next month after a shutdown.  Front-month futures traded 0.3 percent higher after losing
3.7 percent since Oct. 17 to settle at the lowest in more than
two weeks yesterday.  Brent crude  fell as much as 0.2 percent and
rose 0.3 percent. Prices fluctuated before reports tomorrow that
may show new home sales in the U.S. in September rose to the
highest in more than two years and crude stockpiles advanced.  “The markets said that given where we are, it could just
be a little bit overdone,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “It’s been quite a dramatic decline.”  Crude for December delivery was up 25 cents at $88.90 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:03 p.m. in  Singapore . It earlier rose as much as 64 cents.
The November contract fell 1.5 percent yesterday to $88.73, the
lowest close since Oct. 3. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent for December settlement was 15 cents higher at
$109.59 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
after losing 70 cents to settle at $109.44 yesterday. The
European benchmark crude was at a premium of $20.72 to the New
York-traded West  Texas  Intermediate grade, compared with $20.79
yesterday.  New York prices halted their slide after nearing technical
support along the lower Bollinger band. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels. The band was at about
$87.04 a barrel today.  Keystone Pipeline  The 590,000 barrel-a-day Keystone pipeline started
yesterday, James Millar, a  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  spokesman based in
Calgary, said in an e-mail. Keystone will operate at reduced
pressure for 24 hours or less to complete additional testing,
Millar said. TransCanada will trim October volumes and return to
contractual delivery levels in November.  TransCanada shut down Keystone on Oct. 17 after routine
maintenance testing revealed an “anomaly” on the outside of
the line. The pipe runs 2,150 miles (3,459 kilometers) from
Hardisty,  Alberta , to Wood River and Patoka,  Illinois , and to
the main U.S. oil storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Purchases of new homes in the U.S. probably  rose  in
September to their highest level since April 2010, a sign the
industry that helped trigger the recession in the biggest oil-
consuming country is recovering.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 3.2
percent from August to a 385,000 annual pace in September,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75
economists and analysts. The Commerce Department report is
scheduled to be released tomorrow in  Washington .  Oil Inventories  U.S. oil  inventories  probably advanced for a third week
after crude output climbed to the highest level in more than 17
years, according to the median of nine analyst estimates before
an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude inventories grew by 1.8 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, to 371 million in the seven days ended Oct. 19, the
Bloomberg survey showed. A gain of that size would leave
stockpiles at the highest level since July.  Tropical Storm Sandy was forecast to become a hurricane
tomorrow as it lingered over the southwestern  Caribbean Sea ,
while a second system began to develop in the Atlantic.  Sandy, with top winds of 45 miles per hour, was about 385
miles south-southwest of Kingston,  Jamaica , according to a U.S.
National Hurricane Center advisory at 11 p.m. New York time
yesterday. The system is forecast to pass east of  Florida .  Sandy is the 18th named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which ties 2012 with 1969 as the fourth-most active on
record. A 19th storm is expected to develop from a tropical
depression 750 miles east-northeast of the Leeward Islands, with
winds of 35 mph. It’s not forecast to reach the U.S.  U.S. Gasoline  Crude prices continued to outpace gasoline that was 0.1
percent higher at $2.6511 a gallon in New York. Futures for the
motor fuel have dropped 21 percent this month, compared with a
3.4 percent slide in oil.  Prices were little changed after capping an eighth day of
losses yesterday, the longest series of declines since February
2006, on speculation that supplies will increase as refineries
start units after repairs.  Gasoline futures sank to the lowest level since July 2 as
Exxon Mobil Corp. resumed operations on a coker at the Joliet,
Illinois, refinery after an Oct. 19 upset.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
and Citgo Petroleum Corp. are starting units following
maintenance at the McKee and Corpus Christi, Texas, plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  