-- Tom Wolfe’s Miami Teems With Manly Cubans, Porn Addicts: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/tom-wolfe-s-miami-teems-with-manly-cubans-porn-addicts-books.html
Tom Wolfe’s new novel, “ Back to
Blood ,”  is about Miami, and the characters run his usual gamut
of social classes:  Nestor Camacho, a muscle-bound cop from a lower-middle-
class family of Cuban immigrants.  Magdalena Otero, his voluptuous ex-girlfriend, a nurse from
the same background.  Norman Lewis, Magdalena’s employer and lover, a
psychiatrist famous enough to be interviewed on “60 Minutes” and
a relentless social climber.  Maurice Fleischmann, a pornography-addicted patient of
Norman’s and, as a local billionaire, Norman’s entree to the
upper echelons of Miami society.  The only one of these characters the author has any
affection for is Nestor, an insecure bruiser bound by the code
of manliness. Wolfe admires that code, as he expressed most
fully when writing about the early astronauts in “ The Right
Stuff ” in 1979.  The rest, when they aren’t outright losers, are egomaniacs,
turf protectors and, above all, status seekers -- for Wolfe, the
most soul-corroding vanity of them all, as well as his eternal
subject. The rabid pursuit of status is what makes the climbing
shrink Norman, whom we see through Magdalena’s loathing eyes,
the worst of the book’s obnoxious characters.  Society Perks  Norman’s billionaire patient Maurice has been so useful in
securing him the most coveted perks of Miami high society (a
boat slip on exclusive Fisher Island, even though he isn’t a
resident; entry with the super-elite first buyers to  Art Basel
Miami Beach , despite his lower income) that Norman has strung
him along without trying to cure him.  In his chapter on the art fair, “The  Super Bowl  of the Art
World,” Wolfe describes “billionaires and countless nine-digit
millionaires ... squirming like maggots” to get in first and
one-up their peers by snapping up the hottest pieces.  Contemporary art is an old target for him. He mounted his
major assault back in 1975, in “ The Painted Word ,” so his
outrage at art-world charlatanism is hardly new (or fresh) --
though I have to admit that his description of an obscene
performance-art piece got me to laugh out loud.  Magdalena is a climber, too: She’s sleeping her way up the
wealth ladder, beginning but not finishing with Norman. Wolfe
makes his view of her (which is also her view of herself)
explicit in a chapter he titles “The Whore.”  Public Shaming  The fate he’s prepared for her he announces in two more,
“Humiliation One” and “Humiliation, Too.” Wolfe rivals T.C.
Boyle in his zeal for publicly shaming his creations, but as a
misogynist he’s in a class of his own.  His characters are shallow in a double sense: They have no
moral depth, and they have no psychological depth that might
explain their lack of moral depth. He has fun hating them (a lot
more than I did), but his contempt seems dubious, since they so
completely share his values.  Like him, they see everyone and everything through the
prism of status. Of course, the much-awarded, best-selling Wolfe
has status to burn, at least in terms of worldly success.
(Critical favor has been slipping for a long time now.) So is it
really status seeking he despises? Or does he just enjoy
sneering down from the top of the heap?  “Back to Blood” is published by  Little, Brown (MMB)  in the U.S.
and Cape in the U.K. (704 pages, $30, 20 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Philip Boroff  on theater and
Richard Vines on  dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 