-- London Cab Maker Seeks Administration as Funding Dries Up
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-22T14:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/london-cab-maker-seeks-administration-as-funding-dries-up.html
  Manganese Bronze Holdings Plc (MNGS) , the
maker of London’s iconic black taxis, will try to restructure
its operations in administration after failing to secure the
necessary money to continue production.  “Discussions with various parties to secure funding on
acceptable terms to address the group’s financial needs have
proved unsuccessful,” the company said in a statement today.
“The board has therefore concluded that the group is no longer
a going concern.”  Manganese, which has built more than 100,000 taxis since
1948, struck a deal in 2006 with  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) 
to buy components and body parts from the Chinese company in
 Asia  for assembly in the U.K. The tie-up was intended to help
cut costs and ensure the U.K. company’s long-term survival.  The black taxis, known as Hackney cabs because of their
origin as carriages drawn by French Haquenee horses, feature 25-
foot turning circles, as required by  London ’s Public Carriage
Office in the early 20th century, to enable exits from taxi-
waiting queues in the middle of the street or tight spaces such
as the Savoy hotel forecourt.  Trading of the shares was suspended Oct. 12 when Manganese
announced a taxi recall, prompted by a fault in the steering
box. The company has forecast it will sell more vehicles this
year overseas than at home for the first time, after selling
1,502 in the U.K. and 705 abroad in 2011.  Share Suspension  Manganese shares stood at 10 pence at the close of trading
on Oct. 11, before the suspension, and have fallen 69 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 3 million pounds
($4.8 million).  The automaker’s priority remains resolving the recall of
400 London taxis, the Coventry, England-based company said in
today’s statement.  Geely took a 20 percent stake in the British company and
holds rights to sell the black cabs in  China  and some other
Asian countries. Manganese has planned in 2014 to introduce a
new sedan-style taxi as part of the joint venture. The British
company also has said it intends to serve as Geely’s distributor
when the Chinese company starts exporting cars to the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  