-- Monster Energy Drinks Cited in Death Reports, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-22T20:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/monster-energy-drinks-cited-in-death-reports-fda-says.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) ’s energy
drinks have been cited in the deaths of five people in the past
year, according to incident reports that doctors and companies
submit to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .  The reports said the victims consumed Monster drinks prior
to their deaths, Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman, said today
in a phone interview. The FDA said the incidents, which are
voluntarily reported, are considered to be allegations, and no
conclusion is drawn until an investigation is completed. Shares
of Corona, California-based Monster fell the most since 2008.  The FDA reports are being used by parents in Maryland who
sued Monster last week, claiming the drinks led to caffeine
toxicity that killed their 14-year-old daughter. Senator  Dick
Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, is asking the FDA to consider
caffeine limits on energy drinks after emergency room visits
involving such products jumped 10-fold from 2005 through 2009.  “FDA continues to evaluate the emerging science on a
variety of ingredients, including caffeine,” Burgess said in an
earlier e-mail.  The five death reports, and a sixth in 2009, were among 37
adverse reaction reports since 2004 that mentioned Monster
drinks, according to a log of incidents that health
professionals, companies and the public voluntarily recorded
with the FDA. The agency has said it’s working on draft
guidelines that would ensure energy drinks are safe.  Monster fell 14 percent to $45.73 at the close of  New York 
trading,  erasing all the gains  the stock had made this year.  Monster Sales  The log of adverse incident reports was given to  Bloomberg
News  by Kevin Goldberg, a lawyer representing the parents of the
14-year-old girl who died. The girl, Anais Fournier, had
consumed two Monster drinks, according to a copy of the
complaint filed Oct. 17 in state court in Riverside, California.  Monster, the largest U.S. energy drink maker by sales
volume,  sold  about $1.6 billion worth of such drinks last year,
the majority of company revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its energy drink sales have tripled since 2006.  “Over the past 16 years Monster has sold more than 8
billion energy drinks, which have been safely consumed
worldwide,” the company said in an e-mailed statement sent
through an outside spokesman, Evan Pondel. “Monster does not
believe that its beverages are in any way responsible for the
death of Ms. Fournier. Monster is unaware of any fatality
anywhere that has been caused by its drinks.”  The company said it intends to vigorously defend itself
against the lawsuit and won’t comment further.  Caffeine Guidelines  Emergency room visits involving energy drinks increased to
13,114 in 2009, with about half those trips made by patients 18
to 25 years old and also involving drugs or alcohol, according
to a November  report  by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration. The event reports linked to Monster
claimed that some of the life-threatening illnesses were
characterized by heart attack, chest pain and vomiting.  The Center for Food Safety Adverse Event Reporting System
is used by the public to report illnesses that the user deems to
be linked to a particular food, drug or dietary supplement. The
claims, which serve as a signal to the FDA, don’t prove
causation, Burgess said.  Monster and competitors such as  Red Bull  aren’t bound by
the FDA guidelines for caffeine in sodas, because energy drinks
are often sold as dietary supplements. Monster doesn’t list the
amount of caffeine in its proprietary formula, only that the
ingredient along with the plant extract guarana and the amino
acid taurine are in the drink, according to the lawsuit.  Cardiac Arrhythmia  Soda typically can have as many as 71 milligrams of
caffeine per 12 ounces for the FDA to consider it safe. The FDA
may require companies to prove caffeine levels are safe if they
exceed the guideline. Caffeine in energy drinks often ranges
from 160 milligrams to 500 milligrams a serving, the FDA said in
an August  letter  responding to Senator Durbin’s call for greater
regulation of the industry.  Regulators are assessing the nation’s caffeine intake to
ensure the amount in energy drinks is as safe as that in coffee,
soda and tea, the FDA said earlier this year after Durbin raised
the issue in April.  The parents of Fournier, the  Maryland  14-year-old, are
seeking damages in court in excess of $25,000, according to
their complaint. The cause of the Dec. 23, 2011, death was
“cardiac arrhythmia due to caffeine toxicity,” according to
the lawsuit, which cited a state autopsy report. The Maryland
medical examiner’s office in Baltimore said the autopsy cited is
a valid report, without making any further comment about the
legal claims related to the death.  Additional Cases  A trial date hasn’t been set, the lawyer said. He said his
firm, Goldberg, Finnegan & Mester in  Silver Spring , Maryland, is
investigating additional cases involving Monster and other
energy drink companies.  “Our primary goal is to make sure Monster is aware of what
Anais’ mother thinks the drink did to her child,” the lawyer,
Goldberg, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s the first wrongful death case involving a minor
child against an energy drink company that I’m aware of,” he
said.  The case is Wendy Crossland and Richard Fournier v. Monster
Beverage Corp.,  California  Superior Court, Riverside County
(Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  