-- Moody’s Cuts Ratings on Catalonia, Four Other Spanish Regions
-- B y   R o b e r t   B u r g e s s
-- 2012-10-22T22:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/moody-s-cuts-ratings-on-catalonia-four-other-spanish-regions.html
Moody’s Investors Service, a week
after deciding against cutting Spain’s credit-rating to below
investment grade, lowered Catalonia and four other Spanish
regions.  Catalonia, which will hold an early election on Nov. 25
focused on whether to seek independence for the region that
accounts for a fifth of Spain’s economy, was reduced two steps
to Ba3 from Ba1, the ratings firm said in a statement dated
yesterday. Extremadura was lowered to Ba1 from Baa3, Andalucia
was slashed to Ba2 from Baa3, and Castilla-La Mancha was cut to
Ba3 from Ba2 and Murcia dropped to Ba3 from Ba1.  Moody’s decision to cut the regions was “driven by the
deterioration in their liquidity positions, as evidenced by
their very limited cash reserves as of September 2012 and their
significant reliance on short-term credit lines to fund
operating needs,” the ratings firm said.  Moody’s also said that Catalonia, Andalucia and Murcia
“face large debt redemptions” this quarter when retail bonds
issued in 2011 are due to mature. The ratings of Basque Country,
Diputacion Foral de Bizkaia,  Madrid , Castilla y Leon, Galicia,
Valencia and four government-related entities in Valencia were
all left unchanged.  A week ago, Moody’s kept Spain’s sovereign rating at Baa3,
the lowest level of investment grade, citing a reduction in the
risk of losing market access because of the European Central
Bank’s willingness to buy the nation’s debt.  Spain avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal,
Ireland and  Greece  as below investment grade. Standard and
Poor’s has a negative outlook on its BBB- rating, one step above
junk, and Fitch Ratings has Spain at BBB, two levels higher.  Creditworthiness concerns have grown since Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy requested as much as 100 billion euros ($130
billion) in European Union aid to shore up Spanish lenders amid
signals the nation may miss its budget deficit goals. S&P
downgraded Spain on Oct. 10, saying it doubted the loans will be
mutualized among euro-region nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Burgess in  New York  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  