-- Looser Standards Threaten Lower-Ranking Commercial-Mortgage Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-10-22T18:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/looser-standards-threaten-lower-ranking-commercial-mortgage-debt.html
Investors adding the riskiest
portions of newly issued commercial-mortgage bonds should be
cautious as underwriting standards slip, according to Bank of
America Corp.  Wall Street  banks and rating companies are competing to win
business in the $550 billion market for bonds tied to shopping
malls, office buildings and hotels as sales rise, leading to
looser loan terms for borrowers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts said in an Oct. 21 report.  “Greater competition among originators and rating agencies
increases the risks associated with owning these securities,”
according to the New York-based analysts led by  Alan Todd .  Hedge funds , which typically buy bonds to flip them,
dominate the market for the most junior-ranked slices of new
commercial-mortgage backed securities offerings, according to
Bank of America. The lack of interest from so-called real-money
investors, or those that invest for the long-term, makes the
debt prone to price swings, the analysts said.  Some money managers that previously focused on commercial-
mortgage securities rated AAA have started to buy debt with
ratings as low as BBB+ to boost returns with the  Federal Reserve 
holding its benchmark lending rate at zero to 0.25 percent for a
fourth year, according to Bank of America. Hedge funds are the
primary buyers for bonds rated BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, the analysts said.  Relative yields on debt rated BBB- have narrowed by 50
basis points during the past month to 450 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate, the lowest this year, according to Bank
of America. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Wall Street has arranged about $29 billion in commercial-
mortgage bonds in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. As much
as $45 billion may be sold this year, from $28 billion in 2011,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Sales are down from a
record $232 billion in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  