-- OpenTable Gains on Report of Yahoo Acquisition Interest
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-10-22T20:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/opentable-gains-on-report-on-yahoo-targets-san-francisco-mover.html
OpenTable Inc. (OPEN) , the largest U.S.
online restaurant-reservation service, rose the most in more
than two months on a news report that suggested it may be a
takeover target for  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   The  shares  advanced 6.4 percent to $46.36 at the close in
New York, the biggest increase since Aug. 3. The stock has
climbed 18 percent this year.  Yahoo management, led by Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer , “appeared to show interest” in OpenTable as an
acquisition candidate, Reuters reported yesterday, citing a
person it didn’t identify. Mayer has said she wants to bolster
Yahoo’s technology and engineering expertise since she took the
helm in July. OpenTable, which focuses on consumer services, may
do little to further that goal, said  Tom Forte , an analyst at
New York-based Telsey Advisory Group.  “OpenTable from a technology standpoint is about
transitioning from making reservations by phone to making
reservations by the Internet,” Forte said in an interview.
“Yahoo seems to more interested in something that’s more
engineering focused –- tech heavy.”  Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, and Tiffany Fox, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
OpenTable, declined to comment.  OpenTable, which gets fees from restaurants for each diner
booked through its service, has experienced  slowing sales  growth
as the weak economy has led consumers to curb spending. The
company’s enterprise value is currently $976 million, about half
what it was worth at the end of the second quarter of 2011.  Yahoo finished the third quarter with cash and short term
investments of $9.4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  