-- Osborne Attacks Vested Interest of Labor Union March in London
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-22T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/osborne-attacks-vested-interest-of-labor-union-march-in-london.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said he will fight the “vested interests” of
trade unions and other lobby groups after protests in  London  and
other British cities against his austerity program.  “The only vested interest that my Treasury defends is the
taxpayer,” Osborne said in a speech hosted by the speaker of
the House of Commons in London today, according to extracts
released by his office. “Sound public finances are the bedrock
of stability on which our country is built and what government
spends has to be paid for.”  Labor unions marched through London, Glasgow and  Belfast  on
Oct. 20 to protest Osborne and Prime Minister David Cameron’s
economic policies. The demonstrations, titled “ A Future That
Works ” and organized by the 6.2 million-member Trades Union
Congress, labor’s umbrella body, sought to highlight “the
vicious circle of decline” of spending cuts and negative
growth, the TUC said in a  statement .  Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
is carrying out the biggest budget reductions since World War II
to narrow the fiscal deficit, forecast to reach 5.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year that runs through
March from 11.1 percent in 2010. The economy is on course to
shrink this year in the first double-dip recession since the
1970s and the opposition Labour Party says cuts are adding to
the problem.  Osborne, who will present updated fiscal plans to
parliament on Dec. 5, insists his austerity program is
insulating Britain from the euro-area debt crisis and holding
down borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  