-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall as Slowdown Weighs on Earnings
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-22T21:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/most-emerging-stocks-drop-on-japan-exports-china-gains.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell after
the benchmark index delivered the biggest weekly gain in a month
on concern the global economic slowdown is eroding corporate
earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.1 percent to
1,007.31 at the close of trading in New York as 393 of the 818
shares in the measure declined.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index retreated for
a third day and South Korea’s Kospi gauge dropped to the lowest
in a week. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced to the highest
level in a month as shipbuilder  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  jumped the most in a year in Hong Kong.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Latin America’s second-largest bank,
fell the most in more than a week after its profit missed
estimates. South Korea’s  Kumho Petro Chemical Co. (011780)  slid the most
in two weeks, leading materials stocks lower, after saying that
third-quarter operating profit dropped 76 percent. A report
showed  Japan ’s exports slid 10.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, the biggest drop since the aftermath of last
year’s earthquake.  “We’re seeing volatile trades as some corporate earnings
and economic data disappoint,” Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based
fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $30 billion, said by phone.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 13 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 30 percent to
the European Union on average, according to data compiled by the
World Trade Organization.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.4 percent, while  Mexico ’s IPC
benchmark lost 0.6 percent. Russia’s Micex Index increased 1
percent and  India ’s BSE India Sensitive Index gained 0.6
percent. The Kospi Index retreated 0.1 percent.  Bradesco, Cielo  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 1 percent.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a  measure  of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 0.8 percent.  Banco Bradesco lost 1.9 percent after reporting adjusted
net income of 0.76 reais (38 cents) a share, less than the 0.77-
real per-share median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Card-payment processor Cielo SA fell 4.9 percent to
the lowest since Feb. 15 after newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo
reported that President Dilma Rousseff is seeking to reduce
transaction fees.  2012 Gains  The emerging market index has climbed 9.9 percent this
year, trailing a 12 percent increase by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed countries. The developing-markets gauge trades at 11.6
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI global index’s
multiple of 13.3,  data compiled by Bloomberg show .  Industrial stocks led declines on the benchmark index,
falling 0.3 percent. Consumer discretionary and material stocks
also fell. Kumho Petro Chemical fell 2.9 percent in  Seoul . The
S&P GSCI Spot Index fell 1.2 percent as nickel and lead
retreated, and crude declined to a two-week low.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil company
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , contributed the most to
the Bovespa’s decline, falling 4.2 percent.  Rosneft Gains  OAO Rosneft climbed 2.6 percent to the highest since March
15 in Moscow after the company agreed to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50
venture between BP Plc and a group of billionaires, for $54.8
billion in the third-biggest oil acquisition ever.  Chinese stocks climbed in  Shanghai  and Hong Kong on
prospects policy makers will act to stimulate the market before
next month’s leadership transition. Reports last week showed
that growth in industrial production, retail sales and fixed-
asset investment in the world’s second-largest economy quickened
in September, signaling China’s recovery may be gaining
traction.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent to the
highest level since Sept. 10. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong gained 0.6
percent to its highest since May.  “It’s beginning to feel better,” Eric Conrads, who helps
manage $1 billion of stocks at ING Groep NV in New York, said by
phone today. “China has stabilized, which bodes well for assets
in the fourth quarter.”  Rongsheng Order  Rongsheng, China’s biggest shipbuilder outside state
control, surged 14 percent in Hong Kong after receiving a
tender-barge order that is the company’s first in the offshore-
engineering sector. The shipbuilder has also hired Don Lee, a
former Sembcorp Marine Ltd. executive, and formed a dedicated
offshore unit in  Singapore  as it seeks orders from energy
companies to offset waning demand for dry-bulk ships.  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX)  slumped 0.2 percent,
extending a 3.1 percent retreat in the previous session after
the government amended the electoral system, prompting calls by
the opposition for more protests and a boycott of the elections.  India’s rupee led gains among emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, rising 0.7 percent versus the dollar. The
Russian ruble weakened 0.7 percent, the worst performer.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 273, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  