-- Palm Oil Poised to Surge 21% as Demand Returns, Sime Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-22T09:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/palm-oil-poised-to-surge-24-as-demand-returns-sime-darby-says.html
Palm, the world’s most-consumed
cooking oil, is set to rally as much as 21 percent in the next
eight months as a pickup in global demand and a decline in
output reduce record stockpiles, according to  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)   Futures in Malaysia, the global benchmark, may range from
2,800 ringgit ($916) a metric ton to 3,100 ringgit in the first
half of 2013, said Franki Anthony Dass, executive vice president
at Sime Darby Plantations Sdn., a unit of the world’s biggest
listed producer. The commodity may trade between 2,400 ringgit
and 2,700 ringgit until the end of this year as demand recovers
before the festival season in  India , Dass said Oct. 19.  Palm oil, used in foods and biofuels, fell to a three-year
low this month as economic slowdowns in  China  and the European
Union curbed demand, pushing reserves in Malaysia to the highest
ever. The biggest producer after  Indonesia  announced on Oct. 12
a plan to cut the tax on crude exports and abolish a duty-free
shipment quota from Jan. 1 to help liquidate the inventories.  The tax cut will “give companies the opportunity to move
the surplus stock out of the country,” Dass said in an
interview at his office in Subang Jaya, outside Kuala Lumpur.
“That should reduce the stock and help the price move up.”  Reserves of crude palm oil gained to 2.48 million tons last
month, according to Malaysian Palm Oil Board data. That was the
third monthly climb, and 46 percent above the level in June.
Stockpiles may reach or exceed 3 million tons on Jan. 1, Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd., said on Oct. 16.  Price Drops  Futures plunged to 2,230 ringgit on the  Malaysia 
Derivatives Exchange in Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 3, the lowest level
since November 2009, and are set for a second annual drop. The
January-delivery contract climbed 2.5 percent to 2,564 ringgit
at 5:16 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, showing a loss of 11 percent for
the most active contract in the past year.  Some of the inventories may be depleted when India restocks
before the Diwali festival on Nov. 13, and as biodiesel demand
rises in Europe as the winter months approach, said Dass, who’s
been in the industry for 30 years. Less production expected in
the first quarter would also boost prices, he said. Output is
typically at the lowest level in January and February.  The slowdowns in  Europe  and China, the biggest cooking-oil
consumer, have failed to cut demand for food, including palm
oil-based products, and prices will lure buyers, he said.  ‘Don’t Stop Eating’  “In China, the economy can slow down, but the Chinese
don’t stop eating,” Dass said. “The demand for food will
always be there and China will pick up again. The economic
 slowdown  for China is only disrupting the pricing.”  Malaysia’s move to cut export taxes will benefit producers
with refineries and help them compete with supplies from
Indonesia, Dass said. “The move by the government is positive
to reduce the stocks, and makes the feedstock price competitive
and improves our refinery margins,” he said.  The new rates will range from 4.5 percent to 8.5 percent,
rising as prices climb from 2,250 ringgit to 3,600 ringgit,
Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok
said on Oct. 12. The existing levy is 23 percent. Indonesia last
year cut export taxes to make local crude palm oil, or CPO,
cheaper than in Malaysia, cutting costs for refiners.  Sime Darby, which produces about 2 million tons of
sustainable and traceable palm oil, plans to raise crude output
about 10 percent in the year to June 30, said Dass. Production
may gain to 2.72 million tons from last year’s 2.45 million
tons, with most of the growth in Indonesia, he said.  Better Fertilizers  The  diversified group , which also builds townships and
houses, operates power plants and retails cars, is using better
fertilizers and mechanizing farming to boost yields, said Dass.  “Sime Darby’s long-term growth is still intact but because
of the lower CPO price year-on-year and also slower demand in
the industrial division, we’re going to see flattish earnings
for” fiscal 2012-2013, Alan Lim Seong Chun, an analyst at
Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd., said from Kuala Lumpur today.
Demand would ease due to the slowing global economy, Lim said.  Sime Darby owns a total of 878,797 hectares (2.17 million
acres) of land in Malaysia, Indonesia and Liberia and about 60
percent of the area is planted with oil palms, according to the
company. The land includes 220,000 hectares in the African
country as part of a concession to plant oil palm and rubber.  “We’ll continue to look at opportunities to expand both in
Indonesia and  Africa  and these will definitely be our main
target areas for oil palm,” said Dass.  Sime Darby was little changed at 9.80 ringgit. The stock
has advanced 6.5 percent this year as the benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  rose 8.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  