-- Parsons Sipping Red Wine Calls Pandit Exit ‘Appropriate’
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-22T13:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/parsons-sipping-red-wine-calls-pandit-exit-appropriate-.html
Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman
Richard Parsons, who in 2011 awarded Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  a retention package valued at about $40 million,
said the CEO’s departure last week was “appropriate.”  “You need seasoned, honed managers who can cause a
250,000, 300,000-personnel organization to march” with
direction, Parsons said in a weekend interview at his Tuscan
vineyard in Montalcino,  Italy . “Vikram will tell you, ‘That’s
not my bag.’”  Pandit, 55, produced “every good idea that we had” to
prevent Citigroup’s collapse during the financial crisis,
Parsons said. New CEO  Michael Corbat , 52, who previously ran the
Citi Holdings unit, is well-equipped to lead the firm as it cuts
costs and sells unwanted assets, the ex-chairman said.  “Mike Corbat, who I knew back in the day when he ran the
Holdings operation, is just that kind of man,” said Parsons,
64, adding that he was “somewhat” surprised by the timing of
Pandit’s exit. “The transition and change was, in the long
term, not inevitable but appropriate.”  Parsons oversaw Pandit’s performance since 2007 until
stepping down from the board six months ago and was a member of
the compensation committee that awarded the CEO’s retention
package in May 2011. The deal was designed to keep Pandit at the
New York-based bank through cash and stock awards that would pay
out over multiple years.  ‘Future Performance’  “The long-term, multiyear, performance-based structure of
this award is designed to retain Vikram as our CEO and reward
him for future performance benefiting the company and our
shareholders,” Parsons said in a filing announcing the deal.
“Under his leadership, the management team has navigated Citi
through the crisis, returned Citi to profitability and is
executing a strategy for sustainable growth.”  Shareholders rejected Pandit’s compensation plan in a non-
binding vote at the annual meeting in  April (APR) , when fellow
compensation committee member Michael O’Neill succeeded Parsons
as board chairman.  O’Neill, 65, led the directors who pushed out Pandit after
concluding his mismanagement of operations damaged the bank’s
credibility, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  O’Neill and Shannon Bell, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Parsons’s remarks. Pandit didn’t respond to phone
and e-mail messages yesterday.  ‘Never Blinked’  Saudi billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , who personally
owned 218 million Citibank shares as of November 2008, praised
Pandit’s handling of the financial crisis while CEO, saying he
helped position the bank for further growth.  “With the economic crisis many companies like  HSBC (HSBA) ,
 Barclays (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered (STAN)  shrank and went back to their
roots,” Alwaleed said today at a conference in Dubai.
“Citigroup never blinked. It’s the only global bank at the
moment and really the potential is there,” he said, adding
Pandit did a “good” job as CEO.  Pandit received about $56 million from Citigroup in annual
compensation packages separate from the retention agreement,
including some stock awards that have declined in value. The
lender paid Pandit $165 million when it bought his Old Lane
Partners LP hedge fund in 2007 in a deal that led to his
becoming CEO.  While “compensation is a challenge across the corporate
spectrum,” the market remains the best way of determining pay
on Wall Street, said Parsons, who also helped to award Pandit’s
2011 pay plan of about $15 million.  ‘Simplify Instructions’  The former CEO could forfeit almost $33 million in cash and
stock tied to the retention deal because of his exit, according
to the terms of the arrangement and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The system has sort of spun off its axis but how to fix
it I don’t know, because I don’t know what the substitute is for
the market,” Parsons said. “Do we go out and find the ultimate
wise person and say, ‘You run the system?’ Do we turn it over to
politicians, do we turn it over to the unions, do we formulate a
bunch of hard-and-fast set of rules?”  Corbat and O’Neill will have to “simplify instructions”
and decide what kinds of banking Citigroup should do around the
world, Parsons said. The firm, under Pandit and Parsons, pushed
into  emerging markets  in Latin America and Asia as economic
growth slowed in the U.S. and  Europe . The company operates in
more than 100 countries.  Il Palazzone  “The old notion that we do this very well and therefore
we’re going to do it all over the world, well, it may not be
appropriate for every place in the world,” Parsons said. “It
may only be appropriate for certain markets where there’s a
current need and you can make good money.”  Parsons, visiting his  Il Palazzone vineyard  to inaugurate a
cellar, said regulatory pressures will still be a challenge for
the new management team.  “Externally, it’s still going to be tough,” said Parsons,
sipping a glass of his 2004 Brunello Riserva as he sat outside a
stone house set on an ancient trail from  Frankfurt  to  Rome . “To
some extent, the regulatory/political community is still almost
at war with the big banks.”  Nelson Rockefeller introduced Parsons to fine wines. He
plans to turn the hobby into a profitable business by doubling
production of red wines that retail in the U.S. for as much as
$130 a bottle.  Changing Landscape  The former Citigroup chairman became a director of Bermuda-
based investment bank  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  in June and is a board member
of  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) , where he is chairman of the compensation
committee. He’s also a senior adviser to Providence Equity
Partners Inc., which specializes in buying media and
telecommunications businesses.  Parsons joined Citigroup’s board in 1996, working with
Pandit’s predecessors Sanford I. “Sandy” Weill and Charles O. “Chuck” Prince as the lender became the world’s biggest bank.
A dozen years later, U.S. taxpayers provided a $45 billion
bailout that was later repaid.  “The regulatory landscape is changing all the time,”
Parsons said. “It’s very hard to run a big organization with no
certainty of what tomorrow brings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  