-- Permira Agrees to Buy Ancestry.com for About $1.6 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-22T20:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/permira-agrees-to-buy-ancestry-com-for-about-1-6-billion.html
Permira Advisers LLP agreed to buy
 Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  in a transaction valued at about $1.6 billion,
gaining the world’s largest family-history website.  Permira, a London-based private-equity firm, will pay $32
a share, the companies said today in a statement. The price is
41 percent higher than Ancestry.com’s closing price on June 5,
the last day of trading before Bloomberg reported that the
company had hired a financial adviser for a possible sale.  Ancestry.com worked with Frank Quattrone’s Qatalyst
Partners LLC to find buyers and weighed a sale to various
private-equity firms, people with knowledge of the matter have
said. The company, which recently passed the 2 million-user
milestone, sought a deal amid concerns that the cancellation of
a television show featuring its research would crimp subscriber
growth. The move dragged on shares earlier this year.  “It’s a reasonably attractive price, especially given the
volatility around the stock,” said Edward Williams, a New York-
based analyst for BMO Capital Markets. “The business model
lends itself to being privately owned. They have a very strong
cash flow -- a very predictable cash-flow business -- and I
think that the reason to go private, generally, is that the
public market is not valuing you appropriately.”  Ancestry.com gained 8 percent to $31.51 at the close in New
York. Through Oct. 19, the  stock  had risen 27 percent this year.  Expansion Opportunities  Forgoing the constraints of being a publicly traded company
could give Ancestry.com more leeway to invest in expansion, such
as Europe, Williams said. Ancestry.com vies there with
MyHeritage Ltd. Ancestry.com has made some acquisitions,
including Archives.com for $100 million, a deal that closed in
August. It also purchased San Francisco-based 1000memories Inc.
this month for an undisclosed price.  “It is sometimes difficult for public investors, who may
not have the time to really get in and understand the size of
the market, to get comfortable with some of those investments,”
Tim Sullivan, Ancestry.com’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview. “Permira is perfectly aligned with our
thinking.”  Sullivan said that he anticipates “absolutely no”
employee dismissals as a result of the deal and that he will
continue running the company with the same executives while
seeking additional talent within the technology industry.  DNA Testing  As well as expansion in  Europe , the company sees
opportunities to continue investing in research for DNA testing,
Sullivan said.  Sullivan and Howard Hochhauser, finance chief, will retain
a majority of their equity stakes. The transaction, subject to
shareholder and regulatory approval, is expected to close in
early 2013.  Provo, Utah-based Ancestry.com reported second-quarter
sales and profit in July that topped analysts’ estimates, helped
by user gains and demand for new products. Ancestry.com also
raised its sales forecast for 2012 to as much as $480 million.  Ancestry.com lost almost a third of its market value
earlier this year amid concern that the cancellation of the TV
show “Who Do You Think You Are?” would hinder expansion. The
show, which had celebrities such as Martin Sheen and Marisa Tomei exploring their roots with the help of Ancestry.com
research, aired its final episode on May 18 on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC network.  Breakup Fees  Ancestry.com would have to pay $37.8 million if it were to
terminate to accept a superior proposal, the companies said in a
regulatory  filing . Permira would have to pay a $75.6 million
breakup fee, the filing said.  Ancestry.com is unlikely to receive a higher bid, given how
long it has already sought a buyer, Williams said.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content.  Permira, started in 1985, advises funds with committed
capital totaling about $26 billion. Since 1997, more than 30
percent of investments have been in technology, media and
telecommunications companies, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net  