-- Philadelphia Schools Lure Buyers as Budget Erodes: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/philadelphia-schools-lure-buyers-as-budget-erodes-muni-credit.html
Philadelphia’s  school district , the
nation’s eighth-largest, is in such desperate shape that it
plans to sell $300 million of bonds this week to plug a deficit.
Yet investors hungry for yield have fueled a rally in its debt.  The district of about 203,000 students faces a $1.35
billion shortfall over the next five years and may close a
quarter of its schools. It is resorting to deficit financing for
the first time since 2002. And as in most of the U.S., public
schools in the nation’s fifth-largest city are receiving less
state funding per student than in 2008, according to the Center
on Budget & Policy Priorities in  Washington .  Even with the fiscal stress, Philadelphia school debt is
drawing investors facing  interest rates  near  45-year lows . The
extra yield buyers demand to own district securities has dropped
by about a quarter since January, data compiled by Bloomberg 
show. One lure is that state aid pays the bonds directly through
a so-called intercept program.  “The intercept is powerful and it offsets the crappy
credit quality of the Philly school district,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Investor Backstop  By diverting state aid to school debt, the intercept
program bypasses the district and boosts protection for
investors. The Philadelphia school debt will be issued through
the  Pennsylvania  State Public School Building Authority. The
sale is set for as soon as tomorrow.  Given the program, the deficit-financing bond is rated Aa3
by Moody’s Investors Service, its fourth-highest grade, and AA
by  Fitch Ratings , third-highest. The district’s underlying
credit is rated Ba1 by Moody’s, one step below investment grade.
Fitch on Oct. 16 cut it one level to BBB-, one step above junk,
saying the deficit sale showed its “ongoing challenge to
maintain even a minimal level of reserves.”  The district’s spending gap has swelled from $1.1 billion
in May. It is facing escalating costs from areas such as pension
contributions and funding for charter schools.  A Philadelphia school bond sold under the intercept program
and maturing in 2038 traded at an average yield of 3.18 percent
on Oct. 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its yield spread
above top-rated munis has averaged 0.41 percentage point since
the start of September, compared with 0.54 point in January,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Near Zero  The  Federal Reserve ’s policy of keeping its benchmark
overnight rate near zero is helping spur investment in higher-
yielding, riskier assets. The  extra yield  buyers demand on 10-
year general-obligation bonds rated BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade from  Standard & Poor’s , was 1.11 percentage
points last week, close to the smallest since 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Across the nation, 26 states are distributing less  funds  to
elementary and high schools in the 2012-2013 school year than
they did last year, and 35 are spending less on schools than in
2008 when adjusting for inflation, according to the Center on
Budget & Policy Priorities, a nonprofit focusing on issues
affecting lower-income Americans.  Moody’s expects Pennsylvania local-government downgrades to
exceed upgrades through early 2014 and said that school
districts “are most at risk given their rapidly rising pension
costs, flat state aid projections” and a property-tax cap,
according to a report by Michael D’Arcy, an analyst for the
company in New York.  ‘Fiscal Stress’  Fernando Gallard, a school district spokesman, said
officials declined to be interviewed before the sale.  Using long-maturity debt to pay current expenses is
uncommon for school districts, said Geordie Thompson, a Moody’s
analyst in New York who said his company didn’t track such
sales.  “It’s very indicative of fiscal stress: borrowing in the
 capital markets  over an extended period of time to pay for one
year’s deficits, in essence,” he said.  The Philadelphia district sold $300 million of deficit-
financing bonds through the state intercept program in 2002,
according to Moody’s.  Adam Weigold, who manages $1.2 billion of munis at Eaton
Vance Corp. in  Boston , said he expects the district to find
ready buyers for the bonds, which he will consider purchasing,
in part because of the protection to investors.  Diversification Chance  Bond managers may also be attracted to the chance to buy
the Philadelphia school debt as a way to diversify their
portfolios. The sale may be the last for five years, said Thomas Knudsen, the district’s chief recovery officer, in a letter last
month accompanying the financial  plan  through fiscal 2017.  “A deficit borrowing is an extraordinary action that we
will not be able to undertake again in this planning horizon,”
he wrote in the letter, sent to the School Reform Commission, a
board appointed by the mayor and Pennsylvania’s governor to run
the schools.  Knudsen estimated that the sale will add about $22 million
annually to the district’s debt burden.  The commission is holding public meetings to discuss its
plan to shut a quarter of 249 facilities by 2017, saying a third
of the building space isn’t being used. A decision on the
proposal isn’t expected this year, Gallard said.  Funds Siphoned  Charter schools  have added students, siphoning funds
available for district institutions.  A projected 29 percent of students will attend charter
schools in fiscal 2013, compared with less than 10 percent in
2003, and additional state aid for charter-school reimbursement
ended in fiscal 2012, Moody’s said.  Meanwhile, expenses are rising, with the district’s pension
costs more than tripling from 2012 to 2017, according to Fitch.  The school district must overhaul its finances, Weigold
said.  “Taking on more debt is never a helpful way to restructure
your balance sheet,” he said. “This is a credit that should
not be borrowing.”  In the $3.7 trillion muni market last week,  yields  on
benchmark 10-year tax-exempts rose about 0.03 percentage point
to 1.68 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Treasuries of
similar maturity yielded about 1.77 percent at about 4 p.m.  New
York  time on Oct. 19.  It was the third straight week that munis ended with yields
below their federal counterparts. Investors look at the  ratio  to
gauge relative value between the two asset classes. The lower it
is, the more expensive munis are compared with Treasuries.  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of general-obligation
tax-and revenue-anticipation notes through competitive bid as
soon as Oct. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
state’s largest short-term note deal, the data show. (Added Oct.
19)  CALIFORNIA plans to sell about $550 million in general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as tomorrow, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will be sold via auction.
(Updated Oct. 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  