-- Philips Profit Beats Estimates as Chief Advances With Revamp
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-10-22T11:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/philips-3q-profit-beats-estimates-as-chief-advances-with-revamp.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , the
world’s largest lighting company, reported third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten’s cost-cutting efforts bore fruit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time
items rose 43 percent to 562 million euros ($733 million), the
Amsterdam-based company said today. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey predicted 520 million euros. Sales rose 14 percent to
6.13 billion euros, beating a 5.95 billion-euro prediction.  Philips rose as much as 5.1 percent in Amsterdam after Van
Houten said his program to boost performance is showing the
first signs of success. Van Houten, now in his second year at
the helm, is seeking 1.1 billion euros in savings and has
increased workforce cuts to 6,700. Philips is becoming more
“agile” in getting the latest lighting, medical and
electronics innovations to market, the CEO said in an interview.  “They’re performing a bit better than the competition, in
healthcare and also in consumer,” said Kepler Capital Markets
analyst  Peter Olofsen . “Combined with the impact from cost
savings you get a strong set of results.”  Philips rose as much as 97 cents to 19.98 euros in
Amsterdam and traded at 19.81 euros as of 11.52 a.m. The stock
has gained 23 percent this year, valuing the company at 19
billion euros.  Europe Bright Spots  Van Houten’s saving efforts helped mitigate headwinds the
company is facing across the globe. Hospitals in the U.S. have
become more prudent on spending amid uncertainty on health-care
policy in a presidential election year, and the economic
situation in Europe “can be described as a roller coaster,”
Van Houten said.  Healthcare equipment orders grew by at least 10 percent in
 Europe  in the third quarter. Even amid fears about the debt
crisis and lower government spending, Italy provided one of two
“big chunk” orders, Van Houten said in the interview. North
America showed a decline of about 5 percent. Overall, earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization from medical equipment
rose to 330 million euros from 261 million euros.  “We are able to find growth even though the market in
Europe is quite tough,” Van Houten said.  The transition to light-emitting diode or LEDs from
incandescent bulbs helped lighting sales rise 4 percent, though
restructuring measures led profit to more than half and Philips
will further streamline operations, Van Houten said.  “As we go deeper into the organization, we see more
opportunities where there is duplication and indirect costs that
are not helping innovation,” the CEO told Bloomberg. “In our
new culture, we’re no longer tolerating that.”  Electronics Turnaround  Philips is trying to turn around its consumer products
unit, which accounts for about 26 percent of total sales, by
putting more focus on peripheral electronics gear such as
docking stations for Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Comparable sales at the consumer lifestyle unit rose 3
percent, driven by at least 10 percent growth in personal care,
health and wellness and domestic appliances such as coffee
machines. That was partly offset by a similar decline in the
lifestyle entertainment segment, which makes DVD players and MP3
sets.  The CEO has said that he is reviewing its strategy and
options for the entertainment electronics unit. He declined to
elaborate on the process today.  “Lifestyle entertainment is a good business but its
portfolio is rapidly changing. Sales of traditional products are
going down, and we are working hard to bring out new products,”
Van Houten said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  