-- Pimco Love Affair Repels Pensions as Mexico Allure Fades
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-10-22T16:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/pimco-love-affair-repels-pensions-as-mexico-allure-fades.html
Bill Gross ’s embrace of the Mexican
 bond market  is repelling the nation’s pension funds.  Known locally as Afores, their share of Mexico’s government
debt fell  to a 12-year low  of 18 percent this month. The funds
are allocating less money to Mexican peso notes as unprecedented
investment by foreign investors, including Gross’s Pacific
Investment Management Co., triggered a rally that cut yields on
debt due in 2024 to a record low of 5.1 percent in July.  While bond investors facing near-zero  interest rates  in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  have piled into Mexico searching for
higher returns, the country’s $144 billion pension fund market
is funneling more cash into stocks and preparing to invest in
commodities as assets under management are projected to double
in the next five years. Mexican bonds have returned 20.6 percent
in dollars this year, or twice the emerging-market average,
limiting the scope for further gains, Aviva Investors Ltd. said.  “The fact is, foreigners have come in, yields have
collapsed and Afores now find themselves with much lower
expected returns for any new cash that they expect to invest,”
 Kieran Curtis , who helps manage about $4.5 billion in emerging-
market debt including Mexican fixed-rate bonds at Aviva, said in
a telephone interview from  London .  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 have plunged 114 basis
points, or 1.14 percentage points, this year to 5.53 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco Buying  Pimco, the world’s largest manager of bond funds, said Oct.
3 that Mexican local debt was one if its favorites, three months
after Gross said he preferred them over German bunds.  The firm owns 18.4 billion pesos ($1.4 billion) of the
bonds maturing in 2024.  Mexico “will continue to be a natural alternative for
global pools of capital,”  Michael Gomez , managing director and
co-head of  emerging markets  at Pimco, said in an e-mail message
on Oct. 19. “Global fixed income investors are increasingly
searching for global options to diversify away from the low
nominal and negative real yields that characterized much of the
developed-world fixed income markets.”  Foreigners’ holdings of fixed-rate peso bonds climbed to a
12-year high of 52 percent on Oct. 10 from 40 percent a year
earlier, according to the central bank. The nominal amount of
the bonds held by overseas investors reached a record Oct. 10.  While the  Federal Reserve  and  European Central Bank  have
held rates near zero or purchased assets since July 2009 to spur
economic growth, Mexico has kept its borrowing costs at 4.5
percent, the only Group of 20 nation to stand pat in that span.  ‘More Value’  Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 yield 3.54 percentage
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 3.82 percentage
points more than German bunds.  Assets under management by the pension funds, which have
grown at an average annual rate of 18 percent in the five years
through September to 1.85 trillion pesos, may double in the next
half decade, Pedro Ordorica, the head of industry regulator
Consar, said in an interview last month.  While Mexican  government bonds  are still a “good
investment,” there may be more value in other assets, according
to Javier Orvananos, the chief investment officer for Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex pension funds, the country’s largest by assets.  “There’s more value in equities, in commodities and in
alternatives than in traditional fixed income,” Orvananos said
in an interview at his office in Mexico City on Sept. 25. “We
need to start looking at options for the future markets. So that
is why over the long term we’re probably going to start to
prefer other asset classes than fixed income.”  Equity Holdings  Orvavanos didn’t return telephone calls seeking further
comment.  Mexican stocks have gained 22.5 percent this year in dollar
terms, outpacing returns on local currency government bonds.  Pensions had 57 percent of their 1.85 trillion pesos in
government debt at the end of September, versus 67.5 percent
three years earlier, according to industry regulator  Consar . The
percentage of their funds in international stocks almost tripled
to 12.8 percent in the same period.  Antonio Sibaja, deputy director of investment at Afore XXI
Banorte, the nation’s fourth-largest pension by assets, says
that peso bonds still have room to rally.  Yields are “still not at the lowest levels,” Sibaja said
in a telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “In general, we have
confidence in the future good performance of local assets.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points
today to 144 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment fell
one basis point to 100 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer
fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.8631 per dollar. Yields on
Mexican interbank rate futures contracts due in December, known
as TIIE, were unchanged last week at 4.82 percent.  Pension funds are rebalancing their assets to invest as
much as 10 percent of holdings in commodity-linked securities
and to increase stocks after the industry regulator revised
rules to allow greater flexibility. Afores were barred from
investing in commodities when the system was privatized in 1997.  “It’s a game for the future,” Aviva’s Curtis said. “The
lower the yields are in Mexico, the more likely the Afores are
to find attractive investments overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  