-- Prince Harry’s Party Club Boujis Seeks A-Listers in Hong Kong
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-10-22T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/prince-harry-s-party-club-boujis-seeks-a-listers-in-hong-kong.html
It’s 11:30 a.m., and Matt Hermer’s
voice is gravelly. For two straight nights, he has hosted VIPs
at his newly opened, members-only night club, Boujis Hong Kong.  Guests included China Club owner David Tang, Li & Fung
Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  and pop star  Sandy Lam .  “Last night I was in bed by three,” Hermer says between
sips of a cappuccino, suggesting that was a reasonable hour. For
the founder of  Boujis  in London, whose hard-partying patrons
include  Prince William  and Prince Harry, long hours come with
the territory.  Dressed in jeans, gray trainers and a freshly laundered
mauve shirt, the 41-year-old says “being married and getting
older decreases my club-ability.” Still, he says “I need to go
out and see it, and be in it.”  He’s hoping that Boujis in Hong Kong, which opened on Oct.
19, will generate the same kind of buzz that surrounds Boujis in
London where it is a favorite haunt of celebrities (and the
paparazzi who stalk them).  Boujis  Hong Kong , which is about the same size as the
London flagship, has longer hours, from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m., while
London starts serving at 10:30 p.m. Hermer is targeting an older
crowd, setting the minimum age at 25 (London’s is 21).  Grown-up Crowd  “I’m told we are mad to do it but I’m sticking to my
gut,” he says. “We are alienating ourselves from a demographic
but I want this to be more grown-up, literally.”  Boujis yearly memberships cost HK$7,500 ($968), and numbers
will be capped at 1,000. Hermer is working with an informal
selection committee of movers and shakers to help him reach out
to Hong Kong’s A-listers. So far, about 200 people signed up,
including scions of some prominent Hong Kong families.  Still, the bulk of the applications have come from people
in finance, whose numbers Hermer wants to control.  “I don’t want it to be a homogenized group,” he says.
“There has to be art, design, fashion and bankers together.  “Because we are an international  brand (BRND) , Brit-stroke-Euro
heavy in London, that is our reputation so by default I suspect
there will be significantly more of that. But I want local
Chinese and we will get that.”  Camera Phones  Striking the right balance between publicity and privacy is
tougher than when he started Boujis in London 10 years ago.
“There was no such thing as a mobile phone with cameras,
privacy was protected. In London we don’t call the paparazzi, we
are quite discreet.”  The club deliberately plays up its British roots, with dark
wood paneling, upholstered chairs with piping and a mock
telephone booth. Brit-inspired dishes include Champagne-battered
fish with parmesan chips and potted chicken with foie gras.  Drinks include an array of champagnes and Boujis’s
signature drink, called “Crack Baby,” is a deceptively lethal
cocktail of champagne, Chambord and vodka.  Hermer says it took him three years to find the right
location in Hong Kong, where “rents wouldn’t cripple the
business.”  He finally chose Pottinger Street in the heart of the Soho
entertainment district. Rents were comparable to  London , but it
came with just a five-year fixed lease, compared to the London
standard of 25 years. The new club has reciprocal rights with
Boujis London.  Publicity Shy  Whisking stars in and out of tinted glass limousines isn’t
an option in Hong Kong. Pottinger is paved with granite steps so
clubbers must arrive on foot. (Publicity-shy patrons can,
however, be snuck in a back door, Hermer says.)  Boujis Hong Kong has a handful of local investors together
with  Ignite Group  where Hermer is chief executive officer. It’s
Ignite’s ninth venture in a group which included Bumpkin
restaurants and Eclipse cocktail bars.  Ignite had originally planned on opening its first Boujis
outpost in Beijing with  Lai Sun Development (488)  chairman Peter Lam
before the 2008 Olympics, which Hermer describes “as one of the
best deals I never did.”  In retrospect, he says it would have been a tactically bad
decision. “You go to Hong Kong and then build outwards which is
what I want to do.”  He’s debating whether he should open his next Asian Boujis
in Singapore or  Shanghai , and hopes to have something in either
Abu Dhabi or Dubai within the next 18 months.  Meanwhile, he says, “I’d be surprised if we don’t have
more things in Hong Kong within the next year. I’d love to put a
cocktail bar around here.”  Information:  http://www.boujis.com   (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on restaurants and
 Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 