-- Prospect Global Signs $2 Billion Potash Accord With China
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-10-22T07:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/prospect-global-signs-2-billion-potash-sale-to-sichuan-chemical.html
Prospect Global Resources Inc. (PGRX) 
signed a $2 billion supply deal with  China ’s Sichuan Chemical
Industry Holding Group in one of the largest U.S. potash export
contracts that may help it secure  project financing .  The Denver-based potash exploration company will sell the
crop nutrient to Sichuan Chemical from its American West Potash
project in Holbrook,  Arizona . State-owned Sichuan Chemical will
buy at least 500,000 tons a year for 10 years for export to
China, the companies said in a statement.  The deal will help Sichuan Chemical, China’s third-largest
chemical company, meet the nation’s growing food needs amid
shrinking global supplies and  rising food prices . For Prospect
Global, the deal covers 25 percent of projected output from the
project that’s expected to start production in late 2015 or
early 2016.  “It is believed to be the largest-ever purchase and sale
contract - in price and volume - for a potash mine under
development in the U.S.,” the companies said in the statement.
“It is also believed to be one of the largest potash export
contracts in U.S. history.”  The contract reflects a value of about $475 per metric ton,
and is take-or-pay, backed by a letter of credit. Sichuan
Chemical can buy more than the amount stated in the contract.  A bankable feasibility study for the project is scheduled
for the first-half of 2013.  Top Priority  “Bankable offtake contracts are a top priority in our
detailed strategic plan,” Prospect Global’s Chief Executive
Officer Pat Avery said in the statement. The supply accord
“enhances the attractiveness of the project to lenders,” the
company said.  World food prices rose in September to the highest in six
months as dairy and meat producers passed on higher feed costs
to consumers, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said Oct. 4. An index of 55 food items tracked by
the FAO rose to 215.8 points from a restated 212.8 points in
August, the Rome-based agency said that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  