-- Rajoy Should Seek EU Aid After Galicia Win, Research Group Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-22T12:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rajoy-should-seek-eu-aid-after-galicia-win-research-group-says.html
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy should
request a bailout from the European Union now that regional
elections are out of the way, said a research institute linked
to Spain’s employers lobby.  Rajoy cleared one obstacle on the path to a possible
bailout when his People’s Party won 41 of the 75 seats in the
Galician assembly, in a victory the party called a vindication
of his austerity policies. The PP vote slipped 11 percent in the
Basque Country as nationalists took control of the region.  Victory in his home region shores up Rajoy’s powerbase as
he tries to rein in Catalan nationalists pressing for greater
independence from Madrid while keeping financial markets at bay
and delivering on his budget commitments to  Europe . With his
national support waning, Rajoy also faces his second general
strike next month as opposition to his austerity program shifts
away from the ballot box onto the streets.  “Spain should accept conditions set by the European
Central Bank and other European authorities and the sooner the
better,” Jose Luis Feito, chairman of Instituto de Estudios
Economicos, or
IEE, a research institute tied to Spain’s main business lobby
told reporters today. “It’s very difficult to impose
substantial cuts in public services that hit living standards,
but the longer we wait, the more difficult and drastic it’ll
be.”  New Tools  Rajoy has been mulling a bailout request that would put
Europe’s newest crisis-fighting tools to the test in an economy
that’s twice the combined size of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .
At a summit last week, European Union leaders failed to fulfill
pledges made in June for greater integration, as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushed back against demands from  France 
and Spain.  Spanish bonds fell with the yield on 10-year debt rising 3
basis points to 5.41 percent at 1:40 p.m. Madrid time. Even
after a rally last week, Spain still pays 379 basis points more
than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years; the  Ibex-35 (IBEX)  stock index
rose 0.2 percent.  The PP’s gain in Galicia reflected the collapse of its main
rivals. The Socialist Party’s 294,000 votes, just over half what
it received in 2009, reduced its representation to 18 lawmakers
from 25, while the Galician Nationalists’ vote dropped 46
percent as they claimed 7 seats. The PP added three seats from
its 2009 levels.  National Suppport  Nationally, support for the PP fell to 37 percent from 45
percent at the November election, a poll by state-run CIS showed
on Aug. 6. A Metroscopia poll for the newspaper El Pais last
month showed 84 percent of Spanish voters have little or no
confidence in Rajoy.  Galicia, run by Alberto Nunez Feijoo since 2009, was one of
the first regions to implement an austerity program and had one
of the smallest budget deficits last year. Feijoo, seen as a
possible successor to Rajoy, coupled cuts in health care with
sales of the administration’s luxury cars.  “The steps that we have explained have to be taken to
resolve the crisis have had overwhelming support,” Carlos
Floriano, the PP’s campaign chief, said in an interview on
public broadcaster Radio Nacional de Espana. “There is no
precedent in this crisis situation of a government not just
defending but increasing its majority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  