-- RBC Said to Be Lead Bidder to Buy Ally’s Canada Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-22T20:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rbc-said-to-be-lead-bidder-to-buy-ally-s-canada-unit.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s
largest lender by assets, is nearing a deal to buy the Canadian
operations of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , according to two people
briefed on the negotiations.  Talks are in an advanced stage, said the people, who
requested anonymity because the discussions are private. Ally’s
Canadian business, which includes auto finance, insurance and
deposits, held $15.3 billion in assets as of March 31, according
to a May 15 presentation.  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon , 55, has
said the lender would explore “strategic acquisitions” amid a
slowdown in Canadian consumer lending. Ally put its non-U.S.
operations up for sale in May to help repay a $17.2 billion
bailout that left taxpayers with a 74 percent stake.  RBC may pay more than $4 billion, CNBC reported earlier
today, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. That
would make the deal the largest  takeover  ever for Royal Bank,
eclipsing a $2.16 billion purchase of Centura Banks in 2001.
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  also is bidding, CNBC said.  Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based RBC, said
she couldn’t comment, as did Gina Proia at Detroit-based Ally
and Toronto-Dominion’s  Stephen Knight .  Royal Bank posted a record C$1.13 billion ($1.14 billion)
profit at its domestic-banking unit in the fiscal third quarter,
fueled by increasing deposits, mortgages and loans.  Toronto-Dominion  Second-quarter net income at Ally’s Canadian operations
fell 18 percent to $80 million from a year earlier, the company
said in a regulatory filing. Revenue for the three months ended
June 30 slid 27 percent to $179 million. Royal Bank said profit
for the third quarter ended July 31 rose 73 percent to C$2.24
billion from a year earlier as total revenue climbed 12 percent
to C$7.76 billion.  Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion had shown interest in
Ally’s Canadian operations, a person with knowledge of the
matter told  Bloomberg News  last month.  The transaction would follow a proposed takeover by
Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia , which offered in August to
buy the Canadian banking operations of  ING Groep NV (INGA)  for C$3.1
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  