-- Treasuries Drop as Polls Show Presidential Race Narrowing
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-22T21:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/treasuries-remain-higher-as-stock-declines-boost-safety-demand.html
Treasuries fell, extending last
week’s decline, with investors reluctant to speculate on the
prospects of the  U.S. economy  as the presidential race heads
into its final two weeks with polls showing a dead heat.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields traded up from their 200-day
moving average before data this week forecast to show durable-
goods orders rose in September and growth accelerated in the
third quarter. President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  are tied at 47 percent in a national poll of likely
voters before a televised debate tonight. The Treasury is
scheduled to sell $99 billion of two-, five- and seven-year
notes starting tomorrow.  “The perceived notion of some folks is that if Romney
wins, the Fed may be more reluctant to buy Treasuries come the
end of the year,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . The opposite
perception is that, “if the president wins, there would be less
concern that the Fed would step back from buying. A part of this
is also a concession for the auctions.”  The 10-year  yield  climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.81 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time
after dropping seven basis points on Oct. 19, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent note due August
2022 fell 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 10/32.  The yield climbed as high as 1.815 percent, above the 200-
day moving average of 1.805 percent.  Cheaper Levels  Treasury volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to $204 billion,
the lowest level since Oct. 15. It has averaged $243 billion in
2012. It touched a high this year of $464 billion in September.  Volatility reached 68.5 basis points as of Oct. 19, below
this year’s average of 72.5 basis points, according to the
latest data available from Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE
index, which measures price swings based on options. It touched
57.5 basis points on Sept. 19, the least since May 7. The
average over the past decade is 99.66 basis points.  U.S. government securities traded close to the least
expensive levels in two months. The 10-year term premium, a
model created by economists at the Federal Reserve that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was
negative 0.76 percent, equaling the least costly since Aug. 21.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value. The average this year
is negative 0.75 percent.  ‘Reasonable Argument’  “There’s a reasonable argument that says Romney gaining
momentum is bad for Treasuries and good for risky assets,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s more of a risk-on
sentiment.”  Romney has said he won’t reappoint Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  when his second four-year term ends January 2014. The
presidential election is Nov. 6.  The Treasury is scheduled to auction $35 billion of two-
year notes tomorrow, the same amount of five-year debt the
following day and $29 billion of seven-year securities Oct. 25.  The previous auction of $35 billion of 2-year notes on
Sept. 25 yielded 0.273 percent. The yield on the security
climbed to 0.31 percent today, the highest since June 29.  “If we can maintain these yield levels, then the auctions
will go well,” said Dan Mulholland, head of U.S. Treasury
trading in the capital-markets unit of BNY Mellon Corp. in New
York.  More Purchases  The Fed’s policy-setting committee will begin a two-day
meeting tomorrow. The  central bank  in September unveiled an
open-ended plan to buy $40 billion a month of mortgage debt in a
third round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing to
boost the economic recovery.  All 21 primary dealers expect the Fed’s latest QE measures
to be expanded to include  government securities  as gains in U.S.
employment and  consumer confidence  prove unsustainable,
according a survey last week by Bloomberg.  “A Romney win could potentially lead to a tighter Fed,”
Mulholland of BNY Mellon said. “There’s also the unwillingness
of investors to commit to the market without knowing what’s
happening with the fiscal cliff.”  Likely Voters  Economic output would shrink by 0.5 percent next year, and
joblessness climb to about 9 percent if the so-called fiscal
cliff isn’t averted, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office . The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion in U.S. federal
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January unless the  U.S. Congress  acts.  Durable goods  orders increased 7.2 percent last month,
after falling 13.2 percent in August, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the Oct. 25 Commerce Department report. The
department will say on Oct. 26 that gross domestic product
expanded at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the three months ended
Sept. 30, up from 1.3 percent the previous quarter, a separate
survey showed.  As data appear to improve, Obama and Romney are tied at 47
percent in a national NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of
likely voters released yesterday. A Quinnipiac University/CBS
News poll of likely Ohio voters released today showed Obama
leading Romney by five percentage points, 50 percent to 45
percent.  The central bank  purchased  $1.89 billion of debt maturing
in February 2036 to May 2042 as part of its Operation Twist
program to replace shorter-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-dated securities in an effort to boost the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  