-- Regulators Should Avoid Choking HFT Benefits, Study Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-10-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/regulators-should-avoid-choking-hft-benefits-study-says.html
European regulators should
coordinate controls on high-frequency trading to prevent
disruptions in markets without choking off its benefits, the
U.K. government’s lead scientific adviser said.  His report recommended pan-European circuit breakers to
halt trading when swings become too great and proposed minimum
trading price increments to boost liquidity. Tighter
restrictions, such as forcing traders to hold orders for a
certain period or limiting how often they may be canceled, are
“likely to be problematic,” it said.  While computerized trading has increased liquidity and
lowered costs, regulators should work on managing instances of
sudden instability and disruptions,John Beddington, Britain’s
chief scientific adviser, said at a presentation in  London 
yesterday. The recommendations follow research his group
published in September 2011 that found high-frequency trading
isn’t spurring broad increases in volatility even as it
sometimes creates “instability” that may lead to crashes.  “The commonly held negative perceptions surrounding high-
frequency trading are not supported by the available evidence,
but policy makers’ concerns are justified about the effect the
practice may have in some specific circumstances,” Beddington
said. The two-year study, produced by about 150 people from more
than 20 countries, found no direct evidence that faster trading
increased volatility or market abuse.  Rapid Orders  High-frequency trading is the broad label applied to
computerized strategies that rely on the rapid placement of
orders, many of which are immediately updated or canceled, for
purposes such as market making and statistical arbitrage. The
practice accounts for about 30 percent of transactions in the
U.K. and probably more than 60 percent in the U.S., according to
the report.  HFT came under increased scrutiny after the so-called flash
crash in May 2010, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average
briefly lost almost 1,000 points. While high-frequency traders
didn’t cause the rout, their habit of buying and selling rapidly
led to the sudden removal of liquidity from  futures markets ,
kicking off a related plunge in stocks, a report by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said on Sept. 30, 2010.  Following the flash crash, U.S. exchanges instituted curbs
that halt stocks when they move 10 percent in five minutes. The
SEC in July refused to recommend larger minimum tick sizes on
American equity markets, saying more discussions may generate
ideas for a pilot study to test bigger increments for some
stocks. Critics have argued that ever-narrowing spreads on
securities transactions have hurt smaller companies because
making markets in them is less profitable.  Policy Evidence  Today’s paper, “The Future of Computer Trading in
Financial Markets,” was produced by Foresight, a division of
the Government Office for Science. The program provides evidence
to aid the formulation of policy and doesn’t reflect the views
of the government.  The report called for the adoption of software for forensic
analysis of extreme market events, including synchronized
timestamps that could allow regulators in different countries to
detect the sequence of trades.  Regulating the algorithms used by computer traders would be
too costly and cumbersome, according to the study’s
contributors, who include Dave Cliff of the  University of
Bristol , Jean-Pierre Zigrand of the  London School  of Economics
and Oliver Linton of the University of Cambridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  