-- Robots Replace Gardeners as Sales Surge for Auto-Mowers
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-23T08:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/robots-replace-gardeners-as-sales-surge-for-auto-mowers.html
Europe’s backyards have become the
latest front in the robot wars.  With a quarter of lawn owners saying they dislike mowing
the grass, sales of machines that will do the job for them are
taking off, especially in Europe where landscaping services are
more expensive than in the U.S.  That has spurred a legion of manufacturers to challenge
market leader  Husqvarna AB. (HUSQB)   Robert Bosch GmbH ,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and
Global Garden Products Italy SpA this year started offering
robotic mowers, which Husqvarna sells for as much as 5,000 euros
($6,487).  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  plans to enter the fray in 2013.  “We felt we had to get on board,” said Thomas Olsson,
head of Swedish operations at privately owned  Global Garden
Products . “For the first time you hear that people exchange
relatively new manual mowers for robots.”  The market for hands-free mowers, which expanded by more
than 30 percent last year, offers a rare bright spot in Europe’s
consumer climate. The European market may grow as much as 20
percent annually over the next five years, Olsson said. Most of
the customers are in  Sweden ,  Germany ,  France  and  Switzerland  --
countries that have so far proven resilient to the debt crisis.  Demand for the garden robots has “exploded the last couple
of years,” said Mats Gustafsson, owner of Moheda Jarnhandels
AB, a hardware store in the southern Swedish town of Moheda.
Gustafsson said he’s sold almost 60 robomowers this year,
compared with fewer than 10 five years ago.  European Boom  “It’s still a niche market in Europe as a whole, but it’s
growing so fast so that in some countries it’s now starting to
be a mainstream segment,” said Henric Andersson, head of
product management and development at Husqvarna. With time, “it
may be as big or bigger than regular mowers” in some countries.  Six percent of the value of all mowers sold in Germany are 
now robotic, and the country’s automatic mower market is growing 
in “double digits,” according to research company GfK Retail and
Technology GmbH.  Husqvarna, the former Electrolux AB unit that produced the
first robotic mower in 1995, has six models that can care for
lawns ranging from 400 square meters (4,306 square feet) to
6,000 square meters. Outside of Europe, it mainly sells the
mowers in  Australia  and  New Zealand .  New Entrants  The Swedish company brought the product to North America in
2001, only to retreat a year later after concluding the market
wasn’t ready. In addition to the greater use of landscaping
services by U.S. homeowners, North American grass, especially in
the southern U.S., is generally tougher than European varieties,
making it difficult for the machine’s fine blades to work
effectively, according to Husqvarna.  Bosch, the world’s largest supplier of car parts, entered
the robotic mower market last month when it started selling its
Indego machine in  Scandinavia . Deere, based in Moline, Illinois,
joined the rivalry earlier in the year with the John Deere Tango
E5, which it sells in  Austria ,  Belgium ,  Luxembourg ,  Norway  and
Switzerland.  Global Garden Products, based in Castelfranco Veneto,
 Italy , bought its way into the $170 million market in January
when it acquired LiCo srl’s Lizard mower marque, and rebranded
those machines under its Stiga brand.  Andersson declined to discuss Husqvarna’s market share,
saying only “we’re clearly the market leader.”  Sensor Technology  The mowers use sensor technology to stay within a defined
area of the yard, and are typically able to avoid obstacles such
as trees and lawn furniture. Some of the mowers, including those
made by Husqvarna, move around in random patterns, while others
such as Bosch machines follow distinct lines. Unlike traditional
mowers, they don’t collect the cut grass, as the clippings are
so small they break down fast and act as fertilizer; instead the
rechargable mowers are used frequently, often daily.  The price of robotic mowers may be barrier to their
success. Husqvarna’s models start at 1,700 euros. Most electric
walk-behind mowers sell for 300 euros to 900 euros.  Prices will come down, and when they’re inexpensive enough
the market will become mainstream, according to Husqvarna’s
Andersson. About 1,000 euros may be “a magical line for the
customer,” he said.  Robots aren’t only gardening, they’re also cleaning the
house. Sensor-loaded machines have grabbed a 6.1 percent share
of the European vacuum-cleaner market, according to GfK. The
market has grown about seven times over the last three years and
is now worth about 205 million euros in the region, the
researcher reports.  Robotic Vacuums  Their success also offers a cautionary tale for pricing.
 Electrolux AB, (ELUXB)  the world’s second-biggest appliance maker, was
first to introduce the robot vacuum cleaner in 2001 and after
reaping little success stopped making the product in 2009.  “The development costs were too high so the retail price
became too steep,” Electrolux spokesman Erik Zsiga said.
“Sales just weren’t big enough.”  Companies that still make robot vacuums include  Siemens AG, (SIE) 
Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and  iRobot Corp ., which raised its
earnings forecast in July after sales beat estimates. An
Electrolux Trilobite vacuum cleaner retailed for more than
$1,500 before it got pulled from the market, while an iRobot
Roomba can be bought on Amazon today for as little as $300.  Electrolux’s limited success with robotic appliances isn’t
discouraging Honda from betting on auto mowers. The Tokyo-based
company said in August it will start selling a machine called
the Miimo in  Europe  next year.  “The competition is really stiffening up,” said Johan Dahl, an analyst at Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag in Stockholm, who
has a hold recommendation on Husqvarna’s shares. “But there
should be room for more players to compete profitably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  