-- Romney Wouldn’t Meet Defense Spending Pledge for Years
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/romney-wouldn-t-meet-defense-spending-pledge-for-years.html
Mitt Romney ’s pledge to spend at
least 4 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product on the
military isn’t an immediate goal or even one he is sure to meet
in a first term as president, according to a defense adviser.  “The goal of 4 percent of GDP remains and is unchanged,”
 Dov Zakheim , a former Pentagon comptroller who advises Romney,
said in an e-mail. “But that goal is not going to be achieved
overnight or perhaps even by the end of the first term.”  The comments only add to the uncertainty about how much a
President Romney might add to the Pentagon’s budget and when,
what the additional spending would buy other than more warships
and how he’d propose to pay for what analysts say may be as much
as $2 trillion in added spending while also whittling down the
federal deficit as he’s promised.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has resisted
demands from Republicans to spell out in advance exactly how
spending would be curtailed if $500 billion in automatic defense
reductions over a decade take effect starting in January, saying
Congress should find a way to avert the deficit-cutting process
called sequestration.  The fight over defense spending and the refusal of both
sides to offer specifics about their plans have made the
Pentagon budget a campaign issue, especially in  Virginia . That
closely contested state is the one most dependent on defense
spending, according to a Bloomberg Government study. The
presidential candidates may tangle over their defense policies
tonight when they meet in their final 90-minute debate, devoted
to foreign policy, at Lynn University in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .  Confusing Industry  Compounding the uncertainty over sequestration, the absence
of a clear plan for how Romney would increase defense spending
“is confusing the defense industry and others,”  Byron Callan ,
a defense industry analyst in Washington with Capital Alpha
Partners LLC, said an interview. “It’s peculiar why they can’t
agree” with the $2 trillion estimate “or come up with a
different number,” Callan said.  Placing a price tag on Romney’s defense plan may be
difficult because the 4 percent target isn’t “a firm goal of
their campaign,”  Michael O’Hanlon , a national security analyst
at the  Brookings Institution , a policy group in Washington, said
in an interview. “They use it as an aspirational goal. Hell
would have to freeze over and deficits would have to disappear
for this to be even conceivable.”  Setting Floor  The Romney campaign said in a white paper published last
October that the Republican presidential candidate would “begin
by reversing Obama-era defense cuts and return to the budget
baseline established by Secretary  Robert Gates  in 2010.” It
said Romney would set a “floor of 4 percent of GDP” as a goal
for the  defense budget , not counting war costs. The campaign’s
 website  recounts the support of former Defense Secretary Gates
and top military officials for that spending standard, saying,
“Mitt Romney agrees with that pragmatic aspiration.”  Romney said in a foreign policy speech in Virginia on Oct.
8 that he would “roll back President Obama’s deep and arbitrary
cuts to our national defense that would devastate our
military.”  The Defense Department proposed $487 billion in defense-
spending cuts over 10 years under a plan Obama and Congress
backed to reduce the federal deficit. That’s separate from the
$500 billion in cuts that will start taking effect in January
unless Obama and Congress agree to an alternative.  Obama said in an Oct. 16 debate with Romney that the
Republican “wants to spend $2 trillion on additional military
programs even though the military’s not asking for them.” He
said that, plus trillions of dollars in tax cuts pledged by
Romney, would worsen the federal deficit or require higher taxes
on the middle class.  Criticizing Estimate  Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , Romney’s running
mate, and the candidate’s advisers and representatives have
criticized the $2 trillion estimate without offering an
alternative.  Travis Sharp , a defense analyst at the  Center for a New
American Security  in Washington, in a projection for the
 CNNMoney website  was among the first to estimate that it may
cost an additional $2 trillion to maintain defense spending at 4
percent as Romney pledged. While Republicans have said the
center has links to Democrats, the  Heritage Foundation , a
Washington-based policy group often cited by Republicans, has
 agreed with  the $2 trillion figure.  Current  defense spending , including war costs, is about 4.2
percent of GDP and is projected to fall to 2.7 percent of the
economy by 2017, according to an estimate by Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a nonpartisan group based
in Washington.  Depends on Economy  At an Oct. 18 event organized by the group Military
Reporters & Editors, Zakheim, who was Pentagon comptroller under
President  George W. Bush , declined to offer details of how and
when Romney would begin increasing defense spending.  “It will very much depend on the state of the economy and
very much depends on the offsets you’ll be able to find within
the defense budget,” Zakheim said. “Every effort will be made
to ramp up as soon as possible.”  At a breakfast meeting with reporters on Oct. 11, Zakheim
said the $2 trillion estimate cited by Obama “is essentially an
assumption that we go to 4 percent of GDP from the get-go.” The
Romney campaign doesn’t intend to “come in with a massive
supplemental” to the current budget to boost defense spending,
he said.  The Washington Post in an Oct. 18 fact-checking article,
cited Romney advisers it didn’t identify as saying the 4 percent
goal wasn’t likely to be reached until the end of a second
Romney term in 2020.  ‘Two Caveats’  Romney may be able to reach the goal of spending 4 percent
of GDP on defense by the end of the first term and still cut
deficits as he has promised “with two caveats,” according to
James Carafano, a defense analyst at the Heritage Foundation.  The former Massachusetts governor would have to get “ tax
reform  done and address long-term entitlement spending,”
Carafano said in an interview.  The Romney campaign says its defense proposal is based on
restoring spending levels anticipated by Obama’s proposed 2011
Pentagon budget, prepared when Gates was still defense
secretary, which sought $708.2 billion, including $548.9 billion
for the base budget and $159.3 billion for war-related costs.  Declining 9%  Based on a five-year plan presented to Congress in February
2010 as part of that budget, the Pentagon’s 2013 base budget,
excluding war costs, would have been $585.7 billion.
Subsequently, the Obama administration scaled back defense
spending because of caps imposed under the deficit-cutting
Budget Control Act, starting with a $45 billion cut in fiscal
2013 to produce what became a $525.4 billion request for the
basic defense budget.  Even if sequestration is averted, defense spending will
decline 9 percent over the next five years compared with
previous plans because of requirements of the Budget Control
Act.  If Romney achieved his goal of setting defense spending at
4 percent of GDP by 2017, the difference between his 10-year
defense plan and Obama’s current decade-long plan would be $2.03
trillion, according to a study by  Todd Harrison , a defense
budget analyst at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments.  If the target is achieved gradually by the end of a second
term, the additional expenditure would be about $1.75 trillion,
Harrison said in an e-mail. The estimates are in current
dollars.  Hardware, Troops  Michele Flournoy, an Obama campaign defense adviser who
served until February as the Pentagon’s top policy official,
said at the Oct. 18 event with editors and reporters that
Romney’s defense spending plan isn’t backed by a strategy.
Flournoy was a  co-founder  of the Center for a New American
Security.  Zakheim responded that a bigger defense budget would pay
for more military hardware and more troops, both of which he
said are necessary to meet the Pentagon’s strategy that calls
for a “rebalancing” toward  Asia  while also being able to deal
with contingencies in the  Middle East .  Romney has said he would reverse Obama’s plans to reduce
the military’s headcount by 100,000 -- 80,000 from the Army and
20,000 from Marine Corps.  While the Romney campaign hasn’t estimated what that would
cost, Harrison said every 100,000 troops added would cost about
$12.5 billion a year.  Bigger Navy  Romney also would expand the the Navy and build as many as
15 ships a year. The Pentagon’s current plans call for buying 10
ships in 2013, and over the next 30 years the Navy’s ship
purchases would average about 8.9 vessels a year.  The Republican hasn’t specified what mix of ships he’d
build, although Zakheim has said Romney would back three
Virginia-class submarines a year instead of the two now planned,
as well as destroyers and possibly new cruisers.  Equipping the U.S. Navy with more ships would allow the
Pentagon to increase the naval presence in the Asia Pacific even
in the absence of permanent bases in the region, Zakheim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  