-- Rongsheng Heavy Gains on Offshore Order: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-22T11:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rongsheng-heavy-gains-on-offshore-order-hong-kong-mover.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  jumped the most in a year in  Hong Kong 
trading as a new manager and an  order  to build a tender barge
stoked optimism about the company’s push into the offshore-
equipment market.  The  shipbuilder , China’s biggest outside state control,
surged 14 percent, the most since Oct. 27 last year, to HK$1.58
at close of trading. There were 24 trades of 1 million shares or
more, and the 181 million shares traded were more than five
times the stock’s three month average, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The tender-barge order marks a breakthrough for Shanghai-
based Rongsheng as it’s the company’s first in the offshore-
engineering sector, according to Barclays Plc. The shipbuilder
has also hired Don Lee, a former Sembcorp Marine Ltd. executive,
and formed a dedicated offshore unit in  Singapore  as it seeks
orders from energy companies to offset waning demand for dry-
bulk ships.  “Don Lee is very well-known in the marketing and
operations of offshore products,” said Shanghai-based UOB Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. analyst Lawrence Li. “The market is
expecting that he’ll bring in more offshore orders.”  Ten-day historical  volatility  on the stock climbed to the
highest level since Aug. 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Industry Experience  Lee has worked in the industry for 40 years, and was
previously senior general manager at Sembcorp Marine’s Jurong
Shipyard, Rongsheng said in a statement yesterday. Singapore-
based Sembcorp is the world’s biggest oil-rig maker after  Keppel
Corp. (KEP)   Rongsheng won the tender-barge order from a Norwegian
customer, it said without elaboration. The unit will have a
maximum working depth of 2,000 meters and a drilling depth of
6,000 meters, according to the statement.  The company’s first-half net income fell 82 percent to
215.8 million  yuan  ($35 million) as a global glut of commodity
ships depressed orders and prices.  A company controlled by Rongsheng Chairman Zhang Zhi Rong,
Wells Advantage Ltd., also last week agreed to pay $14 million
to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that it profited from illegal
trades before  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  announced plans to buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  