-- Rosneft to Buy TNK-BP for $55 Bln in 3rd-Biggest Oil Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-22T16:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rosneft-to-buy-tnk-bp-for-55-billion-in-third-biggest-oil-deal.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  agreed to buy TNK-BP, a
50-50 venture between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires, for
$54.8 billion in the third-biggest oil acquisition ever.  After the deal, state-run Rosneft will match the output of
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer, and control more than 40 percent of Russia’s crude
output. President Vladimir Putin, who’s sought to reassert
government control over the oil and gas industry, said today’s
accord was important for the Russian economy.  “This deal is in line with the Russian government’s
strategy of reversing the privatization of oil and gas resources
that took place in the 1990s,” said Andrey Golubov, a finance
lecturer at Cass Business School in London. The deal puts
Rosneft “on par with global giants like  Exxon Mobil .”  Rosneft, led by Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin, will
buy BP’s 50 percent stake in TNK-BP for $26.8 billion in cash
and shares and has an initial agreement to acquire the
billionaires’ half of the company for $28 billion in cash,
according to a statement today.  The U.K. company will take a 19.75 percent stake in Rosneft
and obtain two seats on the board. The deal is London-based BP’s
biggest for 13 years and BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley’s
boldest move yet to transform the company after the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill.  “Rosneft is a company working to become a global leader,”
Dudley said in the statement. “BP looks forward to being able
to contribute to Rosneft’s success and add value through our
participation on the board.”  BP-Amoco  The only oil and gas acquisitions that have been bigger
than today’s deal are Exxon’s merger with Mobil Corp., an all-
stock deal valued at $80 billion when it was announced in 1998,
and BP’s $56 billion purchase of Amoco Corp. the same year.  BP will receive $17.1 billion in cash and 12.8 percent of
Rosneft’s shares for its half of TNK, according to a statement
today. BP will reinvest $4.8 billion in the government’s shares
of Rosneft, leaving it with $12.3 billion in cash, 19.75 percent
of the state-backed company and two board seats.  About half of Russian government revenue comes from the oil
and gas industry. If Rosneft buys all of TNK-BP, its output
alone would exceed that of every Middle Eastern country except
Saudi Arabia.  BP shares dropped 1.5 percent to close at 443.45 pence in
 London . Rosneft rose 2.6 percent in Moscow.  Asset Sales  BP has sold about $33 billion in other assets since 2010 as
it focuses on more profitable crude oil production following the
Gulf spill that erased about a third of the company’s market
value. Today’s deal releases BP from a difficult nine-year
relationship with its billionaire partners in TNK-BP, which
accounted for about a quarter of BP’s global output and returned
$19 billion in dividends.  BP expects to book earnings, reserves and output from its
nearly 20 percent stake in Rosneft, Chief Financial Officer
Brian Gilvary said in an interview. Compared with BP’s position
as a 50 percent holder of TNK, BP will initially lose about
100,000 barrels of oil a day in production and gain about 700
million barrels of oil reserves when Rosneft gets all of TNK, he
said.  While TNK-BP had focused on bolstering output from aging
Siberian fields, BP sought to expand in Russian exploration last
year, offering its drilling expertise to Rosneft to tap the
country’s Arctic waters. BP’s TNK-BP partners, represented by
the AAR holding vehicle, blocked that deal.  Dudley Resigns  In 2008, Dudley was forced to resign as head of the venture
and leave  Russia  after months of battling between the
shareholders over strategy. Mikhail Fridman, one of the
billionaires, quit as CEO of TNK-BP this year, saying the
relationship with BP had run its course.  Fridman and his partners last year argued in court that BP
was required to pursue all opportunities in Russia exclusively
through TNK-BP. Exxon took BP’s place in the deal to explore the
Kara Sea region, and also agreed to start drilling shale
prospects in Siberia.  Putin, who returned to the presidency this year following a
term as prime minister, has invited foreign companies into
Russia to keep oil output at a post-Soviet high of 10 million
barrels a day. BP already owned 1.25 percent of Rosneft, the
country’s biggest producer, after buying about $1 billion of
shares in its 2006 initial public offering.  Rosneft has relied on Sechin’s access to Putin as the state
strengthened control over the energy industry. The two men have
worked together for more than 20 years.  Transform Rosneft  As board chairman from 2006 to 2011, Sechin helped
transform Rosneft into Russia’s biggest crude producer with
assets from bankrupt Yukos Oil Co., and gained preferred access
to Arctic prospects.  That ascent has allowed Rosneft to eclipse Kremlin-backed
OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer, as the
dominant force in the Russian energy industry. Increasing
production of shale gas in the U.S. has reduced North American
import demand and prompted European customers to seek cheaper
prices as well, dragging on Gazprom’s performance. It’s also
been targeted by a European Commission antitrust probe of its
pricing practices in central and eastern  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  