-- Rosneft Taps BP to Narrow $292 Billion Exxon Value Gap: Energy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-10-23T11:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rosneft-taps-bp-to-narrow-292-billion-exxon-value-gap-energy.html
Buying TNK-BP will give  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) 
production and reserves that surpasses  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest publicly traded oil company.  The similarities between the biggest Russian and U.S. oil
producers end there. An enlarged Rosneft will employ more than
210,000 people, almost three times as many as Exxon. Rosneft’s
oil and natural gas  reserves  will be 7 percent larger, while the
traded value of  Russia ’s state-run oil company will be $292
billion less than Exxon.  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin  says the
partnership with  BP Plc (BP/) , part of yesterday’s $55 billion TNK-BP
acquisition, will allow the Russian company to close the gap
with global rivals. Rosneft wants BP’s technology to extend the
life of aging fields, experience gained from  Alaska  to the  North
Sea  and proven in Siberia at TNK-BP. There BP turned an $8
billion investment into $19 billion in dividends and helped
raise production at the company’s biggest field 40 percent.  “BP’s experience and effectiveness demonstrated in TNK-BP
will allow us to also strengthen Rosneft,” Sechin said today in
an investor briefing on the deal, which will give BP a 19
percent stake in his company and two seats on the board.  Exxon’s net income  last year of $41 billion was more than
twice the combined total of Rosneft and TNK-BP. Rosneft, reliant
on fields and refineries built in the Soviet era, invests twice
as much of its revenue in capital projects as Exxon, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profits Lagged  Rosneft’s profits lagged TNK-BP, based on oil and gas
production. Rosneft pumped 2.59 million barrels a day last year
and reported a profit of 316 billion rubles ($10.2 billion),
while TNK produced 1.99 million barrels and made $9 billion.  Most important to Rosneft is the group of fields around
Yugansk. Acquired as the state forced the bankruptcy of Yukos
Oil Corp. through tax claims, the fields produce 1.3 million
barrels a day from an area of swampland in western Siberia,
accounting for more than half the company’s current output.  “What it really needs is better technology for
brownfields,”  Alexei Kokin , an analyst at UralSib Financial
Corp., said of Rosneft. “They need a boost for Yugansk. These
are relatively young fields, but now it’s on the verge of
decline. It’s really important to prevent that.”  Rosneft wants to avoid the plight of OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-largest producer. Production from its main unit, Lukoil
West Siberia, has dropped 10 percent from 2009, according to
Energy Ministry data.  Yugansk is getting more expensive to operate with the same
output costing $3.6 billion this year, compared with $2.9
billion in 2008, according to Rosneft.  Influence Management  “We can influence governance and management and all the
other things we put in place at TNK-BP,” BP Chief Financial
Officer Brian Gilvary said in a phone interview yesterday.  BP’s investment in TNK-BP turned around the Samotlor field
in Siberia, where production collapsed after the end of the
 Soviet Union . The company used horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing to improve oil recovery rates, raising 2009 output to
more than 500,000 barrels a day, or 40 percent above its 1990s
low, according to TNK-BP’s website.  BP will get a  19 percent stake  in Rosneft and two seats on
the board under the $26.8 billion plan to sell its half of TNK-
BP announced yesterday. Rosneft also has a preliminary accord to
buy the other 50 percent from BP’s billionaire partners for $28
billion.  East Siberia  Rosneft’s largest new development, Vankor in east Siberia,
will reach peak production of 500,000 barrels a day next year,
after which it will fail to mask declines elsewhere, according
to the company.  The next new big project, Yurubcheno-Takhomskogo, starts in
2016 and peaks at a fifth of Vankor’s rate.  Combining the two companies’ production, refining and
retail operations may create cost savings of between $3 billion
and $5 billion, Sechin said today.  Rosneft’s acquisition will allow TNK-BP fields in the Yamal
region to use pipelines and infrastructure at Vankor, Sechin
said today. Meanwhile, meeting Rosneft’s commitment to supply
oil to China oil from TNK-BP’s Verkhnechonsk field instead of
Vankor will save payments for several thousand kilometers in
transit, Sechin said.  First Upgrading  “The first upgrading of Russia’s fields took place 10
years ago,” said  Roland Nash , head strategist at Verno Capital,
which holds Rosneft shares. “To go through the next wave of
technological improvements and to invest into new fields they
need the technology that BP brings.”  Rosneft’s oil and gas reserves were 17.6 billion barrels at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Combined with TNK-BP’s 9.1 billion barrels, that would give a
merged company 26.7 billion barrels, compared with Exxon’s 24.9
billion.  After the takeover, the merged company will produce more
than 4.6 million barrels of a day, overtaking Exxon, according
to data in second quarter financial statements from Rosneft and
TNK-BP.  Rosneft has an agreement to explore the Arctic with Exxon,
 Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Statoil ASA (STL) , where untapped deposits may hold 200
billion barrels of oil, the company said in an investor
presentation. Oil won’t flow from the region for more than a
decade, however.  “The hype around those Arctic areas is very long term and
has very little to do with the next 5 to 10 years,” said
UralSib’s Kokin. “Rosneft will really remain an onshore company
for a while.”  Outside Russia  Rosneft and its subsidiaries employed 160,837 people at the
end of last year. Outside Russia, the company also has projects
in  Germany ,  Venezuela  and  North America . TNK-BP employs 50,000
people mostly located in Russia and Ukraine, according to the
company website. It also has operations in Venezuela, Vietnam
and  Brazil .  The two companies have operations in neighboring areas of
Russia, giving the opportunity for cost savings on staffing,
transportation and procurement, said  Alexander Nazarov  at OAO
Gazprombank.  “Production oriented initiatives are deadly serious,”
 Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at the Eurasia Group, said by phone.
“The extent that the BP deal is viewed by the Kremlin in that
vein is significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  