-- Rules for U.S. Bus Investigations Tightened After Fatal Crash
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-10-22T15:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/rules-for-u-s-bus-investigations-tightened-after-fatal-crash.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
is adopting a rule forbidding the kind of reprieve that
regulators granted a bus company that was supposed to be closed
for safety violations before a fatal crash last year.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s proposed
rule change, published today on the  Federal Register’s website ,
would prevent the agency from granting companies that are deemed
unsafe additional time to fix violations, leading to faster
shut-down orders.  The policy was informally changed last year following the
Sky Express bus crash that killed four people near Doswell,
 Virginia , while the company was in the middle of a 10-day
extension. The bus regulator opted not to close Sky Express
after the 45-day waiting period required by law to let a company
prove it had fixed safety shortcomings.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said after the crash
there was “no excuse” for the 10-day extension and ordered
FMCSA to stop granting them. Today’s final rule writes the ban,
which also applies to trucking companies that carry hazardous
materials, into the agency’s regulations.  Matthew Chambers, a spokesman for FMCSA, declined to
provide any immediate comment.  Fatal crashes surged last year as intercity bus travel
became the fastest-growing U.S. mode of commercial
transportation.  204 Violations  U.S. investigators had cited the North Carolina-based
operator 204 times for safety violations in the 10 months before
the Virginia crash. The company, which is no longer in business,
was based in  Charlotte  and ran its coaches to  New York  City’s
Chinatown.  The FMCSA’s failure to close Sky Express showed the
agency’s inability to get unsafe bus operators off the road,
 Deborah Hersman , chairman of the National Transportation Safety
Board, said July 31 after the agency’s crash investigation was
complete.  The Sky Express crash was caused by a driver falling asleep
and a company that didn’t manage fatigue or keep track of its
drivers, the safety board said.  The FMCSA used the 10-day extension, in part, to make sure
its case against Sky Express would hold up in court, FMCSA
Administrator Anne Ferro said in an interview last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  