-- Russia Stocks Rally as Rosneft Jumps on TNK-BP; Brent Oil Gains
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-22T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/russia-stocks-rally-as-rosneft-jumps-on-tnk-bp-brent-oil-gains.html
Russian stocks  climbed as oil rose,
boosting investor confidence in the world’s largest energy
producer. OAO Rosneft rallied as the state oil producer agreed
to buy the company from  BP Plc (BP/)  and its billionaire partners.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 1 percent to 1,474.92 by the close in
Moscow. Telecom and oil and gas stocks were the biggest gainers.
Telephone provider OAO Rostelecom increased 1.5 percent. OAO
Gazprom, the natural gas export monopoly, added 1.3 percent.
United Co. Rusal, billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s aluminum
producer, jumped 3 percent.  Brent crude rose as much as 0.8 percent to trade at $110.97
a barrel. Russia received 50 percent of budget revenue from oil
and gas sales last year. The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee,
which sent the Micex to a  bull market  last month by announcing a
third stimulus round, meets Oct. 23-24. BP will sell its 50
percent stake in  Russia ’s third-largest oil producer for $17.1
billion in cash and 12.8 percent of Rosneft’s shares, according
to a statement today.  “Russian investors are awaiting the main event this week:
the Fed meeting,” Alexander Ivanischev, a chief strategist at
Infina Investment Co., said by phone. “The market has long
awaited the Rosneft deal. After this purchase, Rosneft will be
Gazprom’s equivalent in the oil sector.”  OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the traded unit of BP Plc’s Russian
venture, dropped 1.6 percent to 78.50 rubles. Rosneft rose 2.6
percent to 219.75 rubles and climbed 2 percent in  London 
trading.  Liquidity Boost  The sale of TNK-BP is  “a major liquidity event for the
Russain market,” Victoria Lazareva, a partner at United Capital
Parters, which manages $1.5 billion in Russian assets, said in
an interview. “Even if just $3 to $5 billion from the proceeds
are reinvested into Russian liquid or private equity, it might
positively impact the local asset prices.”  Renaissance Capital expects the Rosneft-BP deal to trigger
more deals in the Russian oil sector, according to a report
today. OAO Lukoil and preferred shares of OAO Surgutneftegas are
stocks that may benefit based on these expectations, according
to the report.  The purchases would increase Rosneft’s crude production to
as much as 4.5 million barrels, and boost its market value to
rival Gazprom’s 3.7 trillion rubles ($120 billion).  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil company, pumped the equivalent of
4.15 million barrels of crude a day between April and June.  Russian stocks fell earlier by as much as 0.6 percent as a
report showed  Japan ’s exports dropped. The dollar-denominated
 RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.2 percent to 1,497.63.  MegaFon IPO  A European Union summit last week failed to discuss further
financial assistance for Spain, according to French President
Francois Hollande.  Russian  Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  climbed 0.4 percent to 1,689.06.
All metals on the London Metal Exchange fell, including nickel
and tin.  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , the Russian wireless carrier planning an
initial public offering, postponed its IPO marketing campaign
today, raising investor speculation that demand may have trailed
expectations.  The delay signals demand hasn’t been as strong as MegaFon
expected, said Alexander Golovtsov, who helps manage $2.8
billion at UralSib Asset Management in Moscow. MegaFon is
seeking to sell as much as 20 percent of its stock, including
shares owned by  Sweden ’s  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and some from the
carrier itself, in an IPO that may become one of the largest by
a Russian company.  Promsvyazbank Delay  “MegaFon is planning to go public in a sector that is
well-positioned but not over-saturated,” Yuri Morogov, a
portfolio manager at OAO Sberbank CIB’s telecom fund, said in an
interview on Oct. 19.  OAO Promsvyazbank put off its initial public offering on
Oct. 15. The offers it was getting for shares to be listed in
London didn’t reflect “fair value,” it said.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems gained 1.4 percent to 236.09 rubles,
the highest level since Sept. 17. The risk profile of Russia’s
largest mobile operator may improve as its parent company AFK
Sistema weighs exiting the Indian market, UralSib Capital said
today in a report.  Sistema Shyam won’t take part in the license auction as it
was “unfairly penalized” by the  India ’s Supreme Court ruling
in February and is appealing its decision, the company said on
Oct. 19, the deadline for bidding.  The Micex trades at 5.7 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 5.2 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added 10
percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  