-- Russia Off Limits to Big Oil After BP Wins Putin Approval
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-10-23T12:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/russia-off-limits-to-big-oil-after-bp-wins-putin-s-approval.html
Now that  BP Plc (BP/)  has joined with
Russia’s Vladimir Putin to oversee the world’s second-biggest
oil industry, other international energy companies such as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are facing dwindling
access to one of the last untapped troves of crude.  BP’s agreement yesterday to sell its half of Moscow-based
TNK-BP to Russia’s state-run oil company,  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , for $12.3
billion in cash and almost one-fifth of Rosneft’s shares vaulted
the U.K. energy producer to preeminence among foreign drillers
in the Russian oil patch, said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  Although other explorers may yet strike deals to search
Russia’s vast untapped reserves, none will be able to replicate
BP’s “seal of approval” from Russian President Putin, or match
the London-based company’s access to powerful deputies such as
Rosneft boss  Igor Sechin , Molchanov said in an interview
yesterday. Even as Exxon and Rosneft proceed with a $3.2 billion
Arctic and Black Sea drilling venture signed last year, future
contracts of similar scope are out of the question for
outsiders, he said.  “For foreign  oil companies  seeking to expand production
and reserves, Russia is now off limits,” Robbert Van Batenburg,
head of research at Louis Capital Markets LP in New York, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. The BP accord “is probably
scaring the others away.”  Tightening Control  Russia, which increased its crude reserves more than any
other nation except Iraq last year, has been a magnet for
investment by Western oil companies since the early 1990s, when
the collapse of the Soviet Union loosened state control of  oil
fields  from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific Ocean. Russia is
the source of one of every eight barrels of crude produced
worldwide, second only to Saudi Arabia, according to the BP
Statistical Review, an annual compendium of global energy data.  Since 2004, Putin has been tightening the government’s grip
on the Russian oil sector, moves that made it increasingly
difficult for foreign producers to establish or maintain
footholds in the country, said William J. Andrews, a  fund
manager  at C.S. McKee & Co. in Pittsburgh. Buying TNK-BP from
the London-based producer and the Russian billionaires who own
the other half will transfer to Rosneft fields that accounted
for about 25 percent of BP’s annual output worldwide.  “The Russians are nationalistic and are going to keep the
oil reserves for themselves,” said Andrews, who helps manage
$14 billion. “They don’t really have a legal system or a
political system. It’s a dictatorship.”  Principal Partner  Under the terms of the agreement announced yesterday, BP
will receive $17.1 billion in cash and a 12.8 percent stake in
Rosneft in exchange for 50 percent of TNK-BP, a 9-year-old
venture of the U.K. company and an entity known as AAR that is
controlled by the billionaires. BP plans to reinvest $4.8
billion of the cash in the government’s share of Rosneft,
boosting BP’s holding to 19.75 percent. BP also will receive two
Rosneft board seats.  “By signing this deal, the highest levels of the Russian
government, up to and including Vladimir Putin, are endorsing BP
as the principal western partner of the Russian oil and gas
industry,” Molchanov said. “This is a big, big seal of
approval for BP by Moscow and it means no other company is going
to have access to the corridors of power like BP does.”  Exxon, the  world’s largest  energy company by market value,
and other international oil companies have been struggling to
reverse production declines as fields discovered decades ago
peter out and access to state-controlled reserves is denied or
made onerously expensive from Latin America to the  Middle East .  Shrinking Production  Exxon’s global output slipped for a fourth straight quarter
during the April-to-June period, reaching the equivalent of 4.15
million barrels of oil a day, the lowest in two years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exxon’s reserve growth slowed to
0.5 percent last year after jumping 7.9 percent and 8.9 percent
in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Shell’s production has declined in eight of the past nine
years, and  The Hague-based company ’s costs to find untapped
crude more than tripled in the past half decade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s  global output  dropped by 2.6 percent during
the April-to-June period to the equivalent of 2.62 million
barrels a day, the lowest second-quarter average since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  San Ramon ,
California-based company’s reserves are 4.5 percent lower than a
decade ago.  State Control  “The vast majority of the oil produced in the world is
owned by state-owned companies, and that concentration is
increasing,” said Bernard Weinstein, associate director of the
Maguire Energy Institute in the Cox School of Business at
 Southern Methodist University  of Dallas. “With this
consolidation, you’re going to have one company dominating the
whole Russian energy sector.”  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon,
declined to comment, saying the company doesn’t discuss
agreements signed by other companies.  Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  spent almost $40
billion during the past 28 months to acquire North American
shale fields and the expertise to harvest them. The most recent
deals included this month’s C$2.86 billion ($2.88 billion)
purchase of Calgary-based  Celtic Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  and a
September agreement to buy  Denbury Resources Inc. (DNR) ’s North Dakota
and Montana drilling rights for $2 billion.  Exxon’s partnerships in Russia include the Arctic and Black
Sea exploration venture announced in February 2011, as well as
the Sakhalin Island oil project in the country’s  Far East  that
dates back to the early 1990s. Rosneft is a partner in both
projects.  Limited Opportunities  Shell, the largest European energy company by market value,
had control of a separate Sakhalin Island project wrestled away
by Russia’s state-controlled natural gas monopoly  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  in
2007 amid disputes over rising costs and environmental lapses.
Shell retained a 27.5 percent interest.  “Ten years ago, Russia was a much more open place to do
business,” Molchanov said. “But that is no longer the case,
thanks to  Vladimir Putin . The international oil companies are
having to look elsewhere for opportunities at a time when the
set of opportunities is growing more limited and costly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  