-- Ryanair Offers Concessions in EU Probe of Aer Lingus Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-22T10:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ryanair-offers-concessions-in-eu-probe-of-aer-lingus-deal-1-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  offered
concessions to European Union antitrust regulators reviewing its
694 million-euro ($906 million) bid for Irish competitor  Aer
Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   The EU’s antitrust authority said the deadline for ruling
on the deal is Feb. 6, according to a website filing today. It
didn’t give details of Ryanair’s offer.  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, which owns  29.8 percent 
of Aer Lingus, in June renewed its pursuit to buy the rest of
its rival to bolsters its operations in Ireland, five years
after the EU agency blocked an earlier takeover attempt because
it would create a monopoly for Irish flights. Ryanair’s bid has
also drawn opposition from Aer Lingus management and Irish
politicians.  Stephen McNamara, a spokesman for Ryanair in Dublin,
declined to comment on what the airline had offered regulators.
Ryanair has met with more than 10 airlines to discuss its offer,
he said in a telephone interview.  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary said in
September that the company would consider selling its Aer Lingus
stake if regulators turned down a “revolutionary” package of
concessions. The airline has said it could exit all 46 Dublin
routes that overlap with Aer Lingus and that several rival
carriers are interested in competing at Irish airports.  Closest Rivals  The Brussels-based European Commission said in August that
the takeover could eliminate competition on a large number of
routes because the two airlines are each other’s closest rivals
and few new competitors are likely.  EU regulators blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer Lingus in 2007,
saying a takeover would allow the discount airline to dominate
35 routes and control 80 percent of the market in Dublin.
Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  O’Leary reckons the chances of clearing antitrust hurdles
have been boosted by recent mergers among other European
carriers, falling traffic in Dublin that leaves room for new
entrants and Irish government plans to auction its own 25
percent stake in Aer Lingus.  Ryanair’s CEO has pledged to lift Aer Lingus’s annual
passenger total to 14 million over five years from 9.5 million
today and says Ryanair would invest in expanding trans-Atlantic
flights.  Ryanair is also facing a full investigation by the U.K.’s
Competition Commission of its holding in the smaller carrier
after the national regulator said it may lead to higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 