-- S. Korea Blocks Activists Sending Anti-N. Korea Leaflets
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-22T06:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/s-korea-blocks-activists-sending-anti-n-korea-leaflets.html
South Korean police blocked
activists from sending balloons across the border carrying
leaflets critical of the North Korean regime, citing security
concerns over the North’s threat last week to fire on them.  “We believe the North Korean army is doing various things
in line with what they announced last week,”  Defense Ministry 
spokesman Kim Min Seok told reporters today in Seoul, saying the
military had raised its alert levels in response. He declined to
elaborate.  North Korea  on Oct. 19 threatened “direct firing” at the
balloon launch site, the first such warning against activists
since Kim Jong Un succeeded his father as dictator in December.
Under the late  Kim Jong Il , threats were routinely made against
the distribution of leaflets without action being taken. Five
episodes earlier this year drew no response from the North.  Police blocked about 80 activists from entering Imjingak,
an outpost on the edge of the demilitarized zone about 40
kilometers (25 miles) northwest of Seoul, where they were
planning to send 200,000 leaflets at 11 a.m. today, Park Sang
Hak, leader of  the Fighters for Free North Korea  said by phone.  The local police, not the military nor the ministry, are
handling civilian access to the area, the Defense Ministry’s Kim
said, declining to comment on the legality of  law enforcement 
blocking people from protesting against the North.  Freedom of Assembly  “The police are illegally impeding our right of assembly
and we will not have it,” said Park, vowing to send the anti-
Kim flyers out today. The activists will carry out the leaflet
drop at a different location if necessary, he said.  “We will not be bullied, either by North Korea or the
South Korean police,” he said.  Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk called the
police blockade “an effort to maintain order,” while saying
that the government has no legal ground to restrict activism. He
urged protesters to exercise “restraint” considering the
tension in inter-Korean relations.  North Korea’s Western Front Command said it would make a
“merciless military strike” if it detected any move to drop
leaflets, according to last week’s statement on the official
Korean Central News Agency.  South Korea ’s military was prepared
to “completely destroy” the origin of a North Korean attack,
Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin told lawmakers the same day.  Defense Shares Rally  None of the 800 South Korean citizens residing within the
civilian control line have yet been ordered to leave, though
preparations have been made for a possible evacuation, Park
Kwang Hae, a City Council official at Paju, the closest city to
the DMZ, said by telephone today.  Defense shares rallied at the opening of trading in Seoul,
with  Huneed Technologies (005870) , which manufactures military
communication equipment, advancing as much as 11 percent. It
fell 1 percent to 3,760 won at the market’s close.  Victek Co. (065450) , a
producer of electronic warfare equipment, rose as much as 6.7
percent before closing 0.9 percent lower at 1,695 won. The
benchmark Kospi index declined 0.1 percent to 1,941.59.  The government in the North Korea capital of Pyongyang
characterizes the leaflet drops as psychological warfare and an
attempt to topple its communist regime -- provocations which it
has said could ignite a war. South Korean activists and North
Koreans who have defected to the South have sent anti-North
Korean regime leaflets for years, sometimes including gifts such
as US dollar bills and candy.  China opposes any actions that might escalate tension or
military confrontation on the Korean peninsula, foreign ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  