-- Scene in Pittsburgh: Jack Dorsey, Antony Jenkins, Yunus
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-22T14:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/scene-in-pittsburgh-jack-dorsey-antony-jenkins-yunus.html
“Do you know the story of global
dignity?” Maria Fernanda Gandara of  Mexico  asked just past 11
Saturday night.  The architecture student, 23, wore a leopard-print dress,
black boots and orange-red lipstick as she kicked off a Night
Owl session at the  One Young World Summit . From Thursday to
Sunday, the summit gathered 1,200 young adults engaged in
treating the world’s ills, as well as chief executive officers,
former heads of state, a Nobel Laureate and a supermodel.  Gandara said she is a volunteer teacher in Mexico, telling
children about their basic  human rights  -- education, security
and health care -- as defined by the principles of  Global
Dignity Day . (The nonprofit Global Dignity has marked the day on
the third Wednesday in October.)  In one workshop, seven-year-olds growing up amid the
nation’s drug-fueled turmoil made drawings of their future.  “The girls drew stars and hearts and guns,” she said.
“They wanted to be soldiers to protect their families.”  Giving Gandara a fighting chance at stopping the drug war
is the ultimate ambition of One Young World Summit. How to do
that is no easy matter.  The sharing of personal stories was an essential thread of
the four-day experience in Pittsburgh, in the convention hall,
in the homes of Pittsburgh residents who hosted dinners and in
precious little unscheduled time.  The super model Natalia Vodianova, 30, told of taking her
children to play parks her foundation has built in  Russia .  Nobel Laureate  Muhammad Yunus  told of developing his idea
of a bank for poor people. “I looked at what all the big banks
do and I did the opposite,” he said.  Barclays’s Jenkins  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO Antony Jenkins said he’d just had two days
of meetings with senior executives to discuss “the purpose of
Barclays.”  Jenkins also said he has a screen in his office so he can
see all tweets mentioning Barclays. On the day the Libor scandal
broke, his screen was aflutter with 10,000 tweets. On a typical
day, there are about 2,000.  Catherine Kipsang, 22, of  Kenya , sat down for a one-on-one
with Jack Dorsey, co-founder of Twitter Inc.  “We both founded companies, so we exchanged notes,”
Kipsang said. Last year she co-founded  givenumbers.com , which
posts detailed profiles of Kenya politicians to engage citizens
in the political process.  Twitter 5,000  “He said if growth is slow, it’s fine. He remembers a time
when he hit 5,000 on Twitter and he was excited about that, and
now it’s so many people. I guess it inspired me to know you can
grow slowly and still have a great product.”  Dorsey said Kipsang “blew me away.” He expected that she
would achieve her goal of becoming president of Kenya by age 45.  Personal stories were at the heart of a session led by
Frederik Pferdt,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s global program manager for
innovation and creativity. Saturday afternoon he guided about 40
delegates through a four-hour exercise in product design modeled
on what Googlers do.  It started with a game of Rock, Paper, Scissors. Losers had
to line up behind the victor and cheer as he faced new
opponents.  “When there’s a good idea, you get behind that person and
help them to move it forward,” said Pferdt, sporting a Google
watch.  He then asked each group to identify a user to interview
about his experience of wasting food, with one person taking
notes on Post-Its. These were stuck on a wall for further
refinement until a clear definition of the user and the need was
determined. A “Yes, and” brainstorm ensued, leading to the
groups designing -- with pipe cleaners, play dough and magic
markers -- a “pretendo-type” of their product.  Clean Plate  Shaaz Nasir of Ottawa,  Canada , told his group that he eats
out a lot, and the only time he leaves food on his plate is when
he doesn’t like a dish. His group imagined an app that would
allow users to specify the dish he felt like eating, and his
general taste preferences, to help him find a restaurant serving
it.  Gandara, sitting on the floor of a hotel lounge with five
or six others on Saturday night, found a use for the drawings of
guns. At the  World Economic Forum  on  Latin America , she handed
them to William Brownfield, the assistant secretary of state for
the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement
Affairs.  “He was very appreciative,” she said.  The summit ended last night with the passing of the baton
to next year’s host city, Johannesburg.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  James S. Russell  on
architecture.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 