-- SEC Sued Over ‘Conflict Minerals’ Rule by Business Groups
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-22T23:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/sec-sued-over-conflict-minerals-rule-by-business-groups.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
 National Association of Manufacturers  asked a federal court to
modify or scrap U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules
governing so-called conflict minerals.  The SEC adopted a regulation in August that requires
companies using gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum in their
products to make “reasonable” efforts to determine if those
materials came from the  Democratic Republic  of Congo or an
adjoining country. Business groups have complained the measure
is burdensome, costly to administer and ineffective.  Trade in those minerals -- used in electronic devices -- is
helping to finance conflict and contributing to a humanitarian
crisis in the central African nation,  according to  the SEC.  “Petitioners request that this rule be modified or set
aside in whole or in part,” the two Washington-based business
advocacy groups said in a joint filing with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  Washington  on Oct. 19.  The measure was mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act. It applies to companies with
SEC-reporting obligations for whom the minerals are “necessary
to the functionality or production” of an item they
manufacture, the agency said in an  Aug. 22 statement  announcing
the rule’s adoption.  It applies to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and thousands of other
U.S-listed manufacturers whose products incorporate the metals.  The first disclosure reports are due by May 31, 2014, the
agency said.  “While the petitioners did not state a basis for a
challenge in their filing, we believe our legal interpretation
and economic analysis are sound and we look forward to defending
the rule that Congress directed us to write,”  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC, said in a statement.  ‘Complex Issue’  In a joint statement, the groups that though the measure
was well-intentioned, it “is not an effective approach to this
complex issue.”  “The final conflict mineral rule imposes an unworkable,
overly broad and burdensome system that will undermine jobs and
growth and may not achieve Congress’s overall objectives.”  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v. U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, 12-1422, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  