-- Serbia’s Postanska Stedionica Bank to Take Over Agrobanka
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-22T14:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/serbia-s-postanska-stedionica-bank-to-take-over-agrobanka-1-.html
Serbia’s  Postanska Stedionica Banka
AD (PSBN)  is the “most stable” Serbian bank and it will take over the
assets of Nova Agrobanka.  The Cabinet will submit to parliament a draft law on the
transfer of so-called problematic bank assets to the state, the
government in the capital Belgrade said in an e-mailed statement
today. The law was prepared in close cooperation with the
 International Monetary Fund , it said.  “The decision is designed to preserve financial
stability,” Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  told reporters
today adding that the transaction will expand Postanska’s assets
to “more than one billion euros.”  The government decided to shut down Nova Agrobanka, set up
in May as a “bridge bank” after the collapse of Agrobanka AD,
leaving the government time to work out a permanent solution.  Authorities fired Agrobanka’s management on Dec. 29 and
placed it in receivership after inspectors discovered its
capital didn’t match the risk it had assumed. Agrobanka, in
which the government held a 20 percent stake, had an unaudited
2011 loss of 29.7 billion dinars ($311.4 million) following a
full-year pretax profit of 1.18 billion dinars in 2010 and a
loss of 2.27 billion dinars at the end of September 2011. The
central bank revoked Agrobanka’s license on May 26.  Illiquid and Insolvent  Saving Nova Agrobanka, which is both “illiquid and
insolvent,” would have cost  Serbia  “at least 230 million euros
($300.2 million) and that’s irrational,” Dinkic said. Nova
Agrobanka held a total of 400 million euros in insured and non-
insured savings and other deposits. It has been making a loss of
“two million euros per month” after the previous government
also transferred some “problematic credits,” he added.  Agrobanka’s minority shareholders will have “all the
rights according to Serbia’s bankruptcy law,” Dinkic said.
Minority shareholders, who announced plans for a legal action
against Serbia, said on Oct. 19 they would “continue with legal
activities to regain expropriated property” the value of which
they put at 70 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  