-- Sharp Climbs After Starting Smartphone Panel Production
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-22T02:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/sharp-climbs-after-starting-smartphone-panel-production.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s largest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, rose the most in almost seven weeks
in Tokyo trading after saying it started making smartphone
panels using the company’s latest display technology.  Sharp  climbed  as much as 11 percent to 165 yen and traded
at 162 yen as of 10:56 a.m., headed for its biggest gain since
Sept. 4. The company began making smartphone displays using a
semiconductor technology known as IGZO this month at its plant
in Tenri, central Japan, Heihachiro Ochiai, a Sharp spokesman,
said by phone today. Sharp is also in talks with  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to supply IGZO displays, the Yomiuri
newspaper said Oct. 20.  “The reports today and over the weekend are being taken
positively after there was so much uncertainty over the
company’s future,” Tsunenori Ohmaki, an  analyst  at Tachibana
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said by phone today. “The company
wouldn’t expand the IGZO operation, as there are risks to do so,
without expecting orders.”  Gaining new customers for the displays would help Sharp as
the company tries to end losses at its LCD business. The Osaka-
based company had projected a second straight annual net  loss 
and sold a stake in its LCD television panel operation earlier
this year to Foxconn Technology Group founder Terry Gou to focus
more on IGZO panels, which offer higher resolution while using
less power than current liquid-crystal displays.  Today’s share-price increase trimmed Sharp’s decline this
year to 76 percent. The stock gained the most in Japan’s
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) , which fell 0.8 percent.  IGZO Panels  Kyodo News  reported earlier today that Sharp was converting
the Tenri plant for IGZO smartphone display production. Ochiai
declined to comment on the Yomiuri report, saying it’s Sharp’s
policy not to publicly discuss specific clients.  The maker of Aquos televisions has been struggling to find
buyers for IGZO panels designed for personal computers, a Sharp
executive said last month. The company began making the panels
for tablet computers, personal computers and business-use
monitors in March.  “Sharp will depend on boosting sales of small and medium-
sized panels to revive earnings next fiscal year,” said  Yuji Fujimori , an analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “It would be
positive for the stock if the company can sign contracts with HP
or Dell.”  IGZO production for smartphones would help Sharp “if the
company can get a significant amount of orders,” Fujimori said.  Annual Losses  Sharp may post a net loss of 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion)
in the year ending March 31, the company said in August.
President Takashi Okuda is cutting more than 10,000 jobs and
selling overseas plants as well as U.S. solar developer
Recurrent Energy LLC in an attempt to return to profit next
fiscal year, people with knowledge of the plans said last month.  Sharp aims to make a profit in the year starting  April (APR)  1
with the help of job cuts and cost reductions, Okuda said in a
statement Sept. 14.  The company has put up properties including its
headquarters as collateral to raise funds from lenders. Sharp
has turned to its main banks  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. for support to refinance
debt after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut
its  credit ratings  to junk.  The banks contributed to a total of about 360 billion yen
in loans as of the end of September, Sharp said last month.  Sharp had 706 billion yen of short-term debt  maturing 
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its financial statement. Sharp’s cash
and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen at the time.  The electronics maker has been renegotiating terms for a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after widening its
full-year loss forecast eightfold in August, triggering a slide
in its share price. Foxconn agreed in March to invest 67 billion
yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550 yen a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  