-- Sharp’s Malaise Risks Bad-Loan Surge at Megabanks: Japan Credit
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-10-22T01:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/sharp-s-malaise-risks-bad-loan-surge-at-megabanks-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s biggest banks are spending
the least amount to cover losses on bad loans this century. That
could change as they step up lending to the nation’s ailing
electronics companies including  Sharp Corp. (6753)   The average ratio of reserves for delinquent debt at 84
lenders on the  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  has dropped to 1.4 percent of
total loans, the lowest in at least 12 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on the latest filings. That’s less
than half the level in 2000, when the industry was emerging from
a financial crisis, and is smaller than the 1.85 percent average
for 24 U.S. lenders on the  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Banks including  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are lending to
non-investment grade companies such as Sharp to widen record-low
net interest margins after cleaning up bad debts that peaked at
43 trillion yen ($542 billion) in 2002. The danger is that
borrowers will fail to turn that credit into profit, boosting
default risk and eroding bank earnings already under pressure
from losses on their 16.2 trillion yen of stock holdings.  “The severe environment surrounding the electronics
industry could increase banks’ credit costs to some extent,”
said Takayuki Atake, chief credit analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “Impairment losses from stocks, in
particular of electronics-related equities, will have a big
impact on the earnings of banks like Mizuho.”  Economic Slowdown  Japanese electronics makers including Sharp and Panasonic
Corp. are reeling from increased global competition, slowing
economic growth and a yen rate that’s 5 percent from a postwar
high against the dollar. The government has downgraded its view
of the world’s third-largest economy for three straight months
as exports weaken. Overseas shipments fell more than economists
forecast last month, government data showed today.  Sharp secured 360 billion yen of funding from units of
Mizuho and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  last month after
the television manufacturer pledged to cut more than 10,000 jobs
and sell plants. Panasonic, which is trying to recover from a
record annual loss, said Oct. 16 that it got 600 billion yen in
credit lines from lenders including  Sumitomo Mitsui  Banking
Corp. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  Mizuho, Sumitomo Mitsui and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi are
also lending about 1.5 trillion yen to  Softbank Corp. (9984)  for the
wireless operator’s $20 billion bid to buy control of Sprint
Nextel Corp. in the biggest publicly announced outbound
acquisition by a Japanese company since at least 2000. Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have said they may cut
Softbank’s  credit rating  because of the deal. Moody’s rates
Japan’s third-biggest carrier one level above junk and S&P has
it at the second-lowest investment grade.  Impact Abroad  “Domestic factors alone won’t raise banks’ credit costs,”
Japanese Bankers Association Chairman  Yasuhiro Sato  said at a
news conference on Oct. 18. “However, we must closely watch any
impact on Japanese machine-parts makers and smaller businesses
from any adverse effects abroad,” said Sato, who is also chief
executive officer of Mizuho.  The bursting of Japan’s real estate and stock bubble more
than 20 years ago led to the collapse of Yamaichi Securities Co.
and Hokkaido Takushoku Bank and prompted other lenders ridden
with bad debts to form the three so-called megabanks that exist
today. Non-performing loans reached a record 43.2 trillion yen
as of March 2002, according to Financial Services Agency data.  Banks’ provisions for bad debts peaked at 15.5 trillion yen
in May 2000, Bank of Japan  figures  show. They have pared
reserves since then, setting aside 4.95 trillion yen as of
August, close to a record-low 4.85 trillion yen in March.  Shinsei Sale  Elsewhere in the domestic credit markets, Shinsei Bank Ltd.
sold 6.4 billion yen of 10-year subordinated bonds. The Japanese
lender partly owned by J.  Christopher Flowers  priced the notes
to yield 4 percent for the first five years, after which the
charge switches to 3.61 percentage points more than the five-
year yen swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sekisui House Ltd., the Osaka, Japan-based home builder,
hired banks for an offering of about 20 billion yen of five-year
notes, according to a statement from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co., which is managing the deal together with
Mizuho and SMBC Nikko.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 1.4 percent
return this year, compared with the 1.7 percent gain for the
nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Company notes worldwide have gained 9.8 percent,
according to the data.  Default Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Japan index  of credit-default swaps for
50 companies declined 15 basis points last week to 208 on Oct.
19, after falling to the lowest since Sept. 19 the previous day,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A decrease in the contracts signals improving
perceptions of creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the
opposite.  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bonds gained
1 1/2 basis points compared with Oct. 12 to 0.78 percent today.
The securities  yielded  98 basis points less than similar
maturity  U.S. Treasuries , versus 114 basis points a year
earlier.  The yen traded at 79.33 per dollar at 9:54 a.m. in Tokyo,
after weakening 1.1 percent last week. The Japanese currency
strengthened to a post-World War II record of 75.35 on Oct. 31.  Exports Fall  Japan’s  exports  slid 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo today. Economists
expected a 9.9 percent export decline, according to median
forecasts in surveys by  Bloomberg News . A rising yen erodes
exporter profits by making their products more expensive abroad
and reducing the value of repatriated earnings.  Japanese lenders are also vulnerable to losses from stocks
they hold as part of a culture of companies taking stakes in
each other to cement ties. Banks have been sluggish in paring
their shares of allied enterprises, according to Naoko Nemoto, a
director of financial institutions ratings at S&P in Tokyo.  “The slow pace of unwinding cross-shareholding is keeping
the risk of equity volatility intact for megabanks,” Nemoto
said. Stricter bank capital rules developed since the global
financial crisis “will perhaps prompt them to accelerate the
pace of cutting allied shareholdings to mitigate the risk.”  Stock Loss  Mizuho, the nation’s third-biggest bank by market value,
said on Oct. 5 that it will book 173.7 billion yen in losses
relating to declining values of its domestic  stock holdings  in
the three months ended Sept. 30. Mizuho’s corporate lending unit
has shares in Sharp, which has tumbled 76 percent this year, the
 worst performance  among 1,672 companies on the Topix Index.  “Declines in Japanese electric utility and electrical
appliance manufacturer stocks fueled the losses, and we expect
the other megabanks to experience similar results,” Moody’s
wrote on Oct. 11. The portfolio losses are credit negative for
the three banks, it said.  Japanese lenders’ stock holdings fell to 16.2 trillion yen
in August from 17.5 trillion yen a year earlier and a peak of
47.9 trillion yen in October 1997,  Bank of Japan  data show.  The emergency loans to Sharp signal that “banks in general
aren’t easily able to cut transactions with big corporate
clients even if their creditworthiness deteriorates,” said
Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG. “Blue-chip
companies can suddenly get in trouble due to changes in the
business environment, and banks still rely on domestic lending
as their main source of revenue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  