-- Shell, Exxon to Drill Fram Field After Reducing Costs
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-10-22T16:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/shell-exxon-plan-to-drill-u-k-fram-field-after-reducing-costs.html
(Corrects Shell’s share of U.K. output in fifth paragraph.)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  agreed to develop the Fram oil and gas field in the
U.K. North Sea after managing to reduce drilling costs.  The partners plan to convert a tanker into a floating
production, storage and off-loading vessel, or FPSO, to begin
extraction within three years, Shell Vice President Glen Cayley
said by telephone. Fram will reach peak output of about 35,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day within two years of starting.  The world’s biggest oil companies have sold or scaled back
North Sea operations in recent years as reserves dwindle
following more than 40 years of production. While The Hague-
based Shell installed a rig at Fram earlier this year, it
examined plans to delay the development after U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised oil taxes last year.  “We have managed to continue with some focused efforts on
cost reduction,” Cayley said, declining to comment on the
required investment.  Shell, Fram’s project operator, has spent about $2 billion
a year on U.K. projects since 2005. The company, which pumps
about 14 percent of Britain’s oil and gas, signed a letter of
intent in June with SBM Offshore NV, the biggest supplier of
floating oil platforms, to secure the FPSO for the field.  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) ’s  Ocean Guardian  rig began
work at Fram in July. About two-thirds of the field’s output
will be gas and the rest oil. The deposit holds about 390
million barrels of oil and gas resources in place,  according  to
Shell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  