-- Skadden, Schlam Stone, Smith Gambrell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-10-22T12:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/skadden-schlam-stone-smith-gambrell-business-of-law.html
Former  Chicago  U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald, who stepped down in June, will join Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP on Oct. 29 as a partner in the
Chicago office, the firm said in a statement.  Under Fitzgerald, the Chicago U.S. Attorney’s office won
convictions of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, an ex-White House
aide; former Illinois governors  Rod Blagojevich  and George H. Ryan; and Hollinger International Inc. Chairman  Conrad Black .
Fitzgerald, 51, was appointed by President  George W. Bush  and
took office in September 2001.  Lawyers who have been Chicago’s top federal prosecutor
include Dan K. Webb, chairman of the  law firm  Winston & Strawn
LLP; former Illinois Governor James R. Thompson, also a Winston
& Strawn partner; and Scott R. Lassar, a partner at Sidley
Austin LLP. Both law firms are based in Chicago.  The Wall Street Journal reported Fitzgerald’s move earlier.  In the Courts  Number of Securities Class Actions Filed Is Less than Last Year  The number of federal securities class action filings
through the first nine months of 2012 trailed the number of
filings in the same period last year, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP report.  PwC found that 137 cases were filed in the third quarter of
2012 compared with 142 cases filed through Sept. 30, 2011.  “If filings continue at a similar rate, 183 federal
securities class actions are expected to be filed by year end
compared to a total of 191 filings made in 2011 -- a decrease of
approximately 4.2 percent -- just above the annual average (180)
of cases filed since” the 1995 Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act was enacted, according to PwC’s  Securities Litigation
Update , which was issued last week.  Foreign entities have been named in 27 cases or 20 percent
of the cases filed so far this year. PwC said the figure is “a
significant decrease when compared to the percentage of foreign
filings in 2011, which represented 32 percent (or 46 cases) of
total filings for the first nine months of 2011. The decline in
filings against China-based companies appears to be the leading
cause for this downward shift.”  Cases involving accounting issues represented 31 percent of
the filings; in the same period in 2011, accounting cases
comprised 40 percent of filings. According to the survey,
inadequate controls and improper revenue recognition were the
most common claims in accounting cases. Filings in the high-
technology and energy industries were the second-largest in the
quarter.  For more on the study,  click here.   In the Courts  ‘Rebecca’ Musical Producers Sue Backer Accused of Fraud  The Broadway producers of “Rebecca: The Musical” sued a
 Long Island , New York, man charged with concocting fictional
investors and offering the prospect of $4.5 million in financing
in order to collect undeserved commissions.  Mark Hotton, a 46-year-old former Oppenheimer & Co. broker,
was arrested at his West Islip home on Oct. 15 and charged with
 wire fraud .  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said Hotton
made up the promise of financial backing and a possible $1.1
million loan to get more than $60,000 from producers of the
musical. Previews of the show, which is based on the 1938 novel
“Rebecca” by Daphne du Maurier, were to have begun at the
Broadhurst theater on Oct. 30.  The lawsuit, filed by producers Ben Sprecher and Louise
Forlenza in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan on Oct.
19, seeks more than $100 million in damages from Hotton and his
wife Sherri for claims including fraud and breach of contract.  “Defendants’ tortious activities and breach of contract
have already caused millions of dollars in damages and gravely
wounded the production, which employs dozens of people,” the
producers said in the complaint. “Plaintiffs are working
tirelessly to salvage the show, but if it cannot be saved, then
defendants are responsible for its destruction, along with at
least hundreds of millions of dollars in lost profit damages.”  Erik S. Groothuis at Schlam Stone & Dolan LLP in New York
is representing the plaintiffs, according to the complaint.  Gerald Shargel , a lawyer representing Mark Hotton, declined
to comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  The case is Rebecca Broadway LP v. Hotton, 653659/2012, New
York state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Moscow Investment Firm Seeks $5.3 Million Frozen in Insider Case  A Moscow-based investment firm is fighting to recover $5.3
million frozen as part of a U.S. investigation into  insider
trading  by a former high-ranking government official in Central
Asia, according to court records.  The firm, Ergoport Experts Ltd., is being sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The agency’s complaint cites
“highly profitable and suspicious” trades in oil-field
construction company Global Industries Ltd.  Federal prosecutors in  Brooklyn ,  New York , are also probing
the trades, which involve an individual “who previously held a
high-level position in the government of a Central Asian
country, which government was overthrown by a coup d’etat in
2010,” they said in court papers.  “We are investigating a conspiracy in which it appears
that individuals who exercised control over an account in
Ergoport’s name agreed to use inside information in order to
execute stock trades,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Rachel Nash told
U.S. District Judge  Ronnie Abrams  at an Oct. 12 hearing in
Manhattan federal court, where the SEC lawsuit is pending.  Nash didn’t identify the subjects of the criminal probe.
One individual under scrutiny is Maksim Bakiyev, the son of
former Kyrgyzstan leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people involved in the investigation
that it didn’t name.  Michael O’Kane, a lawyer for Maksim Bakiyev at Peters &
Peters in  London , didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on
the report.  The U.S. is seeking to extradite the younger Bakiyev, who
was arrested in London on Oct. 12 for allegedly conspiring to
commit  securities fraud  and obstructing justice, the U.S.
Embassy in Kyrgyzstan said in an Oct. 13  statement . President
Bakiyev, a former U.S. ally who was ousted in a 2010 coup, has
taken refuge in Belarus.  Ergoport’s New York-based lawyer, Robert Heim, said in an
e-mailed statement last week that neither the elder Bakiyev nor
his son is an Ergoport shareholder.  Ergoport’s identity surfaced after the SEC filed a lawsuit
on Sept. 16, 2011, seeking to freeze proceeds of the trades in
Carlyss, Louisiana-based Global Industries.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One
or More Unknown Purchasers of Securities of Global Industries,
1:11-cv-06500, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Munir, 1:12-
mj-00331, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Smith Gambrell & Russell Adds New IP Partner in Atlanta Office  Gregory J. Kirsch has joined Smith, Gambrell & Russell, LLP
a partner in the firm’s  Intellectual Property Practice in
Atlanta. Prior to joining SGR, Kirsch was a partner at Ballard
Spahr LLP.  Kirsch focuses his practice on  patent law  with a
concentration in electrical and communications technology,
software and business methods patents, as well as medical
technology. He serves as patent counsel to numerous technology
companies ranging from large, multinational corporations to
small startups.  Smith, Gambrell & Russell has more than 170 attorneys in
the U.S. and  Frankfurt ,  Germany .  Trusts and Estates Lawyer Joins New York’s Barton LLP  Amy Holzman has joined Barton LLP to head the firm’s wills,
trusts, estate planning, and estate litigation practice. She
works on plans for U.S. and foreign citizens, traditional and
non-traditional families, and a range of individuals, including
those with complex tax and personal issues. In addition, she
represents clients in marital planning by preparing and
negotiating prenuptial and post-nuptial agreements.  Before joining Barton, Holzman worked at Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP as an associate, advising on and structuring tax
plans for high net worth individuals, corporate and individual
executors and trustees, and charitable entities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  