-- Slovenia Must Capitalise Banks to Ensure Recovery, Jansa Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-22T13:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/slovenia-must-capitalise-banks-to-ensure-recovery-jansa-says.html
Slovenia’s economy will only recover
once banks have added to their capital, Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  said.  “Only recapitalizing the banking industry can revive the
economy,” Jansa told lawmakers in Ljubljana today as he
presented details of budget spending for the next two years.
“The government should seek to bring next year’s budget deficit
within the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.”  The government is seeking to recapitalize the nation’s
largest banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d., by swapping their bad loans for
state-guaranteed bonds that will probably be eligible as
collateral for further funding with the  European Central Bank ,
Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said.  Slovenia is overhauling its economy to make it more
competitive by reducing the public sector and changing labor
laws as well as pensions to avoid the need for an international
bailout. Slovenia raised $2.25 billion last week by selling 10-
year bonds at a yield of 5.7 percent, an amount that economists
such as Timothy Ash at Standard Bank Plc in  London  say will
cover the nation’s financing needs for next year.  “Slovenia borrowed more cheaply with the U.S. dollar bond
sale than would have been the case if we sold them in euros,”
Jansa said today.  Bond Sale  The country, rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, two
levels above junk, originally sought to raise $1.5 billion,
according to Finance Minister Sustersic.  “Last week’s bond issue bought the government valuable
time,” Gillian Edgeworth, chief economist for eastern  Europe 
and the  Middle East  at UniCredit AG in London, wrote in a note
to clients today. Whether Slovenia can provide further capital
to its banks “in the absence of a thorough independent
assessment of its banking sector and official sector funding for
the sovereign, will be a function of market risk appetite,
developments within the euro region and government efforts to
bolster banking sector, fiscal and structural reform.”  Slovenian state-owned banks, hit by a surge in bad loans,
were at the center of investor concern the nation may join
Portugal and Ireland in seeking a bailout package as its
borrowing costs surged to more than 7 percent for most of
August.  The benchmark government notes maturing in January 2021
continued to rally with the yield falling 25 basis points to
5.45 percent at 3.29 p.m. in  Ljubljana , the lowest level since
June 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  