-- Solyndra Wins Court Approval of Bankruptcy Exit Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/solyndra-wins-court-approval-of-bankruptcy-exit-plan.html
Solyndra LLC, the failed solar-panel
maker that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before going bankrupt, won approval of its plan to
exit court protection over government objections.  While Solyndra will be liquidated, its parent, 360 Degree
Solar Holdings Inc., will exit court protection with so-called
net operating loss carryforwards of as much as $975 million,
which it may use against future income, according to court
papers. The potential tax breaks may be as much as $341 million.  The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  objected to Solyndra’s
bankruptcy plan, arguing it couldn’t be approved because its
principal purpose was to allow 360 Degree investors Argonaut
Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP to avoid taxes.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath rejected the IRS’s
challenge yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware , saying
 tax avoidance  “has to be the primary, most important part of
the plan, and I just don’t see that here.”  “It is clear in this case that the bankruptcy and plan of
reorganization deal with more than just the preservation of”
tax breaks for the company’s owners, she said, citing
settlements reached with unsecured creditors and Solyndra’s
former employees.  Investment Search  360 Degree has already begun the search for businesses to
invest in once it leaves bankruptcy, according to Argonaut
attorney, Robert B. Krakow. 360 Degree can only utilize and
benefit from the NOLs if it can generate taxable future income
to offset against.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to
shut down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug.
31, 2011. The solar-panel maker reached a $3.5 million
settlement with ex-workers, who claimed they didn’t get adequate
notice before being fired.  Solyndra listed $854.1 million in assets and $867.1 million
in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  By early 2011, the fledgling solar startup began to face
competition from foreign companies and plummeting prices for
materials used in rivals’ products.  Payment Priority  In February 2011, Solyndra was forced to restructure its
debt to obtain a fresh infusion of funds from existing
investors, including Argonaut, the investment arm of billionaire
and Obama fundraiser  George Kaiser ’s charitable organization,
according to court papers.  The restructuring caused the government’s debt to be
supplanted as the top priority of repayment by the investors’
new $75 million loan.  Under the restructuring plan, the U.S. government will
probably get nothing for its $528 million claim from the loan
guarantee. Argonaut and Madrone rank ahead of the government for
repayment and won’t receive a full recovery on their claims,
according to testimony from financial adviser Eric Carlson at a
hearing last week.  Solyndra generated about $117 million from asset sales,
including the proposed sale of its manufacturing plant. The
company incurred about $46 million in costs to achieve those
sales, leaving it with about $71 million in distributable
assets, or about $6 million short of a full recovery for
Argonaut and Madrone.  IRS Claims  The IRS claimed as far back as December 2010 that Argonaut
was devising a way to preserve the NOLs if Solyndra had to seek
 bankruptcy protection , citing a 2010 e-mail from Kaiser saying
that he would go to great lengths to protect the NOLs.  Lawyers for Solyndra and Argonaut argued that the
government was taking e-mails out of context and that Argonaut
was just preserving its asset.  Steve Mitchell , managing director
of Argonaut Private Equity, said under questioning last week
that the primary objective in the bankruptcy was to maximize
assets to recover as much of the firm’s loan to Solyndra as
possible.  The reorganized company may potentially have an additional
$11 million to $12 million in tax credits for research and
development, according to court documents.  The government is projected to recoup at most 19 percent on
$142.8 million of the loan and probably nothing on the remaining
$385 million, according to the disclosure statement, a
description of the plan.  Secured Debt  Holders of $186.6 million in secured debt, which is
subordinate to the government’s debt, will probably see no
recovery, according to the disclosure statement.  Unsecured creditors of 360 Degree are projected to recoup 3
percent on $27 million in claims, according to court documents.
Solyndra’s unsecured creditors, owed $90 million to $135
million, will get an estimated recovery of as much as 3.3
percent.  All creditors, including the government, could see a full
recovery from a $1.5 billion lawsuit the company filed against
Chinese solar-panel makers Oct. 11, said Debra Grassgreen, a
Solyndra attorney. Solyndra claimed the Chinese manufacturers
conspired to fix prices and flood the U.S. market with solar
panels at below-cost prices, forcing it out of business. The
defendants have said the allegations are “baseless.”  Solyndra has sold most of its assets and is in the process
of selling its plant, built partly using the government funds,
after failing to get any acceptable offers to buy the company as
a whole and restart operations.  The company has agreed to sell the building to a unit of
Dublin-based  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  for $90.3 million, subject
to competing offers at a Nov. 14 auction and court approval at a
hearing the next day, according to court papers. Solyndra
generated about $14.1 million from sales of other assets such as
solar-panel tubes, manufacturing equipment, appliances and
memorabilia and apparel emblazoned with its logo.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  