-- Spanish Bonds Fall as Rajoy Election Victory Damps Bailout Bets
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-22T15:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/spanish-bonds-advance-as-rajoy-secures-regional-election-victory.html
Spanish bonds fell for a second day
on speculation Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s regional election
victory gives him more room to delay seeking a bailout that
would allow  Europe ’s central bank to buy the nation’s debt.  Spain’s  10-year yields  climbed the most in a week after a
report showed mortgage lending declined for a second month in
August and after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  rebuffed a French-led
bid to set up a joint European treasury. Italian 10-year bonds
rose as an official said the Treasury will reduce the amount of
short-term debt auctioned this year after a record sale of
retail bonds last week. German bonds declined.  “The market realizes that Rajoy’s victory is insufficient
to bring an aid request much closer,” said Elwin de Groot, a
senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Also
we had pretty awful mortgage data this morning. That is not
helpful either.”  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 5.48 percent at 4:03 p.m. London time, the
biggest increase since Oct. 15. The 5.85 percent bond due in
January 2022 fell 0.815, or 8.15 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 102.575.  Rajoy’s People’s Party extended its majority in the
premier’s northwestern home region of Galicia, taking 41 of 75
seats as the Socialists lost almost half of their votes. The
region was one of the first to implement an austerity program
and had one of the smallest deficits last year.  Breathing Space  The victory gives Rajoy breathing space to refrain from
seeking European aid as he struggles to put his debt-laden
nation’s finances on a surer footing. A bailout request would
put into practice new European Central Bank tools for ending the
region’s fiscal crisis, which allow it to buy sovereign debt to
damp ailing euro members’ rising borrowing costs.  The number of Spanish home loans fell 28.5 percent from a
year earlier, according to data published by the national
statistics institute INE.  Spain’s two-year yield climbed 14 basis points to 2.88
percent after falling to 2.66 percent on Oct. 19, the lowest
level since  April (APR)  4.  Chancellor Merkel  blunted French President Francois Hollande’s appeal for more transfer payments from rich to poor
countries along with common euro-area bond sales to ease the
region’s debt crisis.  “As long as there are individual national budgets, I
regard the assumption of joint liability as inappropriate and
from our point of view this isn’t up for debate,” Merkel told
reporters two days ago.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds rose after an official said the debt agency
will “revise and recalibrate the issuances in light of the
retail sale’s success.” The sale attracted bids for 18 billion
euros, double the two previous offers combined.  The debt agency’s review aims “in particular at reducing
the amount of short-term issuances,” said the official, who
declined to be identified.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds dropped one basis point
to 4.76 percent.  The German 10-year bund yield rose three basis points to
1.62 percent after climbing 15 basis points last week.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Finland and  Portugal ,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt,
the spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-
default swaps.  Germany ’s bonds returned 2.5 percent this year through Oct.
19, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
rose 3.9 percent, and Italian debt gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  