-- Stifel Financial Said to Be Among Bidders for Gleacher & Co.
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-10-22T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/stifel-financial-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-gleacher-co-.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the St.
Louis-based brokerage, is among the companies that bid on part
or all of bond-trading firm  Gleacher (GLCH)  & Co., said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Gleacher is weighing a combination with a broker-dealer
such as Stifel or a sale to a private-equity investor, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
Gleacher may decide which route to pursue within the next few
days, they said.  The shares have traded at less than $1 for more than five
months as the firm, run by Chief Executive Officer Thomas Hughes, dealt with employee defections and writedowns on the
value of goodwill. Gleacher disclosed its strategic review in
August, after  Bloomberg News  reported that the firm began
exploring options amid pressure from top shareholder
MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC.  Gleacher, formerly known as First Albany Cos., is working
with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  on finding a possible buyer, people
with knowledge of the matter said in August. The company
currently has a  market value  of about $86 million.  Andrew Siegel , an outside representative for Gleacher,
didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  Sarah Anderson , a Stifel spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The company’s stock, which traded as high as $1.82 in
February, rose as much as 10 cents a share to 79 cents before
falling to 68.5 cents at 4:30 p.m. in New York.  The firm’s origins date back to First Albany, a regional
brokerage founded in 1953 in New York State’s capital city. The
firm eventually became Gleacher & Co. in 2010, following the
acquisition of an advisory boutique run by Eric Gleacher, a
mergers and acquisitions banker who founded Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s M&A department in 1978.  MatlinPatterson owns a 28 percent stake of the firm, while
Eric Gleacher has 12 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  