-- Swaps Exchanges Couldn’t Rival NYSE-Deutsche Boerse, EU Ruled
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-22T11:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/swaps-exchanges-couldn-t-rival-nyse-deutsche-boerse-eu-ruled.html
Derivatives exchanges would have
been unable to quell the combined market power of  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , European Union regulators said in
disclosing their reasons for blocking the duo’s plans to join
forces to create a global leader.  Regulators rejected the companies’ arguments that
derivatives traded over the counter competed with those traded
on exchanges, according to the 447-page  filing  made public last
week. The two products are separate “rather than
substitutable” for exchange customers, according to the
document, which may set the tone for how the EU’s antitrust
agency will view future exchange deals.  “It is unlikely that a timely entry would occur and
sufficiently constrain the merged entity in its market
behavior,” the EU wrote in the filing posted on its website. As
a result, the companies’ “customers would likely face higher
fees, less product innovation and would de facto have no choice
of trading platform for these products.”  Since the deal was blocked in February, at least five new
entrants have announced plans to enter the European  derivatives
market . Both  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s biggest
futures exchange, and Nasdaq OMX plan derivatives markets in
 London , setting up in competition with Eurex and Liffe, the
largest venues. EU lawmakers have also agreed on regulations
that will stir competition in derivatives and clearing.  Near-Monopoly  The commission blocked the $9.5 billion deal because it
would have led to a near-monopoly in European exchange-traded
derivatives. The acquisition of NYSE Euronext would have put
more than 90 percent of  Europe ’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of  stock trading  in the hands of one
company, the regulator said in February.  CME and other derivatives exchanges weren’t likely to
“gain meaningful presence in European interest rate futures and
options in the absence of a built-up margin pool of correlated
European contracts,” the commission said in its filing on the
veto decision. “None of these players would be in a position to
discipline” a combined  Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext, it
said.  While the commission’s ruling on how derivatives markets
work isn’t binding, its decision sets a precedent that merger
lawyers would look at to assess the difficulty of gaining
approval for subsequent deals, said  Matthew Hall , a Brussels-
based lawyer at McGuire Woods LLP.  New Evidence  “If a case looks like it’s potentially difficult, the
first thing you do would be to get all the precedents out,”
Hall said of lawyers looking at regulatory risk for a possible
transaction. A similar deal in the same industry “would be very
difficult” without new evidence that sought to convince
regulators that the market had changed.  During the year it spent fighting for its deal, NYSE argued
that its greatest competitor in derivatives is CME, not Deutsche
Boerse. It cited an 89 percent membership overlap between CME
and Liffe and rivalry in trading Euribor and Eurodollar futures.  CME last year offered Euribor futures and options on its
electronic trading platform, pitting itself directly against
Liffe, which dominates the market for co-called short-term
interest rate products.  Deutsche Boerse is challenging the veto at an EU court
because it “is based on an incorrect and constricted market
definition that does not cope with the global character of
competition in the derivatives market,” spokesman  Frank Herkenhoff  said by e-mail.  ‘Left Out’  The over-the-counter derivatives segment “as the largest
part of the market was completely left out,” he said.  The appeal by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse attacks
regulators’ analysis of competition among trading platforms,
saying it was “not based on cogent and consistent evidence”
and that they failed to properly analyze the role of exchange
customers in over-the-counter trading, according to  court
documents  published in June.  NYSE isn’t a party to the appeal and said in March that it
was focused on its strategy as a standalone company. Caroline
Nico, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext, declined to comment on
last week’s EU disclosure.  Hall said Deutsche Boerse’s legal challenge may have a
sensible rationale if it manages to undermine the EU’s
definitions on how derivatives exchanges compete.  The EU court can cancel regulators’ decision or ask them to
reexamine the deal if it backs any of the Frankfurt-based
exchange’s claims. It was the fourth time the commission had
blocked a deal since it overhauled the bloc’s merger rules in
2004.  Appealing a merger decision is an attack on the
commission’s legal reasoning and doesn’t say anything about
whether companies intend to resurrect a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
Nandini Sukumar in Taipei at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  and @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 