-- Swaps Limbo, Facebook IPO Data, Spain Shorts: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-22T12:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/swaps-limbo-facebook-ipo-data-spain-shorts-compliance.html
The securities industry
misinterpreted rules it assumed allowed as many as nine months
to start moving swaps into clearinghouses that are meant to
limit risks to the financial system.  Firms dealing in $648 trillion of outstanding swaps
contracts expected that trading during a phase-in period
wouldn’t need to be processed by central clearinghouses,
according to an Oct. 5 e-mail sent to clients by  Davis Polk  &
Wardwell LLP, which represents the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association . They were wrong, misreading one
sentence in 17,000 words of regulation.  Unless lobbyists convince the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to soften the deadlines, derivatives users that
speculate on or hedge against losses on everything from changes
in interest rates to corporate bankruptcies may need to find
cash and Treasuries to back the trades sooner than they
anticipated. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is requiring trades be
moved to the central counterparties to limit the kinds of risks
that fueled panic during the 2008 credit crisis.  Clearing the trades sooner than expected may soak up as
much as $50 billion in additional collateral for swaps users,
according to Anshuman Jaswal, senior analyst at financial
research firm Celent in New York.  The CFTC may clarify the rules before they are completed as
early as next month, though it’s too early to know what changes
may be made, Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a telephone
interview.  Liz Pierce, a Sifma spokeswoman, referred questions to
Davis Polk. Katie Harter, a Davis Polk spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  For more, click here and click here.  Compliance Policy  New French State-Backed Bank Will Be Independent, Chairman Says  A new investment bank created by the French government will
operate without political interference, the bank’s chairman
 Jean-Pierre Jouyet  said in an interview on Europe 1 radio.  The bank, known as BPI, will lend exclusively to small and
mid-sized businesses and will not aid large companies facing job
losses, Jouyet said.  BPI will not show favoritism to projects backed by
politicians, he said.  Half owned by government and half by state-owned financial
institution CDC, the bank will marshal an estimated 40 billion
euros in loans from existing sources, Jouyet said.  U.K. Regulator to Analyze Bank Economic Models, FSA’s Rule Says  The U.K.’s financial watchdog will analyze the economic
models used by the biggest banks to prevent them concentrating
risks in the financial system, a regulator said.  The  Prudential Regulatory Authority  will “look at models
somewhat skeptically and make sure they’re appropriately
conservative,” said David Rule, a U.K. banking supervisor. The
agency may require changes to the models or ask for increases in
capital reserves at banks that don’t satisfy criteria, Rule said
in a speech in London today.  Compliance Action  Facebook IPO Probe by SEC Said to Find No Material Data Withheld  The Securities and Exchange Commission, which started a
review of  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  May 17 IPO after its stock price
plummeted, hasn’t found any evidence that the company withheld
material information from investors, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The SEC, whose investigation is continuing, is still
looking at other IPO-related issues, including whether retail
investors were harmed by misleading information from brokers or
selective disclosures to analysts by the company’s bankers
regarding Facebook’s mobile applications, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the probe is confidential.  Any conclusion by the SEC that Facebook made adequate
disclosures of risks prior to its IPO would bolster the
company’s defense against civil lawsuits filed by retail
customers damaged by the sudden drop in the company’s initial
$38 share price, which is about half that value now.  The firm had no immediate comment. SEC spokesman  Kevin
Callahan  declined to comment as did Facebook in a statement.  The SEC is conducting an “in-depth review of all the
participants” in the IPO, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in an
interview Sept. 28 on Bloomberg Television.  For more, click here.  NCR Says It Received SEC Subpoena Over Whistle-Blower’s Claims  NCR Corp. (NCR) , a maker of automated teller machines and payment
systems, received a subpoena from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over a whistle-blower’s claims that it may
have violated anti-bribery laws.  The company is cooperating with the SEC, a representative
of Duluth, Georgia-based NCR, said Oct. 18 on a  conference call .  NCR had said in August that it received claims by a
“purported whistle-blower” over aspects of its business
practices in China, the Middle East and Africa. The actions
alleged “might constitute violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act,” the August  filing  said.  The company also is cooperating with the Treasury
Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the U.S.
Attorney’s office for the Northern District of Georgia, Gavin
Bell, NCR’s vice president of investor relations, said Oct. 18
on the company’s third-quarter earnings call with analysts.  “We are making good progress toward completing our
internal investigation in a thorough and expeditious manner” in
conjunction with outside counsel, Bell said. The investigation’s
goal is to refute untrue allegations by the whistle-blower and
take “appropriate, remedial action” on allegations that may be
true, he said.  Lou Casale, a spokesman for NCR, said in an e-mail that the
company has retained the law firm  Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP  to
assist in its investigation.  Spain Set to Extend Short-Selling Ban for 3 Months From November  Spain  plans to extend a ban on short-selling for three
months from the start of November as regulators take into
account the “exceptional situation” facing the country’s
banks.  Authorities will first extend the ban to the end of the
month after it expires on Oct. 23, the markets regulator, known
as CNMV, said in a  statement  sent by e-mail. CNMV will also
begin procedures to notify the  European Securities & Markets
Authority  of its intention to extend the prohibition for a
further three months, the regulator said.  CNMV said it was taking into account the “exceptional
situation” facing the banking industry because the process of
restructuring it is still incomplete, the regulator said. In
this context, lifting the ban on short-selling would “add
uncertainty,” CNMV said.  The ban can be lifted at any time if market conditions
allow, the regulator said.  AIG’s Benmosche Says Treasury May Sell Rest of Stake in 2012  The U.S. Treasury Department may sell the rest of its
holdings in insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  before
2013, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said.  Benmosche made the remarks Oct. 19 at an event in Madrid.  The U.S. cut its  stake  in AIG to 16 percent from 77 percent
in four share sales this year, most recently in September, after
acquiring 92 percent in a bailout during the financial crisis.
While the government has  recouped  the original cost of rescuing
AIG, the success of bailing out financial firms and automakers
has become an issue in the U.S. presidential campaign.  Selling more shares could help the U.S. reduce the cost of
the bailouts for taxpayers.  Matt Anderson , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.  Carbon Offsets Tumble as EU Said to Eye Russian Credits Ban  United Nations carbon offset contracts slumped to records
after the European Union proposed to ban from its market certain
credits issued from next year by countries that fail to adopt
new carbon goals.  The  European Commission , the EU’s regulatory arm, proposed
draft rules for the use of UN-sponsored Emission Reduction
offsets as of 2013 in a modified draft amendment to the bloc’s
carbon registry regulation at a meeting of officials from
national governments on Oct. 17, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the gathering was private.  European law allows companies in its emissions trading
system to use international offsets, including ERUs, for
compliance with their greenhouse-gas reduction quotas.  Emission Reduction Units are generated under the UN Joint
Implementation program, which encourages investments in low-
carbon energy by industrialized countries in other nations that
have emission-reduction goals under the Kyoto Protocol, whose
first period runs from 2008 to 2012.  The EU proposal would bar emitters in the bloc’s cap-and-
trade from holding in their accounts ERUs issued after 2012 by
non-EU countries such as Russia, the people said.  For more, click here.  Sanusi Faces Nigerian Lawmakers Seeking to Curb Bank’s Power  Nigerian central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi will today
face lawmakers who are seeking to curtail his powers after he
criticized them for overspending and doubled interest rates.  Sanusi, 51, is scheduled to appear at a public hearing in
Parliament in the capital, Abuja, where lawmakers are debating
an amendment to the Central Bank of Nigeria Act that would strip
Sanusi of his position as chairman of the bank’s board. The bill
also proposes that Parliament approves the bank’s budget and the
board includes more external members.  As central bank governor of Africa’s largest oil producer,
Sanusi has won plaudits from investors for cleaning up the
banking industry and rescuing it from near-collapse in 2009. At
the same time he’s drawn criticism from lawmakers, opposed to
his push for spending curbs on salaries and for being too
powerful within the bank.  Two months after he took office in 2009, Sanusi fired the
chief executives of eight lenders after an audit found evidence
of mismanagement and reckless lending. In December 2010,
lawmakers demanded Sanusi apologize for saying their salaries,
accounting for a quarter of the government’s recurrent spending,
was damaging for the economy. He maintained that his estimates
were correct.  Victor Ogene, deputy chairman of the House of
Representatives Media Committee, said in a phone interview from
Abuja on Oct. 19 that proposed changes to the law are aimed at
having stronger institutions. The current law gives too much
power to the governor and the budget is run without scrutiny, he
said.  Sanusi led the Monetary Policy Committee in increasing the
 benchmark interest rate  by six percentage points to a record 12
percent in the past two years to bolster the currency and curb
inflation. His moves drew criticism from opponents.  Interviews  Corbett, Rajoy, Monti Comment Europe Bank-Supervisor Process  Richard Corbett, an adviser to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy , discussed Oct. 19 the agreement by European
leaders to complete a framework for a euro-area bank supervisor
by year-end.  He spoke from Brussels with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Separately, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  spoke Oct. 18 in Brussels
after European leaders committed to their goal of establishing a
euro-area bank supervisor by year-end.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Goldman Sachs Bonus System Corrupted in 2005, Smith Says in Book  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  changed how it calculated year-end
 bonuses  in 2005, corrupting a culture of teamwork that existed
previously, according to a book published by former employee
 Greg Smith .  Before 2005, the company determined workers’ annual awards
“not just on how much business you’d brought in, but also on
how good you were for the organization,” Smith, a former vice
president, writes in “Why I Left Goldman Sachs: A Wall Street
Story.”  “From 2005 until the present day, the system has become
largely mathematical: you were paid a percentage of the amount
of revenue next to your name,” a figure that could vary from 5
percent to 7 percent, wrote Smith, 33, without saying how he
learned about such a change. “The problem with the new system
was that people would now do anything they could -- anything --
to pump up the number next to their name.”  The account by Smith, who quit after a 12-year career at
Goldman Sachs with a March 14 critique of the culture shift
under Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, contrasts with
the “ Compensation Principles ” that the CEO read aloud at the
May 2009 annual shareholders meeting. According to those tenets,
the company’s pay practices are meant to encourage teamwork and
discourage excessive risk-taking.  Smith wrote that the policy led to fights among junior and
senior employees as to who would get “gross credits” relating
to sales.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the book.  For more, click here.  EU Power Struggle Haunts Mersch as ECB Women Row Set to Escalate  European Parliament  lawmakers will today decide whether to
escalate a gender row with governments as they ponder if  Yves
Mersch ’s appointment to the European Central Bank Executive
Board would make him one man too many.  Mersch, 63, will testify to the European Union assembly’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee before it then votes on
his candidacy for the ECB post in a session starting about 7
p.m. in Strasbourg, France. The Luxembourg central bank
governor’s career move has been held up by the panel’s objection
to the total lack of female policy makers at the ECB.  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez-
Paramo of Spain ended his eight-year term on May 31. EU
lawmakers have since impeded the appointment of Mersch, raising
the prospect that government leaders will need to intervene and
overrule their objections to secure the move.  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of Finland and Gertrude
Tumpel-Gugerell of Austria, have previously sat on the ECB’s
six-member Executive Board. If the five men currently there
serve their full terms, another position won’t become available
until June 2018 when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  retires.  Lawmakers highlighted the lack of senior female officials
for years and governments simply ignored the issue until now,
said  Sharon Bowles , who chairs the EU Parliament committee.  Mersch’s nomination will be opposed and the committee will
request European leaders submit a new candidate, according to a
draft report published on the EU Parliament’s website on Oct.
19. The full Parliament will vote on the matter on Oct. 25.  Earlier, a group including former Deutsche Bank chief
economist  Thomas Mayer  and former Bundesbank President  Ernst
Welteke  wrote in a letter to the Financial Times that European
policy makers should set aside any concerns over gender
inequality at the ECB and “give priority” to Mersch’s
appointment.  Gender equality and the euro “are equally important
goals” that are now “conflicting,” they wrote. Priority
should be given to the best available candidate, who “happens
to be a man.” They pointed out that a seat on the six-member
board has been empty since May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 