-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Second Day; Aggreko, BP Retreat
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-10-22T16:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/u-k-stocks-decline-as-japan-s-exports-fall.html
U.K. stocks  declined for a second
day as Japan’s exports tumbled and U.S. companies reported sales
that trailed forecasts.  Aggreko (AGK)  Plc slid 3 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc cut its
rating on the stock.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
led basic-resources shares higher. African Barrick Gold Plc
gained 1 percent after obtaining regulatory approval in Kenya
for purchasing exploration assets in that country.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  fell 0.2 percent to 5,882.91 at the close in
London. The equity benchmark has still  rallied 12 percent from
this year’s low  on June 1 as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  pledged to do everything to protect the euro. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also retreated 0.2 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost less than 0.1 percent.  Japan’s exports  slid 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, leaving a trade deficit of 558.6 billion yen ($7
billion), a government report showed. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts called for a 9.9 percent export
decline. The drop was the most since May 2011, two months after
a magnitude-9 quake struck Japan’s northeast, triggering a
tsunami and a nuclear disaster.  Of the six companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
report results today, four had revenue that missed analysts’
estimates, including Caterpillar Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-nine percent of companies in the
gauge have missed third-quarter revenue projections since Oct.
9, the data show.  Spanish Elections  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  extended his majority
in the stronghold region of Galicia as voters offered some
respite to his 10-month-old government and removed one obstacle
to a European bailout. His party won 41 of the 75 seats in the
regional assembly, allowing it to extend its majority in the
northwestern region.  “Rajoy’s mixed outcome at regional elections raises hopes
that the government there doesn’t quite face the challenging and
difficult opposition by the public that we expected,” Ishaq Siddiqi, market strategist at ETX Capital in London, wrote.
“That said, there remains plenty of uncertainty surrounding
Spain.”  Aggreko, the world’s largest supplier of mobile power
supplies, slid 3 percent to 2,073 pence. HSBC cut the stock to
underweight, a rating similar to sell, from neutral.  BP Plc (BP/)  lost 1.5 percent to 443.45 pence after earlier
rising as much as 2 percent. OAO Rosneft agreed to buy BP’s half
of TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, for about $26
billion in cash and shares. BP will sell its 50 percent stake
for $17.1 billion in cash and 12.8 percent of Rosneft’s shares,
according to a statement today.  Devro, Spectris  Devro Plc (DVO) , the sausage-casing maker whose stock has
quadrupled since 2009, tumbled 3.5 percent to 324.1 pence after
saying full-year operating profit will miss its  forecast  because
of rising material costs and currency moves.  Spectris Plc (SXS) , a maker of products for the electronic
control sector, lost 3.9 percent to 1,709 pence. Panmure Gordon
& Co. cut the stock to hold from buy.  Fidessa Group Plc (FDSA) , a  software company , retreated 2.3
percent to 1,341 pence. The company said 2012 revenue will be
unchanged and said customers are becoming more “cost-
constrained.”  Commodity Shares  A gauge of London-listed  metal companies  gained 0.2
percent, rising for the fourth time in five days.  Fresnillo, a silver and gold miner, climbed 1.3 percent to
1,916 pence. Randgold, a miner of gold, rose 2.7 percent to
7,615 pence, the most since Sept. 14, as the precious metal
rebounded from a six-week low.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  advanced 1 percent to 482 pence.
The company said the Kenyan Competition Commission approved its
acquisition of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Ltd. from Aviva Corp. All
conditions for the transactions have now been met and the
acquisition will be completed, the company said.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , the U.K. tour operator, jumped 9
percent to 21.25 pence, the highest price in almost five months.
Exane BNP Paribas analyst Matthias Desmarais raised his
recommendation on the stock to neutral from underperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  