-- UBS Controller Allowed Adoboli to Suspend $1 Billion Trade Loss
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-22T17:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ubs-controller-allowed-adoboli-to-suspend-1-billion-trade-loss.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  controller who
oversaw profit and loss for ex-trader Kweku Adoboli’s desk
“signed off” on a request to temporarily suspend a $1 billion
trading loss in August 2011, a London jury was told.  Johannes Zuidmeer testified today that he held the loss
“in suspense” for one or two days after accepting Adoboli’s
explanation that more time was needed to reconcile records after
a misunderstanding between the ETF desk and an operations team
resulted in conflicting numbers on the books. Adoboli was
arrested about a month later on charges he lost $2.3 billion by
hiding unauthorized trades.  Some transactions needed to be suspended “to clarify
matters” and there were “other mitigating factors,” Zuidmeer
said. The process was used repeatedly to delay certain trading
losses from immediately being applied to the desk’s profit-and-
loss figures, he said.  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is on trial for fraud
and false accounting, hid the risk of his trades by booking fake
hedges while he worked at the exchange-traded funds desk. He’s
also accused of creating a secret internal account, a so-called
umbrella, where he parked trading profits to cover future
losses. Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty and his lawyers have
sought to show others knew of the techniques he used to flout
banking rules.  Instant Messages  Zuidmeer, asked by prosecutors to read print-outs of
internal UBS instant-messages, said he spoke with Adoboli every
other day about profit and loss figures. Some of the messages
showed Zuidmeer worked with Adoboli to suspend certain trades,
including a February 2011 exchange where he asked Adoboli about
a trade that “would be a hit to P&L if released.”  “Mr. Adoboli asked you to suspend it until you understood
it better or there was a better profit and loss” that would
result in “smoothing” the loss, said Paul Garlick, a lawyer
for Adoboli.  Zuidmeer also said he didn’t escalate a situation where
Adoboli told him about a $681,000 currency exchange adjustment
because he “didn’t know it was a cosmetic adjustment at the
time.” Adoboli called the adjustment “cosmetic” in a message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  