-- UBS Special-Situations Head Gueikian Said to Quit
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-10-22T20:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/ubs-special-situations-head-gueikian-said-to-quit-to-start-fund.html
Cesar Gueikian, global head of  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s special-situations group, quit Switzerland’s biggest bank
to start a hedge fund with former colleague Andres Scaminaci,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The departure was confirmed by Gueikian, 35, in a telephone
interview, as well as by Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for the
Zurich-based bank. Theo Constantinidis, who led the unit with
Gueikian, will become its sole head, Stinson said. The pair
oversaw a team of about 25 people in  New York ,  London  and  Hong
Kong .  The special-situations group at UBS makes loans to
companies that choose not to tap traditional  capital markets  for
privacy reasons or because they need the money fast. It’s a
“unique structured- and private-financing group that source,
structure and lend on a principal basis,” according to a
description of the group provided last year by the bank to
Bloomberg.  UBS investment bank co-Chief Executive Officer Carsten Kengeter highlighted the unit as one of two areas targeted for
expansion in a  presentation  last November. The unit was
described as “very attractive” based on returns, client
relevance, growth prospects and market standing.  Gueikian was at UBS since 2009, according to  regulatory
records . He previously worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. and
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  His new fund will focus on special situations
and credit opportunities, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the plans haven’t been announced.  Scaminaci, 41, the former head of UBS’s special situations
group for the Americas, confirmed in a telephone interview that
he left the bank in August and plans to join Gueikian. He also
previously worked at Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank, according
to  regulatory records .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  