-- UN Green Fund Could Buy Credits From Carbon Market, CEPS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-22T11:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/un-green-fund-could-buy-credits-from-carbon-market-ceps-says.html
A suggestion by a high-level panel
that the United Nations Green Climate Fund buy certain emission
credits from the Clean Development Mechanism could help
alleviate a supply glut, according to a research group.  Using the Green Climate Fund to buy Certified Emission
Reductions, for example, “makes eminent sense and is a credible
scenario that must be seriously examined,” Andrei Marcu, head
of the Centre for European Policy Studies’ Carbon Market Forum
in Brussels, said in an e-mailed report today.  A glut of carbon permits in the European Union market has
depressed demand for UN-certified carbon credits, and forced
prices to record lows last week. CERs for December plunged 23
percent to 1.10 euros ($1.44) on Oct. 19. Prices have fallen 84
percent in the last year.  The GCF was established in December at the last round of UN
climate-treaty talks in Durban, South Africa, to distribute some
of the aid pledged by developed nations to poorer countries
during previous sessions. Financing will go toward reducing
greenhouse gases from energy production and adapting countries
to the effects of global warming, such as rising sea levels.  A high-level panel commissioned by the UN last year
reported that the Green Climate Fund could be used to purchase
carbon credits in order to guarantee continuing funding for
emissions reductions. The fund, which was set up to help funnel
about $100 billion a year in climate-protection finance to
developing nations from richer countries, could specify the
types of CDM credits that it wants to buy, Marcu said.  No Monopoly  Other emission-reduction programs around the world would
also potentially supply the fund with reductions, Marcu said.  “There can be no expectation of a monopoly for the CDM,”
he said.  Australia  and New Zealand allow companies participating in
their national emissions markets to buy CERs to help meet their
caps on discharges, while governments in developed countries may
also use the offsets to meet their own targets set by the Kyoto
Protocol.  UN envoys are planning to meet for a two-week climate
summit scheduled to start on Nov. 26 in Doha, Qatar.  The UN needs to develop the so-called Framework for Various
Approaches under the  UN Framework Convention on Climate Change 
to help oversee domestic programs, Marcu said earlier this
month. Climate science shows the planet will be imperiled if it
waits for nations to agree a global treaty, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  