-- Turkey’s Not-So-Free Speech
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-22T18:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/turkey-s-not-so-free-speech.html
For a long time, it has been
possible to overlook  Turkey ’s human rights failures. After all,
the country was making remarkable progress after starting from a
very hard place. Now, however, ignoring such failures is no
longer possible.  A 53-page report  released  Oct. 22 by the U.S.-based
Committee to Protect Journalists is the most detailed on Turkish
media freedoms to date. It makes for shocking reading. As of
Aug. 1, Turkey was holding at least 76 journalists in jail, the
report found, while prosecutors were pursuing thousands of cases
against other members of the news media.  Put another way, Turkey now has more imprisoned journalists
than any other country, by a factor of just less than two. Iran
comes second, with 42 incarcerations; Eritrea third, with 28;
and  China , a communist dictatorship with a population of 1.35
billion, comes fourth at 27.  It’s a lamentable record and in sharp contrast to the
modern and tolerant image that Turkey’s leadership has projected
over the past decade.  The reason for the new report is especially interesting.
The committee had come under fire for reporting lower estimates
of the number of jailed journalists than other human rights
organizations. Turkey’s government has long maintained that only
a handful of the journalists were charged with offenses related
to their jobs, and because the CPJ hadn’t read all the
indictments, it had erred on the side of caution.  Speech Crimes  Now it has read the indictments and determined that 61 of
the reporters and editors in detention are there because of
things they wrote or said in the course of their work. In
letters  accompanying  the report, the Turkish government disputes
that characterization and asserts that it is striving to balance
the need to prevent “the praising of violence and terrorist
propaganda, and the need to expand freedom of speech.”  What’s becoming all too clear during the  Justice and
Development Party ’s third term in office is that despite its
claims that the government is now liberalizing press laws and
continuing the country’s march toward a European-style
democracy, the opposite is happening.  First, take a look at the much touted legal reforms: Some
sentences under statutes used to prosecute journalists were
lowered, and judges were given the ability to drop less serious
cases. The accused, however, are to be released only on the
condition that for three years they don’t repeat the offense --
in other words, they must not write or say again the things that
irritated the authorities. That isn’t a liberalization, it’s a
gagging law.  More worrying still is the ruling party’s attempt to amend
the Turkish constitution in a draft text published in July, just
days after those supposed improvements to media freedom were
introduced. Under the draft, Turkish authorities would have a
constitutional duty to restrict free speech: “to protect
national security, public order, public morals, others’ rights,
private and family life; to avert crimes; to ensure independence
and impartiality of the judiciary; to prevent warmongering and
the propagation of every sort of discrimination, hostility,
rancor or hatred.”  Translation: the law could restrict saying pretty much
anything. The free speech exceptions for protecting “public
morals” and “family life” offer wide scope for repression
against those who don’t share the government’s views on what
those values should be.  ‘Insulting’ Crimes  Many of the cases against journalists are based on laws
that criminalize “insulting” a public official -- an
extraordinary restriction for the fourth estate in any country.
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , in particular, has proved
easily insulted. He has initiated numerous personal lawsuits
against journalists and publicly attacked others.  The vast majority, of cases, however, are based on anti-
terrorism laws that are so vaguely written and so broadly and
maliciously interpreted, that writing about groups proscribed by
the government is prosecuted as though it were in itself an act
of terrorism. Almost three-quarters of the journalists in
detention in Turkey are ethnic Kurds who had the temerity to
write about the Kurdish Workers Party or civilian Kurdish groups
that the government sees as supportive of the party.  All of this has come on top of a punitive, multibillion-
dollar tax case against the main opposition media group,  Dogan
Yayin Holding AS (DYHOL) , and public threats against newspaper owners,
editors and reporters that have left Turkey with a press corps
afraid of its own shadows. Columnists, editors and reporters too
critical of the government have been fired. Some have been
jailed. Most have simply censored themselves.  Turkey’s deteriorating rule of law isn’t restricted to
journalists. Thousands of people are being held without trial
for years under these anti-terrorism laws. The threadbare and in
some cases clearly fabricated evidence on which they’re being
charged is often withheld from them and their defense lawyers;
they aren’t tried in regular courts, but in tribunals called
“special authority courts.”  Turkey’s government is in some ways still struggling to
escape the country’s past: The CPJ found that the current
Turkish onslaught on journalists has been topped only once
worldwide during the 27 years the group has kept records. That
was by Turkey itself in 1996, shortly before a nonviolent coup
that was engineered by the military -- 78 journalists were
jailed. In 1998, Erdogan himself was convicted, and later
imprisoned, for reciting a poem that compared minarets to
bayonets.  Erdogan and his party were victims then; now they are
perpetrators. Instead of fixing the legal system, the government
has used it to repress opponents and intimidate the media. The
“insult” laws, as well as the special anti-terrorism courts and
laws, should be repealed. They are not worthy of a modern
democracy, and they shouldn’t be a model for anyone.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 