-- Turkey Inaugurates Water Pipeline to Clean Ottomans’ Bay
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-22T11:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/turkey-inaugurates-water-pipeline-to-clean-ottomans-bay.html
Turkey  inaugurated a water  pipeline 
designed to help clean Istanbul’s fabled Golden Horn area, part
of $758 million in spending to rehabilitate the waterway once
plied by the Ottoman sultans.  The 5-kilometer (3-mile) pipeline links the Bosporus Strait
with the Kagithane creek that flows into waters near tourist
sites including the Church of St. Stephen and Eyup Sultan
mosque. The pipeline cost $24.5 million, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said during a televised opening ceremony.  Turkey demolished hundreds of factories and a
slaughterhouse whose works fouled waters of the Golden Horn
since it first began addressing the waterway and stench almost
three decades ago. The pipeline took 3 1/2 years to finish, is
2.2 meters wide and will provide water to replenish the area
three times a year, municipal authorities said.  Erdogan spearheaded efforts to clean the Horn since being
elected mayor of Istanbul in 1994. The work included pumping out
5 million cubic meters of mud into a stone quarry four miles
away and filtering it back to the Horn, Veysel Eroglu, Minister
of Forestry and Water Works, said yesterday.  “We always dreamed about seeing these days,” Erdogan
said, saying the area once looked like a “quagmire” and
couldn’t be passed “due to the foul smell.”  The formal inauguration of the pipeline yesterday will help
carry 260,000 cubic meters of fresh sea water to the Golden Horn
daily, Erdogan said.  The name of the waterway is believed to come from the
setting sun that cast a golden hue on the horn-shaped estuary.  The Golden Horn was also said to have inspired U.S. Army
Capt. John C. Fremont, who called the entrance to  California ’s
San Francisco Bay the Golden Gate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  