-- Hutchison Makes New Offer in EU Review of Orange Austria Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-22T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/hutchison-makes-new-offer-in-eu-review-of-orange-austria-bid-1-.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  made a new
offer of concessions to European Union antitrust regulators
probing its planned 1.3 billion-euro ($1.7 billion) purchase of
mobile-phone operator Orange Austria.  The European Commission extended its deadline to rule on
the deal to Dec. 21 after Hutchison offered commitments last
week, it said in a  website filing  today. It didn’t give details
of the offer.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  last week
called on the company to make additional concessions and
preferred a sale of spectrum, his spokesman said on Oct. 19.
Hutchison’s August proposal to sell access to mobile virtual
network operators in Austria didn’t prevent the EU antitrust
agency sending it formal objections on the deal last month.  Regulators extended an investigation into the deal in June
over concerns that it may reduce competition by cutting the
number of mobile-phone operators in Austria to three from four.
Hutchison 3G Austria is the smallest wireless operator in the
country of 8.2 million people, where it competes with Orange,
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile.  Maritheres Paul, a spokeswoman for Hutchison in Vienna,
confirmed that new concessions were filed on Oct. 19 and
declined to comment on their content.  The company controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing 
agreed to buy Orange Austria in February. Managing director
Canning Fok said in August that EU regulators were going “one
step too far” by asking to renegotiate conditions for the deal,
which he said should be approved without delay. Hutchison is
Li’s biggest company, with investments in telecommunications,
ports, energy, retail and utilities in more than 50 countries.  Austria’s competition authority is separately probing a
side deal to the Orange purchase, in which  Telekom Austria  plans
to purchase subscribers of Orange Austria’s discount brand
Yesss!.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 