-- Vekselberg Becomes Richest Russian After Rosneft Oil Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o   a n d   A l e x   S a z o n o v
-- 2012-10-23T08:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/vekselberg-becomes-richest-russian-after-rosneft-oil-deal.html
Viktor Vekselberg  is now the richest
man in Russia.  The founder of Moscow-based Renova Group, a closely held
conglomerate that controls investments in energy, construction
and mining, added $1.5 billion to his net worth yesterday after
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s state-controlled oil and gas operator,
agreed to pay $54.8 billion to acquire TNK-BP in the third-
biggest oil acquisition ever.  The 55-year-old Vekselberg is worth $18 billion, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , more than $700 million
ahead of metals and technology investor Alisher Usmanov, who had
been the country’s richest person since March 5, when the
ranking debuted.  “This is a super deal which is the logical outcome of
TNK’s 15-year history,” said Andrei Shtorkh, a spokesman for
Vekselberg, who said the billionaire will focus on technology
investments in the future.  Rosneft will buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 50 percent stake in TNK-BP for
$26.8 billion in cash and shares, and has an initial agreement
to acquire the half of the company that is owned by Alfa-Access-
Renova -- a consortium of billionaires including Vekselberg,
 Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan , Alexey Kuzmichev and Len Blavatnik
-- for $28 billion in cash, according to a statement yesterday.  College Classmates  Fridman’s net worth jumped $1.2 billion to $15.1 billion,
moving him past Russian billionaires Roman Abramovich and Alexey
Mordashov on the index. The 48-year-old is now the country’s
fifth-richest person.  Blavatnik, a Russian-born American industrialist who
attended the Moscow Railway Transport Engineering Institute with
Vekselberg, saw his fortune rise $1.5 billion. With a net worth
of $15.4 billion, the 55-year-old is the 46th-richest person in
the world, ahead of Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Paul Allen , and
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  chairman Philip Knight.  Khan, 50, is worth $10.3 billion, and Kuzmichev, 50, has a
$8 billion fortune, according to the index.  The acquisition of TNK-BP puts an end to a tumultuous
eight-year relationship between BP and AAR. Last year, the five
AAR billionaires scuttled BP’s attempt to create an arctic
exploration deal with Rosneft. The fracture simmered until May,
when Fridman quit his post as CEO and BP began seeking buyers
for its half of the operation.  Putin’s Control  After the deal, Rosneft will match the output of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest publicly traded oil producer,
and control more than 40 percent of Russia’s crude output.
President  Vladimir Putin , who has sought to reassert government
control over the oil and gas industry, said yesterday’s accord
was important for the Russian economy.  Vekselberg’s rise was aided by a decline in wealth for
Usmanov, 59, whose fortune has dropped more than $1 billion in
the past week as market demand for MegaFon OAO, Russia’s second-
largest mobile-phone company, is falling. The company postponed
a planned marketing campaign in advance of its anticipated
initial public offering.  “The latest deals the company has made have shown that its
risks have increased”, said Evgeny Golosnoy, senior
telecommunications analyst at IFC Metropol in a telephone
interview on October 22. Included in those risks are  MegaFon ’s
plans to spend as much as $1.33 billion to acquire up to 50
percent of handset retailer Euroset Holding NV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert LaFranco in London at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sazonov in Moscow at 
 asazonov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  