-- Vietnam Will Struggle to Meet 2012 Economic Growth Target
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-23T08:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/vietnam-will-struggle-to-meet-2012-growth-target-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam  will struggle to meet its
2012 growth target without pumping money into the economy,
according to economists including an adviser to Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung.  Vietnam’s economy needs to grow 6.5 percent in the fourth
quarter in order to meet the government’s full-year growth
target of 5.2 percent, the prime minister told lawmakers at the
National Assembly in Hanoi yesterday. Vietnam’s 2012 economic
growth may reach 5 percent to 5.2 percent, Nguyen Van Giau,
chairman of the assembly’s economic committee, told lawmakers.  “I see a very small chance for it,” Le Dang Doanh, a
former senior economist at the Ministry of Planning and
Investment who has been an adviser to Dung, said yesterday about
fourth-quarter growth reaching that level. “In the current
situation where exports are slow and domestic consumption is
limited, the government may do as it has often done to boost
growth, which is increase money supply through infrastructure
spending and higher credit growth. That’s not sustainable.”  Vietnam’s economy is set to expand at its  lowest rate  in 13
years after rising bad debt levels at banks curbed lending while
investment and consumer spending growth slowed. This year’s
expansion would be the fifth straight year of sub-7 percent
growth, the longest streak since reforms opened the country’s
economy in 1986. In yesterday’s address, Dung apologized for the
government’s mistakes in managing state-owned firms.  “The tasks for the last months of the year are onerous,”
Dung said in the address. Reaching the full-year growth target
“requires synchronous solutions from the political system,
government regulatory agencies, and the business community.”  Approved Target  Last year, the National Assembly approved an economic
growth target of 6 percent to 6.5 percent for 2012. The
government and businesses need to “actively prepare conditions
for higher growth in 2013,” Dung told lawmakers in his address
yesterday.  The Prime Minister proposed an economic growth target of
5.5 percent in 2013 for approval by the National Assembly.
Vietnam’s  trade deficit  may reach $1 billion by the end of 2012,
while the country’s balance of payments surplus may exceed $8
billion, Dung told the legislature yesterday.  The economy will probably grow at about 5 percent annually
to 2015, as the country’s fragile banking system acts as a drag
on the economy, according to Matt Hildebrandt, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The level of bad debt at some lenders may be “much
higher” than they have reported, central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in April. Non-performing loans may have accounted
for 8.82 percent of banks’ outstanding debt as of the end of
June, Giau, the head of the National Assembly’s Economic
Committee, told legislators in Hanoi yesterday.  ‘Pretty Good’  “If they get 5 percent it would be a pretty good
outcome,” Jonathan Pincus, an economist in  Ho Chi Minh City 
with the Harvard Kennedy School’s Vietnam program, said
yesterday. “Growth could tick up a little as the government
spends a bit more of its cash on hand and fulfills its plans
toward the end of the year, which is typically what happens, but
I wouldn’t expect a huge shift in either direction.”  The slowdown in economic growth has hurt stocks, with the
benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX) ,  Asia ’s worst performer in 2011, down 19
percent since its peak this year on May 8. The index gained 0.2
percent to 397.71 at close in Ho Chi Minh City today.  Yields on five-year  government bonds  have fallen 225 basis
points since the start of 2012, to 10.30 percent, as inflation
decelerated and lenders sought the relative safety of state-
backed debt.  Basic Restructuring  Dung said the country will complete the basic restructuring
of weak banks by the end of next year, and that Vietnam would
study the establishment of a debt-management agency in 2013. He
approved a plan in March that would allow the  finance ministry 
to buy collateralized non-performing assets from commercial
banks to strengthen their balance sheets.  “You have to get the banks moving again for the economy to
start growing again which means solving these problems not just
delaying and talking about them,” said Adam McCarty, chief
economist at Mekong Economics in Hanoi. “The problem is the
banking sector is moribund and not issuing enough credit and
loans because they haven’t resolved these debt issues.”  Dung’s comments about the government’s shortcomings come
one week after the General Secretary of the Communist Party,
Nguyen Phu Trong, apologized to the nation for mistakes made by
the Politburo and the Secretariat, including failing to prevent
corruption and “deterioration among some party members.”  National Apology  “I seriously recognize my great political responsibilities
as head of the government and sincerely admit mistakes to the
National Assembly, the Party, and the people for shortcomings
and weaknesses of the government in management and regulation,
particularly in checking and monitoring operations of state-
owned conglomerates and corporations,” Dung said during the
National Assembly address yesterday.  He cited Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group and Vietnam
National Shipping Lines as examples of inefficient state-run
companies that had “caused losses, resulting in severe
consequences, and greatly impacted the prestige and role of the
state economic sector.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in  Hanoi  at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  