-- Volcano Rises on Patent Case Win: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-22T20:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/volcano-rises-on-patent-case-win-los-angeles-mover.html
Volcano Corp. (VOLC) , a maker of diagnostic
equipment to test for clogged arteries, surged the most in
almost a year after a jury sided with the company in a patent
litigation case brought by  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)   Volcano rose 7 percent to $28.74 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day increase since Nov. 30. The jury ruled in
favor of Volcano with respect to four patents, the San Diego-
based company said in a regulatory filing Oct. 19 after the
close of U.S. markets.  The victory in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
rejected a claim that a pressure guide wire infringed four St.
Jude patents, Volcano said in the Oct. 19 filing. The product is
threaded into the circulatory system to assess blocked arteries.
The trial had threatened a line of products that accounted for a
quarter of Volcano’s sales last year, said Raj Denhoy, a
Jefferies & Co. analyst in New York.  “The significance of Friday’s ruling for Volcano cannot be
understated,” he said today in a note to clients. “It
substantially mitigates the risk of damages on historical sales
and royalties on future sales (or an outright injunction.)”  A  trial  in a related case was due to start today, in which
Volcano accused  St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude of infringing
on its patents.  That litigation is “virtually all upside,” for Volcano
now, offering potential royalties of as much as $65 million,
David Roman, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York,
said today in a separate note. He said he expects St. Jude to
appeal last week’s verdict.  Volcano had $343.6 million in  sales  last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  