-- Volcano Faces St. Jude in Delaware Trial on Patent Claims
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-22T20:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/volcano-faces-st-jude-in-delaware-trial-on-patent-claims.html
Volcano Corp., a maker of cardiac
catheter devices, asked a jury to find that its patents were
infringed by rival  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  three days after
defeating patent claims brought by St. Jude. Volcano shares rose
as much as 12 percent.  St. Jude, based in  St. Paul , Minnesota, initially sued San
Diego-based Volcano in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , in
July 2010, alleging violation of patents for wires threaded
through blood vessels for diagnosis of  heart disease . Volcano
countersued, pursuing claims over three patents against St.
Jude.  After a week-long trial, a jury decided Oct. 19 that
Volcano didn’t infringe two St. Jude patents and that two others
were invalid, according to a Volcano filing. Trial on Volcano’s
claims began today with a new jury.  Volcano “invented the technology” for the wires and
sensors, its lawyer, Frank E. Scherkenbach, told jurors in his
opening statement. He said St. Jude’s products “perform
substantially the same way.”  ‘True Innovator’  St. Jude is “a true innovator,” countered lawyer John Allcock, representing St. Jude, in his initial presentation to
the jury. “They came up with a revolution” in heart treatment.  U.S. District Judge Richard G. Andrews ordered two trials,
the latest scheduled to last through the week.  St. Jude, with about $5 billion in revenue last year, said
last week it may get a regulatory warning letter about a
defibrillator factory in California.  Volcano, with $343.5 million in 2011 revenue, said Oct. 4
it had received clearance to sell a new Visions ultrasound
catheter in the U.S. and  Europe  to help diagnose large-vessel
disease.  Shares of Volcano rose $1.89 or 7 percent to $28.74 in
trading in New York at 3:58 p.m. St. Jude rose 33 cents to
$39.83.  The original case is St. Jude Medical v.  Volcano Corp. (VOLC) , 10-
cv-631, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  