-- Volcker Rule May Cut $10 Billion in Bank Profit, S&P Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-22T19:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/volcker-rule-may-cut-10-billion-in-bank-profit-s-p-says.html
The Volcker rule could cut profit at
the biggest U.S. banks twice as much as earlier estimates if
regulators take a strict stance on limiting proprietary trading,
Standard & Poor’s said.  “We currently estimate that the Volcker rule could reduce
combined pretax earnings for the eight largest U.S. banks by up
to $10 billion annually, up from our initial $4 billion estimate
two years ago,” S&P said today in a statement announcing a new
report on the issue.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, which were the
two biggest U.S. securities firms before converting to banks in
2008, stand to lose the most because they get a larger
percentage of their revenue from trading than the other lenders,
S&P said in the report. Regulators are unlikely to draft a final
version of the rule until the end of 2012, S&P said.  “Less strict rules would have a limited impact on banks’
earnings and business positions, so it’s unlikely that we would
take any rating actions as a result,” S&P said in the
statement. “Stricter rules could lead us to take negative
rating actions on certain banks.”  In addition to Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , S&P
included  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , U.S. Bancorp, and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in its analysis. Those eight banks earned a combined
$70.5 billion in pretax profit in the first nine months of this
year, according to company reports.  Dodd-Frank  Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, also known as the
Volcker rule, limits federally regulated banks’ ability to make
proprietary trades, or bets on their own behalf, and curbs their
investments in private equity and hedge funds to 3 percent of
Tier 1 capital. While proponents of the rule say it will help
minimize risk-taking, executives at some of the banks say the
rule is unnecessary.  S&P said proprietary-trading restrictions could help make
banks safer.  “The implementation of the Volcker rule could have
favorable implications for the credit profiles of some of the
largest U.S. banks, such as reducing trading portfolio risk,”
S&P said. “This risk mitigation could lessen revenue and
earnings volatility, which we would view favorably.”  While the Volcker rule will also affect the U.S. operations
of non-U.S. companies such as Deutsche Bank AG and Zurich-based
UBS AG, S&P said those lenders’ profits weren’t included in the
analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 