-- Wal-Mart Entry Spurs TCI Spending on Logistics: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-23T10:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/wal-mart-entry-spurs-tci-spending-on-logistics-corporate-india.html
Transport Corp. of India , the
nation’s third-largest logistics company, plans its biggest
investment in five years to prepare for a jump in freight demand
as retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  open stores.  The company will spend 1.5 billion rupees ($28 million) in
the year to March 31 to add more trucks and build warehouses,
Joint Managing Director Vineet Agarwal said in an interview. The
spending may help Transport Corp.’s supply chain division, which
offers warehousing and packaging, to expand more than 20 percent
annually through 2017, he said.  The operator plans to add 1,000 more trucks in five years,
Agarwal said, as India’s decision to allow foreign investment in
retail stores will help create more supermarkets and boost
transportation of farm and factory products.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s
DHL Supply Chain last week said it would invest 100 million
euros ($131 million) to strengthen operations in the country.  “Once overseas investments start coming into retail
sector, it’ll help Transport Corp.,” said Rajni Ghildiyal, an
analyst with Asit C. Mehta Investment Interrmediates Ltd. “The
strategy to place itself as a supply chain solutions provider
will help it exploit the potential.”  Transport Corp. rose 0.9 percent to 64.85 rupees in Mumbai
today. The stock declined 13 percent in the past year, making it
the worst performer on the 29-company  Bloomberg Industries
Express & Courier Services index  after Hanjin Transportation Co.  Sales at Transport Corp.’s supply chain division rose 21
percent to 5.8 billion rupees in the year ended March 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The business  contributed  about 30
percent of total sales, up from 14 percent four years ago.  ‘Cold Reefers’  “There’ll be investments in farmgate infrastructure once
foreign supermarkets set up shop,” Agarwal said in New Delhi.
“At that point, certain amount of logistics, including cold
reefers and dry goods movement, will be required. We’re prepared
to handle that.”  Last month, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government
allowed overseas retailers such as Wal-Mart and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to
own as much as 51 percent in supermarket ventures. Singh also
cut energy subsidies, allowed foreign airlines to own as much as
49 percent in local carriers and permitted overseas investment
of up to 49 percent in power exchanges, ending two years of
policy gridlock.  Singh’s policy drive prompted ally Trinamool Congress to
quit the alliance. Last year Singh put the plan to ease
investment rules for overseas retailers on hold after opposition
parties as well as Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee
protested.  Wal-Mart may take about 12-18 months to open retail stores
in India, Scott Price, its head of Asia operations, said Sept.
21. The world’s biggest retailer has been building a supply
chain and logistics network in the country after forming a
venture with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises to
operate wholesale outlets.  Computer Systems  Entry of foreign supermarket chains will spur investments
in warehousing, inventory management and computer systems,
according to Zenith International Research & Academic Foundation
in  India . This will help reduce cost for retailers and boost
consumer spending, according to Zenith.  The size of logistics industry in the country is about $90
billion to $125 billion, according to a study by Deloitte in
India and the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Investments in
logistics infrastructure may drive economic growth this decade,
according to the study. Logistics accounts for 13 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product.  DHL Supply Chain said Oct. 16 that it will add 5 million
square feet of warehousing space in eight cities including
Mumbai, Bangalore and Chennai. The company also plans to upgrade
its fleet of vehicles, it said in a statement.  Congested Highways  Transport Corp.’s profit may rise as much as 15 percent
this fiscal year, Agarwal said. That’ll be the slowest pace of
 growth  in four years, according to Bloomberg data.  The company’s operating margin increased to 6.1 percent in
the year ended March 31 from 5.8 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the period
 expanded  at 5.5 percent, slower than the 22 percent expansion in
the year earlier period, the data shows.  Transporters have to contend with congested highways in
India, where infrastructure is ranked worse than  Guatemala ’s by
the World Economic Forum. Traffic snarls cost Asia’s third-
biggest economy $5.5 billion annually, according to the Indian
Institute of Management in Kolkata and Transport Corp. Trucks
take 65 hours to travel the 1,374 kilometers (854 miles) between
Mumbai and New Delhi because of traffic and stoppages at toll
plazas and state borders.  ‘Not Enough’  Road construction is lagging behind an August 2009 target
of 20 kilometers a day as slowing economic growth and high
interest rates discourage builders from bidding for projects.  Prime Minister Singh’s government has targeted a spending
of $1 trillion on roads, ports and railways in the five years
through 2017. Authorities are also planning to award $2.3
billion of state-funded highway contracts this year.  “Whatever we’re doing is not enough,” Agarwal said.
“Work on everything from roads, ports to railways is going very
slowly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  