-- What Mitt Romney Doesn’t Know About Families
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-10-22T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/what-mitt-romney-doesn-t-know-about-families.html
The biggest problem with Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s views on women isn’t his
unfortunate comment about keeping them in binders. It’s that his
concept of the family is troublingly out of date.  In one of the most revealing moments of last week’s
presidential debate, Romney said he understood that “if you’re
going to have women in the workforce that sometimes you need to
be more flexible.” He boasted that as governor of  Massachusetts ,
he had allowed his female chief of staff to go home at 5 p.m. so
she could fulfill what he apparently sees as a woman’s
responsibility -- making dinner for the kids and “being with
them when they get home from school.”  Romney’s statements suggest he believes parenthood is a
condition that afflicts only women, requiring employers to make
special arrangements for them. Moms and dads alike should be
outraged. He’s ignoring decades of progress in gender roles and
the challenges men face in balancing their work and home lives.
His mistake echoes the worldview espoused by former State
Department official Anne-Marie Slaughter in her  article  “Why
Women Still Can’t Have It All.”  There’s a subtle generational divide between the two
presidential candidates at play here. When Romney became a
father in 1970,  less than 40 percent  of married women with
children were in the  labor force . Roughly half of those who did
work provided less than a quarter of their family’s income.
Their place was at home. Dads were largely absent.  Disruptive Opportunities  For Romney’s generation, women’s desire to work was
disruptive. Families struggled as women tried to “have it all,”
balancing their newfound opportunities with the expectations of
motherhood with which they had been raised. As men’s roles
failed to keep pace, divorce rates soared: Marriages made in the
1970s fared worse than those of any other generation. (Remember
the 1979 film “Kramer vs. Kramer”?)  By contrast, when President  Barack Obama  became a dad
almost 30 years later, roughly 2 in 3 married women with
children were working, and they were earning more. At home, the
idea of men taking an active role in their kids’ upbringing had
firmly taken hold.  Today, there is no longer an “if” surrounding the question
of women working. Nearly half of married women provide two-
fifths or more of their family’s income, and they’re the primary
breadwinner in 38 percent of couples in which the wife works.
Men, for their part, are playing a more equal role at home.
 Research  by the economists Garey Ramey and Valerie Ramey of the
 University of California ,  San Diego , shows that both men and
women are spending more time today with their children than did
in Romney’s generation.  The changing roles create new challenges. Balancing work
and family is now an issue for all parents, regardless of
gender. To slightly modify Romney’s words, if you are going to
have parents in the workforce, sometimes you need to be more
flexible.  But greater equality has also  made families stronger . The
divorce rate  peaked in 1979  and is now as low as it has been in
two generations.  The improvement has been  particularly notable  among college
graduates. This is not, as libertarian political scientist
 Charles Murray  has suggested, a matter of moral superiority.
Rather, college-educated couples have most rapidly embraced
partnerships of equality. Meanwhile, the changing nature of
marriage has made it more attractive to women with a college
degree, who over the past few decades have gone from being the
least to the most likely to marry.  Economic Incentives  The model of marriage that prevailed in Romney’s day was in
large part a function of  economic incentives . Women specialized
in domestic skills because these were valued in the marriage
market, which -- thanks in large part to workplace
discrimination -- represented their best path to prosperity.
College education had little value in this market, and even
revealed a lack of interest in it. Today, by contrast, changes
in trade, technology,  birth control  and  labor laws  have sharply
increased women’s earning potential in the marketplace and
reduced the returns from becoming a household specialist.  Modern marriage allows couples to benefit from sharing
their lives and goals, jointly raising their children and
helping each other through tough times. It requires sacrifices
from husbands and wives as they balance two careers and two
peoples’ roles as parents. No one can have it all.  If Romney has managed to miss this transformation of one of
society’s most fundamental institutions, one wonders what else
he doesn’t know.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s aggressive crackdown 
on press freedom; William Pesek on what the U.S. can learn from
 Japan’s debt management ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  Barack Obama
doesn’t deserve another term ;  Michael Feroli  on why the Fed
should  tie interest rates to the unemployment rate ; Richard
Vedder on five reasons  college enrollments may be dropping .  To contact the writers of this article:
 Justin Wolfers  at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  