-- Why Obama Doesn’t Deserve Another Term
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-10-22T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/why-obama-doesn-t-deserve-another-term.html
It’s not an accident that in
the past few weeks, President  Barack Obama ’s campaign has
spent a lot of time talking about bizarre trivia such as
 Mitt Romney ’s plans for Big Bird.  Obama can’t run on the attractive new initiatives he
intends to pursue in his second term: He doesn’t have any.
He can’t run on his major legislative accomplishments,
either. The stimulus and the health-care overhaul are both
unpopular -- and for good reason.  Judged on his record, the president deserves to lose
re-election.  It has been ages since prominent Democrats used the
word “stimulus.” Instead what they say is that the
president pulled the country back from the brink of another
Great Depression. They don’t mention that he won this
alleged victory by spending hundreds of billions of
borrowed dollars.  And saying the stimulus saved us from a depression
simply isn’t true. The economy hit bottom in June 2009, too
early for a bill signed four months before to have had much
effect. Studies that claim the bill had a strongly positive
effect on the economy fall into two categories. Some of
them simply assume, rather than prove, that stimulus had to
work. The others suggest that some places did well from the
stimulus, but they don’t prove it helped the country as a
whole. None of them takes account of the Federal Reserve’s
 power  to set the economy’s speed limit.  More Debt  Obama treated his most powerful economic lever with
indifference, leaving seats on the Fed vacant for two years
even when his allies had a large majority of the Senate.
Monetary ease -- allowing nominal spending to increase
substantially -- would have given the U.S. faster economic
growth. Instead, fiscal stimulus gave us more federal debt.  Democrats are even more circumspect about the health-
care bill, touting some of its incidental features: the
requirement that insurers let young adults stay on their
parents’ insurance plans, for example. Or the requirement
that almost all employers cover contraception, whatever
their own moral views about it, a provision so tangential
to the law that it isn’t even spelled out in the 2,700-page
document.  It’s true that the bill should extend insurance to
millions of people who don’t now have it. That extension
should relieve their financial anxiety (although it is
surprisingly hard to find evidence that Medicaid coverage
improves people’s health). The downsides are huge, though:
higher federal spending, new taxes on life-saving medical
devices, a vast grant of discretionary authority to the
executive branch, and subsidies designed in a way that
punishes lower-middle-class people climbing the economic
ladder.  It didn’t have to be that way. We could and should
have increased coverage with a much less government-
centered law. We could, that is, have changed tax and
regulatory policies to foster the growth of a national
market in individually purchased insurance, while creating
well-funded risk pools to cover people with pre-existing
conditions. That approach would have cost much less and
ceded less power to bureaucrats. Obama says the law cuts
“wasteful” Medicare spending, which is certainly necessary.
All it does, though, is pursue strategies (tighter price
controls, government-funded research on effective
practices, pilot programs) that have failed for decades.  Abdicating Leadership  And that’s the best thing Obama has done on
entitlements -- indeed, the only thing he has done or even
proposed while in office. He has been trashing promising
ideas such as improving Medicare’s efficiency by letting
insurers compete for beneficiaries’ dollars, even though
many Democrats have supported that approach. Representative
Paul Ryan’s proposal for addressing the country’s long-term
debt challenge has its flaws. But to attack it while
advancing no alternative, as Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner  admits  the administration has done, is to abdicate
leadership.  These aren’t the only reasons to oppose Obama’s re-
election, of course. There is also his  disturbing pattern 
of rewriting laws to suit his preferences when Congress
doesn’t oblige him -- something he has done on immigration,
welfare and health care. Then there are his positions on
abortion and the courts, which many people, including me,
abhor. His apparent conviction that his mere presence in
the Oval Office would alter the conduct of other countries
to America’s benefit now seems like a characteristic bit of
vanity rather than a sound basis for a foreign policy.  Still, it’s remarkable to watch a president run for
re-election without discussing either his plans for the
future or the main elements of his record. The stimulus and
the health-care bill are two of Obama’s most consequential
policies, and the U.S. could be paying for them for a very
long time. They are only footnotes to Obama’s campaign.
They ought to be his political epitaph.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey ’s aggressive
crackdown on press freedom; William Pesek on what the U.S.
can learn from  Japan ’s debt management; Betsey Stevenson
and Justin Wolfers on  Mitt Romney and the modern family ;
 Michael Feroli  on why the Fed should  tie interest rates to
the unemployment rate ; Richard Vedder on five reasons
 college enrollments may be dropping .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  