-- Won Undervalued 20%, Korean Bonds Appeal, Eaton Vance Say
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-22T06:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/won-undervalued-by-20-to-eaton-vance-boosts-korean-bond-outlook.html
Eaton Vance Management, which
oversees $198 billion, estimates South Korea’s won is 15 to 20
percent undervalued, making the nation’s bonds attractive on
prospects the currency will appreciate.  The won has strengthened 4.4 percent this year, the third-
best performance among Asia’s 11 most-used currencies, and
reached an 11-month high of 1,102.50 per dollar last week. South
Korea’s improving trade surplus and better economic growth
prospects than developed countries suggest the currency is
weaker than it should be, according to  Eric Stein , a portfolio
manager for Boston-based Eaton Vance. The central bank this
month raised its 2012 projection for the  excess  on the current
account to $34 billion, having forecast $20 billion in July.  “The Korean won is so structurally undervalued considering
the strong current-account surplus, and that keeps me wanting to
invest,” Stein said in an Oct. 18 phone interview. “Officials
still seem to be somewhat concerned about inflation. For a
country that imports so much oil, the central bank may let the
currency appreciate to keep imported inflation in check.”  Won-denominated assets accounted for 3.99 percent of the
$6.5 billion Eaton Vance Global Macro Absolute Return Fund as of
Sept. 30, according to a statement on its  website . The fund
returned 4.8 percent this year, outperforming 62 percent of its
peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India ’s rupee had the
largest share at 7.69 percent. The firm’s Korean investments
mainly consist of short-term central bank notes, Stein said. He
declined to say whether he is adding to those holdings.  South Korea’s one-year central bank bonds yield 2.82
percent, compared with 0.12 percent for similar-maturity
government debt in Japan and 0.18 percent for U.S. Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s notes due in a
year yield 7.97 percent.  ‘Smoothing’ Intervention  South Korea’s inflation will probably accelerate to 2.7
percent in 2013 from 2.3 percent this year, the central bank
said in an Oct. 11 report. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in
an interview with Bloomberg News on Oct. 9 that the government
“shouldn’t intervene” in exchange rates, while reiterating the
administration’s policy of implementing “smoothing” operations
to limit volatility.  An overall appreciation trend in Asian currencies will make
Korean policy makers more tolerant of won gains, Stein said. The
Singapore dollar has advanced 6.3 percent so far this year, the
Philippine peso rose 5.9 percent and  Malaysia ’s ringgit 3.8
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s economic growth prospects and relatively low
sovereign debt are also supporting the won, according to Eaton
Vance. The currency ended today at 1,104.25 per dollar and the
median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for it to
strengthen 1.8 percent to 1,085 by the end of September 2013.  ‘Slowly But Surely’  “The Korean won is probably undervalued by 15 to 20
percent,” Stein said. “I don’t think the Bank of Korea would
want to see rapid strength and it can be interrupted by global
risk and Korea-specific factors, but it will slowly but surely
continue to appreciate.”  Asia’s fourth-largest economy will expand 2.4 percent this
year and 3.2 percent in 2013, the central bank predicts. Growth
rates of 2 percent and 1.2 percent are projected for the U.S.
and  Japan  in 2013, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. South Korea’s debt was
equivalent to 34 percent of gross domestic product at the end of
2011, less than comparable levels of 212 percent for Japan and
68 percent for the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  December Election  The December presidential election in South Korea may give
a lift to both the economy and the won, Stein said. The three
leading candidates are pledging greater regulation and oversight
on chaebols, the family-run conglomerates that account for most
of South Korea’s exports.  “If the new government did things like chaebol reforms,
that could actually be good for the economy,” Stein said. “Not
that they will or should break up the chaebols, but if on the
margin they can start policies that make it easier for other
companies to compete, it could be better for the long-term
growth potential of  Korea .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  