-- TXU Teeters as Firms Reap $528 Million Fees: Corporate Finance
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-22T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/txu-teeters-as-firms-reap-528-million-fees-corporate-finance.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and  Goldman
Sachs Capital Partners (GS) , which took the former TXU Corp. private
five years ago in the largest leveraged buyout in history, have
paid themselves $528.3 million in fees, even as the electricity
provider teeters toward a near-term bankruptcy or restructuring.  The payments consist of a $300 million charge for advising
on the buyout, annual management fees totaling $171 million and
as much as $57.3 million for consulting on debt deals, the
Dallas-based company now called Energy Future Holdings Corp.
said in regulatory filings. The private-equity firms’ fees are
as much as 25 times greater than average, based on data from law
firm Dechert LLP and researcher Preqin Ltd.  Energy Future’s long-term debt has soared to $42 billion
since the buyout and the company is poised for its seventh
straight quarterly loss as it struggles with natural gas prices
73 percent below their 2008 peak. Moody’s Investors Service says
the company may need to restructure next year and derivatives
traders are pricing in a 95 percent chance of default within
five years for its deregulated unit.  “This is a utility and its product is electricity that it
sells to the public, but it really is a debt house,” said Tom Sanzillo, finance director for the Institute for Energy
Economics & Financial Analysis, a research group, and former
deputy comptroller of  New York  who oversaw the state’s $156
billion pension fund. “There are fees to be made in all that
debt management.”  Technically Insolvent  The company, which traces its roots in North Texas to 1882,
expects to post a third-quarter net loss of $407 million on
operating revenue of $1.8 billion, according to an Oct. 18
filing. Energy Future plans to release its full earnings report
on Oct. 30. Total  liabilities  were $52.2 billion as of June 30,
compared with total assets of $44.1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, indicating the company is technically
insolvent.  The fees from Energy Future may allow KKR, TPG and Goldman
Sachs to extract cash without infringing on the  Delaware  Limited
Liability Company Act, which limits distributions from a firm if
all its liabilities exceed the fair value of its assets,
according to  Chapter 18  of the law.  The company’s Energy Future Intermediate Holdings Co. LLC,
Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co. and Oncor Electric
Delivery Holdings Co. LLC units were incorporated in Delaware
and are subject to the laws of that jurisdiction,  Allan Koenig ,
a spokesman at Energy Future, confirmed in an e-mail.  Default Swaps  Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman,  Owen Blicksilver , a
spokesman for TPG with Owen Blicksilver Public Relations Inc.,
and Andrea Raphael of Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Five-year credit default swaps tied to Texas Competitive
have soared to 79 percentage points upfront as of Oct. 19,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $7.9 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of its debt for five years. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  Texas Competitive’s $1.8 billion of 10.25 percent bonds due
November 2015 traded at 26 cents on the dollar last week from a
high of 88.5 cents in January 2010, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  ‘Pay Our Debts’  “We continue to pay our debts as they become due and have
always been and remain in compliance with all of our debt
covenants,” Energy Future’s Koenig wrote in an e-mail.  KKR, TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs took an $8.3 billion
equity stake in Energy Future, according to a 2008 regulatory
filing.  Fees and debt-funded dividends are among the ways private-
equity firms can profit from a holding without actually
improving the value of a target beyond its buyout price. Debt
issued to fund such dividends, known as dividend
recapitalizations, has reached $54 billion this year, according
to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ LCD data, topping the record
$40.5 billion in all of 2010.  “It’s one of those things they do and it helps their
returns,”  Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University
of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, said in a telephone
interview in reference to private-equity firms. “It hurts their
companies and it’s money their creditors will not get.”  Income Sources  Private-equity managers have been seeking new ways to make
money since deal-making sunk from the LBO boom that preceded the
financial crisis. The largest firms, including  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , Carlyle Group LP,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and KKR, have
started new lines of business including real estate investing,
hedge fund management, credit lending and advisory services.  The firms sometimes charge initial transaction fees for
advisory services to companies they purchase. The mean amount of
such fees for deals from 2005 through 2010 was $11.9 million,
according to a November 2011 report by Philadelphia-based
Dechert and Preqin.  Private-equity firms also may charge a yearly monitoring,
or management, fee for advisory services, the mean of which was
$2.75 million during that six-year period, according to Dechert
and Preqin, with offices in New York,  London  and  Singapore .
Energy Future’s owners said they would receive $35 million
annually, increasing 2 percent each year, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2008.  ‘Kept Alive’  “The  management contract  allows them to milk these fees
out and that’s why the company is being kept alive,” said Tom
“Smitty” Smith, director of the Texas office of  Public
Citizen , a consumer group founded by  Ralph Nader .  The fees report shows 19 percent of private-equity firms
charge their portfolio companies for debt financing. Warburg
Pincus LLC, for example, doesn’t make the companies it owns pay
transaction and monitoring fees, according to Kaplan. Ed
Trissel, a spokesman for Warburg, confirmed it doesn’t collect
such payments.  When Energy Future was taken private for $43.2 billion, it
was profiting from low power-generation fuel costs and rising
natural gas prices. The company, under former Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer C. John Wilder, posted a profit of $2.6
billion in 2006 after rebounding from a failed international
expansion that left it on the verge of bankruptcy four years
earlier.  ‘Blew Up’  Natural gas futures have fallen to $3.62 per million
British thermal units from $6.88 on Oct. 11, 2007, the day KKR
and TPG took Energy Future private, and a peak of $13.58 in July
2008, as a recession sapped demand and drilling expanded in the
gas-rich Marcellus shale in the eastern U.S., creating a supply
glut.  “A lot of investors bet on gas prices and it blew up,”
 Andy DeVries , an analyst at debt research firm CreditSights
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “They just didn’t do it in
the largest buyout in LBO history -- nobody did it with as much
leverage as these guys.”  As gas prices dropped, wholesale electricity prices
plunged, hurting owners of independent generators such as Energy
Future. TXU Energy, its retail business, lost 8 percent of its
customers to competitors offering lower electricity rates in the
first half of 2012 compared with the a year earlier.  The company had a  net loss  of $696 million in the second
quarter, after a deficit of $1.91 billion last year and $2.81
billion in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Operating income  at the
energy producer last year was $383 million while interest
expense on bonds was $4.2 billion.  Sustainability Questioned  Energy Future’s leverage, or ratio of consolidated total
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization was 9.5 times at June 30, according to a July 31
filing with the SEC. That’s higher than every U.S. utility that
has more than $1 billion in debt, Bloomberg data show. Energy
Future is restricted from paying dividends to its owners using
net income if its leverage is greater than 7 times, according to
the July filing.  The company’s total liquidity was $3.8 billion as of Sept.
30, according to an Oct. 18 regulatory filing.  Energy Future’s “capital structure is complex and, in our
opinion, untenable which calls into question the sustainability
of the business model and expected duration of its liquidity
reserves,” Moody’s analysts James Hempstead and  William Hess 
wrote in an August report. The ratings firm expects a “material
balance sheet restructuring” as soon as 2013, they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  