-- Yen Weakens Past 80 Per Dollar on Bets BOJ to Ease More
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-23T05:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-22/yen-touches-3-month-low-on-bets-boj-to-add-more-stimulus.html
The yen weakened past 80 against the
dollar for the first time in three months as signs the world’s
third-largest economy is closer to contraction fanned
speculation that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will add further stimulus.  The greenback maintained an eight-day gain versus the yen,
the longest winning streak in seven years, after yields on U.S.
two-year notes rose to the most since June versus their Japanese
peers, attracting money to dollar-based assets. The Australian
dollar held onto three days of losses before data forecast to
show inflation held near the slowest in 13 years, providing
scope for the  Reserve Bank  to cut borrowing costs.  Japanese lawmakers are “applying pressure to the BOJ to
further loosen monetary policy,” said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-
based director at Rochford Capital, a currency risk-management
company. “It can only result in more monetization of debt which
will weaken the yen. A widening of U.S.- Japan  yield gaps won’t
help the yen.”  The yen touched 80.01 per dollar, the weakest since July 6,
before trading at 79.93 as of 6:46 a.m. in  London  from 79.94 at
yesterday’s close. The Japanese currency recovered 0.1 percent
to 104.35 per euro from 104.41, after reaching 104.59, the least
since May 4. The euro was little changed at $1.3055 after adding
0.3 percent yesterday.  Japan’s Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara , who has been
calling for more action from the central bank, said today he may
attend the BOJ’s next meeting on Oct. 30 if his schedule
permits. Maehara was present at the previous gathering ended
Oct. 5, the first minister to do so for more than nine years.  Inflation Data  The BOJ will next week announce its policy decision and
issue revised economic projections for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal
years and its first set of forecasts for 2014.  Before the meeting, a government report on Oct. 26 will
probably show that so-called core consumer prices in Japan
declined in September for a fifth-straight month, according the
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That compares with the
central bank’s goal for inflation of 1 percent.  “The yen has been sold since last week amid expectations
the BOJ will ease policy,” said Noriaki Murao, New York-based
managing director of the marketing group at the Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s biggest financial group
by market value. “It would make sense for the BOJ to take
action if they revise down their inflation outlook.”  Export Slump  Data yesterday showed Japanese  exports  slid 10.3 percent in
September, the most since May 2011 in the aftermath of a record
earthquake. Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and Citigroup Inc. expect the country’s economy to contract in
the third and fourth quarters of this year, according to
Bloomberg News polls.  The yen has weakened 1.3 percent in the past week, the
biggest decline among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro and dollar
both rose 0.2 percent.  Treasury two-year notes yielded 20 basis points  more  than
Japanese two-year government debt yesterday, the most since June
27, making the U.S. securities more attractive. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The yen halted losses today as a technical indicator
suggested recent losses were excessive. The 14-day relative-
strength index for the greenback versus the Japanese currency
was at 73, above the 70 level some traders see as a signal that
a reversal is imminent. A similar gauge for the euro against the
yen was at 70.  Extend Facility  Japan may extend its dollar-loan program beyond March 31 to
help companies buy overseas assets and stem the yen’s rise,
Vice-Finance Minister  Tsutomu Okubo , a former managing director
of Morgan Stanley, said in an interview yesterday in  Tokyo .  The 10-trillion yen ($125 billion) program, which was
introduced in August 2011 and was extended this year, provides
dollars from Japan’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s
largest after  China ’s, to companies and commercial banks.  In  Australia , the so-called  trimmed mean  gauge of core
consumer prices probably rose 2.2 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the statistics bureau publishes its
inflation report tomorrow. That compares with a 2 percent
increase in the previous quarter, the slowest pace since June
1999. The  Reserve Bank of Australia  targets average annual
inflation of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Near Certainty  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
are almost certain that policy makers will cut the overnight
cash rate target by 25 basis points to 3 percent at their next
meeting on Nov. 6.  Australia’s currency fetched $1.0323 from $1.0320, after
falling 0.6 percent over the previous three days.  Demand for the euro was limited before a report today that
may show an index of European  consumer confidence  remained at a
more-than three-year low.  The European Commission in Brussels will probably say today
its initial estimate for sentiment was minus 25.9 in October,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That would match September’s reading that was the
lowest since May 2009.  “With all the troubles in  Europe , it seems to be hard to
buy the euro,” said Rochford’s Mumford. “The euro is defying
gravity. The promise from the  European Central Bank  to support
sovereign debt has had effect, and has been buying some time.
The overall picture is getting worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  