-- Abe Says Japan’s Door Open to China Talks Amid Island Dispute
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-09-27T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/abe-says-japan-s-door-open-to-china-talks-amid-island-dispute.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he
would keep the door open to dialogue with  China  amid a lull in
incursions by official Chinese ships into Japanese-controlled
waters around a group of disputed islands.  Abe, 59, who is seeking to revive his nation’s role on the
global stage through ending two decades of  economic malaise  and
strengthening the military, spoke in an interview yesterday on
the “Charlie Rose” show on PBS television. The previous day,
he urged  Wall Street  to invest in  Japan , promising that it will
become a driving force for global recovery.  Relations with China soured a year ago when Japan bought
three uninhabited islands also claimed by China. Since then,
Chinese and Japanese patrol ships and planes had tailed one
another through disputed East China Sea waters. The row has
damaged trade ties between  Asia ’s two largest economies and no
bilateral summit has been held since May of last year, although
Abe shook hands with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Group
of 20 meeting earlier this month.  “We have to get closer and have this dialogue,” Abe said
in the interview, according to a translation of his remarks,
reiterating that “Our door to dialogue is open.”  No incursions by Chinese Coast Guard vessels into what
Japan regards as its territorial waters around the disputed East
China Sea islands or the immediately surrounding “contiguous
zone” have been reported by Japan’s coast guard since two ships
entered on Sept. 19. Prior to that, Chinese patrol boats had
been an almost constant presence near the isles known as Senkaku
in Japan and Diaoyu in China since last September.  China’s Military  Faced with China’s growing military prowess, Abe has vowed
during his visit to  New York  to make Japan a “proactive
contributor to peace.” He has boosted defense ties with other
Asian nations, increased the  defense budget  for the first time
in 11 years and has ordered an overhaul of national security
policy.  Abe has struggled with a plan to revise the U.S.-drafted
pacifist constitution to legitimize Japan’s military and is now
proposing a reinterpretation of the document to allow Japan to
defend its allies.  “It is nothing different from what other countries are
doing in the world,” he said, describing the possession of
armed forces as “a natural right of a country” and adding that
he would leave it to others to decide whether he should be
described as “right-wing.”  Battling Deflation  Abe came to power in December on a platform of reflating an
economy plagued by 15 years of  deflation . The three-pronged
strategy encompasses monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and a
structural reform agenda designed to encourage companies to
invest more in the domestic economy.  A challenge for Abe is to revive growth while putting the
country’s finances on a sustainable footing, with public debt
including borrowings reaching a record 1,008.6 trillion yen as
of June 30, larger than the economies of  Germany ,  France  and the
U.K. combined.  Next week he is set to announce whether he will go ahead
with a planned increase in the  sales tax  to 8 percent from the
current 5 percent, alongside a package of economic measures
designed to offset the impact of the higher levy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  