-- Achillion’s Hepatitis C Drug Still on Hold by U.S. FDA
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-27T21:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/achillion-s-hepatitis-c-drug-still-on-hold-by-u-s-fda.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  said
U.S. regulators are keeping the company’s experimental hepatitis
C drug sovaprevir on hold because of abnormal liver results. The
shares plunged 45 percent in extended trading.  While Achillion responded to all the issues raised by the
Food and Drug Administration in June, the agency determined the
drug’s development shouldn’t resume, the New Haven, Connecticut-based company said today in a statement. Achillion will focus on
other hepatitis C drugs in its portfolio, with results of a
planned combination study of two medications by next year, Chief
Executive Officer Milind Deshpande said.  “While we are disappointed that we were not able to
resolve the clinical hold at this time despite having addressed
all the issues, we believe the breadth of our portfolio allows
us to quickly advance other all oral combination regimens for
the treatment of HCV,” Deshpande said in the statement.  High levels of liver enzymes, which can indicate damage,
were observed in healthy patients when sovaprevir was combined
with two medicines used to treat HIV infections, the company
said in July. The tests were performed to look for possible drug
interactions. The combination may have resulted in higher-than-expected blood levels of the therapies, Achillion said in July.  Achillion has three drugs in clinical testing for hepatitis
C, a liver disease estimated to affect 170 million people
worldwide. It is competing with drugmakers including  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) 
and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to develop new treatments for the
disease, a market analysts’ estimate may be $20 billion.  The company  declined  to $4 in extended trading at 5:02 p.m.
 New York  time after closing at $7.24. Achillion’s shares had
dropped 9.6 percent this year through today’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  