-- Active Stock ETFs Move Closer to Market After Long Delay
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/active-stock-etfs-move-closer-to-market-after-long-delay.html
Companies seeking to push exchange-traded funds into the almost $6 trillion U.S. market for
actively managed stock funds are starting to gain traction with
regulators after a long delay.  Guggenheim Partners LLC,  Eaton Vance (EV)  Corp. and Precidian
Investments have received formal comments in the past two months
from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff on plans for
new types of actively managed ETFs, industry lawyers and
executives said. Similar proposals, some as old as five years,
have been on hold at the SEC.  Regulatory approval could clear a path for companies that
run active equity mutual funds to sell versions of those
products as ETFs, a vehicle that has gained popularity for its
cost savings and ease of trading. ETFs have grown to $1.5
trillion in U.S. assets since their introduction in 1993, most
of it in passive funds that track an index instead of relying on
stock or bond pickers.  “The next wave of ETF sponsors are all going to be mutual-fund companies,” Reggie Browne, head of ETF trading at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in  New York , said in an interview. “This is just
the tip of the iceberg in terms of the entrance of such
strategies.”  Active ETFs combine the security-picking flexibility of a
 fund manager  with the intraday trading and some of the cost-saving characteristics of traditional ETFs. Companies have been
discouraged from introducing actively managed versions of equity
funds by the SEC’s requirement for daily disclosure of fund
holdings, which would make it easy for competitors to copy, and
traders to anticipate, a manager’s portfolio changes.  Disclosure Requirement  Christina D’Amico, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment on the proposed products.  The proposals that now have received comment letters from
the SEC seek to avoid the daily disclosure of holdings, while
offering alternative ways to ensure pricing of the funds remains
accurate. Proposals for these funds, known as non-transparent
ETFs, were first filed with the SEC five years ago, according to
attorney Kathleen Moriarty, who helped develop the  SPDR S&P 500
ETF Trust (SPY) , the first exchange-traded fund in the U.S.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , based in Baltimore, this week
became at least the fifth mutual-fund company to propose a non-transparent active ETF when it filed an application with the
SEC. The application “implicitly recognizes the structural
changes ETFs are posing for traditional managers,”  William Katz , an equity analyst in New York at Citigroup Inc., said in a
Sept. 25 note to clients.  ‘Tremendous’ Potential  “There is a tremendous amount of potential there in terms
of the transformative effect this could have on how funds are
distributed,” said Ben Johnson, director of passive-funds
research at Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Transparency is less of an issue on the fixed-income side,
where the opacity and negotiated nature of transactions in the
over-the-counter  bond market  protect managers. The two largest
active ETFs are the $4.2 billion  Pimco Enhanced Short Maturity
ETF (MINT)  and the $4 billion Pimco Total Return ETF. Both bond funds,
run by  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., have daily disclosure.  NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, plans
to submit a draft rule proposal to the SEC within days allowing
it to list one of the actively managed ETFs, said two people
familiar with the matter who requested anonymity because the
request will be confidential.  The exchange’s existing rules wouldn’t permit the listing,
according to this person. Katrina Clay, a spokeswoman for NYSE
Euronext, declined to comment on active ETF plans.  ‘More Activity’  “We have seen more activity in the past six months than we
have seen” in a number of years from the SEC on non-transparent, actively run ETFs, Paul Kuhnle, a principal at
Precidian, said in a telephone interview. The firm, based in
Bedminster,  New Jersey , specializes in structuring and trading
exchange-traded products.  There has been progress in talks between would-be providers
of non-transparent ETFs and the staff of the SEC toward allaying
the agency’s concerns that prices would stray from underlying
holding values, Browne said. “It could be perhaps a year before
they come out in the marketplace.”  Active ETFs in the U.S. hold $14.5 billion, less than 1
percent of the $1.5 trillion ETF industry, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Actively managed stock mutual funds in
the U.S. oversaw $5.7 trillion as of July 31, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  ETFs are baskets of securities that trade on an exchange,
like stocks. Investors in most mutual funds can buy or sell
shares once a day, typically after markets close, and only
directly with the fund.  Daily Transparency  ETF providers must disclose holdings every day to enable
market makers to execute trades that keep the share price in
line with the underlying value of the fund’s assets. The
disclosure also allows holders to hedge their ETFs by making
investments whose value is expected to move in the opposite
direction.  Fund companies have said daily transparency makes it easy
for opportunistic traders to jump ahead of transactions by an
active manager, benefiting from resulting price changes in a
tactic known as front-running.  Guggenheim, the investment firm with headquarters in
 Chicago  and New York and more than $180 billion in assets as of
June 30, got its first formal set of comments from the SEC
within the past several weeks, according to Moriarty, a partner
at Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP in New York.  Eaton Vance  Cary Ruterman, a spokeswoman for Guggenheim at Prosek
Partners, declined to comment on the application.  Precidian asked the SEC for permission to open active, non-transparent ETFs in January and recently got comments back from
the agency, Kuhnle said, declining to elaborate on the agency’s
request.  Eaton Vance, the Boston-based fund company that oversaw
$269 billion as of July 31, amended its active ETF application
on Sept. 12 after hearing from the agency staff, said Stephen
Clarke, head of the Eaton Vance unit behind its proposed funds.  “We are quite encouraged by the progress we feel Eaton
Vance has made,” said Clarke, who declined to elaborate on the
SEC’s comments.  Eaton Vance’s proposed funds differ from the others. They
could be traded all day like stocks, yet with prices set only
after the market closes, like mutual funds. Buyers and sellers
would submit bid and ask orders relative to the net-asset value
at the end of the session, when the new NAV is posted. The firm
refers to the product as an exchange-traded mutual fund, or
ETMF.  ‘Substantially Similar’  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, is among
other firms also awaiting approval for an active, non-transparent ETF proposal. Melissa Garville, a spokeswoman for
the New York-based firm, declined to comment on the
application’s status.  The first of T. Rowe’s planned funds would be
“substantially similar” to the $527 million  T. Rowe Price
Capital Opportunity Fund (PRCOX) , according to this week’s filing. The
second would mirror the $18.4 billion T. Rowe Price Blue Chip
Growth Fund.  The funds would each disclose a “high-quality pricing
signal” every 15 seconds during the trading day in place of
revealing holdings, and publish a “hedge portfolio” whose
performance “reliably and highly” correlates to the value of a
fund’s holdings, T. Rowe said.  Even if non-transparent ETFs get approved, there’s no
guarantee investors will take to them, said  Geoff Bobroff , a
consultant based in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island .  “The industry would have to find a way to get scale so the
products can be successful,” Bobroff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  