-- Active Network Said to Draw Takeover Interest From Buyout Firms
-- B y   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-09-27T20:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/active-network-said-to-draw-takeover-interest-from-buyout-firms.html
Active Network Inc. (ACTV) , the sports-marketing technology company that hired Citigroup Inc. to review
its options, has received interest from at least two private-equity buyers, people familiar with the matter said.  Thoma Bravo LLC and Vista Equity Partners are among firms
that have been invited to make second-round bids by Oct. 7, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the negotiations
are private. The company has a market capitalization of about
 $711 million .  Active Network’s  technology  is used to manage events
including marathons and cycling tournaments as well as business
meetings. The San Diego-based company’s  customers  range from the
State of  California  to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , according to its
website.  GTCR LLC, the Chicago-based buyout firm, has decided not to
bid for the company after considering making an offer, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Spokesmen at Active Network, Thoma Bravo and Citigroup
declined to comment. Spokesmen for Vista Equity and GTCR weren’t
immediately available to comment.  The company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization are forecast to reach  $53.6 million  this year,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Active Network
could fetch as much as $770 million, according to another person
familiar with the situation. That would be equivalent to 11
times projected Ebitda of $70 million, which a buyer may be able
achieve through cost cuts, this person said.  In the last three years, buyers paid a median of 8.6 times
Ebitda for computer services companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Shares of the Active Network are up 37 percent
since it said on Aug. 1 that it received interest from potential
acquirers and hired Citigroup to conduct a review of its
options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  