-- Afghan-U.S. Security Accord Needed to Avert Setback, Cart
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-27T21:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/afghan-u-s-security-accord-needed-to-avert-setback-cart.html
A failure by the U.S. and
Afghanistan to reach an agreement soon to allow the presence of
American troops in the South Asian country beyond 2014 would
derail progress made in the nation’s security, U.S. Deputy
Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said today.  “It’d be a tragedy if this thing wasn’t concluded soon
because most Afghans are in favor of the coalition continuing
its work to strengthen the Afghan forces,” Carter said,
referring to the bilateral security agreement the two sides have
been negotiating for more than a year. “All that stands in the
way is the conclusion of this agreement.”  The two sides have negotiated a draft agreement with a few
issues left to be resolved, Carter said. He declined to say what
those issues are.  A strategic agreement between U.S. President  Barack Obama 
and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that was signed last May
outlined a broad framework for military, economic and social
cooperation between their countries, while leaving the details
to be negotiated. Since then, the two sides have been discussing
a bilateral security agreement that, among other provisions,
would guarantee U.S. troops immunity from prosecution under
Afghan laws.  Asked if the Obama administration’s plan to conclude the
agreement by October is still viable, Carter said, “absolutely
that’s what we’re looking for.” Reaching agreement is necessary
for the U.S. military to plan what equipment and materiel to
keep in  Afghanistan  and what to ship out, Carter told reporters
at the Pentagon today.  Karzai has said he will seek a mandate from the country’s
political representatives to reach agreement and “that process
needs to happen and needs to happen soon,” Carter said. “I
can’t emphasize the extent to which we need certainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  