-- Taiwan’s Bond Yield Jumps Most Since 2009 After Perng Comments
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-09-27T08:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/taiwan-bond-yields-rise-most-in-month-on-tightening-speculation.html
Taiwan ’s 10-year bond yield jumped
the most since 2009 after the central bank hinted it may
increase borrowing costs that have remained unchanged in nine
policy meetings. The local dollar strengthened.  Taiwan held its benchmark discount  rate  on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent yesterday to support the economy.
“ Interest rates  will not always be low,” and mortgage holders
should monitor their ability to service debt, Governor Perng Fai-nan said, fueling speculation borrowing costs will be
raised. As U.S. interest rates may increase in the fourth
quarter, Taiwan may start boosting rates at a December review,
ANZ Banking Group Ltd. analysts wrote in a Sept. 25 note.  Perng’s remarks “imply rates may rise in the next few
meetings,” said Aaron Chien, a Taipei-based bond trader at
Taishin International Bank. “The central bank has never given
such a reminder before, so traders are adjusting their
positions.”  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 surged 10 basis points today to 1.73 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. That is the biggest
increase for a benchmark 10-year note since 2009, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The rate increased four basis points from
Sept. 18, which owing to holidays was the final day of trading
last week.  Taiwan’s central bank is unlikely to tighten policy before
the  Federal Reserve  does as that will lead to a stronger  Taiwan
dollar , Marcella Chow, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note today. The Fed will raise
rates in late 2015 at the earliest, according to the bank’s
estimates.  Taiwan Dollar  Overseas investors added to their holdings of Taiwanese
shares for a 21st day today, taking this week’s net purchases to
$757 million, according to data from  Taiwan Stock Exchange  and
Gretai Securities Market.  Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.3 percent this week and 0.1
percent today to NT$29.656 versus the greenback, prices from
Taipei Forex Inc. show. The currency was trading 0.4 percent
stronger on the day 12 minutes before the 4 p.m. close, before
paring gains on suspected intervention. The central bank has
sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close on most days
since March 2012, according to traders who asked not to be
identified.  The monetary authority will “maintain the order” in the
 currency market  if it sees “irregularities” such as large
short-term capital flows, it said in a statement yesterday.  One-month non-deliverable forwards in the Taiwan dollar
were little changed both the week and the day at NT$29.506,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 14 basis points
this week and four basis points today to 3.84 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
this week and today at 0.388 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  