-- Alfa Said to Hire Citigroup, Goldman for Sigma Food Unit IPO
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-27T22:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/alfa-said-to-hire-citigroup-goldman-for-mexico-s-sigma-food-ipo.html
Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , the Mexican maker of car
parts and petrochemicals, hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. for an initial public offering of its Sigma Alimentos
SA food division, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB also
are among the banks working on the transaction, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because details of the planned
sale, including the timing and size, haven’t been set. Alfa fell
0.5 percent to 36.67 pesos at the close in Mexico City, after
earlier advancing as much as 3.7 percent. The benchmark IPC
index of 35 companies fell 1 percent.  Sigma’s IPO would be the second in two years from San Pedro
Garza Garcia-based Alfa, which sold shares of petrochemical
division Alpek SAB in April 2012. Sigma has been expanding
through acquisitions, with purchases in the second quarter of a
Costa Rican cheesemaker and a Mexican processor of beef, poultry
and pork. In 2010 Sigma bought Phoenix-based Bar-S Foods Co.  Enrique Flores, a spokesman for San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico-based Alfa, didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment on the company’s plans for Sigma.  Angeles Meraz, a press official with Citigroup’s Banamex
unit, declined to comment, as did  Michael DuVally , a Goldman
Sachs spokesman, and Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Bank of
America. Ayax Carranza, a press official with Banorte, didn’t
respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Alfa shares have soared 35 percent this year, the fourth-best performance on the nation’s benchmark IPC index, giving the
company a market value of 189.4 billion pesos ($14.5 billion) at
yesterday’s close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sigma accounted for about a quarter of Alfa’s 2012 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a measure
of profit known as Ebitda. It contributed about 23 percent of
sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  