-- Allowing More IPad Use in Flight Recommended by FAA Group
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-09-27T21:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/allowing-more-ipad-use-in-flight-recommended-by-faa-group.html
The days of keeping the iPad or
Kindle off while a commercial flight is under 10,000 feet could
end if U.S. aviation authorities heed an advisory panel.  Airline passengers should be allowed to read e-books, send
e-mail and browse websites throughout flights of Wi-Fi equipped
planes, including during takeoff and landing, an advisory
committee to the  Federal Aviation Administration  has concluded,
a person familiar with panel’s work said today.  Mobile-phone calls and text messages would remain
forbidden. They are  separately banned  over concerns the signals
may interfere with ground networks.  Broader use of on-board electronics would help  Gogo Inc. (GOGO) ,
based in Itasca,  Illinois , which says it has 82 percent of the
inflight Wi-Fi service market in  North America , and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , which won preliminary regulatory clearance in May for an
air-to-ground broadband service.  Gogo’s revenue comes from connection and usage charges, and
the relaxed rules would allow passengers to use Wi-Fi services
longer.  The advisory panel recommending relaxed rules finished its
work Sept. 25. As is the case today, airlines would have to
demonstrate to the FAA that each aircraft type can safely
operate with passenger electronic devices turned on and in use.  The FAA said in a statement it would “determine next
steps” after it receives the recommendation on Sept. 30. Les Dorr, an agency spokesman, in an e-mail declined to comment on
the recommendations by the  Portable Electronic Devices Advisory
and Rulemaking Committee , a body chartered by the FAA in
January.  Lawmakers, including Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri
Democrat, have said the FAA was moving too slowly to expand
usage and threatened to force changes through legislation.  The FAA now prohibits use of personal electronic devices
while a plane is below 10,000 feet, with the exception of
portable recorders, hearing aids, heart pacemakers and electric
shavers. The restrictions are intended to prevent interference
with flight controls.  More access to gadgets makes for happier, calmer
passengers,  Henry Harteveldt , a San Francisco-based travel
analyst with Hudson Crossing LLC, said in an interview.  “The more distracted we are for work or entertainment, the
less focused we are on the fact that legroom has shrunk, the
amenities have disappeared,” Harteveldt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  