-- Amplats Mines Halted by Strike Over South Africa Job Cuts
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-09-27T17:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/amplats-mines-halted-by-strike-over-south-africa-job-cuts.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  mines
halted as workers started a strike to protest against 3,300
planned job cuts at the South African operations of the world’s
largest producer of the metal.  Less than 20 percent of employees reported for duty at the
company’s mines near Rustenburg and north of the Pilanesberg in
the North West province, Anglo Platinum, known as Amplats, said
in today in a statement.  “Production will be impacted by the strike although sales
will not be impacted at this point,” the Johannesburg-based
company said.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the
biggest at Amplats, is challenging last month’s decision by the
company to consolidate five mines into three at its Rustenburg
complex to curb costs. The mines are losing more than 1 billion
rand ($100 million) every six months, Chief Executive Officer
Chris Griffith said Aug. 30. Amplats produces as much as 40
percent of world supply.  Employees not affiliated with AMCU also were affected.
While minority union UASA isn’t striking, “there is very little
other workers can do without AMCU’s members,” said Franz Stehring, head of mining at UASA.  The company’s processing unit isn’t affected, Amplats said.  The stock  was unchanged at 440 rand at the close in
Johannesburg.  Cuts Necessary  “The company is under tremendous economic pressure,”
Griffith said in today’s statement. “Strikes and work stoppages
will result in further losses that will hamper plans for future
sustainability.”  In separate talks held yesterday, Amplats offered workers
wage increases of 6 percent, UASA’s Stehring said. AMCU rejected
the offer and declared a deadlock with management, union
Treasurer Jimmy Gama said by phone.  “The company was not attending to our demand for a living
wage,” Gama said. The union wants entry-level pay more than
doubled to 12,500 rand a month. Inflation was 6.4 percent in
August, according to Statistics South Africa.  Amplats spokeswoman, Mpumi Sithole, today refused to
comment on the wage talks with AMCU, saying only that “the
outcome of the negotiations will be communicated at the
conclusion of the negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  