-- Amy Grant, Vince Gill at Washington Library: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-27T16:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/amy-grant-vince-gill-at-washington-library-d-c-scene.html
The people who brought the $100
million Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of  George Washington  to fruition were honored last night with a gala
celebration on the lawn of his  Mount Vernon  plantation, the
library’s new home.  Fred W. Smith, chairman of the Donald W. Reynolds
Foundation, dined with Mount Vernon’s chief executive officer,
Curtis Viebranz, and Jonathan Witter, Capital One Bank’s
president of retail and direct banking and a library donor.  The foundation contributed more than $30 million to the
libary.  David Rubenstein , who was not present last night, was
among those who gave at the $10 million-to-$29 million level.  A meal of Chesapeake crab, beef tenderloin and chocolate
crunch cake was served in a tent with guards in colonial
soldiers’ uniforms. Historian David McCullough, author of
“1776,” enhanced the evening’s historical ambience.  Before the meal, 1992 presidential candidate  Ross Perot ,
the president of the Perot Foundation, stood on the piazza
overlooking the Potomac and talked about his collection of
paintings depicting Washington, which have been copied for Mount
Vernon.  Nearby  Jon Huntsman , the former Utah governor and
ambassador to China, and Republican candidate for president last
year, said his family has also joined the ranks of major Mount
Vernon donors. As for his own political future, he said, “We’re
in private time right now,” as his wife, Mary Kaye, smiled.  Channeling George  Guests debated how the founding father would manage the
debt-ceiling crisis, Syria,  Iran  and other issues.  “He would do something selfless,” one guest said.  “I have a schoolgirl crush on George  Washington ,”
confessed Amy Grant, who slid off her shoes and strapped a
guitar over her black gown to perform a set with her husband,
Vince Gill.  “We were the best you could get for free,” Gill joked.  He said he always enjoyed coming to Washington, because
like the man the city is named for, it reminds him of the power
of personal sacrifice. He said going to Arlington National
Cemetery was “the most spiritual experience of my life.”  The evening ended on the lawn where performers in colonial
attire read from Washington’s letters.  Then the Mount Vernon doors opened and an actor dressed as
George Washingon stood before the guests, many of whom held
glasses of Moet Imperial and looked dumbstruck by the actor’s
likeness.  Fireworks exploded while patriotic songs were played.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s podcast and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 