-- Manulife Sees Calgary Oil Fueling Office Sales: Corporate Canada
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-09-27T22:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/manulife-sees-calgary-oil-fueling-office-sales-corporate-canada.html
Manulife Financial Inc. (MFC) , the owner
of more real estate than any Canadian insurer or bank, is
betting the energy industry will fuel demand for office space in
Calgary.  The benefits provider said in July it would develop a 27-story office tower in Calgary, its largest North American real
estate investment since 2008. The  value  of the firm’s real
estate holdings were C$9.3 billion ($9 billion) as of June 30,
an increase of 54 percent from three years earlier.  “We understand what’s happening in the oil and gas
business there,” Kevin Adolphe, who oversees C$30 billion in
private assets for Manulife including real estate, said in a
Sept. 12 interview from Toronto. “We’re going to continually
look for acquisitions in those core markets.”  Manulife is relying on energy companies to fill office
towers in the financial capital of the country’s oil-rich
province of  Alberta , even as uncertainty surrounds the viability
of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which awaits U.S.
government approval.  Canada ’s largest benefits provider said it
expects returns from real estate assets to exceed the amount
needed to back its customer insurance policies.  ‘Plummet Down’  The insurer invests in office buildings across Canada, the
U.S. and  Asia , including in Toronto,  Vancouver , Los Angeles and
Hong Kong, and counts among its tenants Bank of Montreal,
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  and  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan . Real estate comprises about half of the long-term assets
in the firm’s alternative-investments portfolio, Adolphe said.  Manulife is reluctant to invest in some parts of North
America such as  Manhattan , Adolphe said, and also eschews
certain types of real estate, including hotels, that are
susceptible to market swings. While the firm’s portfolio
includes  New York  property holdings, it won’t be actively
seeking more, Adolphe said.  “Manhattan in New York can rise to great heights, and it
can plummet down,” he said. “In economic downturns, the
tourism business and the retail business is significantly
impacted.”  As commercial property prices surge across Canada, Manulife
will probably build rather than buy in some markets, he said.
The firm has a so-called landbank that it can draw from for
construction projects.  Better Yield  “A lot of our competitors and even others are trying to
buy all these assets that are driving the prices to levels that
we just can’t justify,” Adolphe said. “The cities that you see
we have real estate, those are the cities where we’ll continue
to acquire.”  The company’s largest real estate holdings are in Toronto,
 Los Angeles ,  Washington ,  Boston  and  Chicago , based on market
value, according to an investment  document .  Manulife gained 0.2 percent to close at C$17.38 in Toronto
trading. The shares have returned 29 percent this year, making
it the  second-best performer  on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Life
and Health Insurance Index behind Quebec-based Industrial
Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc., which has
climbed 38 percent. The six-company index has advanced 25
percent.  The insurer sees commercial real estate providing better
long-term yields than bonds, equities or credit, Adolphe said.
The firm’s  portfolio  is 63 percent commercial properties, 32
percent industrial and 5 percent residential and retail,
according to company documents. About half of the buildings are
in the U.S., with 36 percent in Canada and 8 percent in Asia.  ‘Right Timing’  The Manulife Global Real Estate Class, an open-end fund
that is managed by Adolphe and designed to mirror returns from
the company’s portfolio, climbed 22 percent in the 12 months
through Sept. 23, compared with the 12 percent average return of
its peers.  “If you look at what the growth drivers for Canada are
going to be, you look at the  oil sands  -- that’s going to
continue to be the growth engine of the country,” said  Jeff Young , chief investment officer of NexGen Financial Corp. in
Toronto, who oversees about C$950 million including shares of
Manulife. “Real estate in the right location is a long-term
asset and wealth-builder.”  Adolphe said Manulife has “the right timing” for
attracting tenants to Calgary.  “As the economy is improving, we’re going to not only see
those tenants come in, but we’ll actually be able to overachieve
the rents that we’ve modeled to make these buildings work,” he
said.  Highest Rent  The population of Alberta grew 3.2 percent in the second
quarter, the most since 1982, according to Royal Bank of Canada.
Its gross domestic product is estimated to increase 4.1 percent
by 2014, the most among Canada’s 13 provinces and territories,
RBC data show. Ontario, the most populous province and Canada’s
financial capital, will see the second-highest rate of economic
expansion next year at 2.8 percent, Royal Bank said.  The market for commercial Class-A real estate, or buildings
with top quality location and tenants, is booming in Calgary.
The city of 1.1 million residents has 7.3 million square feet of
 office space  proposed or under construction, the most since
2007, according to data from Cushman & Wakefield Ltd., the
closely-held real estate brokerage firm.  Gross rent of $39.63 per square foot across all the city’s
building classes is the highest in Canada, while vacancy rates
are the second-lowest after  St. John’s , Newfoundland, the data
show.  ‘Tight’ Market  “The market is tight,” Bob MacDougall, Cushman &
Wakefield’s senior managing director, said in a phone interview
from Calgary yesterday. “Calgary is still in a period where the
downtown landlord -- particularly Class-A and better -- is in a
pretty good position.”  Manulife’s  proposed 27-floor office tower  is scheduled for
completion in March 2017, adding to downtown commercial space
that includes the 58-story  Bow building , headquarters for EnCana
Corp. and Cenovus Energy Inc.  The country’s western provinces are reliant on the  energy
industry  and the ability to transport oil across Canada and
abroad. That in turn affects the fortunes of pipeline, oil and
gas companies as well as the number of employees and amount of
office space they require.  Keystone Pipeline  The proposed $5.3 billion Keystone XL pipeline from
Alberta’s oilsands region to the Gulf Coast is pending  U.S.
Senate  and State Department approval amid opposition from
environmentalists and other groups. As the issue is debated,
TransCanada Corp., the country’s second-biggest pipeline
operator, is planning to build a C$12 billion pipeline that will
ship oil from Western Canada to the East Coast for deliveries to
 Quebec  and New Brunswick.  “You’ve got political uncertainty around the pipeline
announcement so that’s cautionary for the energy sector,”
Cushman & Wakefield’s MacDougall said. “The economics are
challenging for the energy sector. Successful developers take a
longer view and they’ve got the benefit of diverse portfolios so
they understand financial risk very, very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  