-- Hapag-Lloyd IPO Is Unlikely Before Late Next Year, TUI Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-09-27T09:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/hapag-lloyd-ipo-unlikely-before-late-2014-stakeholder-tui-says.html
TUI AG doesn’t expect to exit its
stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Germany ’s biggest container shipping
line, through an initial public offering before the second half
of next year, Chief Executive Officer Friedrich Joussen said.  To place the 22 percent stake on the market now would
“waste value,” and it’s more sensible to wait until the new
CEO Rolf Habben-Jansen takes the helm at Hapag-Lloyd next year,
he told reporters at a Hamburg press club last night. Habben-Jansen joins the board in April and becomes CEO in July.  “Even if a good moment for an IPO would be in 2015, I
wouldn’t have a problem with that,” Joussen said, adding that
the “desire” for an IPO among Hapag-Lloyd’s shareholders,
which include the city of Hamburg and billionaire businessman
Klaus-Michael Kuehne, has grown in the last six months.  TUI,  Europe ’s biggest travel company, has repeatedly said
that its wants to divest its stake in Europe’s fourth-biggest
container liner through an IPO or a sale once the market
improves after a prolonged freight slump.  An IPO is much more likely than a sale, said Joussen, who
took over from Michael Frenzel in February. Talks to merge
Hapag-Lloyd with local rival Hamburg Sued failed in March.  “But I don’t think we need two, three good quarters before
we can do a good IPO,” Joussen said. Container shipping is a
cyclical business, so “we have to act as soon it is getting
better.”  Steering Away  Habben-Jansen, the head of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s
freight-forwarding arm Damco NV, will succeed CEO Michael Behrendt, Hapag-Lloyd said Sept. 24. The company is attempting
to steer its way out of the crisis of the industry, which is
grappling with an overcapacity of vessels and low freight rates.  TUI has struggled to maintain profitability as consumers
increasingly book flights and hotels on the Internet, and it
failed to build up a strong presence in the thriving cruise ship
market.  The stock rose 0.8 percent to 9.30 euros at 11:28 a.m. in
 Frankfurt  and has gained 38 percent in the past year.  A merger with  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , in which TUI AG holds a
majority stake, isn’t “possible” today because of the equity
value of both companies, with the 56 percent stake in the U.K.
travel company being worth more than the market capitalization
of its parent company, said Joussen. “Our currency is diluted
and the currency of TUI Travel is comparatively high. That’s why
you can’t do a takeover with shares.”  Hotel Outlook  A merger may be possible in two years, if the equity
situation changes, he said. “But we might see in two years that
tour operators aren’t creators of value anymore but rather the
hotels, so why should you invest in that area then,” he said.
“And we already have got control over strategy and budget
today, so we might not have to take over TUI Travel.”  The travel company,  TUI AG (TUI1) ’s biggest profit generator,
raised its full-year underlying operating growth forecast
yesterday to at least 11 percent from 10 percent previously.
Summer programs across mainstream markets were almost fully sold
and the holiday season was ending with higher average selling
prices across all key markets, the company said. The travel
company also said it’s confident it will offset the effect of
political events in Syria and  Egypt .  “If TUI Travel is doing well, we are also doing well,”
said Joussen, adding that as majority shareholder he wants to
see the British company generate more cash, which should partly
be used to cut TUI Travel’s debt. “TUI Travel is gaining really
good market share, but with regard to cash conversion it’s not
that super.”  ‘Equal Footing’  TUI AG needs to be transformed from a tour operator with
hotels with a “less-than-fair-equity-value” to a company where
these two parts “are on equal footing,” he said. To make that
happen, he will reverse TUI’s cash burn, said Joussen.  “When I started at the company, I noticed that TUI AG
makes minus 120 million euros cash per year and it is pretty
clear that we will have a problem if we don’t manage a
turnaround here,” said Joussen, the former head of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s German business. “I made a commitment that we will
see plus 100 million euro cash per year by 2014/2015.”  A better cash position will help TUI to resume dividend
payments, he said, without elaborating further. TUI last paid a
dividend in 2008.  To cut costs, TUI sold a company jet, ended sponsorship
agreements for sport clubs and events and will have cut the
number of jobs at its headquarters to less than 100 by Sept. 30
from more than 200 previously.  For Related News and Information:
TUI Sees Progress in Revamp Plan Seeking Return to Dividend (1)
TUI Travel Increases FY Underlying Op. Profit Growth Guidance  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  