-- Harvard’s Rogoff Buys Manhattan Apartment for $3 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-09-27T16:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/harvard-s-rogoff-buys-manhattan-apartment-for-3-million.html
Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard
University professor known for his studies of recessions, bought
a co-operative apartment on  Manhattan ’s Upper West Side for $3
million, about 9 percent more than the asking price.  Rogoff, whose research foreshadowed the long climb back
from the 2008 financial crash, completed the purchase of the
Central Park West apartment on Sept. 12, according to property
records made public last night by the  New York  City Department
of Finance.  The three-bedroom, three-bathroom co-op has “stunning city
views and magnificent sunsets from all major rooms,” according
to a  property listing  by Jean Adams, a broker with Brown Harris
Stevens. The unit has “through-the-wall air conditioning,
generous closet space, custom built-in bookcases, and beautiful
herringbone-and-parquet floors” as well as an “oversized”
storage locker, according to the listing.  Rogoff, who lists his Cambridge, Massachusetts, address in
public purchase records, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
and telephone call seeking comment on the purchase. Adams also
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call.  Rogoff and Harvard colleague  Carmen Reinhart  wrote the 2009
book “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial
Folly,” which predicted that the recovery from the financial
crisis would be a “protracted affair,” featuring extended
declines in asset markets, large contractions in output and
employment, and an explosion of government debt -- similar to
the aftermath of past financial crises.  Monthly maintenance for Rogoff’s apartment, near West 84th
Street, is $3,637, according to property-listings website
StreetEasy.com. The apartment was on the market for 20 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  