-- Asian Shares Head for Best Monthly Gain Since 2010 on Fed, China
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-09-27T23:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/asian-shares-head-for-best-monthly-gain-since-2010-on-fed-china.html
Asian stocks rose in September,
with the benchmark index heading for its biggest gain in three
years, as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly maintained stimulus
and data signaled  China’s economy  is strengthening.  Tencent Holdings Ltd.,  Asia ’s biggest Internet company,
gained 11 percent in Hong Kong this month to touch a record
high. Tokyo Electron Ltd. surged 31 percent after Applied
Materials Inc. announced a plan to take over the Tokyo-based
company. Acom Co. soared 49 percent, spurring the consumer
lender to the biggest gain on the Asian equities index, after a
report  Japan ’s non-bank loans to individuals are picking up.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index surged 7.5 percent this month
through yesterday, the most since September 2010. The gauge rose
0.1 percent this week. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on
Sept. 18 that it wants more evidence that improvement in the
 U.S. economy  will be sustained before slowing the pace of its
$85 billion in monthly asset purchases.  “After the FOMC meeting, investors saw that the Fed was
more dovish than they expected, so the rebound was huge,” Grace Tam, a Hong Kong-based global market strategist at JPMorgan
Asset Management, which oversees about $1.5 trillion, said in a
phone interview. “People were too bearish on  China , and are now
starting to feel some relief. If China is doing good, it helps
the rest of Asia.”  Profits at China’s industrial companies rose 24 percent in
August, data yesterday showed. A preliminary HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics’ purchasing managers index for China
released on Sept. 23 rose to 51.2, a six-month high.  Regional Benchmarks  Japan’s Topix index gained 10 percent in September, rising
for the first month in five, as Tokyo won a bid to host the 2020
 Olympic Games . The measure fell 0.1 percent this week.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained 3.4 percent this month
and climbed 0.6 percent since Sept 20. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index advanced 5.3 percent in September.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index jumped 6.8 percent this month
and China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 2.9 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index rose 6 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index touched a four-month high on
Sept. 23 after the Fed announcement and has jumped 7.6 percent
this quarter.  Analysts had predicted a $5 billion reduction in Fed
stimulus this month, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.
Tapering may begin later this year should the data confirm the
Fed’s “basic outlook,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said.  BHP, Toyota  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
advanced 1.7 percent this month. Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s
largest carmaker, gained 8.4 percent.  Tencent, which gets 95 percent of its sales from mainland
China, has advanced 11 percent in September to HK$417.8.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender, added 6.1 percent to HK$5.54. China Resources Land Ltd.,
the second-largest mainland developer traded in Hong Kong,
gained 3.3 percent.  A pickup in China’s growth may boost Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
odds of meeting this year’s 7.5 percent expansion goal.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. have all raised economic growth projections
for the world’s second-biggest economy.  In Japan, Tokyo Electron surged after Applied Materials,
the largest supplier of chipmaking equipment, agreed to buy it
for $9.39 billion in stock in the largest foreign acquisition of
a Japanese company in six years.  Acom, Japan’s second-biggest consumer lender by market
value, surged 49 percent to 367 yen this month. Aiful Corp.
jumped 27 percent to 515 yen and Credit Saison Co. leapt 21
percent to 2,736 yen.  Non-bank loans to individuals are recovering, while credit
card usage is also on the rise, the Nikkei newspaper reported on
Sept. 2. The lending deposit at the nation’s consumer lenders
may gain for the first time in eight years, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  