-- Aussie Set for 1st Weekly Drop This Month on U.S. Shutdown Risk
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-09-27T06:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/aussie-set-for-1st-weekly-drop-this-month-on-u-s-shutdown-risk.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars headed for their first weekly declines this month
against the greenback as the risk of a U.S. government shutdown
cut demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie held a three-day loss before the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  meets next week to set policy.  Australia ’s Treasurer
said today the nation’s budget has worsened since last month.
New Zealand’s central bank said in its annual report that the
kiwi remains elevated, before revealing it bought a net NZ$1
million ($831,900) in August. The  U.S. Congress  has until the
end of this month to agree on spending measures, with the
country set to hit its borrowing limit next month.  “I don’t think people will be too willing to take any big
positions with that kind of event risk on the horizon,” said
Richard Breen, a Sydney-based senior consultant at Rochford
Capital, a currency and interest-rate risk management company.
“If Aussie can hold above 93.40 U.S. cents, and we do get some
kind of resolution out of the U.S., then I think it has the legs
to go higher.”  Australia’s dollar was little changed at 93.60 U.S. cents
at 4:50 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, after earlier touching
93.33, the lowest since Sept. 17. It has fallen 0.4 percent this
week.  New Zealand ’s currency rose 0.3 percent to 83.14 U.S.
cents, trimming its decline since Sept. 20 to 0.7 percent.  The Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to 92.37 yen and New
Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 82.05 yen.  Best Performer  Australia’s currency has gained 5.3 percent in September,
and 2.5 percent so far this quarter. The kiwi has risen 7.7 this
month and 7.5 percent in the quarter, making it the best
performer over both periods among major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  U.S. House Republican leaders are considering a delay in a
debt-ceiling proposal, according to a congressional aide, as the
Senate plans to vote today on a spending bill.  “Tension will increase on the U.S. fiscal front as we
approach the deadline of potential government shutdown, and will
likely act as a drag on sentiment,” Gary Yau, a research
associate at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note
to clients today. “Overall, the environment remains one of
consolidation” in  currency markets , according to the note.  Demand for the Aussie was limited with central bank policy
makers set to debate the need for further interest rate cuts at
a meeting on Oct. 1. Traders see 12 percent odds the RBA will
reduce benchmark borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5 percent,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Budget Worsens  Australian Treasurer  Joe Hockey  said the nation’s budget
has worsened since a pre-election statement less than seven
weeks ago as the new coalition government announced the final
deficit for last fiscal year. Treasury said in its pre-election
outlook released Aug. 13 that the federal deficit will widen to
A$30.1 billion ($28.2 billion) this fiscal year that ends June
30, 2014, and is no longer projected to return to balance in
2015-16.  “The presented numbers in the pre-election economic and
fiscal outlook are different to what exist today,” Hockey told
reporters in Canberra today in his first press conference since
the election. “I’m advised that we’ll go extremely close to the
debt limit of A$300 billion before Christmas.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand bought a net NZ$1 million
last month, after a NZ$2 million net sale in July, the central
bank said on its website today. The RBNZ’s foreign currency
intervention capacity rose to NZ$9.7 billion as of Aug. 31 from
NZ$9.04 billion on July 31.  While the kiwi dollar has fallen recently, it remains
elevated, the central bank said in an annual report published
today. The currency is damping tradable inflation, it said.  “We expect the NZD to remain elevated, rather than extend
further, supported by domestic pillars,” ANZ Bank New Zealand
Ltd. analysts including David Croy, the head of markets research
in Wellington, wrote in a research report. “The economy is
firmly into an economic expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  