-- Austrian Wireless Spectrum Sale Said to Draw No New Bidders
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-27T14:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/austria-said-to-offer-incumbents-airwaves-kept-for-new-bidders.html
     Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) --- Austria offered two blocks of
wireless spectrum reserved for new carriers to existing
operators in a sign that it may have failed to attract new bids,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The airwaves, which had been set aside for bidders who
don’t own any spectrum, were offered to  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ,
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , said the people,
asking not to be identified because the process is confidential.
Daniela Andreasch, a spokeswoman for the  Rundfunk & Telekom
Regulierungs  regulator, declined to comment.  The offers mean Austria’s carriers may not face a new
competitor for years to come. The spectrum blocks were part of a
bigger auction that started this month with minimum bids
totaling 526 million euros ($713 million). Operators need the
frequencies to build faster networks based on the so-called
long-term evolution technology.  Reserving the two blocks for a new entrant was a condition
for the European Commission’s approval of Hutchison’s takeover
of Orange Austria last year. That transaction reduced the number
of mobile carriers in the country to three from four.  Cutting the number of operators could ease the pressure in
a market with prices more than 50 percent below the European
average, according to consulting firm Booz & Co. All three
operators introduced tariffs this year that charge customers
based on the volume and speed of data they choose. They had
mainly offered flat-rate tariffs before.  Shares Jump  “We believe that the Austrian mobile market remains
competitive post consolidation, but prices seem to be
stabilizing,” Vera Sutedja, a Vienna-based analyst at Erste
Group Bank AG, wrote in a note this week.  Telekom Austria , which climbed as much as 7.6 percent
earlier today, traded 2.1 percent higher at 6.05 euros as of
4:36 p.m. in Vienna. Deutsche Telekom slipped 1 cent to 10.80
euros in Frankfurt. Hutchison, based in  Hong Kong , added 0.2
percent to HK$94.15 on the local exchange.  Speculation about a possible takeover by  Carlos Slim ’s
 America Movil SAB (AMX) , which holds a 23.7 percent stake in Telekom
Austria, also contributed to the share increase this week, Usman Ghazi, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank, said by
telephone yesterday.  A one-year period during which Slim would have to pay a 60
percent premium to Telekom Austria’s current share price if he
made a buyout offer to minority shareholders ended on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  