-- Banks Pressed by U.S. Lawmakers for Details on College Deals
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-27T18:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/banks-pressed-by-u-s-lawmakers-for-details-on-deals-at-colleges.html
Democratic lawmakers including
Senator Elizabeth Warren today demanded that eight U.S. banks
produce information about agreements they may have with colleges
to encourage students to use their products.  “These lucrative deals are great for banks and great for
colleges, but students can get hurt when they are steered into
financial products that carry high fees,” the group of
lawmakers wrote in the letter to  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Wells Fargo &
Co. and six other banks.  They cited a 2012  report  by the U.S. Public Interest
Research Group that said more than 9 million students risk being
“nickeled and dimed” by fees stemming from deals in which
colleges allow financial firms to manage federal financial aid
disbursement through checking accounts and prepaid debit cards.
The consumer organization also said in its report that banks pay
colleges “kickbacks” to get the deals.  The letter came from lawmakers including Warren, of
Massachusetts, the former head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau; Representative Maxine Waters, of California,
the ranking member of the Finance Committee; and Representative
George Miller of California, the top Democrat on the House
Education and Workforce Committee.  The letter also went to chief executives of  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , TCF
Bank,  Huntington Bancshares Inc. (HBAN)  and  Commerce Bancshares Inc. (CBSH) 
Higher One Holdings Inc., a New Haven, Connecticut-based company
that provides financial services to students, was also sent a
copy of the letter.  Banks’ Incentive  Consumer Bankers Association president  Richard Hunt , whose
group represents most of the banks addressed by the letter, said
the lenders are best placed to serve students via these so-called affinity agreements.  “Unlike many non-bank providers operating in this space,
banks have every incentive to ensure students have a positive
experience, as they hope to foster a long-term relationship,”
Hunt said in an e-mail.  Shoba Lemoine, a spokeswoman for Higher One, which is not a
deposit-taking bank, said the letter “shines a spotlight on
revenue-sharing deals between big banks” and institutions of
higher learning. “We don’t believe this model prioritizes the
students’ best interests,” Lemoine said in an e-mail.  Student financial products will be the topic of a Sept. 30
Washington forum planned by the consumer bureau. CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  and the bureau’s student loan ombudsman, Rohit Chopra, will be among the speakers, according to a bureau news
release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  