-- Belka Backs View That Polish Rates May Stay on Hold by Mid-2014
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-27T16:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/belka-backs-view-that-polish-rates-may-stay-on-hold-by-mid-2014.html
Poland ’s central bank Governor
 Marek Belka  said his views are close to those policy makers who
see the country’s  interest rates  remaining at a record low
through at least the first half of 2014.  “My view doesn’t differ significantly from theirs,” Belka
said in an interview in  New York  today. “We are keeping
interest rates at historically low levels and we believe it
won’t have a negative impact, for at least some time, on
inflation and financial stability.”  Poland kept its  main interest rate  unchanged at an all-time
low of 2.5 percent on Sept. 4 amid signs the European Union’s
largest eastern economy is emerging from the slowest growth in
four years. Forward-rate agreements, derivatives used to bet on
official borrowing costs, envisage a quarter-point rate increase
over nine months, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers lowered Polish borrowing costs by a total of
225 basis points between November and July, with Belka saying
after this month’s meeting that rates would remain on hold until
at least the end of this year.  Growth (POGDYOY)  in the $490 billion
economy accelerated in the second quarter as the euro area, the
destination for 51 percent of Polish exports, emerged from its
longest recession on record.  While Belka, who chairs the country’s 10-member policy
council, had previously sidestepped questions about the
interest-rate outlook for 2014 and declined to elaborate today,
two other central bankers were more outspoken this month.  Capital Outflow  Monetary Policy Council member Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said on
Sept. 12 that borrowing costs may stay unchanged through the
middle of next year, while Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, her
colleague on the panel, said the next day that keeping the rate
steady through the end of 2014 “isn’t out of the question.”  Belka said today he isn’t “particularly worried about some
huge outflow” of capital from Poland, which has an A2  credit
rating  from Moody’s Investors Service, once the  Federal Reserve 
starts scaling back monetary stimulus.  “It actually had already started to some extent,” Belka
said about the outflows. “And we actually wanted some of this
portfolio capital to leave Poland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  