-- BlackRock’s Hambro Sees CEO Exits as Gold Miners Book Writedowns
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-09-27T01:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/blackrock-s-hambro-sees-ceo-exits-as-gold-miners-book-writedowns.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Evy Hambro, who
manages the $8 billion World Mining Fund, expects more heads of
gold producers to exit as companies book further writedowns
after the metal’s biggest quarterly drop in more than 90 years.  “It’s very clear to us that there will be further
writedowns as we go into the full year, or the results season at
the beginning of next year,” Hambro said in an interview,
declining to name any companies. “I would be very surprised if
we didn’t see more change in CEOs across the gold industry.”  Producers from Toronto to Melbourne are pledging to curb
spending and halt expansions after taking $26 billion in
writedowns since July in the wake of the price decline and an
acquisitions boom. Output from the 10 largest global producers
increased in the three months to June 30 to 5.6 million ounces
from 5.4 million ounces in the previous quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies have been chasing ounces instead of
profitability and return, and now those decisions in the past
are coming back to haunt them,” Hambro said yesterday by phone
from  London . “There are lots of ounces still being produced
that aren’t profitable. The gold price fell six months ago,
what’s going on?”  Optimistic assumptions on  gold prices  used to calculate the
value of reserves mean some producers probably face new
impairments, Goldman Sachs Australia Pty forecast last month in
a report.  Bear Market  Bullion entered as  bear market  in April and is heading for
its first annual drop in 13 years after some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value. It has fallen 21 percent
this year to about $1,320 an ounce. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
predicts that gold will drop to $1,050 at the end of next year
as U.S. economic growth gains and monetary policy is tightened.  The industry shake up has claimed at least seven CEOs of
North American producers in the past 18 months, including Aaron
Regent as the head of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest
producer. Investors needed to see the industry move to cut costs
and stop unprofitable production, Hambro said in June.  “We have seen this train smash coming,” he said
yesterday. “The majority of gold companies have been like
rabbits caught in the headlights - they are not moving out of
the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  