-- Boston Bomb Suspect Challenges Curbed Access to Lawyers
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-09-27T22:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/boston-bomb-suspect-challenges-curbed-access-to-lawyers.html
Lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the
former college student accused of bombing the  Boston  Marathon,
said they will challenge Justice Department confinement measures
limiting access to their client in prison.  The defense is being “slowed and hampered” by special
administrative measures for Tsarnaev, 20, who’s locked up in a
federal medical facility in Ayer,  Massachusetts , according to a
filing today in federal court in Boston.  The measures “greatly restrict access to the defendant”
and “affect the information the defense may share in the
process of its investigation,” William Fick, a federal public
defender in Boston, said in the filing. “The defense intends to
litigate the applicability” of the measures to this case, he
said.  Special administrative measures are confinement conditions
put in place for Bureau of Prisons inmates “whose
communications pose a substantial risk of death or serious
bodily injury to persons,” according to the  Justice
Department ’s website. There are a wide range of such measures,
including barring prisoners from speaking to the media, using a
phone or accepting visitors in private, including lawyers.  In today’s filing, Fick asked U.S. District Judge George A. O’Toole Jr. to delay an Oct. 24 deadline for the defense team to
submit arguments on why Attorney General Eric Holder shouldn’t
seek the death penalty in the case.  Defense Commentary  Prosecutors argue Holder doesn’t need the defense’s
commentary to make such a decision, while the defense said it
needs more time after the government produced large amounts of
evidence.  Tsarnaev is charged with killing three people and injuring
260 others with homemade bombs left in crowds near the
marathon’s finish line. The bombing was the first deadly
terrorist attack in the U.S. since Sept. 11, 2001. He pleaded
not guilty on July 10 to 30 counts, including claims he shot to
death a university police officer in the days after the attack.  Fick said there are numerous challenges facing the
defense’s own probe, in which it seeks to find mitigating
evidence to help Tsarnaev avoid the death penalty. Tsarnaev’s
family “is half a world away” and a potential witness in the
U.S., Ibragim Todashev, was killed by  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agents, according to the filing.  Christina DiIorio-Sterling, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney
Carmen Ortiz, who’s overseeing the prosecution, declined to
comment or specify which specific measures are in place for
Tsarnaev.  Miriam Conrad, the lead defense lawyer, didn’t respond to
calls or e-mails seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-cr-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  