-- Bristol’s Yervoy Adds Up to 10 Years of Life for Cancer Patients
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-09-27T19:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/bristol-s-yervoy-adds-up-to-10-years-of-life-for-cancer-patients.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s skin
cancer drug Yervoy extends the lives of patients by as much as
10 years, in the first study to show the treatment’s effect on
long-term survival.  An analysis of more than 1,800 patients from 12 trials
showed that 22 percent were still alive three years after
treatment, and 17 percent survived seven years, after which
there were no deaths, according to data to be presented at a
cancer conference in Amsterdam today. The longest recorded
survival was 9.9 years, researchers led by  Stephen Hodi  from
 Boston ’s Dana-Farber Cancer Institute said in a statement.  The findings, from the longest follow-up study of the
largest number of patients for any skin cancer drug, show
patients reach a plateau in survival that starts at about three
years and extends until at least 10 years, said Hodi, assistant
professor of medicine at the Institute. A previous trial found a
survival rate of 18 percent after five years.  The data “provide a benchmark for future medicines for
advanced melanoma,” Hodi said in the statement.  Yervoy became the first drug to extend life for melanoma
patients when it was approved in 2011. Analysts  predict  the drug
will reach sales of $1.1 billion this year and become New York-based Bristol’s top-selling medicine by 2016.  Yervoy is designed to fight cancer by removing molecular
brakes that prevent immune system cells from destroying tumors.
While it has only been shown to shrink tumors in slightly more
than 10 percent of patients, the patients who gain from it tend
to live a long time because the immune system is adaptable and
can keep up with mutations in the tumor.  Combination Trial  Bristol-Myers is trialling a combination of Yervoy with a
new drug called nivolumab, a so-called anti-PD1 monoclonal
antibody. In a small study presented at a U.S. cancer meeting in
June, 82 percent of 53 patients who were given the combination
were alive after a year, a far higher rate than is seen with
Yervoy alone.  Adding anti-PD1 drugs could double or triple survival
results and make advanced skin cancer a curable disease for more
than half of patients in the next five to 10 years, Alexander
Eggermont, director general of the Gustave Roussy Institute in
 France , said in the statement.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  are working on similar
cocktails, though Bristol-Myers is “well in the lead,” Chris Schott, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , wrote
in a note in June.  Bristol-Myers said this month that Yervoy didn’t meet the
main goal of a trial in prostate cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  