-- Bulgaria Opposition Boycotts No-Confidence Vote Against Premier
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-09-27T09:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/bulgaria-opposition-boycotts-no-confidence-vote-against-premier.html
Bulgaria’s opposition Gerb party of
former Premier Boyko Borissov boycotted its own motion to hold a
no-confidence vote against Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski’s
government for a second day by declining to attend.  Parliamentary Speaker Mihail Mikov canceled today’s session
after two failed attempts to electronically register the 121
lawmaker quorum needed in the 240-seat assembly. The ruling
Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms scheduled
the vote for today after Gerb walked out yesterday, saying the
session was invalid over lack of a quorum.  “The no-confidence vote will be held next week,”
Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev told reporters in Sofia today.
“I am convinced parliament will resume its normal work next
week and Gerb will have a choice whether to act as an
opposition, representing its voters, or remain in isolation.”  Political leaders are working to maintain public confidence
after voters rallied against what they considered a corrupt
political system in the poorest European Union member.
Oresharski came to power on May 29 after anti-austerity protests
forced out Borissov and triggered a snap vote.  Borissov’s Gerb controls 97 seats and wasn’t able to form a
cabinet after failing to win an outright majority in May 12
elections. Its walk-out prevented the quorum in the assembly
because lawmakers from other parties were also absent.  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms,
which represents ethnic Turks, control 120 seats in the
assembly, one lawmaker short of a majority. They also draw
support from the nationalist Attack party, whose parliamentary
deputies are traveling abroad this week.  Tension, Elections  “Gerb want to emphasize the structural instability of this
government’s majority and its reliance on Attack,” Daniel
Smilov, an analyst at the Center for Liberal Strategies in
Sofia, said by phone. “The confrontation between Gerb and the
ruling parties is tense, but it’s difficult to say whether it
will lead to early elections immediately. The makeup of this
parliament is unstable and early elections are a solution.”  After the walkout yesterday, Borissov introduced to
parliament the same no-confidence motion for a second time,
indicating he considered the debate invalid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  