-- Bureau of Labor Statistics to Suspend Operation in U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-09-27T20:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/bureau-of-labor-statistics-to-suspend-operation-in-u-s-shutdown.html
The  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
will suspend all operations in the event of a federal government
shutdown next week, according to a contingency plan posted on
Labor Department’s website today.  Weekly data on claims for  unemployment benefits , issued by
the Employment and Training Administration, will continue to be
released, the Labor Department said.  The department left open the possibility of publishing
 certain data  compiled by BLS, including the Oct. 4 employment
report, should a release be deemed to be part of an “orderly
cessation of activities,” according to the  plan .  The department cited the example of the 1995 federal
government shutdown, which occurred after consumer price index
figures had been prepared and not yet released to the public.  “The risk of disclosure of the CPI data during a shutdown
was deemed to be an unacceptable and releasing the CPI report
was deemed to be part of the orderly cessation of activities,”
Erica Groshen, commissioner of the BLS, said in a memo.
Therefore, the Office of Management and Budget authorized some
Labor Department officials to release the price data.  Should such a situation arise again and the release of
certain economic data, like the September employment figures, is
authorized, BLS “would need a small staff from the program,
publications and IT offices to handle the release,” the plan
said.  Stephen Barr, a spokesman for the Labor Department, did not
immediately respond to phone messages and e-mails requesting
clarification on the release of the employment report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  