-- HTC to Sell Back Stake in Beats Electronics for $265 Million
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   E d m o n d   L o c o c o
-- 2013-09-27T10:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/htc-to-sell-back-stake-in-beats-headphone-maker-for-265-million.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone
vendor whose stock has plunged 90 percent since 2011, is selling
its remaining stake in headphone maker Beats Electronics LLC for
$265 million.  HTC will close the sale of its 24.84 percent stake in the
closely held company in the fourth quarter, and it expects a
NT$2.52 billion ($85 million) pretax profit, according to a
statement to Taiwan’s stock exchange. Beats, founded by music
producer  Jimmy Iovine  and rapper Dr. Dre, also will repay a $150
million promissory note, plus accrued interest.  The deal comes two years after HTC took a 51 percent stake
in Beats for $300 million and started using the  Santa Monica ,
California-based company’s sound technology. HTC since has
struggled to compete with devices from Samsung Electronics Co.
and Apple Inc., with its market share falling to less than 3
percent of the $280 billion smartphone industry.  “For HTC it puts more cash in the bank, and they need cash
now that they have turned operating  cash flow  negative,” said
Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI  Asia  in  Hong Kong .
“Investors have been asking HTC to shed assets and get cash
back to help them regain profitability.”  Carlyle Investment  Shares of the Taoyuan City-based maker of the HTC One
touched an almost eight-year  low  this month after the company
signaled it may post its first quarterly loss since at least
2008 on a consolidated basis. The stock drop has left the
smartphone maker trading at a 40 percent discount to sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately, Beats said Carlyle Group LP will make a
minority investment, with the deal expected to close in the
fourth quarter. The terms weren’t disclosed.  Beats’ technology has been used in Hewlett-Packard Co.
computers and Chrysler Group LLC cars. The headphone maker last
year purchased the MOG music-streaming service to add high-quality soundtracks and playlists to its devices.  HTC, the first maker of phones using software from Google
Inc., was a contract manufacturer before it began promoting its
own brand in 2006. The company had a short-lived reign at the
top of the U.S. market in the third quarter of 2011, when it
accounted for 24 percent of smartphone shipments, according to
researcher Canalys.  HTC’s share of the global smartphone market fell to 2.8
percent in the second quarter, from 5.8 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company enlisted
actor Robert Downey Jr. to promote its smartphone brand in a
two-year global marketing deal worth about $12 million, two
people with knowledge of the plans said in June.  The company in February 2012 said it had “dropped the
ball” on products, pointing to weaknesses in design and
engineering. The HTC One, which was supposed to herald a
reversal of fortune, has so far failed to stop a slide in the
company’s sales since the phone’s introduction was delayed to
the same timeframe as Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  