-- Cadillac Joins Volvo, Subaru With Top Safety Ratings
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/cadillac-joins-volvo-subaru-with-top-safety-ratings.html
A pair of Cadillac models by
 General Motors Co. (GM)  are among seven vehicles that earned top
marks in an insurance-industry group’s inaugural ratings of
crash-avoidance technologies.  GM’s Cadillac ATS sedan and SRX sport-utility vehicle,
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz C-Class sedan, Subaru’s Legacy sedan
and Outback wagon, and Volvo Car Group’s S60 sedan and XC60 SUV
earned “superior” ratings for their forward-collision
avoidance systems, the  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety 
said today.  “Front-crash prevention systems can add a thousand dollars
or more to the cost of a new car,” David Zuby, chief research
officer for the group based in Arlington,  Virginia , said in an
e-mail. “Our new ratings let consumers know which systems offer
the most promise for the extra expense.”  The insurance group added ratings of front-crash avoidance
systems on model years 2013 and 2014 vehicles to its suite of
crash tests on which it rates vehicles. The ratings influence
car buyers’ choices.  The insurers tested automated braking and forward-collision
warnings. Most manufacturers that offer the technology offer
autobraking as an option. Only Volvo’s S60 and XC60 include it
as standard equipment, the institute said.  Automated braking activates to slow a car so that it avoids
rear-end crashes. The process occurs without a driver having to
press the brakes.  Affordable Price  “We naturally expect to see consumers gravitate toward
those vehicles that offer the most comprehensive suite of
advanced safety technology, provided that this technology is
made available at an affordable price,” Alec Gutierrez, a
senior analyst at auto-researcher Kelley  Blue Book , said in an
e-mail. “With IIHS now including crash prevention systems in
their ratings, consumers will find it far easier to identify
those vehicles that are the safest amongst their peers.”  Six vehicles scored a lower rating of “advanced,” and 25
earned “basic” ratings when equipped with autobrakes and
forward-collision warnings, according to IIHS. Another 36 models
don’t offer front-crash prevention technology or have a system
that didn’t meet the criteria IIHS set for the test.  The tests were done at 12 and 25 miles per hour (19 and 40
kilometers per hour) using an inflatable target. Mid-size cars
and SUVs were the first to be tested in the new evaluation.  Last year was the first year since 2005 when deaths on U.S.
roads increased, rising 5.3 percent to 34,080, according to
preliminary estimates from the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration. NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  has
said technology that helps drivers avoid crashes -- rather than
making cars better able to withstand accidents -- will bring the
next big improvement in highway safety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  