-- Canadian Dollar in Narrowest Range Since March on U.S. Standoff
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-27T21:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/canadian-dollar-falls-with-oil-as-u-s-government-shutdown-looms.html
The Canadian dollar traded in the
narrowest weekly range since March on concern a political
impasse on the budget in the U.S. will slow economic growth in
the nation’s largest trading partner.  The currency weakened earlier on speculation the surge in
exports the  Bank of Canada  has predicted will be hurt if U.S.
government shuts down. The discount for crude oil sold by
Canadian companies compared with market benchmarks reached its
 largest  since January.  “For the Canadian economy, this potential shock to U.S.
growth would not be welcome and therefore it is something which
should be reflected in the Canadian dollar,” said Jane Foley,
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International, by phone
from  London . “It certainly is a negative factor, that combined
with  oil prices .”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0306 at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency has traded in a
range of 0.34 Canadian cents this week, the least since the five
days ended March 29. One loonie buys 97.03 U.S. cents.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The  difference  in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain,
known as net shorts, was 5,675 on Sept. 24, compared with net
shorts of 18,764 a week earlier.  Dollar Bears  Lack of pipeline infrastructure connecting to international
markets has meant  Canada ’s oil has faced a discount compared
with the U.S. benchmark. The  discount  Canada’s benchmark crude
oil-grade, Western Canada Select, faced to West Texas
Intermediate, its U.S. peer, was at $31.75 per barrel, the most
since Jan. 30.  Canada’s 10-year government  bond  rose, with yields falling
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.56 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 28 cents to
C$91.03.  Options traders became the most bearish on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. peer in three weeks. The three-month so-called 25 delta risk reversal rate, which measures the premium
charged for the right to buy the  U.S. dollar  against its
Canadian peer versus contracts to sell, touched 1.36 percent,
the highest on a closing basis since Sept. 5.  Efforts to pass legislation that would keep the U.S.
government funded past Sept. 30 are deadlocked with Republicans
insisting any new budget remove funding for President  Barack Obama ’s signature health care law and Democrats seeking to
preserve it.  U.S. Debate  The situation was further complicated yesterday when
Republicans voiced opposition to a plan by their party
leadership to pass a bill that will keep the government running
and shift the fight to defund health care to an upcoming debate
over raising the nation’s debt limit.  “Bad for U.S. will probably pan out to be bad for Canada,
in which case you might see the U.S. dollar rise against the
Canadian dollar,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign exchange dealer, by phone
from Toronto. “For the Bank of Canada unfortunately they’re
going to remain tied at the hip to the  Federal Reserve .”  A government shutdown may reduce fourth-quarter economic
growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points in the U.S., Canada’s
largest trading partner, according to Moody’s Analytics Inc.  The Canadian dollar has lost 0.2 percent this month against
nine developed market peers tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has fallen 2 percent while the
Australian currency has gained 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  