-- Canada Stocks Rise as Oil Producers Offset Drop in Phone Shares
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-27T20:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/canada-stocks-little-changed-as-gold-producers-blackberry-gain.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark gauge poised for the best quarterly performance in a
year, as gains in consumer-staples companies and oil producers
offset a decline in phone shares amid concern that a U.S. budget
impasse may shut down the government.  Trilogy Energy Corp. soared 11 percent after providing an
update on its operations in  Alberta . Telus Corp. and  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  slipped at least 1 percent after an analyst
with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce lowered his price
targets for the nation’s largest wireless carriers due to
regulatory risks.  BlackBerry (BB)  Ltd. increased 0.7 percent to snap
three days of losses after reporting second-quarter earnings.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 2.46 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,844.08 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark Canadian equity gauge has jumped 5.9 percent this
quarter, the biggest gain since September 2012, and is up 3.3
percent in 2013.  “There’s a lot of anxiety going into the weekend,” said
 Andrew Pyle ,  fund manager  with ScotiaMcLeod Inc. in
Peterborough, Ontario. He manages about C$210 million ($204
million). “Nobody should be naive out there, to think if we get
a worst-case scenario with respect to the U.S. budget impasse
that  Canada  comes out of this unscathed. You could see some very
heavy losses in the TSX.”  The  U.S. Senate  voted to finance the government through
Nov. 15, sending the bill to the House and setting up a weekend
of negotiations and brinkmanship three days before federal
spending authority runs out and a few weeks until the country
reaches its borrowing limit.  Destabilizing Effect  President  Barack Obama  said in a televised statement that
Congress’s failure to approve funding would have a destabilizing
effect on the economy. Democrats and Republicans can’t agree on
the inclusion of funds for Obama’s health-care law in the bill.  Energy stocks added 0.1 percent as a group, as six of 10
 industries  in the S&P/TSX rose. Trading volume was 20 percent
below the 30-day average.  Trilogy Energy soared 11 percent to C$28.80 after reporting
an operating update for its Montney and Duvernay oil projects.
The company said unexpected plant outages reduced third-quarter
volumes to about 31,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, and
anticipates levels returning to normal in the fourth quarter.  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , which is seeking a joint-venture
partner for its Duvernay holdings, jumped 9.3 percent to C$7.97,
the most in seven weeks.  BlackBerry Earnings  BlackBerry added 0.7 percent to C$8.28, the first increase
in six days. The smartphone maker reported more complete second-quarter  earnings , including a loss of 47 cents a share from
continuing operations and a 45 percent plunge in sales to $1.57
billion, after disclosing preliminary results on Sept. 20.  “The slight upside likely reflects that there was nothing
hidden in the results,” said  Bill Kreher , an analyst with
Edward Jones & Co., in a phone interview from  St. Louis .  Jean Coutu Group Inc. rose 1.8 percent to C$18.29 to pace
gains among consumer-staples companies.  Telus dropped 1.2 percent to C$34.52 and Rogers retreated 1
percent to C$44.64. Analyst Robert Bek with  CIBC World Markets 
cut his price targets for the two wireless carriers by 11
percent and 17 percent, respectively, due to the Canadian
government’s increasing attention to the space.  Canada’s largest carriers signaled on Sept. 23 their intent
to bid in a wireless spectrum auction in January, with no sign
of interest from major foreign companies after Verizon
Communications Inc. said earlier this month it wouldn’t enter
the Canadian market.  ‘Emerging Trend’  Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest diversified miner,
dropped 4.1 percent to C$28.10 following two days of gains.
Paretosh Misra, analyst with Morgan Stanley, said the company
may move ahead with an oil sands project, as investing in energy
assets is an “emerging trend” among miners.  Martinrea International Inc. (MRE) , a metal auto-parts maker,
slumped 10 percent to C$10.96 after the company said it received
a press release discussing a claim from Nat Rea, former vice
chairman of the company. Martinrea has not received the claim or
reviewed the allegations and will “respond appropriately in due
course.”  Rea, who was fired in June 2012, said he filed a statement
of claim alleging breaches of fiduciary duties related to
several deals involving suppliers and customers and is calling
for a new board of directors. The claims have not been proven in
court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  