-- Carney Sees No Case for More QE as U.K. Recovery Strengthens
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-27T10:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/carney-sees-no-case-for-more-qe-as-u-k-recovery-strengthens.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said he doesn’t see an argument for expanding
quantitative easing as the recovery has gained traction.  “My personal view is, given the recovery has strengthened
and broadened, I don’t see a case for quantitative easing and I
have not supported it,” he said in an  interview  with the
Yorkshire Post published today on the newspaper’s website.  Carney spoke during a visit to the northern town of Leeds,
according to the newspaper. Advanced economies are “doing a bit
better” and that will benefit the U.K. through increased demand
for its exports, while the recovery is occurring across a range
of industries, he said. The comments were confirmed by the BOE.  “The recovery is broadening, so it’s more than just
recovery in a particular sector of the economy and we are seeing
an associated pick-up of growth in  Europe , and the  United States 
is continuing to perform well,” he said. “Within the U.K., we
are probably leading the pack of the major advanced economies as
we speak right now.”  The pound rose as much as 0.6 percent against the dollar
after the comments were published and traded at $1.6087, up 0.3
percent from yesterday, at 11:44 a.m. in London.  ‘Very Difficult’  “It would be very difficult for the bank to restart QE
while the economic data is as strong as it is,” said Simon Wells, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “We may see
some upgrades to the bank’s forecasts in November.”  The  U.K. economy  expanded 0.7 percent in the third quarter
as  consumer spending  picked up, offsetting a drop in business
investment. Output is still 3.3 percent below its previous peak.  A sustainable recovery will depend on “gradually getting
incomes up, more people into work, but also getting wages up
over time and that’s going to come from sustained demand and a
balanced recovery,” Carney said.  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee unanimously voted this
month to hold its key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent and its bond purchase plan at 375 billion pounds ($604
billion). Officials have pledged no change to the rate at least
until  unemployment , now at 7.7 percent, drops to 7 percent.  “This is a policy for the U.K. as a whole and the point is
that businesses and households understand that we are not going
to look to raise interest rates until we see the economy really
growing,” Carney said. “Using that 7 percent unemployment
threshold is the point at which we begin to think about
tightening.”  Bank Capitalization  Carney said that guidance is consistent with economic
growth broadening across the country. Officials are “well aware
that the level of unemployment in the region is nearer to 9
percent than it is to the national average of 7.7 percent,” he
said, referring to the Yorkshire area.  U.K. banks are “a lot stronger than they used to be,”
Carney said. “We have had some difficult discussions over the
summer to ensure that a couple of the major institutions had
credible plans to get them to what we view as a very important
threshold of capitalization.”  “Those plans are in place,” he said. “They have been
acted upon. So the core of the system is now at a level where
their capital and liquidity is consistent with supporting the
recovery and that’s incredibly important.”  Global banks have raised about $500 billion in capital over
the past five years in the aftermath of the financial crisis,
and are moving closer to complying with global capital rules,
Carney said in a speech in August.  Signs of economic recovery were contrasted by a 2.7 percent
drop in business investment in the second quarter, data showed
yesterday. The statistics office estimated that it had risen 0.9
percent in the first quarter.  Carney said the central bank is “working for the British
public” to strengthen lenders. “You can’t lend unless you’re
adequately capitalized and that’s been proven time and time
again,” he said. “Getting the U.K. banks and building
societies to that capital threshold has been incredibly
important and I would say the institutions in this region were
at those thresholds in advance of some of the larger
institutions in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  