-- CFTC Said to Plan October Votes on Client Funds and Speculation
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/cftc-said-to-plan-october-votes-on-client-funds-and-speculation.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission next month plans to complete rules to boost
protection of customer funds and release a new proposal for
limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and other markets,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The agency is debating the regulations internally and plans
to vote at an Oct. 24 meeting in  Washington , according to the
people who asked not to be named because the schedule is
private. The customer-protection rules have been under debate
for more than a year, while earlier rules limiting speculation
were overturned by a federal judge.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
schedule, which could change because of internal debate.
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  is scheduled to speak today in
Washington at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for a group of
corporate treasurers.  The agency’s customer protection rules, proposed after the
collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. initially left a gap of $1.6
billion in client funds, have spurred opposition from the
futures industry. One part of the proposal required brokerages
to at all times of the day keep enough of their own money, or
residual interest, on hand to account for their customers’
deficits.  The CFTC said the proposal would avoid the possibility that
brokerages would use end-of-the day balancing to “obscure a
shortfall.” The change from industry practice would tie up
additional capital and would probably lead to increased costs
for clients, according to brokerages that objected to the rule.  Deficit Calculation  The agency is considering changing the proposal to require
the calculation of deficits to be completed by the close of
business the day after a trade occurs, according to one of the
people. The change, still being debated, may be phased in and
the agency might also require a study to determine the
feasibility of requiring a faster timeline for calculating
deficits, the person said.  The Futures Industry Association, the main lobbying group
for the futures market,  estimated  in June that brokerages
collect at least 90 percent of margin deficits by the end of the
business day after when a trade is conducted.  The top Democrats and Republicans on the House and Senate
agriculture committees overseeing the CFTC urged the agency to
“carefully consider” the rule’s consequences.  Protecting Farmers  “The goal of increasing futures customer protections
should be to strengthen the markets without harming the ability
of American farmers, ranchers and end-users to hedge their
legitimate business risks,” Representatives  Frank Lucas , an
Oklahoma Republican, and  Collin Peterson , a Minnesota Democrat,
said in the Sept. 25 letter, which was also signed by Senators
 Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, and  Thad Cochran , a
Mississippi Republican.  The speculation limits proposal would be the agency’s next
step to fulfill a Dodd-Frank goal of placing curbs on excessive
speculation in commodities. The agency is appealing a judge’s
ruling that the CFTC failed to assess whether limiting the
number of contracts a trader can have in oil, natural gas or
other commodities was necessary and appropriate.  The agency’s rule was challenged by the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association and International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc., in one of the financial industry’s
highest-profile efforts to overturn a Dodd-Frank rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  