-- LCH.Clearnet Seeks Cost Savings After Purchase by LSE
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-09-27T15:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/lch-clearnet-seeks-cost-savings-after-purchase-by-lse.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. has room to
cut costs in technology and overlapping systems after  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  purchased a majority stake in the
clearinghouse, its chairman said.  “There are big opportunities around optimizing IT
development,” Jacques Aigrain, chairman of LCH, said in an
interview at the Futures Industry Association’s Buergenstock
conference in Geneva. “We are a big spender in terms of capital
expenditure, for example, with complex derivatives projects.
Hopefully there is an opportunity now to do this better to
benefit the users and shareholders.”  The two companies also have areas of overlap where costs
can be cut, such as in support functions, Aigrain said,
declining to be more specific. The “full benefits of
integration will emerge over three years,” he said.  LSE owns 57.8 percent of the London-based clearinghouse
after completing the acquisition in May. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
increased its stake in LCH to 5 percent from 3.7 percent as part
of the deal, which valued LCH.Clearnet at 633 million euros
($858 million).  “We want to make LCH more efficient,” Aigrain said. “For
legacy reasons it’s an accumulation of different systems, and
there’s complexity of design and interaction of systems. Because
of this legacy, the expenditure is heavy compared to what it
could be.”  Collecting Collateral  Clearinghouses cut risk by collecting collateral to back
each transaction, monitoring daily price moves and making
traders put up more cash as losses occur. Traders have to deal
through clearing members, who are typically the biggest banks
and brokerages.  Clearing venues such as LCH and those run by CME Group
Inc., IntercontinentalExchange Inc., the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. and the Options Clearing Corp. have grown more
important to the financial system as regulators globally push
more trades through them.  LCH has said it will seek new business from swap futures,
over-the-counter contracts and client clearing. Clearinghouses
and exchanges plan to benefit from a trend to turn swaps into
futures contracts, known as futurization.  “The exciting part is that we are in a part of the market
where there is growth,” Aigrain said. “There has been
significant growth, double digit, in OTC. Regulatory reform is
creating a growth environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  