-- Chicken Processed in China Triggers U.S. Food Safety Protests
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-27T01:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/chicken-processed-in-china-triggers-u-s-food-safety-protests.html
Food-safety  advocates are raising
alarms over a decision by the Obama administration to permit
chicken processed in China to be sold in the U.S. even after
several high-profile incidents of food contamination.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture , in addressing a decade-long trade dispute over farm imports, said it will allow poultry
slaughtered in the U.S. and  Canada  to be processed in China and
returned to the U.S. for consumption. Critics are vowing to
fight the decision, which they say puts consumers at risk due to
lax Chinese factory oversight.  “The Chinese food-safety system has had significant
failures in the enforcement of its food-safety laws and
regulations,” Senator  Charles Schumer  wrote in a Sept. 16
letter to U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.  The issue is the latest flashpoint for U.S. concerns over
the safety of goods from China, which since 2007 have included
tainted baby formula and evidence of the chemical melamine in
pet food and eggs. China in recent months has had an outbreak of
avian influenza in its chicken flocks and in March, Shanghai
authorities retrieved more than 11,000 dead pigs floating in a
river.  “Consumers should know that any processed poultry from
China will be produced under equivalent food safety standards
and conditions as U.S. poultry,” the Agriculture Department
said in a  fact sheet .  No Fear  Poultry producers say almost all the chicken eaten in the
U.S. will still be produced and processed domestically. The U.S.
government currently allows Canada, Chile, France and Israel to
export processed poultry to the U.S.  “Ninety-nine percent of the chicken we consume here is
hatched, raised and processed in the U.S.,” Tom Super, a
spokesman for the National Chicken Council, a Washington-based
industry group, said in an e-mail. “We don’t expect that to
change any time soon.”  Officials from the Chinese embassy in  Washington  didn’t
respond to e-mail or phone requests for comment.  The U.S. last year exported $354.1 million worth of poultry
products to China, representing about 7 percent of total U.S.
poultry exports, according to Census Bureau data. The U.S.
doesn’t currently import poultry from China.  “There’s a concern that this might be the first step to
that,” Chris Waldrop, director of the Food Policy Institute at
the  Consumer Federation of America  in Washington, said by phone.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, chicken
producer  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, are among companies that don’t plan to
import processed chicken from China, according to company
officials.  Stronger Safeguards  That hasn’t stopped Democrats in Congress, including
Senator  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and Representative  Rosa DeLauro  of
Connecticut, from seeking assurances from the USDA that food
supplies will be safe. New York’s Schumer has asked for
additional audits of Chinese plants and more inspections of U.S.
meat imports.  There is precedent for an accord for China to process U.S.
food items. The U.S. currently allows shrimp to be sent to China
for processing, including breading, Theresa Eisenman, a Food and
Drug Administration spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The U.S. last year imported $1.9 billion worth of seafood
from China -- far more than any other food product, according to
Census Bureau data. Shrimp and prawns accounted for almost $70
million worth of the goods.  Labor Intensive  “There will probably be some company that can see some
niche market” for chicken shipments from  China  to the U.S.,
Toby Moore, a spokesman for the USA Poultry & Egg Export
Council based in Stone Mountain, Georgia, said in a phone
interview.  Processing chicken is a labor-intensive endeavor that can’t
be done solely by machines and the “lower cost in China is the
advantage,” Chris Hurt, a professor of agricultural economics
at  Purdue University  in West Lafayette, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. Those savings in labor costs can
counterbalance the higher price tag to ship the end product,
Hurt said.  Food-safety advocates have been watching China closely this
year as the U.S. government reviewed the purchase of  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest hog and pork producer, by Hong
Kong-based Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.  “China does not have a food-safety system that allows for
any level of top-down management like we have in the  United
States ,” Patricia Buck, director of outreach and education for
the  Center for Foodborne Illness Research & Prevention  in
Raleigh,  North Carolina , a non-profit food-safety advocate, said
by phone.  Awaiting Identification  The next step is for China to identify companies that will
process imported poultry, Stacy Kish, a spokeswoman for the
Agriculture Department’s  Food Safety and Inspection Service ,
said by phone. Processed chicken from China must be labeled as a
product of the Asian nation, according to the agency.  Food-safety advocates say that while poultry processed in
China would have to be labeled, chicken that’s repackaged into
chicken nuggets or wings and served in restaurants wouldn’t
necessarily carry the designation.  Consumer Rights  “Even though we’re going to be shipping our poultry to
China, there’s no guarantee that that’s what we’re going to be
getting back,” Tony Corbo, a lobbyist with Washington-based
 Food & Water Watch , said in a phone interview. “There are all
sorts of consumer right-to-know issues going on here.”  Kish, with the Agriculture Department, said “We do not
believe the product would be repackaged in the United States.”
If it were, it would have to be done so by Agriculture
Department inspectors and labeled as a product of the U.S., she
said in an e-mail.  In 2004 China asked the Agriculture Department to audit its
processing plants so that poultry could be exported, according
to the agency. The  U.S. Congress  in 2009 lifted a ban on
Chinese-processed poultry, and after a final audit of China’s
plants in March, the U.S. agency in August agreed that China’s
facilities were equivalent to those in the U.S.  Under the terms of the agreement, chicken sent to China for
processing must be raised and slaughtered in either the U.S. or
Canada, and all poultry must be fully cooked at least 165.2
degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius) before being sent back
to the U.S. to be eaten. USDA inspections will occur at U.S.
borders, and agency auditors will review China’s poultry
processing system each year.  Plant Inspections  The quality of those inspections may be subject to
questioning, since the administration of President  Barack Obama 
has yet to fully enact the 2011 Food Safety Modernization Act,
aimed at being the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. food safety in
70 years. The administration this year proposed the first major
regulations for domestic and imported food, which Congress
called for after poisonings related to cookie dough, spinach,
jalapenos and other foods killed at least nine people and
sickened more than 700 in 2008 and 2009.  Food safety in China probably won’t get better until
consumers can freely speak out against or sue the government and
corporations without fear of retribution, according to  Bill Marler , a Seattle-based attorney and publisher of the trade
newsletter Food Safety News.  “Until we have a real sea-change in the rule of law in
China, I’d be suspect about importing food from China,” he said
in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  