-- China Seen to Wait Until 2016 to Scrap Cap on Bank Deposit Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T02:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/china-seen-to-wait-until-2016-to-scrap-cap-on-bank-deposit-rates.html
China  will probably wait at least
two years before requiring banks to pay market rates on deposits
as officials seek to avoid disrupting the banking system while
the economy is slowing.  Policy makers will remove all restrictions on deposit rates
in 2016 or later, according to seven of 12 economists and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 9 to 13. Most
respondents said such a move could cut net interest margins, a
measure of loan profitability, by at least 50 basis points and
smaller banks will be the hardest hit.  Freeing up the rates will subject the nation’s 3,800 banks
to greater competition, forcing them to pay savers more to
retain their share of the country’s 101 trillion yuan ($16.5
trillion) in deposits. That will aid Premier  Li Keqiang ’s goal
of promoting  consumer spending  as a driver of the economy, which
is headed for the slowest growth in 23 years.  “The key immediate impact would be a shift of income to
households from banks,” said Wang Qinwei, a London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. That “will hurt the
profitability of the banking sector, but will be critical in
rebalancing the economy toward consumption.”  Combined profit at  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  and the other 15  publicly traded banks  on the mainland rose
13.6 percent in the first half from a year earlier to $101
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the government-set
rates preserved banks’ lending margins.  The earnings accounted for more than half of the total net
income of China’s more than 2,400 listed companies. It also
exceeds the $82.5 billion earned by 7,000 U.S. banks, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. data show.  Next Step  Respondents were divided on measures that China will take
before embarking on full deposit rate liberalization. As a next
step, policy makers will probably allow banks to issue
certificates of deposit that offer higher rates for large
amounts of savings, seven respondents said. Four people said the
setting up of a deposit insurance system will be next.  Full deregulation of  interest rates  could shrink the
sector’s average net interest margins by 50 to 100 basis points,
six respondents said. Three said the magnitude of the drop will
be 10 to 50 basis points and another two predicted a reduction
of 100 points or more.  The net interest margin at the nation’s 3,800 lenders
widened to 2.59 percent in the second quarter from 2.57 percent
in the first, China Banking Regulatory Commission  data  show.  ‘Profound Impact’  Meanwhile, Chinese savers are seeing the value of their
funds being eroded as deposit rates fail to keep pace with
inflation. The monetary authority caps returns on deposits at
1.1 times its benchmark rates. Deposits with a one-year tenure
currently pay 3 percent and savers receive 0.35 percent for
 demand deposits , similar to a checking account, while the
government’s inflation target for this year is 3.5 percent.  The central bank will allow trading of certificates of
deposit between banks in the “near term” as it creates
conditions for relaxing control over rates,  Hu Xiaolian , a
People’s Bank of China deputy governor, said in a Sept. 24
speech.  China’s central bank has already begun freeing up interest
rates this year by removing a floor on what banks can charge for
loans. Revamping deposit rates is the “riskiest” part of
reforms leading toward full interest rate liberalization, and
would carry a “much more profound impact,” the central bank
 said  July 19, when it allowed banks to freely price loans.  “This is long overdue,” said  Chris Leung , an economist at
DBS Bank  Hong Kong  Ltd. and one of five respondents who predict
interest rates will be fully driven by market forces before
2016. “We do not expect any shocks other than profitability of
state banks will dis-inflate over time.”  Be ‘Unforgivable’  It will be “unforgivable” if policy makers fail to set
deposit rates free in five years, Fred Hu, founder of private-equity firm Primavera Capital Group and former Greater China
chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in an Aug. 15
interview in Beijing. China must learn from mistakes in the past
decade when it put too much focus on downside risks, leading to
delays in reform, Hu said.  Banks may be motivated to pile up riskier assets such as
off-balance sheet loans when funding costs are no longer
controlled, according to Xu Gao, a Beijing-based economist at
Everbright Securities Co.  Shadow banking, which includes wealth management products,
entrusted loans, trusts and underground lending, has raised
concerns from regulators that it may destabilize the economy.
The sector was valued at $6 trillion by JPMorgan Chase & Co., or
69 percent of China’s gross domestic product in 2012.  Chasing Yield  “Banks’ asset portfolios will be more skewed to high-yield, low-quality assets in their efforts to search for
yields,” Xu said. “Small banks are in a disadvantaged position
in the competition, so they are more aggressive.”  Ping An Bank Co. and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)  are among
smaller lenders that expanded loans off their balance sheet last
year, increasing the assets more than fivefold, according to
exchange filings.  With fewer branches to attract savers, small banks have
relied on funding from sources such as wealth management
products, which pay higher rates than  bank deposits . They have
often tapped interbank markets for short-term financing to pay
redemptions on the wealth products.  In June, the central bank refrained from injecting funds in
the  interbank market , leading to the country’s worst cash crunch
in at least a decade.  The small banks “have been required to self-protect
through the central bank’s stress test,” said Aidan Wang,
Taipei-based economist at Yuanta Securities Investment
Consulting Co. Wang also predicts that full interest rate
deregulation may cut GDP by 0.25 percentage point.  Slower Growth  Gross domestic product in the world’s second-largest
economy will probably expand 7.6 percent this year, the slowest
pace in more than two decades, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Overcapacity in sectors
such as steel, solar power and shipbuilding has led to slower
growth and rising bad loans.  ICBC led the nation’s biggest state-controlled lenders in
posting record combined net income of 216 billion  yuan  in the
first half, an increase of 15 percent from a year earlier. They
defied an earnings slowdown by boosting higher-yield loans to
small firms while stepping up credit-risk management and
nonperforming loan disposal as well as recovery.  Shares of the five biggest Chinese banks are still trading
near record-low valuations on concern that interest rate
deregulation could increase funding costs and slow the economy,
leading to more defaults by borrowers.  Before deposit rates can be freed up, banks need to better
reflect risks when they set lending rates, said Jim Antos, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Lenders should downgrade the status of loans “based on
economic reality rather than political considerations,” Antos
said. “This is a concept they talk about on the mainland but as
yet do not understand.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  