-- China Stocks Rise as Health Care Rally Counters Trade-Zone Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T08:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/china-stocks-swing-as-technology-rally-counters-trade-zone-slump.html
China’s stocks  rose, heading for a
third straight monthly advance, as gains by drugmakers and
technology companies countered losses in companies linked to the
 Shanghai  free-trade zone.  Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co. (600196)  and Yunnan Baiyao
Group Co. led a gauge of health-care stocks to the biggest
increase among industry groups.  Shanghai International Port
(Group) Co. (600018)  and Shanghai Material Trading Co. tumbled for a
second day after more than doubling this quarter.  China ’s State
Council issued a plan for the Shanghai free-trade zone today.
Growth in industrial companies’ profits accelerated to 24.2
percent in August, the statistics bureau said today.  “The framework plan for the Shanghai free-trade zone
hasn’t exceeded market expectations, and related shares are
expensive,”  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai, said today. “The market isn’t too excited and
we need to wait for September data to further gauge the strength
of the economic recovery.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.2 percent to 2,160.03
at the close. The index has climbed 2.9 percent this month.
Companies with the word Shanghai in their names have led an 11
percent advance in the gauge since June 27 on speculation they
will benefit from the government’s plan to reduce regulation in
the city’s new free-trade area. The measure has risen 9.1
percent this quarter, poised for the biggest increase since the
three months ended September 2010.  Free-Trade Zone  China will allow trial convertibility of the yuan under the
capital account in the Shanghai free-trade zone, according to a
 statement  posted on the government website today. Authorities
will also allow “interest-rate liberalization, and cross-border
use of the currency, as long as the risk is controlled,” it
said.  Chinese lenders will be able to conduct offshore business
and qualified foreign financial institutions can set up banks,
according to the statement, which didn’t give a timetable for
the plans. The 11-square-mile zone on the outskirts of Shanghai
is set to open in two days.  The CSI 300 Index added 0.4 percent to 2,394.97, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.6 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, a measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, increased 0.5 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  China’s local markets will be shut Oct. 1-7 for National
Day holidays.  Industrial Profits  Growth in August industrial profits quickened from 11.6
percent in July, according to the National Bureau of Statistics
today. Earnings accelerated because of last year’s low base,
quicker production growth, improving sales and declining costs,
He Ping, an official at the bureau, wrote in an analysis of the
data posted on the agency’s website today.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 28 percent
lower than the 30-day average today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The index is trading at 8.6  times  projected
earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the five-year
average of 12.6 times.  A measure of pharmaceutical stocks in the CSI 300 advanced
1.4 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Shanghai Fosun
Pharmaceutical climbed 4.2 percent to 13.78  yuan , the highest
close since Dec. 24, 2010. Yunnan Baiyao, a manufacturer of
traditional Chinese medicines, added 3.1 percent to 117.25 yuan,
a record close.  Zone Regulations  Shanghai International Port tumbled 9.6 percent to 5.64
yuan, the lowest level since Sept. 5. The stock traded at 27.5
times 12-month projected earnings on Sept. 25, the highest level
since April 2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Shanghai Material Trading lost 10 percent to 14.18 yuan. Both
stocks slumped by the 10 percent daily limit yesterday.  Shanghai will release regulations for its new free-trade
zone in the first quarter, the Shanghai Evening Post reported,
citing Ding Wei, director of the Legislative Affairs Office of
Shanghai Municipal People’s Congress.  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  slid 4.6 percent to 16.15 yuan, the
biggest decline since June 24, as the stock resumed trading
today after being suspended since Sept. 13. The company said it
may scrap its Hepatitis B vaccine research because of “large
risks and uncertainties.”  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and Sohu.com Inc. led gains
in Chinese equities traded in New York yesterday after Credit
Suisse Group AG recommended buying the shares. Credit Suisse
started coverage of Dangdang and Sohu with the equivalent of a
buy rating.  “As the Internet becomes much more engaged in daily
consumer life, value creation from Internet-based businesses is
taking a more important role in the overall economy,” Dick Wei,
an analyst at Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed
report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  