-- China to Ease Controls on Yuan Investment in Pilot Zone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T07:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/china-to-ease-controls-on-yuan-investment-in-pilot-zone.html
China  will allow trial
convertibility of the yuan under the capital account in a free-trade zone being established in  Shanghai , part of efforts to
boost the currency’s role in global trade and investment.  Authorities will allow “interest-rate liberalization, and
cross-border use of the currency, as long as the risk is
controlled,” according to a  statement  posted on the government
website today. Chinese lenders will be able to conduct offshore
business and qualified foreign financial institutions can set up
banks, according to the statement, which didn’t give a timetable
for the plans.  The move underscores Premier  Li Keqiang ’s pledge to open
the economy to more market forces and reduce the role of the
government at a time when growth is forecast to be the slowest
in 23 years. The yuan was the world’s ninth most-traded currency
in April, with transactions averaging $120 billion a day, from
$34 billion three years earlier, the  Bank for International
Settlements  said this month, citing survey findings.  “The yuan convertibility trial in Shanghai will be a big
leap forward in China’s financial reforms,” said Banny Lam, the
Hong Kong-based co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of
China International Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s third-largest lender. “It shows that Premier Li is determined to
continue with reforms to upgrade the economy. The next step is
to see what lies in the details for the  yuan  experiment.”  The 29 square-kilometer free-trade zone located on the
eastern outskirts of Shanghai will set up an adaptive foreign-exchange management system to facilitate trade and investment,
and allow eligible Chinese banks in the zone to do offshore
business, according to the statement.  China’s State Council signaled May 6 that it would propose
a plan this year on capital-account convertibility. The nation
should further widen the yuan’s trading band and increase the
currency’s flexibility, according to an article in the People’s
Daily published Aug. 28 by Wang Yu, an official in the central
bank’s research bureau.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  