-- China’s Feed Mills to Import U.S. Sorghum as Corn Quotas Run Out
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T07:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/china-s-feed-mills-to-import-u-s-sorghum-as-corn-quotas-run-out.html
Feed mills in  China , the biggest
meat producer, will buy more U.S. sorghum as a substitute for
more expensive domestic corn as their government-issued quotas
have been used up, COFCO Corp. said.  As much as 1.5 million metric tons of sorghum may be
imported in the year starting Oct. 1, Fan Zhenyu, vice president
of the corn division at the state-owned trading house, said
yesterday at a conference in Nanchang, central China, without
giving a figure for this year. Unlike corn, mills don’t need to
use quotas to import sorghum, he said. China wasn’t a buyer of
U.S. sorghum before this year, according to the U.S. Grains
Council.  Livestock producers are eager to source cheaper U.S. grain
to cut costs and as their corn import quotas have been used up
for the calendar year, Fan said. China has stockpiled 30 million
tons of corn, or 15 percent of last year’s harvest, to boost
farming incomes and support domestic prices, Shang Qiangmin,
director at the China National Grain & Oils Information Center,
said at the same conference.  “Imports of anything that can be a substitute for corn,
even barley, is very attractive to users,” Fan said.  The U.S. normally produces about 10 million tons of sorghum
a year with  Japan  taking 2 million tons, he said. U.S. corn
output will be about 352 million tons this year, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Sorghum Cost  Corn for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
was little changed at $4.57 a bushel at 2:19 p.m. Beijing time,
or about $181 a ton. Sorghum, while not listed on the Chicago
bourse, costs about $25 a ton more than U.S. corn to import,
according to Fan. That’s still cheaper than corn on the  Dalian
Commodity Exchange , which traded at 2,324  yuan  ($380) a ton.  While China is obligated to allow up to 7.2 million tons of
corn to be imported each year as a commitment to the  World Trade
Organization , it only allots 2.88 million tons to private
industry. State-owned COFCO and China Reserves Corp. import the
remainder at the government’s discretion, Fan said.  Private companies are also buying the so-called dried
distillers’ grains, or DDGS, a by-product of making corn-based
ethanol, Fan said. Imports may total 3 million tons this year,
he said. Last year’s imports totaled 2.4 million tons, according
to researcher Boyar.cn.  Still, the new government headed by Premier  Li Keqiang  may
begin to loosen control on imports to preserve land and water,
said Fan, who projected shipments rising to 20 million tons a
year by 2018. Last year’s imports were 5.2 million tons, customs
data show.  China’s feed-grain imports may amount to about 10 million
this year, including corn, sorghum and DDGS, Fan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  