-- China Repo Rate Set for Biggest Weekly Decline This Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T03:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/china-repo-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-decline-this-month.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
headed for this month’s biggest weekly drop after the central
bank injected the most funds into the financial system since
June to help lenders meet quarter-end cash requirements.  The People’s Bank of China  added a net  150.1 billion  yuan 
($25 billion) this week, the most since the week ended June 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The authority rolled
over 4.9 billion yuan of maturing three-year notes at 3.5
percent yesterday, according to a statement on its website.
Financial markets in China will be closed Oct. 1-7 for the
National Day holidays.  “The amount of injections this week calmed a market
thirsty for cash at the end of the quarter,” said Guo Caomin,
an analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. “Also, the re-issuance of the three-year notes yesterday again sends a clear
signal to the market about the central bank’s intention; to
continue to tighten liquidity at the long-end.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 37 basis points, or
0.37 percentage point, from Sept. 22, the most since the week
ended Aug. 30, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell 50 basis points
today to 3.64 percent as of 10:40 a.m. in  Shanghai .  The cost of the one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed
payment to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined
nine basis points to 3.97 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It decreased two basis points today.  Certificates of Deposit  The central bank said yesterday it will allow trading of
certificates of deposit between banks in the “near term,”
another step toward letting market forces determine  interest
rates .  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 climbed three basis points this week and today to 4.05
percent, prices from the Interbank Funding Center show.  China’s latest audit of local government debt may show the
amount owed has doubled from the end of 2010, the Economic
Information Daily reported, citing a person involved in the
audit who wasn’t further identified. The  Shanghai Stock Exchange 
released rules for when-issued trading in  government bonds 
yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  