-- Colombia Leaves Key Rate Unchanged at 3.25% as GDP Accelerates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-09-27T17:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/colombia-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-at-3-25-as-gdp-accelerates.html
Colombia kept borrowing costs
unchanged for a sixth month as growth in  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy accelerates more than analysts estimated.  Banco de la Republica, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent, as  forecast  by
29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Three predicted a 25 basis-point cut. The rate has only been lower once, when it was held
at 3 percent from April 2010 to February 2011.  The central bank cut interest rates 2 percentage points in
the nine months through March as industrial output contracted
and  consumer prices  rose at the slowest pace in six decades. A
faster-than-expected 4.2 percent economic expansion in the
second quarter combined with quickening inflation reinforced the
call of the majority of the seven-member central bank board who
argued against additional  interest rate  cuts last month,
according to Daniel Velandia, the head analyst at Credicorp
Capital’s Colombia unit.  “The economy is gaining speed and inflation is on the
rise,” Velandia said in a phone interview from Bogota. Second-quarter “growth was a big surprise. Under this scenario, it
doesn’t make much sense to cut rates.”  At least two of the seven members of the bank’s policy
committee voted for a rate cut last month, arguing that the
economy is growing less than its full potential while inflation
risks are low, according to the  minutes  published Sept. 13  Central bankers who voted to leave interest rates unchanged
last month argued that they would have more information on
economic growth and on U.S. monetary policy when they met again
today, the minutes showed.  Growth Rebound  Second-quarter growth was up from 2.7 percent in the first
quarter, the government said in a report published Sept. 19, and
was more than the central bank’s forecast and the median
 estimate  in a Bloomberg survey which both called for a 3.4
percent expansion.  A day after the gross domestic product report was
published, data from the statistics agency showed industrial
output unexpectedly rose 0.2 percent in July and retail sales
increased for a ninth consecutive month.  Annual inflation quickened to 2.27 percent in August from a
year earlier after the rate in February dropped to 1.83 percent,
its lowest level since the 1950s.  Colombia  targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  Policy makers’ next move will be to raise their benchmark
rate by half a percentage point in the second quarter of 2014,
according to the most recent central bank survey of economists.  GDP will climb 3.9 percent in 2013 and 4.5 percent next
year after expanding an average of 4.7 percent over the past
decade, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  