-- Conservative Groups Oppose Compromise Effort For Ethanol
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-09-27T21:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/conservative-groups-oppose-compromise-effort-for-ethanol.html
Tea Party and conservative groups
criticized efforts by a bipartisan group of lawmakers to reach a
compromise that that would freeze the U.S. mandate for corn-based ethanol, even before a deal is worked out.  End it, don’t mend it, they argued.  “The only reform to this failed government mandate should
be to repeal the RFS,” Tea Party Nation, Americans for Tax
Reform and 19 other groups wrote in a  letter  to lawmakers today.
“Let consumers and the marketplace determine how much ethanol
should be blended with fuel.”  The criticism shows the difficulty lawmakers may face in
revamping a program that’s supported by corn growers and ethanol
makers, and opposed by refiners, chicken producers, restaurant
groups, anti-hunger activists and some environmentalists. House
negotiators met with lobbyists for corn and ethanol makers today
to urge them to support the reform package they are working to
pull together.  Representative Fred Upton, chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, and Representative Henry Waxman, the panel’s
top Democrat, are negotiating changes to the Renewable Fuels
Standard that would keep the ethanol requirement at this year’s
level for the next two years and add incentives to boost low-carbon biofuel, according to people familiar with the talks who
asked not to be identified discussing the sensitive talks.  Exxon Mobil (XOM)   Under the Renewable Fuel Standard, refiners such as Exxon
Mobil Corp. must use a certain amount of those fuels each year,
with their target determined by their share of the fuel market.  If refiners don’t make or buy enough renewable fuel, they
can buy credits for it, known as Renewable Identification
Numbers, on a market. Those RINs had  surged  this year.  The price for this year’s RINs hit $1.43 on July 17, up
from 7 cents at the beginning of the year. It fell 6 cents to 46
cents today. Next year’s credits began trading at 68 cents on
August 9, and fell 15 percent to 45 cents today on news of the
congressional negotiations.  The 2007 law mandates the use of 13.8 billion gallons of
ethanol this year and 14.4 billion gallons in 2014 and 15
billion in 2015. Lobbyists for refiners such as  Valero Corp. (VLO)  say
that requirement is too high.  The additive is typically sold at filling stations, mixed
in a formula of 10 percent ethanol to 90 percent gasoline. The
oil industry says escalating requirements for ethanol would
force them to sell blends exceeding 10 percent, a phenomenon
known as “hitting the  blend wall .”  If the lawmakers agree to cap the ethanol mandate as a
percentage of gasoline use, which is what Waxman and Upton are
discussing, refiners wouldn’t face that blend wall constraint.
The discussions are still in flux, and there is no agreement on
legislation in place, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  