-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Falls to Lowest Level Since April
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-09-27T14:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-falls-to-lowest-level-since-april.html
Confidence among consumers declined
to a five-month low in September as Americans’ views on the
economy dimmed.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 sentiment  decreased to 77.5 this month from 82.1 in August. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for a drop to 78,
after a preliminary reading of 76.8.  Higher mortgage rates that threaten to slow momentum in the
housing market may be making Americans less sanguine about the
economic outlook. Stronger job and wage growth would help
bolster spending for those lower-income households that aren’t
benefiting from the recent upswing in stocks and home prices.  “Most surveys show that  consumer confidence  has softened
in recent months,”  Ryan Wang , a New York-based economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc., said before the report. “The reading
is still higher than a few years ago, and that’s mostly due to
higher home prices and gradual improvement in the labor market”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 76 to 81.5.
The index averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007, and 64.2 during the 18-month slump that ended in June 2009.  The Michigan sentiment survey’s  current conditions  index,
tracking Americans’ view of their personal finances, decreased
to 92.6 from 95.2 last month.  The gauge of  expectations  six months from now declined to
67.8 this month from 73.7 in August.  Bloomberg Measure  The Michigan sentiment index stands in contrast to the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which has increased in the
last three weeks. The gauge rose in the period ended Sept. 22 to
minus 28.1, the highest since the second week of August, from
minus 29.4.  At the same time, the Conference Board’s  confidence index 
decreased to a four-month low in September, the New York-based
private research group said this week.  Higher interest rates may be weighing on consumers’ moods.
The rate on a  30-year fixed loan  rose to 4.58 percent last
month, the highest in two years, according to Freddie Mac data.
A report this week showed that new-home sales in August and July
posted the weakest back-to-back readings this year.  Rates have increased on speculation that Federal Reserve
policy makers would begin reducing the pace of stimulus after
their Sept. 17-18 meeting. The Fed decided to maintain its level
of bond buying until it sees more evidence of a sustained
recovery. Since then, the average rate on 30-year mortgages has
stabilized.  Net Worth  Household net worth, supported in part by rising property
values, climbed by $1.34 trillion in the second quarter, Fed
data showed this week.  An improving job situation would also help propel spending.
Applications for unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped last
week, a sign employers are retaining staff to meet demand.  At the same time, companies have been slow to add more
workers to their payrolls. U.S. retailers are expected to reduce
their holiday hiring by about 6.9 percent compared with last
year, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., a Chicago-based employment consulting firm.  “While the economy and the job market are improving, it
has now been four years since the recession officially ended and
millions of Americans are still unemployed or underemployed,”
John Challenger, the firm’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  