-- Countrywide Whistle-Blower Says U.S. Talks Spurred Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/countrywide-whistleblower-says-lender-must-be-accountable.html
A former official at  Bank of
America Corp .’s Countrywide unit said he went to federal
authorities and filed a whistle-blower lawsuit after learning
the government might settle with the lender.  Edward O’Donnell, who now works for  Fannie Mae , said he
contacted the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
February 2012 after reading in news accounts that the  Justice
Department  was considering settling with large U.S. banks
accused of selling bad mortgages to government-sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs.  In a complaint filed that month under the  False Claims Act 
and unsealed eight months later, O’Donnell alleged that
Countrywide Financial Corp. issued defective mortgages under its
“High Speed Swim Lane” program, or HSSL, and then sold them to
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . The U.S. later joined the suit and
the trial, which began Sept. 24 in federal court in New York.  “The government didn’t have any information about the HSSL
and the fact that loans had been sold to the GSEs and others
such as  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac that clearly didn’t qualify
as quality investment grade,” O’Donnell testified yesterday.
“They weren’t aware of it, so no one had been held
accountable.”  The U.S. alleges that under the HSSL program, Countrywide
boosted profits by “benching” underwriters and replacing them
with inexperienced “loan specialists” who were forced to meet
quotas and ignore quality control.  $1.6 Million  Under whistle-blower laws, O’Donnell said he could collect
as much as $1.6 million of any monetary damages awarded to the
U.S. if the jury finds Bank of America, which acquired
Countrywide in 2008, liable for fraud.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the
case, told jurors he would make the determination about damages,
if necessary, after they rendered their verdict on liability.  Brendan Sullivan , a lawyer for Countrywide, told the jury
in his opening statement that while the U.S. claims the loans
were faulty, the bank had created a process to speed the
approval of prime loans after it shifted its focus from subprime
loans. He said no one at Countrywide made misrepresentations to
Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or defrauded them.  15 Days  Under the HSSL program, O’Donnell, who as head of risk
management at a Countrywide unit, said the processing of loans
was sped up from 20 to 30 days down to 15 days or less.  O’Donnell said that after the HSSL program was introduced
in August 2007, his staff conducted an audit of its loans to
determine how many were deemed “defective” or “severely
unsatisfactory” and therefore couldn’t be rated for sale to
Fannie Mae or  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   An audit of loans processed under the HSSL program that
October found that 92.3 percent of them were deemed high risk.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jaimie Nawaday showed jurors a
series of e-mails that O’Donnell received from Countrywide
superiors about continuing with the HSSL program that urged loan
specialists to “increase the volume” and “increase
velocity.”  O’Donnell testified he warned Countrywide officials about
the failure rate of the HSSL loans and that scrutiny and audits
of the loan specialists should continue. Underwriters who
previously processed loans had been let go, he said, and loan
processors who replaced them were told to close loans and not
worry if they were later defective.  He drafted a memo to superiors complaining that the
continued push to generate loans that were “substandard” could
put all of Countrywide’s employees at risk. He never sent the
message, testifying, “I thought sending that e-mail would be
slitting my own throat.”  O’Donnell is scheduled to resume his testimony Sept. 30
with cross-examination by a lawyer for the banks.  The case is U.S. v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 1:12-cv-01422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  