-- McQuaid Ousted as Cycling Leader After Armstrong Scandal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-27T12:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/mcquaid-ousted-as-cycling-leader-after-armstrong-scandal.html
Brian Cookson of the U.K. was
elected president of  cycling’s ruling body , ousting incumbent
Pat McQuaid, after vowing to clean up the sport’s image
following the Lance Armstrong doping scandal.  Cookson, 62, beat McQuaid of Ireland by 24 to 18 in a vote
by Union Cycliste Internationale executives in Florence,  Italy ,
according to an e-mailed statement from British Cycling. Cookson
has led British Cycling since 1997 and sat on the UCI management
committee since 2009.  McQuaid replaced Hein Verbruggen as head of the Aigle,
Switzerland-based UCI in 2005 and adopted blood-profiling of
cyclists in 2008, a method that track and field and tennis have
followed. Neither Verbruggen nor McQuaid did enough to catch
cheating by Armstrong from 1999 to 2005, according to Greg
LeMond and other former riders.  McQuaid needed support from national federations in
Thailand and  Morocco  to endorse his bid for re-election after
his home nation of Ireland, and Switzerland, where he lives,
refused to support him.  Cookson said in  his election manifesto  he wants a
“completely independent” anti-doping unit at the UCI to help
restore trust in cycling’s ruling body. He promised more
transparency, including publishing his financial interests and
salary.  Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour de  France  wins by
the UCI last October following a U.S. Anti-Doping Agency
investigation that used affidavits by several former teammates
to prove he doped. At the time, McQuaid said the UCI had had
limited powers to uncover what he called a “sophisticated”
doping regime on the American’s teams.  Truth and Reconciliation  In January, McQuaid, 64, disbanded an external commission
set up to review its handling of Armstrong’s career, saying a
better way to “clear the air” was to create a truth and
reconciliation panel to study cycling’s past.  Cookson told L’Equipe newspaper yesterday he wants to
reinstate the external review and introduce a “partial”
amnesty in cycling whereby riders who have doped get reduced
sanctions to encourage them to confess.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at  