-- Croatia Court Orders Detention for Mol Chairman Hernadi
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-27T11:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/croatia-court-orders-detention-for-mol-chairman-hernadi.html
A Zagreb court issued a detention
order for Mol Nyrt. Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi  after he missed a
meeting with Croatian prosecutors to answer questions in a fraud
investigation.  Hernadi, who is also chief executive officer of the
Hungarian oil company, failed to appear before  Croatia ’s Office
for Suppression of Corruption and Organized Crime on Sept. 25,
said county court spokesman Kresimir Devcic in a phone interview
today.  Croatia and Mol have been locked in a dispute over the
Zagreb-based oil company’s future since the arrest and
conviction of ex-Premier Ivo Sanader, who is serving a 10-year
prison term for corruption related to a 2009 agreement that gave
Mol control over  INA Industrija Nafte d.d . Mol has denied any
wrongdoing and spokesman Domokos Szollar said the Budapest
company couldn’t immediately comment on the court order.  “The detention is ordered as there is a possibility of
flight, and that court order is a basis for issuing a European
Union-wide arrest warrant and possibly also an international
arrest warrant,” Croatian state television reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Mol, which owns 49.1 percent of  INA , while Croatia holds
44.84 percent of the $7.3 billion unit.  Since the accord, successive governments in the European
Union’s newest member have sought to re-establish the state’s
influence over INA. The government earlier this month initiated
talks with Mol, asking that INA be developed as an independent
company, and not as a subsidiary.  The two sides met in Zagreb on Sept. 18, and agreed to meet
once a month to discuss management, cost controls, investment
and profit sharing, among other things.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  