-- Oil Falls for Third Week on U.S. Budget Impasse
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-09-27T19:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/crude-set-for-third-weekly-loss.html
West Texas Intermediate tumbled for
a third week on forecasts that the U.S. budget impasse may hurt
growth in the world’s largest oil-consuming country and as
easing tension in  Syria  reduced supply concerns.  Prices fell 16 cents. The Senate voted today to finance the
government through Nov. 15 after removing language to defund the
health-care law, putting pressure on the House to avoid a
federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1. The United Nations
 Security Council  was set to consider a resolution today to
eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons. Oil gained earlier on a
strike decision by workers at Scotland’s sole oil refinery.  “There is certainly a lot of concern amongst traders about
what this potential shutdown could mean for the market,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut. “We have eliminated the Syria
premium. None of those things are good for  oil prices .”  WTI for November delivery settled at $102.87 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Volume of all futures was 24
percent below the 100-day average at 3:41 p.m. Prices lost 1.7
percent this week. They are up 6.5 percent in the third quarter
and 12 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement dropped 58 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $108.63 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Futures decreased 0.6 percent this week. Volume
was 13 percent lower than the 100-day average. Brent’s premium
to WTI was $5.76, down from yesterday’s $6.18.  Obamacare Funding  The Senate, by a vote of 54-44, passed the stopgap spending
measure and sent it back to the House. The section of the
measure to defund President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care
law, which was backed by Republicans, was defeated by the same
margin. It’s uncertain if the chambers can strike a deal before
funding authority expires on Oct. 1. Democrats control the
Senate, and Republicans control the House.  Speaker  John Boehner  and  House Republicans  say they will
offer other proposals before sending the measure back to the
Senate, which could require another series of votes.  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc. estimates a three- to
four-week shutdown would cut U.S. economic growth by 1.4
percentage points. Moody’s projects a 3 percent rate of growth
in the fourth quarter without a closure.  A two-week shutdown starting Oct. 1 could cut growth by 0.3
percentage point to an annualized 2.3 percent rate, according to
St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  ‘Budget Wrangling’  “The budget wrangling is a big deal,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “It put a damper on
everything, and oil is not going to escape that.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped as much as 0.7
percent, extending a weekly decline.  The U.S. used about a fifth of the world’s oil in 2012,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Russian UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin told reporters in New
York yesterday that the U.S. and Russia had submitted a draft
plan to disarm Syria of chemical weapons to the executive
council of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons in the Netherlands.  While the document authorizes the Security Council to
implement punitive measures, it doesn’t threaten the automatic
use of force against Syria, as the U.S. and its European allies
had wanted.  Syria Tension  WTI rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault against Syria would lead to a disruption of
Middle East oil exports. The region accounted for 35 percent of
global oil output in the first quarter of this year, according
to the  International Energy Agency .  Crude rose earlier as union workers at PetroIneos’s
210,000-barrel-a-day Grangemouth refinery in Scotland voted in
favor of  strike action  at the plant, citing treatment of a
senior union representative.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index dropped as much as 0.4 percent.
A weaker dollar increases oil’s investment appeal.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 19.8 percent, down from 20.2 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 417,457
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. It totaled 381,036 contracts
yesterday, 38 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.87 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  