-- Cutting JFK Lines Seen Possible With O’Hare Technology
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/cutting-jfk-lines-seen-possible-with-o-hare-technology.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is paying for
the automated-passport machines that are coming to  New York ’s
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  in an effort to cut wait
times that can reach five hours for travelers from abroad.  JFK’s status as the busiest U.S. entry point for
international passengers makes it a particular concern,
according to the  Global Gateway Alliance , a trade organization
advocating for improvements at New York’s airports. The group
welcomed  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection ’s disclosure Sept.
25 that the airport would get automated passport control.  “The operator had to step up and front the money for
this,”  Stephen Sigmund , the group’s executive director, said in
an interview. “They just couldn’t wait any longer. The
situation has been intolerable for a long time.”  Customs officials should also increase staffing, create
rapid-response teams to address trouble spots and make more
information about delays available to the public, Sigmund said.  The automated-passport system may reduce waiting times to
clear customs by as much as 40 percent, Kevin McAleenan, acting
deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said
in an interview. The system is already in place at three U.S.
and Canadian airports, McAleenan said.  “The results have been very impressive,” McAleenan said.
“It’s going to have a significant facilitation impact.”  Longer Waits  Staffing shortages that customs officials blame on
automatic U.S. budget cuts have extended waits to as long as
five hours during peak times at the busiest airports, including
JFK, the U.S. Travel Association said in a report Sept. 18.  Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson , whose
company recently opened a $1.4 billion international terminal at
JFK, has called the delays an “embarrassment” that discourages
tourism and threatens U.S. economic growth.  The customs agency is also negotiating with three U.S.
airports for reimbursement of overtime costs, which would keep
more processing lanes open, McAleenan said. The facilities are
Miami International,  Dallas / Fort Worth  International and
Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental, McAleenan said.  The system coming to JFK lets passengers use kiosks to
answer questions instead of submitting paper declaration cards
on arrival. The kiosks scan passport information so customs
officers don’t have to examine the paper document.  Interview times by officers have been cut in half to 30
seconds on average for U.S. citizens, McAleenan said.  O’Hare Test  At  Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport, the first U.S.
facility to test the new system, wait times came down even as
the international carriers were added, Rosemarie Andolino, a
commissioner with the city’s  Aviation Department , said Sept. 18.
About 60 percent of travelers are processed in 15 minutes and 85
percent wait less than 30 minutes, she said.  Missed connections at O’Hare have been reduced 69 percent,
McAleenan said.  Only U.S. citizens can use automated passport control at
O’Hare. At airfields serving Vancouver and  Montreal , Canadian
and U.S. citizens can use the system.  Customs plans to bring the automated passport system to
Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston Intercontinental, Orlando
International in  Florida  and Toronto Pearson International
Airport, McAleenan said.  All of the airports receiving the passport system are doing
so with public-private partnerships, said Stephanie Malin, a
customs spokeswoman. The agency isn’t funding any of the kiosks,
she said. Funding sources vary by facility.  Rising Traffic  The agency has struggled to keep pace with the growth of
international arrivals without money to hire more customs
officers. A record 100 million international air passengers
arrived in the U.S. last year.  Congress hasn’t acted on an administration request for an
additional 3,500 officers to process airline passengers,
McAleenan said.  International air carriers often schedule flights at the
same times during peak hours, McAleenan said. Some other
arrivals occur when airports aren’t fully staffed.  “We have the challenge of trying to stretch all of the
hours of service requested, as well as massing forces during
peak periods,” McAleenan said. “Overtime is one way to help
bridge those gaps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  