-- Dainippon, Google, Apple, Dogfish: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/dainippon-google-apple-dogfish-intellectual-property.html
Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506) ’s
Sunovion won an appeals court ruling that Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd.’s generic version of the sleep aid Lunesta
would infringe a patent that expires next year.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said yesterday the trial judge erred in ruling the
Dr. Reddy’s version didn’t infringe the patent, which covers
eszopiclone, the active ingredient in Lunesta. The opinion was
posted on the court’s website.  Lunesta generated $136 million in sales during the first
quarter in  North America  and  China , Osaka-based Dainippon
Sumitomo said in a July 31 statement. The company has reached
settlements with other companies over the sleep medicine,
including one with  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  that
enable low-cost versions to enter the market before the patent
expires.  The case is Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 13-1335, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court case is Sunovion
Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 09cv1302,
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  Google, Microsoft Urge Changes to Avoid Abuse at EU Patent Court  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp (MSFT)  and at least 12 other companies
urged the European Union to change draft rules that will guide
the way the bloc’s first patent court operates.  “We appreciate that  Europe  has long worked toward a
unified patent system, and we hope the proposed new system will
be a significant step forward,” the companies, including Apple
Inc., said in a letter sent to EU institutions yesterday. “We
are concerned” that aspects of the draft rules “may undermine
these benefits by creating significant opportunities for
abuse.”  EU ministers in February approved plans to set up the first
patent court, paving the way for a common patent system after a
decades-long deadlock on the plans. Costs for getting patent
protection in Europe could be cut by more than 30,000 euros
($40,443) under a new common patent system, the European
Commission, the EU’s executive agency has said.  One of the companies’ concerns is that the rules aren’t
clear enough on when or how it will be decided whether a
particular patent is valid and that this “could undermine,
rather than promote, innovation in Europe.”  Apple Loses $3 Million Patent-Infringement Verdict in Japan  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and iPhone, was ordered to
pay 330 million yen ($3 million) to a Japanese inventor in a
patent-infringement case,  Japan ’s Kyodo News  reported .  The click-wheel controller Apple has used on its Ipods in
Japan was found to infringe a patent on technology invented by
Norihiko Saito, according to Kyodo News.  The order came down yesterday from the Tokyo District
Court, according to the news service.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dogfish Head Tells Texas Brewery to Quit Using ‘Namaste’ Mark  Dogfish Head Craft Brewery Inc., a brewery in Milton,
 Delaware , posted a  statement  on its website that it’s
“searching for a friendly solution” to a trademark dispute
with a convenience store and brewpub in Austin,  Texas .  The Delaware brewery objects to Austin-based  Whip-In ’s use
of “ Namaste Brewing ” as a name for its brewery operations.
“Namaste” is a word used as a greeting in  India .  Dogfish Head registered “Namaste” as a trademark for beer
in February 2012, according to the database of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office.  The brewery said it has sold its Namaste beer throughout
the U.S. for five years and that “there is no point in having a
trademark unless we actively defend it.” If Dogfish Head
doesn’t defend its ownership of the mark, “anyone can name a
beer Namaste,” according to the statement.  The brewery said it is seeking to resolve the issue
“brewer to brewer” without resorting to legal action. The
company said it has given Namaste Brewing “several creative
solutions” to alleviate any hardship the company might have in
phasing out the name.  Dogfish Head said Whip-In sells some Dogfish Head beers,
including Namaste beer. Whip-In’s Namaste Brewing makes a range
of beers with Indian-themed names, including Ganeshale,
Shivastout, Lakshmi Hefe and KaliDurgale.  The patent office database lists other “Namaste”
trademarks, including one registered in May 2012 for use with
digital media, a mark registered in April 2012 for use with
hair-care products, a May 2007 registration as a trademark for
knitting needles, a mark registered in October 2005 for use with
bedding and mattresses and a March 2000 registration for use
with travel agency services.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dentist Claims Critical Website Infringes His Copyrights  A  New York  dentist who sells a product aimed at combating
mouth and dental odor on cable television shopping channels sued
the operator of a website that criticizes him, alleging
copyright infringement.  The dentist, Thomas Connelly, claims that the website
www.thomasconnellydds.com makes use of his photo and name
without authorization. The website contains critical statements
about Connelly and his dental practice, he said in the complaint
filed Sept. 23 in federal court in New York.  He said that he filed takedown requests under the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act and the website was taken down. The
website resurfaced in June and was altered using images of the
dentist he said were stolen from his  www.drconnelly.com  website.  At that time, Connelly was raising capital for a company in
which he has an ownership interest, 32 Oral Care LLC. His
breath-freshening product,  32 Oral Care , is sold on the Shopping
Channel, a cable-shopping channel owned by Rogers Media Inc. of
Toronto.  He said he was courting an investor who was interested in
putting $12 million into 32 Oral Care. The potential investor,
who was to receive a 50 percent stake, read the critical website
and canceled the investment.  Connelly asked the court to bar further infringement of his
copyrights and assign him the thomasconnenellydds.com domain
name, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The critical website had a notice posted yesterday saying,
“This site has stepped out for a bit.”  The case is TCP IP Holder Inc. v.  Cohen, 13-cv-06692, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Alaska Fracking Rules Won’t Protect Trade Secrets, Group Says  Alaska Oil and Gas Association , a petroleum industry trade
group, told the state’s  Oil and Gas Conservation Commission  that
proposed  new regulations  on hydraulic fracturing would provide
no trade-secret protection,  according to   North Dakota ’s
Jamestown Sun newspaper.  The trade group is objecting to requirements that would
mandate full disclosure of chemicals in the hydraulic fracturing
fluid used to crack open layers of rock and release oil and gas,
the Jamestown Sun reported.  Alaska fracking regulations are more strict than those
imposed by other states, the trade group said, according to the
newspaper.  Cathy Foerster, who heads the commission, said it would
accept comments on the regulations for three more weeks, the
Jamestown Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  