-- Death of 99% Pemex Tax Soothes Oil Monopoly Fate: Mexico Credit
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-09-27T17:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/death-of-99-pemex-tax-soothes-oil-monopoly-fate-mexico-credit.html
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s plan
to reduce state-owned oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos ’s tax
burden while giving it first rights on prospects is enriching
investors with  Mexico ’s biggest bond-market gains.  Pemex’s $2.3 billion of notes due in 2035 have returned 9.9
percent in September, the most among $84 billion in outstanding
dollar-denominated bonds issued by 120 Mexican corporate
borrowers. The advance is also quadruple the 2.4 percent  gain 
for the  Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Corporate Bond Index. (BEMC)   Pena Nieto’s proposal last month to end Pemex’s 75-year
monopoly on oil production came with perks, including cuts to an
effective  tax rate  that exceeded 99 percent last year, the
highest among the world’s biggest oil producers. The bill also
gives Pemex priority in the choicest drilling blocks, helping to
assuage concern it would be penalized as the government sought
to attract outside investment, Bank of  Nova Scotia  said.  “It’s now clear that the major parties agree that the
government must seek other sources of revenue besides Pemex’s
sales,” Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee $800 million at
Silva Capital Management LLC, said in a telephone interview from
 Chicago . “When you have this type on consensus among the main
parties around an issue, like Pemex taxes, then you can expect
it will be part of the new law.”  Tax Savings  Officials in the press department of Mexico City-based
Pemex didn’t respond to a request seeking comment on the
performance of the bonds.  Pemex estimates the tax cuts could reach at least $10
billion a year, almost 15 percent of the $69 billion that it
paid in 2012.  The oil producer paid 99.5 cents for every dollar of the
$71 billion in pretax revenue it generated last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The average for integrated oil
producers was 35 percent, while Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s
state oil company, paid 25 percent, the data show.  Pena Nieto is trying to attract investment from private
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  by giving
them the chance to pump crude  oil in Mexico  for the first time
since 1938 through changes to the constitution. While parts of
the government’s proposal have met with opposition from the two
main opposition parties, there’s agreement on the plan to reduce
Pemex’s tax burden.  “All the proposals favor Pemex,” Araceli Espinosa, a
fixed-income strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview.  Stimulus Maintained  Pemex’s bonds have gained along with Mexican government
notes, which have advanced this month as the federal reserve
opted to maintain its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases.  The flood of cheap money known as quantitative easing has
suppressed borrowing costs and pushed investors into  emerging
markets  seeking higher returns. Pemex is rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the same as the Mexican government.  Even so, the extra yield investors demand to own Pemex 2022
bonds instead of similar-maturity Mexican government notes
decreased by 0.05 percentage point to 0.67 percentage point this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That gap could narrow by 0.3 percentage point more after
the reforms are approved, said Espinosa.  ‘Round Zero’  Energy Minister Pedro J. Coldwell said Aug. 12 that under
the proposed industry revamp, Pemex would get the right to
choose which fields to keep -- a process known as “round
zero.” In addition, the company won’t be obligated to
participate in other drillers’ projects.  The system “lets Pemex choose the most profitable projects
without competing against private companies,” Alejandra Leon, a
Mexico City-based analyst at IHS CERA, said in an interview.
Pemex is expected to keep most projects in the shallow waters
off the  Gulf of Mexico  coast “because that’s the area where
they already have the experience and technology.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries widened four basis points to
206 basis points at 1:21 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose seven basis points to
122 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 13.1443 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  