-- Detroit Union Seeks to Revive ‘13th’ Pension Check Policy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-09-27T20:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/detroit-union-seeks-to-revive-13th-pension-check-policy.html
Detroit  Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr
called for freezing the general employee pension fund to save
money, after a city union filed court papers that may revive a
program that gave retirees an extra check each year the system
had excess earnings.  Before it ended in 2011, the policy of issuing a “13th”
check and other payments cost Detroit’s general pension system
$1.92 billion from 1985 to 2008, according to a report
commissioned by the city. The city filed for bankruptcy before
the Michigan Employment Relations Commission could consider
restoring the checks, putting the issue on hold, according to
records filed Sept. 24 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit.  The actions came as city auditors released a report that
questioned policies on pensions and other benefit programs. The
investigation, ordered by Orr in June, cited excessive payments
to employees’ savings accounts from the pension fund. Auditors
also found hundreds of probably fraudulent or “highly
questionable” unemployment compensation claims.  Detroit’s financial crisis has drawn the attention of
President  Barack Obama , who was to send members of his cabinet
to the city today to discuss possible federal aid through
existing programs with Orr, Mayor Dave Bing and Michigan
Governor Rick Snyder. The Obama administration officials will
propose almost $300 million in combined federal and private aid
for Detroit, the  New York  Times reported yesterday.  Closing Plan  Orr wants to close the defined-benefit pension plan to new
members on Dec. 31 and freeze accrued benefits for workers
already vested. Those who aren’t vested would be shifted to a
401(k)-style savings plan, according to a memo provided by Tina
Bassett, spokeswoman for the general retirement system. The
proposal doesn’t affect the separate pension fund for police and
fire department employees.  Bassett, in a written response, called the proposal
“unseemly and disingenuous” because Orr didn’t seek input from
the pension system and introduced it before U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Steven Rhodes has ruled on whether the bankruptcy can
proceed.  Orr has said its biggest unsecured debt is an unfunded
pension liability of $3.5 billion. The city also owes about $1.4
billion on bonds issued to bolster the two employee pension
systems.  ‘Tacit Agreement’  The 13th checks for retirees were allowed by the city
almost every year for so long that they became a right that
couldn’t be revoked unilaterally, according to a ruling by Doyle
O’Connor, an administrative law judge with the employment
relations commission.  “A practice that continues for three decades is a tacit
agreement,” O’Connor said in an oral ruling in February. The
city should have negotiated the change with the union as part of
a new employment contract.  In its motion, the American Federation of State County and
Municipal Employees asked Rhodes to lift the automatic stay,
which prevents lawsuits against the city while it is in
bankruptcy. Because of the stay, O’Connor hasn’t made a written
recommendation that the commission can use to force the city to
restore the pension board’s power to issue the extra checks, the
union said.  ‘Damage Award’  O’Connor is retiring next month and the union said it wants
him to be free to issue his recommendation to the commission,
including “affixing any damage award” the city may owe for
barring the 13th-check policy.  Should the bankruptcy court lift the automatic stay and
O’Connor issue a written recommendation, the three-member
employment commission would make a final ruling on the matter,
according to the union motion.  Resuming the policy “would bring back a practice that
would really damage the funds,” Bill Nowling, a spokesman for
Orr, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Sharon Levine, an attorney for the union, didn’t
immediately return e-mails requesting comment on the union’s
Sept. 24 filing.  Excess Money  From July 1985 to June 2008, a pension board that is
independent from the city council paid out what it considered
excess money 18 times, or about $951 million in total. That
included $121.1 million handed out in the 2008 fiscal year, the
last for which information was available. The board made the
payments if it earned more on investments than expected.  The pension board was following the city council’s
direction, Bassett said. The board lacked the authority to pay
out extra money without the city’s permission, she said.  Each year, the money was split three ways: part was
returned to the investment fund, reducing the annual
contribution owed by the city; part was given to retirees in the
form of the 13th check; and part was given to current employees
who participated in an optional annuity program in which they
set aside some of their income for retirement.  Had the excess money been reinvested, the pension fund
would have accrued an additional $1.9 billion, according to the
2011 report, which didn’t look into the pension system for
police and fire employees. Keeping the excess earnings might
have helped the general pension fund avoid a crisis, said
Nowling, Orr’s spokesman.  Bonus Checks  Bonus checks typically ranged from $250 to $500 and were
begun in the 1980s to help retirees struggling to make ends meet
while the pension fund was reaping large returns on investments,
Bassett said.  “These were revenue from those investments and we thought
we would be able to share them,” Bassett said in a phone
interview. Retirees “were struggling,” she said.  The average pension benefit for general retirees is less
than $20,000 a year, she said. The bonus checks were approved by
the city, and a reserve fund was created for them, she said.  Bassett said the “total collapse” of the Detroit economy
caused the city’s financial crisis and hurt the pension fund.
She disputed the actuary report as “not a clear picture.”  Of the excess earnings returned by the general pension fund
from 1985 to 2006, 14 percent went to annual retiree bonus
checks and 54 percent went to employee savings plans, Bassett
said. The remaining 32 percent was credited to the city for
payments to the fund.  In each of 13 years since 1984, the pension fund gave an
effective rate of return of more than 20 percent to the employee
savings plans, higher than market rates, according to the report
issued yesterday by Detroit’s inspector and auditor generals.
The bonus interest payments came from the general pension fund.  Detroit has about 20,100 retirees, twice the number of
active employees.  Pension-system shortfalls prompted the city in 2005 to
borrow $1.4 billion through pension obligation certificates, a
debt that contributed to the city’s bankruptcy.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  