-- Dongfeng Says It’s ‘Far’ From Deciding on Any Peugeot Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T08:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/dongfeng-says-it-s-far-from-deciding-on-any-peugeot-investment.html
Dongfeng Motor Co. (489) ,  China ’s second-largest automaker, said it’s “far” from making any decision on
investing in  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  after being contacted by
investment banks.  “We indeed received information from investment banks
regarding PSA and we are doing preliminary research on it,”
Song Hefeng, an official at Dongfeng’s legal and securities
affairs department, said by phone today.  “We have not come up
with any conclusion yet -- Far from reaching that point.”  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, is considering
selling a stake to Dongfeng to raise cash for expansion outside
its home continent, though talks are at a preliminary stage,
people familiar with the matter said earlier this month. The
sale could lead the Peugeot family, which currently owns 25.5
percent of the shares, to lose control of the French company,
the people said.  The French carmaker, which is expecting to burn through
about 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) in cash this year amid
losses in  Europe , will have four factories in China by the end
of year. The first three, under the venture with Dongfeng, are
in Wuhan, capital of the central province of Hubei. The most
recent plant was inaugurated in July and will increase the
company’s annual production capacity in China by two-thirds to
750,000 vehicles by the end of 2015.  A separate joint venture with Chang’An Automobile Group is
scheduled to open Peugeot’s fourth Chinese factory in the
southern city of Shenzhen tomorrow. Peugeot will use the plant
to make upscale DS models and will start production with the DS5
wagon.  --  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  