-- Dudley Says Fiscal Debate Among Risks to Economic Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-27T19:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/dudley-says-fiscal-debate-among-risks-to-u-s-economic-outlook.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said budget battles in  Washington 
are among the risks to the outlook and he wants to see more
momentum in the economy before paring the pace of the central
bank’s bond buying.  Debate in Congress on raising the debt ceiling and how to
fund the government for the next fiscal year “creates
uncertainty about the fiscal outlook and may exert a restraining
influence on household and business spending,” Dudley said
today in a speech in Syracuse, New York.  The Fed last week unexpectedly held off on reducing its $85
billion monthly pace of asset purchases, saying it needs more
evidence of lasting improvement in the economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 18 after the two-day meeting the central
bank must determine policy based on “what’s needed for the
economy,” even if it surprises investors.  “I’d like to see economic news that makes me more
confident that we will see continued improvement in the labor
market,” said Dudley, who holds a permanent vote on policy as
vice chairman of the  Federal Open Market Committee . “Then I
would feel comfortable that the time had come to cut the pace of
asset purchases.”  U.S. stocks fell, extending a weekly drop, amid concern the
political impasse over the  federal budget  will hurt the economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.5 percent to 1,690.90
at 3:52 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
dropped three basis points to 2.62 percent.  Sustained Buying  Investor expectations this year about when the Fed would
taper “jumped the gun,” Dudley said in response to audience
questions. Policy makers had said reductions in bond buying
hinge on economic data and they never pledged to slow their
buying this month, he said.  “Markets got a little ahead of us and it just underscores
the importance of Fed communication,” Dudley told business
school students at  Syracuse University . “What we were trying to
do this summer was to really just provide a little bit more
context for how we were going to think about the decision how to
reduce the pace of asset purchases when the time came.”  The FOMC would be leery of allowing inflation to rise
above its 2 percent target, Dudley said.  “We think it’s not a good policy to try a little bit more
inflation above the 2 percent target by any significant margin
because we tried that in the ’60s and ’70s and it didn’t end
well,” he said. “What they found out was they were trading a
little lower unemployment for ever-higher inflation.”  Policy makers are “very much committed to not making that
mistake again,” he said.  Inflation Policy  Dudley, 60, said in the speech that rising domestic
 interest rates  and the global economic outlook pose risks to the
 U.S. economy . The average rate on a 30-year  fixed-rate mortgage 
was 4.32 percent in the week ended Sept. 26, compared with 3.51
percent on May 16, the week before Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
first outlined a possible timetable for a reduction in asset
purchases.  “We have seen a sharp drop in refinancing mortgage
applications, a more moderate but significant decline in
purchase mortgage applications and fairly flat housing starts
and new-home sales,” Dudley said. “These developments do
suggest that higher  mortgage rates  have cut into the upward
momentum of the housing sector.”  Fed officials last week reduced their growth  estimates  for
this year and next. Gross domestic product will probably rise 2
percent to 2.3 percent this year, down from a June projection of
2.3 percent to 2.6 percent, according to their estimates.  Labor Market  “Consistent with the modest pace of economic growth,
improvement in labor market conditions has been slow,” Dudley
said. “Taken together, the labor market still cannot be
regarded as healthy. Numerous indicators, including the behavior
of labor compensation, are all consistent with the view that
there remains a great deal of slack in labor markets.”  Employment growth has improved with the Fed’s bond
purchases, which have expanded its balance sheet to a record
 $3.73 trillion . The U.S. has added an average of 160,000 jobs
over the past six months, up from 97,000 originally reported for
the half-year before the Fed decided to start the third round of
purchases a year ago. Policy makers will get another jobs report
before their next gathering on Oct. 29-30.  Dudley said in a Sept. 23 speech that policy makers must
“forcefully” push against economic headwinds as growth hasn’t
shown “any meaningful pickup” in momentum.  Support Needed  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley said in his speech in
New York.  Dudley said in an interview with CNBC that aired Sept. 24
that the central bank may still slow the pace of purchases in
2013 depending on the economy’s performance.  “If the economy were behaving in a way aligned with the
Fed’s June forecast, then it’s certainly likely that the Fed
would begin to taper later this year,” Dudley told CNBC. “I
certainly wouldn’t want to rule it out. But it depends on the
data.”  Dudley was chief U.S. economist for  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  from 1996 to 2005 before joining the Fed regional bank in
2007. He served as the New York Fed’s head of markets before
becoming president of in 2009, succeeding  Timothy F. Geithner 
when he became  Treasury secretary . Dudley holds an economics
doctorate from the  University of California  at Berkeley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  