-- Tearful Rivera Exits Yankee Stadium Mound a Last Time With Hugs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/tearful-rivera-exits-yankee-stadium-mound-a-last-time-with-hugs.html
Mariano Rivera’s final appearance
at Yankee Stadium ended in tearful embraces on the mound with
long-time  New York  teammates  Andy Pettitte  and  Derek Jeter .  Rivera, 43, who is retiring after a record-setting career
as a relief pitcher, got two outs in the eighth inning and two
more in the ninth before Pettitte and Jeter came to the mound to
remove him from last night’s game.  Rivera sobbed as he hugged Pettitte, who also is retiring
at the end of the season, for more than 30 seconds. He then
embraced Jeter before walking off the mound to thunderous
applause, wiping away tears as he headed to the dugout.  “Tonight was kind of a little hard,” Rivera said in an
on-field televised interview as fans chanted his name. “They
both came to get me out, but at the same time I was so thankful
they came out because I needed them there and they were there.”  The Yankees, who had been eliminated from playoff
contention a night earlier and won’t be going to the postseason
for just the second time in Rivera’s 19-year career, lost 4-0 to
the Tampa Bay Rays for their fourth straight loss.  Rivera holds the Major League Baseball record with 652
career saves and helped lead the Yankees to five World Series
championships. His earned run average of 2.21 is the best by any
pitcher with more than 1,000 innings pitched in baseball’s
modern era that began in 1920.  The native of  Panama  was limited to nine appearances, and
five saves, last season because he tore a ligament in his right
knee in early May. He vowed to return for the 2013 season and he
did, appearing in 64 games and adding 44 saves to his record.  ‘Last Time’  The 13-time All-Star went to the mound again after last
night’s game to stand on the pitching rubber and run his fingers
through the dirt.  “I stood there for the last time knowing I’m not going to
be there no more,” he said in a post-game news conference with
his family seated around him. “That little time I was there was
special for me, me alone there.”  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi , who has said he will consider
agreeing to Rivera’s long-standing desire to play center field
in a game when the Yankees finish their season this weekend in
Houston, also became emotional at a news conference when
discussing the reliever.  Girardi, 48, who teamed with Rivera as a Yankees catcher in
1996-99, became his manager in 2008.  “He made my job fun, he made my job easy,” Girardi said.
“But probably more important than that, he made all our lives
better.”  Pettitte, 41, and Jeter, 39, were teammates of Rivera’s on
the five world championship teams. Jeter, who played in only 17
games this season because of injuries, has vowed to return next
year.  Career Flashbacks  Rivera said he sat by himself in the trainer’s room between
the eighth and ninth innings, trying to compose himself as
flashbacks of his career came to him. He took the mound in the
ninth, still fighting for composure.  “The first few pitches I couldn’t control myself, I was
bombarded by emotions and feelings,” he told reporters. “I
knew it was the last time, period. I never felt something like
that before.”  Pettitte and Jeter had told him before the ninth inning
that they would come out together to remove him from the game.  “It wasn’t easy, everything hit me like a ton of bricks at
that point and I lost it,” Rivera said. “They were telling me
that I’m the best and all that stuff, but I couldn’t hear
anything because I lost it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  