-- EBay Loses Bid to Dismiss U.S. Suit Over Intuit Hiring
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-27T23:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ebay-loses-bid-to-dismiss-u-s-suit-over-intuit-hiring-1-.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
online marketplace, lost a bid to dismiss a lawsuit by the U.S.
alleging that the company violated antitrust laws by agreeing
not to hire people working for  Intuit Inc. (INTU)   The government claims the “handshake agreement” was
arrived at and refined by EBay executives including former Chief
Executive Officer Meg Whitman and Intuit co-founder and former
CEO Scott Cook from 2006 to 2009 to restrict recruiting and
hiring each others’ workers, according to the complaint filed in
federal court in San Jose, California.  EBay argued that the U.S. complaint and a similar case
filed by California failed to allege a conspiracy on which such
a suit could be brought, and that neither complaint alleged any
competitive harm. U.S. District Judge Edward J. Davila today
rejected EBay’s bid to throw out the U.S. case, and granted its
request to toss  California ’s complaint.  “At this stage in the litigation, the court finds that the
United States has plausibly alleged an actionable agreement
between the two companies,” Davila wrote in an order, referring
to the  Justice Department ’s case.  The judge ruled that while California didn’t demonstrate it
has standing to bring the case, the state can refile its
complaint.  Distorted Competition  The U.S. claimed the agreements distorted competition for
specialized computer engineers and scientists and made it harder
for workers to get better, higher-paying jobs. Intuit, which
settled a Justice Department case over hiring practices in 2010,
isn’t named as a defendant in either case.  A media representative of EBay and Nick Pacilio, a
spokesman for California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment on the ruling.  Whitman retired from EBay in 2008 and joined  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2011.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v. EBay, 12-05869, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The
state case is California v. EBay, 12-05874, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  