-- ECB Liquidity-Boost Urgency Seen Fading Even on Cash Drop
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 2013-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ecb-liquidity-boost-urgency-seen-fading-even-on-cash-drop.html
The need for a new injection of
cash into the euro area’s banking system may be fading as stress
in the region eases.  Of 19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , 11 said
there’s no requirement for another long-term refinancing
operation from the Frankfurt-based central bank, even after
 excess cash  in the region’s financial system fell to the lowest
level since December 2011. Five economists said new loans will
be needed this year, while three said they’ll be wanted in 2014.  Euro-area banks are repaying three-year loans made at the
height of the sovereign debt crisis. While that’s draining cash,
ECB President  Mario Draghi  has backtracked from an earlier
signal that excess liquidity should stay above 200 billion euros
($271 billion). Instead, the ECB has pledged since July to keep
 interest rates  at or below current levels for an “extended
period,” helping to keep the cost of bank funding down.  “This is a sign that things are slowly beginning to go
back to normal,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “It’s a very different
environment than the end of 2011. For the ECB, this is a neat
outcome; they are exiting from their extraordinary measures
without having to actually formally tighten policy.”  Smooth Exit  The ECB provided banks with more than a trillion euros in
3-year loans in late 2011 and early 2012 as a credit crunch
threatened, with the option to repay them early. Lenders have
since paid back nearly two-thirds of the original net increase
in funding, in part because the ECB’s OMT bond-buying plan in
September 2012 helped calm fears that the euro area would break
apart.  Excess liquidity was at 212 billion euros as of yesterday,
ECB data shows. Draghi said on Sept. 5 that the lower threshold
“depends on the context; it depends on the degree of
fragmentation that we have.”  His pledge that the ECB’s benchmark rate will stay at the
current 0.5 percent or lower for an extended period has so far
had some success in keeping short-term market rates in check.
Eonia, the rate that banks pay to lend to each other overnight,
remains stable and anchored just above the ECB’s deposit rate of
zero. Expectations of future borrowing costs, as measured by
Eonia forward contracts, have fallen to about 0.22 percent from
0.33 percent in June.  ‘No Urgency’  “We have been exiting quietly and smoothly from an
extraordinary phase of high central bank liquidity provision,”
ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said in  Frankfurt  on Sept.
26. “But if declining excess liquidity were to put undue upward
pressure on short-term rates, we would have to address this
problem.”  Global rates surged after June 19, when the U.S. Federal
Reserve said it was considering reducing its bond purchases as
the nation’s economy recovers. European rates rates climbed to
levels that that Draghi dubbed “unwarranted” in August.  “The ECB may want to be on the safe side given the non-linearities between excess reserves and EONIA, said Annamaria Grimaldi, an economist at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in Milan. Even so,
‘‘there’s no urgency right now’’ for a further LTRO, she said.  The euro area still faces further potential market
disruptions, including an ECB review of bank balance sheets, due
at the beginning of 2014, that may reveal capital shortfalls.  Fixed Rate  The ECB can afford to wait a little longer before that
review, according to Frederik Ducrozet, an economist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Paris who says an LTRO is unlikely until
December. The central bank could boost its forward guidance by
putting a definite end date for loans at a particular cost, by
issuing an LTRO with a fixed rate, he said. The previous loans
were charged at the average of the ECB benchmark over the
maturity.  ‘‘A properly-designed LTRO would have the potential to kill
several birds with one stone by enhancing forward guidance,
keeping excess liquidity higher for longer, and further boosting
the use of collateral from small businesses,’’ Ducrozet said.  ECB officials including Executive Board member Benoit Coeure have played down the short-term likelihood of a new round
of long-term loans, saying that while it remained an option, it
hasn’t been specifically discussed. The ECB’s Governing Council
convenes in Paris on Oct. 2 for its monthly rate-setting
meeting.  The central bank’s members ‘‘have recently made clear that
further liquidity would be injected in the system if needed and
we expect the same message to be reiterated next week,” said
Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Strategy in  London .
“That said, the current reduction in liquidity has not affected
EONIA rates yet, and the ECB has pointed out that part of the
early repayments reflect better conditions for euro-area
banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  