-- Medtronic’s Artificial Pancreas Approved for U.S. Diabetics
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-27T20:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/medtronic-wins-u-s-approval-for-artificial-pancreas-system.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  the world’s largest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, won U.S. regulatory approval for
the first artificial pancreas that shuts itself off when a
patient’s blood sugar levels get dangerously low.  The device, called the MiniMed 530G, combines an insulin
pump with a sensor that halts insulin delivery for two hours if
a patient’s blood sugar falls below preset levels. It’s a step
toward a fully automatic artificial pancreas that adjusts
insulin delivery continuously as glucose levels change.  The pancreas produces the hormone insulin, which converts
blood sugar to energy.  Type 1  diabetes occurs when insulin-releasing beta cells in the pancreas are destroyed. Patients
repeatedly test their glucose levels throughout the day, then
inject insulin to control blood sugar. The Medtronic system is
an advance over existing machines that sound an alarm to wake
sleeping patients when their blood sugar gets too low.  The device “can help people gain better control of their
diabetes versus multiple daily injections,” said Katie Szyman,
president of diabetes at Minneapolis-based Medtronic, in a
statement announcing the approval today.  Medtronic rose less than 1 percent to $53 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 22 percent in the past 12
months.  Early Approval  The approval came about six months earlier than investors
expected, said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann
Research in New York, in a note to clients today. It could spark
a turnaround in Medtronic’s diabetes business during the next
several quarters, averting expected declines, she said.  “Now with 530G in hand, Medtronic is better positioned to
reinvigorate its U.S. Diabetes sales growth, which has declined
now for three consecutive quarters,” she wrote. “Most
importantly, the 530G should help Medtronic address a backlog of
patient upgrades that have likely built over the last few
quarters in anticipation” of approval, she said.  About 5 percent of the 25.8 million American diabetics have
Type 1, which is most often diagnosed in young people and needs
lifelong management. High blood sugar can led to  heart disease ,
nerve and kidney damage, and amputations. Hypoglycemia, or low
blood sugar, can cause confusion, blurred vision and loss of
consciousness. The danger is exacerbated if a pump continues to
deliver insulin to someone experiencing hypoglycemia.  Monitor Use  Almost one-third of Type 1 diabetics use continuous glucose
monitors and the number should grow as improvements lead to
better control, said Aaron Kowalski, vice president of treatment
therapies at JDRF, a New York-based advocacy group, in an
interview in June.  The market for the monitors sold by Medtronic and San
Diego-based  DexCom Inc. (DXCM) , as well as the insulin pumps that
replace repeatedly daily injections, is about $2.4 billion a
year. Insulet Corp. of Bedford,  Massachusetts , makes an insulin
infusion system that competes with MiniMed, while  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  is developing its own version of an artificial pancreas.  DexCom shares fell 6.7 percent to $27.23, while Insulet
declined 2.1 percent at $35.84.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
Johnson & Johnson dropped less than 1 percent to $86.73.  The MiniMed 530G is the first device approved through a new
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration  program designed to clarify
the steps the industry needs to follow to bring a replacement
pancreas to the market. It has been sold outside of the U.S.
since 2009 as the MiniMed Veo System.  The machine is approved in the U.S. for patients who are at
least 16 years old, and should be available in the next several
weeks, Medtronic said. The company plans more tests in children
as a young as 2. Medtronic will conduct a post-approval study to
track the device’s performance and communicate directly with
patients monitor their experience.  Manufacturing Adjustments  The company will make manufacturing adjustments to comply
with a Sept. 19 warning letter from the FDA. The company said it
has addressed many of the agency’s observations already and will
resolve the others as quickly as possible.  Medtronic will continue to work on computer systems, blood
sugar monitoring and insulin delivery technology to bring a
totally artificial pancreas to the U.S., Szyman said.  The next generation device will be designed to anticipate
blood sugar levels and administer insulin accordingly to keep
patients in an ideal range with little patient involvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  