-- European Stocks Post Weekly Decline as Italy Sells Debt
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-27T16:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/european-stocks-post-weekly-decline-as-italy-sells-debt.html
European stocks  posted their first
weekly decline this month as Italian bonds fell after a debt
auction, while concern mounted that political wrangling in
Washington will lead to a shutdown of the U.S. government.  Vallourec SA slumped 9.1 percent after the supplier of
tubing to the oil-and-gas industry said that the weak Brazilian
real will hurt profit. Ladbrokes Plc slumped 11 percent as the
bookmaker said operating profit from its digital division will
fall short of analysts’ estimates.  Telekom Austria (TKA)  AG rose 11
percent as a gauge of telecommunication shares posted the
biggest gain by an industry group on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.6 percent to 312.18 this week.
The equity benchmark has still climbed 5 percent this month and
9.5 percent this quarter as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from reducing its monthly bond purchases at its last
policy meeting. The gauge has rallied 12 percent in 2013 as the
euro area emerged from recession and central banks pledged to
keep borrowing costs low to support their respective economies.  “The week was dominated by the U.S. budget and debt
impasse, alongside the inevitable political posturing taking
place,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown
Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “The situation in the U.S.
has been the main talking point of an otherwise dull week as
investors seek a new catalyst for the market’s direction.”  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index slid 1.8 percent this week and bond
yields jumped as borrowing costs climbed and demand fell at an
auction of 10-year debt. The Italian Treasury sold 3 billion
euros ($4.1 billion) of securities maturing in 2024 at an
average yield of 4.5 percent, more than the 4.46 percent yield
at a previous auction on Aug. 29.  Italian Stocks  Italian stocks and bonds dropped on Sept. 26 after Silvio Berlusconi’s allies threatened to resign from parliament if the
Senate votes to expel the former prime minister because of his
conviction for  tax fraud . The coalition government relies on
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party to pass new laws.  As European markets closed today, the  U.S. Congress  had yet
to approve a  federal budget  for the new financial year starting
on Tuesday. U.S. lawmakers have to pass an emergency budget to
keep the federal government operating from Oct. 1, the beginning
of the 2014 fiscal year. Failure to pass a bill may lead to a
government shutdown.  Lawmakers also have to act to increase the federal
government’s debt ceiling as  total borrowing  approaches the
$16.7 trillion limit. Shutting the U.S. government would cut
fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage
points, according to  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc. The
rating company projected that gross domestic product will grow
at a 2.5 percent annualized pace if the government stays open.  European Equities  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 of the 18
western-European markets this week. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.4
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 1.3 percent.  Germany’s DAX slipped 0.2 percent this week as  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its Bavarian sister
party won the country’s election with 41.5 percent of the vote.
The CDU/CSU needs to form a coalition with the  Social Democrats 
or the Greens after its junior partner in the last government
failed to poll the 5 percent share of the vote needed for its
members to win seats in parliament.  Vallourec (VK)  tumbled 9.1 percent this week after the French
company said that demand for its tubes will probably decline in
Brazil through the middle of 2014. It said in a statement that
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, which is also known as Petrobras, will
focus on increasing production in the short term, thereby
reducing demand for pipes for oil exploration.  Ladbrokes Plunges  Ladbrokes tumbled 11 percent to its lowest price in almost
a year. The betting company forecast full-year operating profit
before exceptional items from online gambling of 10 million
pounds ($16 million) to 14 million pounds this year. The average
analyst estimate had called for 27.5 million pounds, according
to Ladbrokes.  Deutsche Wohnen AG slipped 4.2 percent as Blackstone Group
LP sold a 4.8 percent stake, or 8.15 million shares, in
Germany’s second-largest residential landlord.  Telekom Austria  surged 11 percent. The telecommunications
operator posted its biggest weekly gain in four years amid
speculation that Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil
SAB will make a bid to take full control of the company.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  gained 1.7 percent. Spain’s Telefonica
SA agreed to pay 324 million euros to increase its stake in
Telco SpA, a holding company that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom
Italia, to 66 percent from 46 percent.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  jumped 9.7 percent to its highest
price since June 2011 after Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and
the Danish turbine maker agreed to form a joint venture to
develop offshore  wind energy . The partnership will design,
procure, build and sell offshore wind-power plants, Mitsubishi
Heavy said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  