-- European Stocks Fall on Italy Auction, U.S. Budget Woes
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-27T16:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/europe-stock-index-futures-little-changed-before-data.html
European stocks  declined as Italian
bonds fell after a debt auction and concern grew that budget
wrangling in Washington will lead to a government shutdown.  Vallourec (VK)  SA plunged 8.2 percent after warning that slower
drilling in  Brazil  and a weak real may hurt profit.  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  rose to its highest price since June 2011 after
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and the Danish turbine maker
agreed to form a venture to develop offshore  wind energy .  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.3 percent to 312.18 at
the close of trading. The gauge lost 0.6 percent this week amid
concern that U.S. politicians will fail to approve a budget for
the new financial year. It has still climbed 5 percent in
September as the  Federal Reserve  held off cutting its monthly
asset purchases, and has surged 9.5 percent since the end of
June, heading for the biggest quarterly gain in four years.  “It’s been a digestion period,” Andrew Arbuthnott, who
helps oversee about $227 billion as  fund manager  at Pioneer
Investment Management Ltd. in Dublin, said by telephone. “There
are a few issues weighing on the markets like the budget
negotiations in the U.S. and the focus on Italian politics.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 12 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 0.8 percent,
Germany’s DAX lost less than 0.1 percent and France’s CAC 40
Index was little changed. Italy’s FTSE MIB slid 1.3 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 11 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian Bonds  Italy’s government bonds fell as the nation auctioned 6
billion euros ($8.1 billion) of debt maturing in 2018 and 2024.  The yield on  10-year securities  climbed eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.41 percent, extending this week’s
advance to 13 basis points, amid speculation that traders who
deal directly with the Treasury had to hold on to most of the
securities on offer at today’s auction after political tensions
deterred other buyers.  “The Italian auction was weak,” said  Harvinder Sian , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. “The issue is that it was a dealer-led affair
and there wasn’t much real money buying. That -- allied to the
political concerns -- means that sentiment toward Italian debt
is poor.”  Italian bonds dropped yesterday amid concern the government
will collapse after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s allies
threatened to step down if he is expelled from the Senate as a
result of his conviction for  tax fraud .  U.S. Budget  U.S. lawmakers have until Monday to agree to an emergency
budget to keep the federal government operating from Oct. 1, the
beginning of the 2014 fiscal year, through Dec. 15.  A shutdown of the U.S. government would cut fourth-quarter
economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points depending on
its length, economists said, as government workers from park
rangers to telephone receptionists are furloughed.  Mark Zandi  of
Moody’s Analytics Inc. estimated a three-to-four week shutdown
would cut growth by 1.4 points. Moody’s projected a 3 percent
rate of growth in the fourth quarter without a closure.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined to a five-month
low in September, according to data released today. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of  sentiment 
decreased to 77.5 this month from 82.1 in August. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for a drop to 78, after a
preliminary reading of 76.8.  Vallourec Slides  Vallourec sank 8.2 percent to 45.28 euros. The French
producer of steel pipes for the oil and gas industry said after
the close of trading yesterday that a weak Brazilian real and
slowing of drilling in that country may hurt profit.  Tenaris SA declined 3.5 percent to 17.23 euros. Bank of
America Corp. cut its rating on the steel-pipe maker to neutral
from buy, citing lower near-term earnings expectations due to
sluggish trends in  North America  and Europe.  Countrywide Plc (CWD)  dropped 4.9 percent to 518 pence. Alchemy
Partners LLP is selling a 5.9 percent stake, about 12.9 million
shares, in the U.K.’s largest property broker, according to
terms obtained by  Bloomberg News . Shares are being sold through
an accelerated bookbuild.  Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  slid 5.9 percent to 11.98 euros. Wolfgang Buechele, currently chief executive officer of Europe’s largest
supplier of water-treatment chemicals, will take over as CEO of
Linde AG. He will remain at Kemira until April 30, 2014.  Vestas Jumps  Vestas added 4.5 percent to 139.10 kroner, paring earlier
gains of as much as 13 percent. Mitsubishi Heavy and the Danish
turbine maker agreed to establish a venture to develop offshore
wind energy. The partnership, to be formed in March 2014 and
equally owned by the two companies, will design, procure, build
and sell offshore wind power plants, Mitsubishi Heavy said in a
statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  SEB SA (SK)  climbed 3.5 percent to 65.20 euros. The maker of
Tefal pans and Rowenta household appliances was lifted to buy
from hold at Societe Generale SA, which cited a recovery of
sales in Europe, operating margin expansion in 2014 and an
attractive valuation relative to competitors.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  advanced 2.7 percent to 6.09 euros. The
phone company part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB is
heading for its biggest weekly gain since 2009 amid speculation
that the Mexican billionaire may take full control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  