-- Euro-Area Confidence Increases as Recovery Takes Hold
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-09-27T11:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/euro-area-economic-confidence-rises-as-recovery-takes-hold-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro
area increased more than economists forecast in September,
adding to signs the single-currency bloc’s recovery is gaining
momentum.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment rose for a
fifth month to 96.9 from a revised 95.3 in August, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That beat the median estimate
of 96 in a  Bloomberg survey  of 26 economists.  Signs of resurgence in the euro-area economy since it
 returned to growth  in the second quarter after an 18-month
contraction have boosted equities, with the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index up more than 4 percent in the last two months. Yet Europe
continues to struggle with the legacy of the debt crisis now in
its fourth year, including falling industrial production and a
 jobless rate  at a record 12.1 percent.  “With euro-zone economic sentiment continuing to turn up,
the risk of a near-term relapse in economic activity is clearly
dwindling,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank NV
in Amsterdam. “However, with ongoing private-sector
deleveraging in many euro-zone countries, and the ongoing
deleveraging by governments (albeit at a slowing pace), the pace
of recovery remains well below ‘escape velocity.’”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data were released, trading at $1.3505 at 12:47 p.m. in
Brussels, up 0.1 percent on the day.  ‘Striking Increase’  Confidence improved across the economic spectrum in
September, with the index of industrial sentiment up to minus
6.7 from minus 7.8 in August and the services gauge rising to
minus 3.3 from minus 5.2. Confidence in the retail sector
increased to minus 7 from minus 10.6.  Sentiment in the financial-services industry, which isn’t
factored into the economic confidence number, jumped to 11.3
from 5.2, “driven by a striking increase in managers’ demand
expectations, as well as improving assessments of past demand
and the past business situation,” the commission said in
today’s report.  “Measures of confidence and surveys of production have
given some support to the view that euro-area economic activity
should continue its  slow recovery  in the current quarter,
despite weak production data for July,” European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 23. “However, unemployment
in the euro area remains far too high, and the recovery will
need to be firmly established.”  Mixed Signals  Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey see economic
growth slowing to 0.2 percent in the third quarter after a 0.3
percent expansion in the three months through June. Analysts
forecast the jobless rate won’t drop below 12 percent through
2015.  Europe’s subdued economic climate is reflected in mixed
signals from companies in the region. Some, such as Mota-Engil
SGPS SA,  Portugal ’s largest construction company, are offsetting
lower demand at home by expanding abroad.  Mota-Engil Chief Executive Officer Goncalo Martins said
Sept. 19 that the company should post “very solid” results for
the second half of 2013, with  Africa  and Latin America
accounting for more than 60 percent of revenue.  Other companies are struggling in a European market just
emerging from a record-long recession. Royal DSM NV, which has
spent $3.2 billion on nutrition-ingredient acquisitions, said
yesterday that 2013 profit may fall short of an initial target,
weighed down by stagnant markets in Europe and lower chemical
prices.  House Prices  The encouraging European economic news extended to the
U.K., where  house prices  rose the most in more than a year in
September as improving confidence and government measures helped
drive buyers onto the market,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  U.K.  consumer confidence  rose to the highest in almost six
years in September, and  labor productivity  rose for the first
time in two years in the second quarter, led by the
manufacturing industry.  In  Asia ,  Japan ’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace
since 2008 in August on higher energy costs, underscoring
pressure on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to drive wage increases as
he seeks to end 15 years of deflation.  A shutdown of the U.S. government would reduce fourth-quarter growth in the world’s largest economy by as much as 1.4
percentage points depending on its length, economists say, as
government workers from park rangers to telephone receptionists
are furloughed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  