-- Ex-EPA Official Admits to Faking CIA Job for Unearned Pay
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-09-27T17:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ex-epa-official-admits-to-faking-cia-job-for-unearned-pay.html
A longtime senior official at the
U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  admitted to accepting
almost $900,000 in pay and benefits for work he didn’t do by
pretending he was away on missions for the CIA.  John Beale, 64, pleaded guilty today in federal court in
 Washington  to stealing government property. He collected
paychecks from about 2000 through this year despite absences
from work that he explained by falsely claiming he was on
assignment for the Central Intelligence Agency, according to a
statement of his offense reviewed in court.  Beale engaged in this “scheme of deception for over 10
years,” U.S. Magistrate Judge John Facciola said today. “You
claimed you were working for the CIA even though you never
did.” Beale didn’t comment except to answer Facciola’s
questions aimed at making sure he understood his plea.  From 2000 to 2013, Beale was absent from his EPA job for a
total of about two and a half years, during which he drew salary
and benefits, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen Jr.  Under a plea agreement with the  Justice Department , Beale
could be sentenced to as long as 37 months in prison. He also
agreed to forfeit $507,000 and pay fines of as much as $60,000,
according to the agreement, which is subject to court approval.  Paying Back  Beale, who now lives in  New York , already has fulfilled
another portion of his plea agreement, paying restitution to the
EPA of $886,186, which represents the value of his stolen pay
and benefits, according to William Miller, Machen’s spokesman.  The maximum penalty for theft of government property is 10
years in prison, according to Facciola. A hearing in the case is
set for Oct. 9. A sentencing date hasn’t been set.  Court papers describe a series of long-running scams,
seemingly unchallenged by EPA administrators.  From 2000 until mid-2008, Beale took off about 102 days for
phony CIA assignments. Starting in June 2008, he failed to
report to the EPA offices for about six months, either claiming
to be working on a bogus research project or working for
“Langley,” according to a court filing. Langley is the
neighborhood in McLean,  Virginia , where the CIA has its
 headquarters .  Beale collected more than $57,000 in travel expenses for
five unneeded research trips to the Los Angeles area, where he
visited family, prosecutors said in the filing.  Parking Space  He also got a parking space at the EPA by claiming he
contracted malaria while serving in the U.S. Army in  Vietnam . He
neither had the disease nor served in Vietnam, according to
prosecutors.  In the spring of 2011, Beale announced he was retiring from
the EPA and in September of that year, he and two other long-time agency employees held a retirement party on a dinner cruise
on the Potomac River, prosecutors said in the court filing.  After the party, an EPA manager believed that Beale had
actually retired and didn’t see him in agency offices again,
only to discover in November 2012 that he was still collecting a
paycheck, according to the filing.  EPA Inspector General Arthur Elkins Jr. criticized the
agency for “an absence of even basic internal controls” and
said he hoped “exposing the lax agency practices that enabled
Mr. Beale to construct and prosper from a web of lies also will
lead to swift reforms so such abuses can never recur,”
according to the statement released by Machen.  Radiation Office  Beale worked at the EPA from 1989 until April 30, 2013, and
was assigned to the Office of Air and Radiation. For much of his
time at the agency he was a senior policy adviser. He came under
investigation by Elkins in February, based on information
supplied by the agency, according to Jennifer Kaplan, a
spokeswoman for the inspector general.  The investigation remains open and there are other EPA
employees involved who may be subject to administrative
penalties, Kaplan said. Elkins is also supervising an audit of
EPA personnel records to see if there are other cases like
Beale’s, Kaplan said.  Elkins is slated to appear Sept. 30 at a briefing on EPA
personnel practices hosted by U.S. Senator  Barbara Boxer , Kaplan
said. Boxer, a California Democrat, is the chairman of the
Environment and Public Works Committee.  The ranking member of the committee, Senator  David Vitter ,
a Louisiana Republican, who has been a critic of the EPA on
unrelated issues, said in a statement that the Beale case
highlights weak leadership at the agency, which is led by  Gina
McCarthy .  ‘Taxpayers’ Money’  “At a minimum, $900,000 of the taxpayers’ money was stolen
right under Gina McCarthy’s nose, so I want to know how
vulnerable is this agency?” Vitter said.  Beale was a deputy assistant administrator for the agency
and worked for McCarthy before she became administrator,
according to Alisha Johnson, a spokeswoman for the EPA.  Elkins also is due to testify at a House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee hearing on Oct. 1 titled “Secret
Agent Man? Oversight of the EPA’s Investigation of John Beale”.  Beale is expected to testify, according to Becca Watkins, a
spokeswoman for the House panel.  Beale’s attorney, John Kern, said his client will visit
Congress next week, though he didn’t say he would testify.  “We’ll have to make that decision Monday,” Kern said
before today’s plea hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Beale, 13-cr-247, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  