-- Ex-Jefferies Managing Director Asks Court to Toss Charges
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-09-27T18:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ex-jefferies-managing-director-asks-court-to-toss-fraud-charges.html
Ex-Jefferies & Co. managing
director Jesse C. Litvak asked a federal judge in  Connecticut  to
throw out charges that he defrauded customers of more than
$2 million on trades of residential mortgage-backed securities.  Litvak, who has pleaded not guilty, was indicted in January
on charges of securities fraud, fraud connected to the Troubled
Asset Relief Program and making false statements to the federal
government. Alleged victims include investment funds, among them
six established by the U.S. Treasury Department in 2009 as part
of its response to the financial crisis.  Prosecutors accuse Litvak of misrepresenting the asking
price of sellers of residential mortgage-backed securities to
buyers or vice versa, keeping the difference for Jefferies.
Litvak’s attorneys asked U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall to
dismiss the charges during a hearing in  New Haven  today.  Patrick Smith , Litvak’s attorney, argued that any
misstatements are immaterial to the case because the indictment
doesn’t address how investors were “cheated out of something.”  “There is no allegation that what was sold was
misrepresented,” Smith said.  Private Vehicle  Smith also argued that managers of the Public-Private
Investment Program created to distribute TARP funds selected the
bonds and the program was a “private vehicle managed by a
private contractor.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Francis said the law
that established the funds authorizes the Treasury Department to
delegate its purchasing authority, which doesn’t mean it gave up
its jurisdiction over the program.  “There are requirements, and Treasury has a right to look
at the books,” he said.  Hall declined to rule on Litvak’s motion following the
hearing, saying she would take it under advisement. Litvak, who
is free on a $1 million bond, is scheduled to go on trial in
February.  Litvak is charged with 11 counts of  securities fraud  and
may face as long as 20 years in prison on each count if
convicted. He is also charged with one count of TARP fraud,
which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison, and four
counts of making false statements to the government, each
punishable by as much as five years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Litvak, 13-cr-00019, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Dillon  in U.S. District Court in New Haven, Connecticut,
at   jdillon@snet.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  