-- Ex-RBS Trader Fired Over Libor-Rigging Sues for Unfair Dismissal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-27T09:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ex-rbs-trader-fired-over-libor-rigging-sues-for-unfair-dismissal.html
A former  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  trader sued the lender over his firing for alleged
misconduct related to manipulation of benchmark interest rates.  Simon Green, who traded derivatives tied to short-term
moves in interest rates in dollars and euros, filed an unfair
dismissal suit, according to documents from a  London  employment
tribunal. He was let go in March, weeks after the Edinburgh-based bank paid $612 million to settle with regulators probing
its attempts to rig the London interbank offered rate.  Claims that traders tried to influence Libor, the benchmark
for $300 trillion of contracts worldwide, led to criminal probes
and regulatory fines for  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , RBS and broker
 ICAP Plc. (IAP)  RBS has fired seven employees for misconduct related
to Libor, a person familiar with the matter said in April.  Sarah Small, an RBS spokeswoman, declined to comment. The
bank has said it will claw back bonuses from those involved to
help pay any fines.  Green’s lawyer, Layla Bunni, said she couldn’t immediately
comment when reached by phone at her office in London. Copies of
the employment complaint aren’t publicly available.  Green may argue he was singled out unfairly, or that the
bank knew about his actions and did nothing until regulators
intervened, according to employment lawyer Jo Keddie, who isn’t
involved in the case.  ”It will also be interesting to see whether Mr. Green’s
managers have been retained or dismissed by the bank as they may
well have been aware of the day-to-day trading activities,” she
said in an e-mail.  Damages Cap  Damages for unfair dismissal are capped at 74,200 pounds
($119,000) in the U.K. If the tribunal finds he was unfairly
treated, he may be able to reclaim lost bonus payments or other
entitlements beyond the compensation cap, Keddie said. The
lawsuit may also help Green get regulatory approval from the
U.K. Financial Conduct Authority to continue working.  Four former Deutsche Bank AG traders won their employment
lawsuit in  Germany  after being fired in the bank’s probe into
the submission of rates for Euribor and Swiss Franc Libor. The
judge said Deutsche Bank didn’t have processes to prevent
conflicts of interest, and ordered the employees be reinstated.  Regulators on Sept. 25 said ICAP employees tried to
manipulate yen Libor in return for money, dinners and champagne,
levying an $88 million fine and filing U.S. criminal charges
against three former brokers. One of former ICAP brokers was
known as ’lord Libor,’ they said.  A hearing in Green’s case is scheduled on Oct. 10 at the
central London employment tribunal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  