-- Ex-Vitesse Executives Settle With SEC Claims Over Revenue
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-09-27T23:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ex-vitesse-executives-settle-with-sec-claims-over-revenue.html
Two former top executives at
 Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS) , a maker of integrated circuits,
settled Securities and Exchange Commission claims they backdated
 stock options  and falsely inflated sales.  Former Chief Executive Officer Louis R. Tomasetta agreed to
pay a $100,000 fine, while ex-Chief Financial Officer Eugene F. Hovanecpays $50,000, the SEC said in a  statement  today. While
the pair also agreed to forfeit a total of $2.9 million in
proceeds from the options, those sanctions were deemed satisfied
by their payments in a class-action lawsuit, the agency said.  Tomasetta, Hovanec and two other employees “engaged in an
elaborate channel-stuffing scheme” from September 2001 to April
2006 to inflate the Camarillo, California-based company’s
revenue as reported in its financial statements, the SEC said in
a Dec. 10, 2010  statement . They were also accused of backdating
stock-option grants and failing to “record millions of dollars
in compensation expenses,” associated with them.  Tomasetta and Hovanec each pleaded guilty Aug. 15 to a
single count of conspiracy to falsify company records in an
effort to impede an SEC inquiry. The pleas followed two
mistrials on charges that they conspired to inflate earnings.  The SEC said Tomasetta and Hovanec “attempted to cover up
their options backdating scheme by fabricating fraudulent
meeting minutes” for the board’s compensation committee. They
didn’t admit or deny the agency’s claims. Both were barred from
serving as an officer or director of a public company for 10
years.  Other Defendants  The agency chose not to seek civil penalties against two
other Vitesse employees -- former controller and CFO Yatin D. Mody and former Director of Finance Nicole R. Kaplan -- based on
their cooperation, according to today’s statement. They
previously agreed to disgorge a total of more than $209,000 in
proceeds and interest, the agency said.  Dan E. Marmalefsky, an attorney for Tomasetta, and Gary S. Lincenberg, who represented Hovanec, declined to comment. A
company spokesman didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Vitesse fired Tomasetta and Hovanec in May 2006 during an
outside investigation of the company’s option grants. The
company agreed in 2007 to pay $8.75 million to settle
shareholder suits related to the alleged accounting fraud and in
2010 settled claims by the SEC for $3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in  New York  at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  