-- Texas Sued by Planned Parenthood Over Abortion Law
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-27T17:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/texas-sued-by-planned-parenthood-over-abortion-law.html
Planned Parenthood sued  Texas 
challenging a new abortion law that requires providers to gain
admitting privileges at local hospitals, restricts the use of
abortion-inducing drugs and bans procedures after 20 weeks.  Parts of the statute, slated to take effect Oct. 29,
violate Texas women’s constitutional rights to equal protection
of the law by denying them access to abortions, lawyers for
 Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical Health Services  and
11 other advocacy groups said in the complaint, filed today in
federal court in Austin, the state’s capital.  The law “imposes medically unwarranted and burdensome
requirements that will dramatically reduce access to abortion in
Texas,” attorneys for the groups opposing the measure said.  Texas is among several states facing legal battles over new
abortion restrictions such as hospital-privilege requirements
for providers. Judges in  Alabama ,  Mississippi ,  North Dakota  and
 Wisconsin  have issued orders stopping similar laws from being
implemented after finding that they might result in substantial
burdens for women seeking to end pregnancies.  Advocacy groups are targeting those restrictions saying
that doctors who perform abortions often have difficulty
obtaining hospital privileges because they can’t meet certain
terms, such as a minimum number of patient admissions, American
Civil Liberties Union lawyers have previously said.  Religious Objections  Hospitals may also have religious objections to offering
admission privileges to abortion providers, the groups contend.  Charlie Castillo, a spokesman for Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott , declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Texas GovernorRick Perry, a Republican, signed the
abortion-restriction bill into law July 18. The measure bans
abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy and dictates when
abortion-inducing drugs can be used.  Medical abortions, performed through the use of so-called
morning-after pills, are banned after the seventh week of
pregnancy under the law. Only doctors can prescribe the abortion
medicines and they must be taken in clinics, not at home.  The law also requires abortion clinics to provide
facilities equivalent to outpatient-surgical centers. Critics
say only a handful of Texas’s current abortion clinics meet the
new requirements and the law will require millions of dollars in
upgrades or force closures.  ‘Terrible Situation’  “We’re in court today to stop a terrible situation for
women in Texas from getting even worse,”  Cecile Richards ,
president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said in
an e-mailed statement. “If this law goes into effect, there is
no doubt it will end access to safe and legal abortion for many
women. We won’t let that happen.”  Richards, the daughter of the late Texas governor Ann Richards, a Democrat, said at a press conference after the suit
was filed that the “vast majority of Texans don’t support these
restrictions and neither do doctors.”  Nancy Northup, chief executive of the Center for
Reproductive Rights, an abortion-rights organization, said the
law interferes with women’s ability to make their own medical
decisions.  “Any one of these restrictions would have had a
devastating impact on women across the state of Texas,” she
said at the press conference. “Together, they would be
catastrophic.”  The case is  Planned Parenthood  of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  