-- Exxon Extends Benefits to Same-Sex Spouses of U.S. Employees
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-09-27T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/exxon-to-extend-benefits-to-same-sex-spouses-of-u-s-workers.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  will extend
benefits to same-sex spouses of U.S. employees after federal
government agencies altered the definition of marriage, marking
the conversion of one of the last major corporate holdouts on
the issue.  Exxon’s decision follows a June ruling by the U.S. Supreme
Court that struck down the federal Defense of Marriage Act,
spurring changes by the Internal Revenue Service and other
agencies on what constitutes legal marriages,  Alan Jeffers , a
spokesman for the Irving, Texas-based company, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Advocates of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
community, known as LGBT, heralded the move as a victory.  Exxon’s announcement “shows the tide is continuing to turn
in corporate America,” said  New York  State Comptroller Thomas
DiNapoli, who for the past four years has failed to win approval
of shareholder resolutions it sponsored urging Exxon to take
this step. “This is a very positive step for the LGBT community
and a vindication of years of efforts by shareholders and
activists across the country.”  Exxon has long based its employee benefits programs on the
government’s definition of marriage in nations where it
operates. Accordingly, Exxon adapted its rules to the recent
changes in the U.S., Jeffers said. The company already provided
benefits to same-sex spouses in 30 other countries where local
laws allow for the marriages, he said.  Recognizing Marriages  “Exxon Mobil will recognize all legal marriages for the
purposes of eligibility in U.S. benefit plans to ensure
consistency for employees across the country,” Jeffers said in
a separately e-mailed statement yesterday.  U.S. companies expanded health coverage for same-sex
couples and began adopting non-discrimination rules during the
1990s amid Congressional measures to move in the opposite
direction. The Defense of Marriage Act passed in 1996 hamstrung
the IRS and other federal agencies from recognizing gay or
lesbian marriages as legitimate.  As of July this year, 88 percent of Fortune 500 companies
included orientation in their nondiscrimination policies and
more than 60 percent offered domestic partner health benefits,
according to the Human Rights Campaign. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
the largest U.S. employer, announced plans to extend benefits to
same-sex partners on Aug. 27.  Discrimination Policy  “After years of stubbornly refusing, we commend Exxon for
joining the majority of the Fortune 500 business leaders that
already treat gay and lesbian married couples equally under
employee benefit plans,” Tico Almeida, president of Freedom to
Work, an advocacy group, said in a statement yesterday. Exxon
shouldn’t have waited for federal definitions to change before
altering its practices, Almeida said.  Almeida and other advocacy groups said the next step Exxon
should take is to amend its employee handbook to explicitly
prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. Resolutions
to make that change have been defeated by shareholders’ votes at
16 consecutive annual meetings.  “There is no federal law protecting employees from
discrimination against sexual orientation or gender identity and
Exxon Mobil refuses to join the majority of their Fortune 500
colleagues in adopting their own such policies,” the Human
Rights Campaign said in a statement following Exxon’s
announcement. “One has to wonder, what good are benefits for
your same-sex spouse if you risk being fired for disclosing your
sexual orientation in order to access them?”  Court Decision  The Supreme Court struck down by a 5-4 decision the Defense
of Marriage Act’s definition of marriage as a heterosexual
union, a provision that had denied legally married gay couples
federal benefits. The majority on the court said the law
violated the constitutional right to liberty.  The ruling hinged on whether the federal government could
treat gay married couples differently from heterosexual ones.
Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the
law’s intent was unconstitutional discrimination.  The IRS said same-sex marriages from domestic or foreign
jurisdictions that allow such unions were to be recognized as
legitimate under the federal tax code regardless of the state in
which they reside, according to an agency ruling that took
effect on Sept. 16.  ‘Spousal Eligibility’  “We have made no change in the definition of eligibility
for our U.S. benefit plans,” Jeffers said in the e-mailed
statement. “Spousal eligibility in our U.S. benefit plans has
been and continues to be governed by the federal definition of
marriage and spouse. Our approach is consistent in all countries
where we operate.”  Exxon’s 77,000 employees in the U.S. don’t rank it among
the top 25 of the nation’s employers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company’s workforce is less than 4 percent the
size of top employer Wal-Mart’s 2.2 million staff.  “I’m not surprised by it,” Paul Fronstin, a director at
the Employee Benefit Research Institute in  Washington , said of
Exxon’s change in benefits practices. “It’s the law of the
land, and they’re recognizing it for the purposes of their
benefits.”  As of July, 13 states had authorized same-sex marriage, up
from none at the beginning of 2004. Of the states that bar gay
unions, 29 have the prohibition written in their constitutions,
including Texas and  Michigan .  “When Wal-Mart made the move to do this it woke up a lot
of companies who perhaps wouldn’t have historically thought to
be a leader in this space,” said Kellie McElhaney, founding
faculty director of the Center for Responsible Business at the
University of California, Berkeley. Exxon’s decision may be a
step toward “businesses realizing they have a role to play in
some of these critical issues in society,” McElhaney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  