-- Facebook Must Face Gambit Suit Over Social Game Currency
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-09-27T20:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/facebook-must-face-gambit-suit-over-social-game-currency.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
most popular social network, must face a lawsuit that accuses
the company of breaking antitrust laws in the virtual-currency
market.  Kickflip Inc., which does business as Gambit, sued in
October 2012, saying Facebook destroyed competition for virtual
currency services and payment processing when it began offering
services of its own in 2009. Facebook sought to get the suit
dismissed, arguing that Kickflip failed to allege an injury.
U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark in Wilmington,  Delaware , today
rejected that request.  “Kickflip has satisfied its burden of alleging an event
causing injury to Kickflip, beginning with its 2009 ban from
Facebook and culminating in the 2011 payments policy,” Stark
wrote in the opinion.  Kickflip accused Facebook of sidelining competitors and
“blacklisting” Gambit when it forced developers to switch to
its services exclusively in 2009 and 2010. Prior to the change,
Gambit was the leading virtual currency and payment-processing
provider to software developers that published games on Facebook
and other social networks.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , said today that
the allegations “are without merit.”  Virtual-currency services allow social-game developers to
issue currency to players in exchange for direct payment or
participation in third-party advertising offers. By mid-2009, at
least 20 virtual-currency service providers were available to
social-game developers, according to the complaint.  The case is Kickflip Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 12-01369, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  