-- Faculty Representatives Call for Creation of NCAA Super Division
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/faculty-representatives-call-for-creation-of-ncaa-super-division.html
A group representing faculty at
college sports’ top-tier schools proposed making teams in the
Football Bowl Subdivision “a new and separate” group with its
own board of directors, the first move of its kind.  In a Sept. 11  letter  to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association ’s Division I Board of Directors, the Division I-A
Faculty Athletic Representatives presented a detailed plan for
the creation of a new division.  A key part of the proposal is to group schools “that are
more closely aligned in resources dedicated to athletics
programs and in the types of issues faced,” the group said in
the letter.  “The FBS must be the master of its own fate, particularly
with regard to matters of enhancement of the student-athlete
experience that depend on increased revenue allocation,”
according to the letter.  A telephone message seeking comment on the proposal left on
the NCAA media line yesterday wasn’t immediately returned.  The NCAA, which governs most college sports in the U.S.,
has three divisions, I, II and III. The top division, I, is
split into two subdivisions, FBS and the Football Championship
Subdivision, or FCS.  Under the proposal, the 10 leagues that make up the FBS --
the American Athletic, Atlantic Coast, Big 12, Big Ten,
Conference USA, Mid-American, Mountain West, Pac-12,
Southeastern and Sun Belt -- would start their own division but
remain under NCAA control.  College sports’ governing body is holding meetings to
debate how it can change its governing structure after
conference restructuring aimed at increasing revenue and
questions on whether college athletes in football and
basketball, sports that generate billion-dollar television
contracts, should be paid. The I-A Faculty Athletics
Representatives were asked to make recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  