-- Fed’s George Says Job Gains Warrant Tapering Bond Buying
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-27T02:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/fed-s-george-says-clear-job-gains-warrant-tapering-bond-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George, who has repeatedly dissented against
adding stimulus, said labor-market gains warrant tapering the
Fed’s bond purchases immediately and halting buying by mid-2014.  “Recognizing that there has been clear, ongoing
improvement in the labor market and other parts of the economy
is not to suggest the end of  accommodative policy , but instead
acknowledges that it is time to move away from using policy
tools that were appropriate during the financial crisis and
begin the long process of adjusting policy to more normal
conditions,” she said in a speech in Denver.  George has voted this year against all six decisions by the
 Federal Open Market Committee  to press on with $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, saying the program risks creating
imbalances in the economy and financial markets and pushing up
long-term inflation expectations. She disagreed with the view of
the majority that recent reports that indicate a slower recovery
justified continuing bond purchases at the current level.  “Delaying action not only allows potential costs to grow,
it also has the potential to threaten the credibility and the
predictability of future monetary policy actions,” George said.
“Policy moves that surprise the market often result in
additional volatility.”  The Kansas City Fed official said she agreed with Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s timetable laid out in June, “which
called for the pace of purchases to moderate this year and
gradually decline for several months until they come to an end
around mid-2014.”  More Risk  Fed stimulus has prompted investors to search for higher
yields and take greater risks, George said in response to
audience questions. Individual investors who rely on safe
investments, as well as insurers and pension funds, have
“increased duration” among their bonds holdings, she said.  “The other area where you see some excess is the leveraged
lending market,” and that “bears watching,” along with the
price of farmland, George said.  “In the face of declining commodities prices, you would
expect to see some of those values begin to come down,” she
said, referring to agricultural land. “In fact, we continue to
see double-digit increases” in real estate prices.  Clarify Plans  George called for the FOMC to clarify its plans for the
benchmark  interest rate , which the Fed has held at just above
zero since December 2008.  “Beyond the communication challenges associated with asset
purchases, explaining the committee’s interest-rate policy and
how long rates will remain near zero will be a crucial next
step,” she said in her speech.  U.S. stocks rose today, halting the longest slump this
year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as an unexpected drop
in jobless claims overshadowed concern that a budget impasse
could hurt economic growth. The  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent to
1,698.67 in  New York .  Ten-year Treasury note yields advanced two basis points to
2.65 percent. They reached a two-year high of 3.01 percent on
Sept. 6.  Since the FOMC meeting, Fed officials have voiced differing
viewpoints, with  Dallas ’  Richard Fisher  agreeing with George the
FOMC was risking its credibility by not tapering when it had
primed the markets for such a move.  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota , a voter on policy next year, said earlier today
that the Fed must do “whatever it takes” to strengthen a job
market that is healing too slowly.  Against Headwinds  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said Sept. 23 the
central bank must “forcefully” push against headwinds in an
economy that “still needs the support of a very accommodative
monetary policy.”  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  said today in  Frankfurt  the
central bank should press on with accommodation while linking
the wind-down of its bond purchases to economic data such as the
jobless rate.  Most economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  said the Fed
will wait until December to take a first step, according to a
poll taken Sept. 18-19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  