-- Fed’s Evans Says Needs More Confidence in Economy to Taper
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-27T11:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/fed-s-evans-says-needs-more-confidence-in-economy-to-taper.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans , who has been among the Fed’s most vocal
proponents of record stimulus, said more signs of strength in
the economy are needed to reduce asset purchases.  “I can’t have tremendous confidence in our economic
situation,” he said to reporters today in Oslo. “A lot of
developments are still under way. At the moment the data doesn’t
provide us with confidence to make major adjustments” to the
purchasing program, he said.  Evans, a voter on policy this year, said today that he
wouldn’t “be surprised” if purchases were kept in place in
October, and could remain at the same pace into January.  The U.S. central bank surprised financial markets last week
by refraining from tapering $85 billion in monthly bond buying,
saying it’s waiting for more signs of sustained economic gains.
Evans was an early supporter of the current round of
quantitative easing started last September.  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Sept. 18-19, after
the Fed policy meeting, expect the central bank to wait until a
gathering in December to reduce monthly bond buying. The program
isn’t on a “preset” course, and the volume of future buying
depends on changes in economic data, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in a Sept. 18 statement.  Financial Conditions  A recent tightening of financial conditions, if sustained,
could damp growth, the FOMC said. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to as high as 2.99 percent on Sept. 5.  The decision to maintain current policy, backed by Evans in
the FOMC vote, pushed up  stocks  to record highs and triggered a
rally in Treasuries.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, the only policy
maker to dissent last week, said the central bank is risking its
credibility by not reducing bond buying when it has primed the
markets for such a move.  Evans was the first policy maker to propose that the Fed
pledge to keep interest rates near zero until at least certain
economic benchmarks are met, an approach adopted by the FOMC in
December.  U.S. central bankers last week reiterated a pledge to hold
down the main  interest rate  as long as joblessness is above  6.5
percent (USURTOT)  and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5
percent. The  unemployment rate  was at 7.3 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  