-- FHFA Offered Unqualified Buyers Foreclosures, Study Finds
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-09-27T20:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/fhfa-offered-unqualified-buyers-foreclosures-study-finds.html
The  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
the regulator that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, offered
to sell foreclosed homes to bidders who didn’t meet required
standards, the agency’s inspector general said.  The FHFA offered 2,500 homes last year in a pilot bulk-sale
program to help Fannie Mae reduce its portfolio of foreclosed
properties and expand the supply of rental housing. Bidders were
required to show they had financial and management capability
and a commitment to working with hard-hit communities, according
to a  report  released today. Twelve of the 47 applicants at least
partially failed to meet the criteria, as determined by an
outside contractor.  “Fannie Mae did not always follow its contractor’s scores
and recommendations,” Deputy Inspector Russell A. Rau said in
the report. Fannie Mae, “with FHFA’s concurrence, permitted two
potential investors to bid on mortgage pools even though both
were scored by the contractor as high risk and not recommended
to bid.”  All of the winning bidders met the required criteria,
Andrew Wilson, a Fannie Mae spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. The report didn’t name the bidders who shouldn’t have
qualified.  Three bidders won seven of the eight pools of homes offered
for sale. Cogsville Group LLC, a New York-based investor, gained
rights to 94 properties in  Chicago ; Pacifica Companies LLC, a
San Diego-based landlord, was the top bidder for 699 properties
in  Florida ; and Colony Capital LLC, a fund founded by Thomas Barrack Jr., won 970 properties in  Arizona , California and
 Nevada . A portfolio of 541 Atlanta homes didn’t receive a
satisfactory offer.  ‘Reasonably Designed’  The FHFA hasn’t decided whether to pursue future bulk
sales, according to a response by Sandra Thompson, deputy
director of the agency. Her Sept. 12 memorandum was released
today with the report. If the agency offers homes for sale in
bulk again, it will provide more guidance to bidders and improve
its oversight of the qualification process, she said.  “FHFA management contends that the scoring methodology was
reasonably designed, applied and executed in a consistent manner
across all bidders, which provided a fair and uniform process of
evaluation and scoring,” Thompson wrote in the memo.  Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  