-- CEO Mulally ‘Absolutely Focused’ on Ford, Fields Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-27T20:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ford-s-mulally-absolutely-focused-on-automaker-fields-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  remains committed to the company and its
future regardless of reports that he might leave for  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , said  Mark Fields , the automaker’s No. 2 executive.  “There’s been no change to what we announced in
November,” Fields, chief operating officer since December, told
reporters today at a charity fundraising event in Detroit.
Mulally is “absolutely focused on the business, particularly on
setting a long-range strategy for the company. He’s very
engaged.”  Mulally, 68, has been mentioned as a candidate to become
the next CEO of Microsoft Corp. by technology-news website
AllThingsD and Reuters. Mulally told  Bloomberg News  on Sept. 6
that he planned to remain Ford’s CEO through at least 2014.
There is no change from that plan, which the Dearborn, Michigan-based company announced in November, said Jay Cooney, a Ford
spokesman.  Steve Ballmer  said last month he planned to step down as
CEO at Microsoft within 12 months, prompting speculation on who
will succeed him to lead the U.S. software maker. Ballmer, 57,
unveiled a reorganization in July that his company called  One
Microsoft  and was influenced by Mulally’s One Ford plan that
weaned the automaker away from designing different cars for
various regional markets around the world.  Ford fell 1.3 percent to $17.05 at the close in New York.
The shares have surged 32 percent this year, compared with a 19
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Mulally’s Turnaround  After his arrival from Boeing Co. in 2006, Mulally’s
efforts and the $23.4 billion that the company borrowed in late
2006 enabled Ford to avoid bankruptcy in 2009, when  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC’s predecessors failed and
needed U.S. rescues.  Ford earned  $35.2 billion  from 2009 through 2012 after
losing $30.1 billion in the previous three years.  Fields, 52, was promoted to COO in December after he led a
transformation of its North American operations to record
profits from its worst losses four years ago. He spoke to
reporters at an event for the United Way, where he insisted that
the reports about Mulally going to Microsoft haven’t distracted
the automaker.  “Absolutely not,” he said. “We have so many
opportunities in front of us. We’re focusing on those
opportunities and not getting distracted by anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Detroit  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  