-- Former Nymex Chairman Viola Purchases Hockey’s Florida Panthers
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-27T17:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/former-nymex-chairman-viola-purchases-hockey-s-florida-panthers.html
Vincent Viola, former chairman of
the New York Mercantile Exchange and founder of  Virtu Financial
Inc ., bought the  Florida Panthers , the National Hockey League
team with the fewest wins last season.  The sale to Viola and Douglas Cifu was approved by the
NHL’s board of governors, the league said today in an e-mailed
release. Terms of the sale weren’t announced. The South Florida
Sun-Sentinel said the deal was for $250 million.  Viola was a minority owner in the  National Basketball
Association ’s New Jersey Nets before the franchise moved to
Brooklyn last year. Now principal owner of the Panthers, he will
become the NHL team’s chairman and governor.  A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point , New
York, Viola began his financial career on the floor of the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and became chairman from 2001 to 2004.
He is the chairman of Virtu Financial, an electronic trading
firm.  Viola’s agreement includes operation of the Panthers’ BB&T
Center, located in Sunrise, Florida, about 12 miles (20
kilometer) west of Fort Lauderdale, according to the Sun-Sentinel. The team is worth $170 million, 24th in the 30-team
league, Forbes magazine said last October in its annual
franchise valuation.  The Panthers joined the NHL for the 1993-94 season. The
team lost to the  Colorado Avalanche  in the 1996 Stanley Cup
Final and hasn’t won a playoff series since, reaching the
postseason once in the past 12 years. Florida had 15 wins in the
lockout-shortened 2012-13 season.  The team also has struggled at the box office, finishing in
the bottom third of league attendance each of the past seven
years, according to ESPN.  Cifu, a graduate of  Columbia University , is president of
Virtu Financial. He and Viola purchased the Panthers from a
group led by Cliff Viner, which assumed control of the team in
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  