-- Gandhi Scion Slams Singh’s Order Letting Convicts in Parliament
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-27T12:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/gandhi-scion-slams-singh-s-order-letting-convicts-in-parliament.html
Rahul Gandhi , deputy leader of
 India ’s ruling party, criticized Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
order to allow convicted lawmakers to hold office, distancing
his family from the government ahead of elections.  Singh’s cabinet issued an executive order on Sept. 24,
reversing a court ban on legislators found guilty of crimes from
holding public positions. In a rare interaction with reporters
in the nation’s capital New Delhi, Gandhi, 43, who is the vice
president of the  Congress  party that leads Singh’s coalition
government, said the decision is wrong.  “My view is the ordinanace is complete nonsense,” he
said. “It should be torn up and thrown away.” Singh “will
deal with the matter” upon his return from the U.S., the  Press
Trust of India  reported, citing his aides it didn’t identify.  India’s  Supreme Court , in a bid to curb the growing
criminality in the world’s largest democracy, issued the ruling
on July 10 to help close a loophole that allowed repeated
appeals against convictions. The number of lawmakers charged
with offenses has more than doubled in the last 15 years.  About a quarter of federal and state legislators face
charges that include murder, rape and kidnapping, according to
the Association for Democratic Reforms, which has campaigned for
better governance since 1999.  ‘Illegal, Immoral’  The ordinance, which has yet to get the consent of
President  Pranab Mukherjee , has been opposed by the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  and social activists. BJP has
urged Mukherjee not to ratify order, which it called “illegal,
immoral and unconstitutional.”  “The unusual move by the young Congress leader has
embarrassed Singh and dented the image of the government,” said
Satish Misra, an analyst at the Observer Research Foundation, a
policy group based in New Delhi. “As Congress faces elections
in coming months, it has given more weight to popular sentiment
than its own government’s standing.”  Singh’s cabinet brought the executive order after  Congress 
party failed to pass a similar legislation this month to negate
the  Supreme Court  ban.  According to the ordinance, lawmakers found guilty of
offenses that carry punishments of more than two years in jail
won’t lose their seats if they appeal within 90 days and a court
defers sentencing, while they won’t be entitled to vote or
receive a salary. The Supreme Court ruling would have
immediately barred lawmakers from office after a court finds
them guilty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Niveditha Ravi at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net  