-- GateHouse Files for Bankruptcy as Part of Fortress Plan
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-09-27T12:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/gatehouse-files-for-bankruptcy-as-part-of-fortress-plan.html
GateHouse Media Inc. (GHSE) , the community
newspaper publisher overseen by the co-chairman of  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG) , filed for bankruptcy after creditors
approved a plan to combine its assets with those recently
purchased by  Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT)   GateHouse, based in Fairport, New York, listed assets of
$433.7 million and debt of $1.3 billion in a Chapter 11 petition
filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “We have complied with and are current with all our
obligations,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Reed said in a
statement today. “With the challenges facing our industry and
the impending maturity of our secured debt next year, we needed
to be proactive in exploring options to restructure our debt,
recapitalize, and position ourselves for future growth.”  The prepackaged restructuring plan hinges on the
combination of GateHouse with assets of Dow Jones Local Media
Group, which Newcastle bought from News Corp. this month for $87
million.  Newcastle has made “two investments in high-yielding local
media companies that will be combined and spun into a new
company,”  Wesley Edens , co-chairman of Fortress, said on a
conference call Sept. 4, the same day Newcastle announced the
deal for Dow Jones Local.  Oregon Newspaper  Dow Jones Local owns 33 publications, including  Oregon ’s
Ashland Daily Tidings and the Cape Cod Times of  Massachusetts .
Its operations will be managed by GateHouse, Newcastle said in a
statement.  Newcastle owns 52 percent of GateHouse’s $1.2 billion in
secured debt and said it will convert the debt into equity in a
new company. Other secured creditors will have the option of
converting their debt into cash at 40 percent of par or stock in
New Media Investment Group Inc., a new holding company that will
own GateHouse and Local Media Group, GateHouse said in its
statement today.  “The prepackaged plan proposes a ‘balance-sheet
restructuring,’ by which GateHouse will emerge from bankruptcy
with much less debt on its balance sheet, but with its business
operations completely intact,” Reed said in the statement.  Sufficient Cash  GateHouse has enough cash to operate in bankruptcy and
doesn’t need or plan to obtain debtor-in-possession financing,
Reed said. Kruger Inc., a Montreal-based pulp-and-paper
producer, is listed as GateHouse’s largest unsecured creditor
with a $1.2 million claim.  GateHouse’s 78 daily newspapers serve 10 million people in
21 states, according to the company’s  website . It also owns 91
advertising-only “shoppers,” 235 weekly newspapers, 350
locally focused websites and six yellow-page directories.  GateHouse merged with a Fortress unit, FIF III Liberty
Acquisitions LLC, in 2005, according to regulatory filings.  Other newspaper companies have entered bankruptcy as the
shift among readers to online media has cut circulation and
depleted classified advertising revenue.  Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , Journal
Register Co., Philadelphia Newspapers LLC and Minneapolis Star
Tribune all have sought court protection since 2008.  The case is GateHouse Media Inc., 13-bk-12503, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  