-- Illinois Gay Marriage Ban Challenge Allowed to Go Forward
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-27T20:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/gay-marriage-suit-against-illinois-ban-can-proceed-judge-rules.html
Twenty-five same-sex couples
challenging statutes that keep them from being married in
 Illinois  can go ahead with their lawsuits, a state court judge
ruled.  Cook County Circuit Judge Sophia Hall, rejecting a bid by
gay marriage opponents to have the case dismissed, said the
plaintiffs had presented legal issues that warrant further
consideration. While she tossed some of the couples’ claims, the
remainder can proceed, she ruled today in  Chicago .  “The court finds that the marriage ban is not facially
neutral,” Hall said in her decision. “The present case allows
the Illinois courts to consider, for the first time, whether the
concept of choice as an aspect of the fundamental right to
marry” might apply to same-sex couples.  Twenty-three of the same-sex couples want to get married in
Illinois and two seek the state’s recognition of their marriages
in  Canada . They sued to invalidate parts of the Illinois
Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage Act, which they claim were
enacted with discriminatory intent and are unconstitutional.  “This is a fantastic day for the 25 couples who are
plaintiffs in these two lawsuits and also for lesbian and gay
couples and their children around the state,” Camilla Taylor,
one of the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers on the case, told reporters
after the decision was handed down.  Five Clerks  Clerks who are responsible for issuing marriage licenses in
five counties had asked Hall to throw out the cases filed last
year by the  American Civil Liberties Union  and the gay rights
advocacy group  Lambda Legal . The clerks, all from outside the
Chicago metropolitan area, intervened when Cook County Clerk
David Orr and state Attorney General Lisa Madigan, a Democrat,
declined to defend statutes.  Hall agreed to dismiss the plaintiffs’ claims that the laws
discriminate on the basis of gender and violate  privacy rights .
She let the couples press ahead with claims that the laws denied
them their rights to due process and violated their right to
equal protection by allowing discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation.  The parties are due back in court on Oct. 8 to set a
schedule on how the case will proceed.  “We’re confident that ultimately our laws will be upheld
on marriage,” the clerks’ attorney, Paul Linton, told reporters
after the judge announced her ruling.  Challenged Provisions  Of the two challenged provisions, one says a marriage
between a man and a woman, “solemnized and registered” as
provided by the law, is valid in the state, while the other,
adopted in 1996, expressly prohibits “a marriage between two
individuals of the same sex.”  “The state DOMA passed with overwhelming support” in the
Illinois Legislature, defense attorney Linton, of the Chicago-based Thomas More Society, told Hall in Aug. 6 arguments,
borrowing terminology from the federal Defense of Marriage Act.  The group is a nonprofit public-interest  law firm  “that
exists to restore respect in law for life, marriage and
religious liberty,” according to its website.  “Plaintiffs have tried to attribute evil motives to the
general assembly,” Linton said in the hearing. “They’ve
failed.”  The purpose of the law was to promote the rational
objectives of “responsible procreation” and the ideal of
having children raised by their biological parents, he said.  Linton also argued the law falls squarely within a state’s
regulatory right as recognized by the U.S. Supreme Court in its
June 26 decision invalidating part of the federal DOMA defining
marriage as between one man and one woman.  “They get the law wrong,” Lambda Legal lawyer Camilla
Taylor countered. “They reject the notion there is a
fundamental right to marry the person of their choice.”  The cases are Darby v. Orr, 12CH19718, and Lazaro v. Orr,
12CH,19719, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Andrew Harris} in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  