-- GE Capital Caps Rebound in Swaps on Less Risk Than JPMorgan
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-27T20:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ge-capital-caps-credit-market-rebound-on-less-risk-than-jpmorgan.html
For the first time since the 2008
financial crisis, derivatives traders regard  General Electric
Capital Corp. (GE)  as less risky than  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as GE
shrinks the unit and the bank faces billions of dollars in
fines.  Credit-default swaps protecting debt of  GE Capital  cost 2.5
basis points less than debt of JPMorgan, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on the biggest U.S. bank by assets
traded 26.5 basis points lower at the start of 2013 and as much
as 497 basis points lower in April 2009.  The price reversal marks a milestone in GE’s recovery from
damage suffered when the finance unit imperiled the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company as its access to capital dwindled in
2008-09. While JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
negotiates a potential $11 billion settlement to end a U.S.
regulatory probe, GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  is seeking to curb risk
by plotting exits from some real estate and lending operations.  “GE Capital is performing relatively well versus JPMorgan,
and the other banks as well, as they’ve shed their higher-risk
assets,” Brian Monteleone, a Barclays Plc credit analyst in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “JPMorgan has been
underperforming for the last couple months and that’s been
largely drive by the various negative regulatory and litigation-related headlines.”  Swaps Pricing  The cost to protect GE Capital debt with credit-default
swaps was 89 basis points compared with 91.5 for JPMorgan at
4:16 p.m. in New York, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE Capital, and  Justin Perras  of New York-based JPMorgan, each said they couldn’t
immediately comment on the performance of the swaps.  GE Capital lost favor with traders in the wake of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008, and its
credit-default swaps soared to a record 1,000 basis points on
March 5, 2009, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. Contracts to
protect JPMorgan debt traded at 180 basis points that day.  ‘Staged Exit’  Immelt has divested real estate holdings from  Canada  to
 Australia , and he told investors at a conference in May that
he’s plotting a “staged exit” from more financial operations.
GE has hired JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to manage an
initial public offering of its private-label credit card
business, the Wall Street Journal reported last month, citing
unidentified sources.  “The markets were expressing caution for the credit
markets for GE Capital, but as they improved the balance sheet,
market confidence has risen,” said Allerton Smith,  senior
director of the capital markets research group at Moody’s
Analytics.  JPMorgan is facing what Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake has called a “crescendo” of litigation and enforcement
action as regulators step up their focus on the largest  U.S.
bank  following more than $6.2 billion in trading losses in 2012.  The bank agreed on Sept. 19 to pay about $1.3 billion to
resolve investigations into the loss and to settle unrelated
claims that it unfairly charged customers for credit-monitoring
products. It is currently negotiating a potential $11 billion
deal with state and federal authorities to settle several probes
into its mortgage bond sales practices, according to people
familiar with the discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  