-- German Stocks Little Changed Before European, U.S. Data
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-27T08:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/german-stocks-little-changed-before-european-u-s-data.html
German stocks  were little changed
as investors awaited reports on euro-area economic confidence
and U.S. consumer sentiment.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest maker of sporting
goods, rose 0.8 percent after Nike Inc. beat profit estimates.
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  declined 2.6 percent as HSBC Holdings Plc
advised investors to reduce holdings in the company.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.2 percent to 8,647.59 at 10:56 a.m. in
Frankfurt, for a weekly decline of 0.3 percent. The benchmark
index has gained 14 percent this year as the  European Central
Bank  said that  interest rates  will remain low for an extended
period and manufacturing and gross domestic product data in
Europe beat estimates. The HDAX Index fell 0.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 26 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic confidence in the euro area rose to its highest
level in more than two years this month, according to the median
forecast of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a report.  In the U.S., data due at 9:55 a.m. New York time may show
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final September
 gauge of sentiment  climbed to 78 from 76.8 in the preliminary
report, according to the median estimate of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Adidas climbed 0.8 percent to 79.95 euros. Nike Inc., the
world’s largest sporting-goods company, posted fiscal first-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates after demand for
running and basketball shoes helped North American sales.  HeidelbergCement fell 2.6 percent to 57.71 euros. HSBC cut
its recommendation on the world’s third-largest maker of cement
to neutral, similar to hold, from overweight, saying that a
slowdown in  emerging markets  will sustain market oversupply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  