-- Italy’s Bonds Drop as Political Tensions Deter Buyers at Auction
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-09-27T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/german-bonds-set-for-second-weekly-gain-before-confidence-data.html
Italy ’s government bonds fell amid
speculation that traders who deal directly with the Rome-based
Treasury bought most of the securities at today’s auction as the
nation’s political tensions deterred other buyers.  Italian 10-year bonds dropped for a second day before Prime
Minister Enrico Letta meets President Giorgio Napolitano to
discuss the government’s prospects for survival. Former premier
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s allies this week threatened to step down
from the coalition if he is expelled from the Senate. Italy
auctioned a combined 6 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of five- and
10-year debt. German bunds rose with Dutch securities as
European stocks declined, boosting demand for safer assets.  “The issue is that it was a dealer-led affair and there
wasn’t much real-money buying,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 London . “The dealers have had to take too much of the debt so
we’re likely to see some of that coming back in to the market.
For us, the risk-reward for Italian debt at these levels is not
that compelling.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 4.42 percent at 4:44 p.m. London time,
extending  this week ’s increase to 13 basis points. The rate
jumped 10 basis points yesterday, the most since Sept. 5. The
4.5 percent bond maturing in May 2023 fell 0.645, or 6.45 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.97.  Italian Auctions  Italy sold 3 billion euros of 4.5 percent bonds maturing in
March 2024 at an average yield of 4.5 percent, compared with
4.46 percent at a previous auction on Aug. 29. The Treasury
allotted 3 billion euros of securities due in December 2018 at
3.38 percent, the same as last month.  Governments conduct auctions through primary dealers, who
are banks or brokers obliged to bid directly for the bonds,
before distributing them to other investors, creating a market
for the securities.  “The Italian developments are an issue for the markets and
the bonds will be under pressure until they are sorted out,”
said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt .  Italian bonds have dropped this week as People of Liberty
lawmakers led by Berlusconi threatened to resign en masse if the
former premier’s tax-fraud conviction leads the Senate to oust
him. Letta’s  Democratic Party , the largest group in parliament,
has said the expulsion is required under a law passed last year.  Political Turmoil  “As soon as I land in  Rome , I will go to Napolitano to
discuss how we can go ahead,” Letta told reporters in  New York 
yesterday, ending a four-day visit to the U.S. marred by
political bickering back home.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield declined six basis points to
1.78 percent after reaching 1.77 percent, the lowest since Aug.
13. The rate on Dutch 10-year securities dropped five basis
points to 2.18 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares fell 0.6 percent.  German 10-year bunds were set for their biggest weekly gain
since July 2012 after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said this week that officials may consider pumping more
cash into the banking system if required to stop borrowing costs
from rising. ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
yesterday that policy will remain expansive.  Germany’s 10-year yield has dropped 17 basis points  this
week , the most since the period ended July 6, 2012.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area rose for a fifth month in September to 96.9 from a revised
95.3 in August, the European Commission in Brussels said today.
That beat the median estimate of 96 in a Bloomberg survey of 26
economists.  Debt Crisis  While the report adds to signs the economy is recovering,
the region is still grappling with a jobless rate at a record
12.1 percent amid the sovereign-debt crisis that started four
years ago in  Greece .  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Belgium and Italy, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds returned 4.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
gained 8.9 percent, while German securities lost 1.7 percent  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  