-- Global Atlantic Buys Forethought for Post-Goldman Growth
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-27T21:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/global-atlantic-buys-forethought-for-post-goldman-growth.html
Global Atlantic Financial Group,
the insurer divested by  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. this year,
agreed to buy closely held Forethought Financial Group Inc. to
expand sales of life and retirement products.  The purchase will increase assets at Global Atlantic to
more than $31 billion, the Bermuda-based insurer said today in a
statement that didn’t include terms. Forethought had $6.3
billion in assets as of Dec. 31, according to its  website .  Global Atlantic, led by Chief Executive Officer Allan Levine, is expanding distribution after Goldman Sachs sold a
majority stake in the firm to private investors. The insurer
announced in May that it would buy Aviva Plc’s U.S. life
business, with $10 billion of assets, in a reinsurance deal.  “Forethought’s leading annuity distribution and pre-need
business will further diversify our product mix and position us
to provide a full range of innovative life and annuity
solutions,” Levine said in today’s statement. Pre-need policies
provide funds that can pay funeral costs.  Global Atlantic was founded in 2004 at Goldman Sachs and
acquired Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Co. in 2005.
The firm also offers reinsurance under the Ariel Re brand.
Global Atlantic had $1.75 billion in equity, the company said in
a May 1 statement announcing the separation from New York-based
Goldman Sachs, which maintained a stake.  Forethought’s surplus, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, was about $470 million as of Dec. 31. The Houston-based company agreed in 2012 to acquire an individual annuities
distribution unit from Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.,
and entered the variable annuity market this year, according to
Forethought’s website.  Caskets, Funerals  Hillenbrand Industries Inc., a maker of caskets, agreed to
sell Forethought to Devlin Group LLC in 2004 for about $280
million, according to a statement at the time. Hillenbrand
started Forethought to sell coverage that paid for funerals when
policyholders died. Mark Kollar, a spokesman for Global Atlantic
at Prosek Partners and David Entrekin at Forethought declined to
comment on terms of the agreement.  Global Atlantic’s transaction is expected to be completed
in early 2014, according to the statement. Debevoise & Plimpton
LLP provided legal advice to Forethought, the  law firm  said in
an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs said  capital requirements  by international
banking regulators pushed the retreat from insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  