-- GM Pickups Armed With Chrome Prepare for Texas Showdown
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-27T20:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/gm-pickups-armed-with-chrome-prepare-for-texas-showdown.html
As  Mark Reuss ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
North America president, entered his first State Fair of Texas
yesterday, he could see what GM is up against in a crucial
battleground state for full-size pickup sales.  He drove past  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s truck display where a
Tundra dangled 50 feet overhead; a mechanical bull situated
among Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram pickups with banners boasting the
Truck of Texas award; and finally a towering oil derrick with a
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  F-Series spinning atop with decals reading “Best
selling truck” and “36 years running.”  “Everybody drives pickups and loves pickups here,” Reuss
said in an interview at the fair in Dallas, where GM revealed
its new heavy-duty trucks. The regular half-ton pickups, all-new
this year, began arriving in showrooms in May. “It feels bigger
than life, and it is.”  GM, which hadn’t redesigned its pickups since 2006, has
seen its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra combined market
share slip to 33 percent in the  Texas  half-ton truck market last
year from 36 percent in 2008, according to researcher Polk. That
puts it behind Ford’s F-Series, which is the national leader and
top-seller in Texas last year with 38 percent of the state’s
market. Reuss said GM can overtake Ford in Texas.  Taking Texas  “We’ve got the newest truck in the market; it’s been a
long time since General Motors had the newest truck,” Reuss
said. “The opinion and recognition of the how good the truck is
starts in Texas. If we can win here with a great truck, there
are ripple effects here across the whole country.”  Texas is the largest market for new pickups in the U.S.,
representing one in five vehicles sold in the state last year,
according to Polk. It’s about one in eight nationally. More
large pickups were purchased in Texas last year than the total
for the next three largest truck markets: California, Oklahoma
and  Florida .  “There’s more at stake in Texas in terms of volume and
opportunities,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with
Edmunds.com, a Santa Monica, California-based website that
tracks auto sales. “It’s looking like it’s shaping up to be
quite the battle between the players.”  GM’s pickups generated an estimated 16 percent of the
company’s global earnings before interest and taxes last year
and the redesigned versions could  boost EBIT  by more than $1
billion in 2013, according to a Citigroup Inc. estimate.  ‘Short Window’  “There’s inevitably a lift when there’s a redesign,” said
Tom Libby, a Southfield, Michigan-based analyst with Polk.
“It’s now Chevrolet and GMC’s turn and they will get a lift,
but it’s a short window because they’ve got a new F-Series
coming next year.”  At Ford’s 30,000-square-foot (2,800-square-meter) display
at the fairgrounds, a billboard boasted: “We own work.” A
nearby stadium-appropriate video screen ticked off new F-Series
sales under a headline that read: “Every 42 seconds, another F-Series is sold.” Ford executives wore black polo shirts and
khaki-colored pants.  “Suits really don’t fit at the state fair,” Joe Hinrichs,
Ford president of Americas, said in an interview after Ford’s
presentation for the 2015 Ford F-Series Super Duty and King
Ranch heavy-duty version, which is named after a working ranch
in Texas. He noted that Texas is the only state fair where he
speaks.  During his presentation, Hinrichs didn’t miss an
opportunity to highlight Ford’s success in Texas. He told the
crowd that Ford had delivered its 33 millionth F-Series this
year at Sam Pack’s  Five Star Ford  in Plano.  Demand Drivers  A recovering economy, new-housing starts and pent-up demand
are driving demand for pickups, he said.  “The energy sector, agriculture sector -- all of these are
big drivers of what’s driving the truck market in volume,
especially right here in Texas,” he said.  It’s in that environment that Reuss and his team are
fighting for attention. Reuss said in an interview last week in
New York that it’s difficult to convert brand-loyal pickup
buyers.  “We also know that the government ownership influence is
highest among truck buyers,” he said. “Being owned by the
government is problematic for now.”  The U.S. has said it will sell all of its GM shares,
acquired as a result of the automaker’s 2009 government-backed
bankruptcy, as soon as December. GM slid 1.6 percent to $36.37
at the close in New York. The shares have gained 26 percent this
year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 19 percent
rise.  High Country  GM is bringing out a new high-end version of the Silverado
called the High Country in the fourth quarter to better compete
against Ford’s King Ranch. The High Country moniker is
embroidered into the headrests of the heated-and-cooled bucket
seats. Tom Peters, the head designer for the trucks, estimated
that the High Country has about 25 percent more chrome on the
outside compared to the base Silverado.  GM revealed at the fair yesterday new heavy-duty versions
of its Silverado and Sierra pickups that are set to reach U.S.
showrooms in the first quarter.  GM is also spending more time in Texas.  At filling stations, drivers find the ice chests wrapped
with pictures of the new truck while ads play on closed-circuit
TV screens at the pumps. TV advertising for the new Silverado
began in Texas before the rest of the nation saw ads during
Major League Baseball’s All-Star Game Home Run Derby in July.  The brand’s goal is to make 869 million impressions with
digital advertising in Texas, including a large number of
Hispanic shoppers.  Chevy also has 77 Silverado billboards in Texas.  ‘Hot and Heavy’  Chevy has 42 events planned in Texas for the Silverado,
which is about 33 percent of the 126 planned by year’s end. GMC
has 11 of its 23 planned for Texas, according to GM. Chevy in
August announced a partnership with the University of Texas
football team and the company held early marketing campaigns to
showcase the pickups to journalists at programs in the San
Antonio area in May and Austin in September.  “We’ve never actually done anything like this, where we
went hot and heavy in Texas at so many different levels,” Maria Rohrer, marketing director of Chevy full-size trucks, said in an
interview. “It’s probably the most intense I’ve ever seen.”  About 40 percent of the initial production of the new
Silverados went straight to Texas -- double the typical 20
percent that might go based upon sales history, according to GM.
About 30 percent to 35 percent of the new Sierras went to Texas.  Most of those first Silverados were special Texas Edition
versions. It’s a $2,000 option that includes extra chrome, 20-inch wheels and a large Texas Edition badge. About 20 percent to
25 percent of Silverados sold in the state are Texas Editions,
according to GM.  As Reuss prepared to leave the state fair, he paused for a
moment to reflect on what he’d seen:  “There’s no other place like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Dallas  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  