-- GM Suppliers in Japan Guilty in $5 Billion Cartel Case
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-09-27T15:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/gm-suppliers-in-japan-guilty-in-5-billion-cartel-case.html
Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , Hitachi
Automotive Systems Ltd. and seven other Japanese companies
agreed to plead guilty and pay a total of $740 million in fines
for a price-fixing conspiracy targeting automakers that included
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Chrysler Group LLC and Toyota Motor Corp. were also among
car companies operating in the U.S. that faced inflated costs on
more than $5 billion of parts, affecting prices on at least 25
million vehicles, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a
news conference yesterday in  Washington .  “The conduct this investigation uncovered involved more
than a dozen separate conspiracies aimed at the  U.S. economy ,”
Holder said.  The announcement brings criminal fines in the  Justice
Department ’s continuing probe of price fixing in the auto-parts
industry to more than $1.6 billion and the number of companies
and individuals charged to 20 and 21 respectively, the Justice
Department said in a statement.  Seventeen of the 21 executives have been sentenced to jail
in the U.S. or have entered into plea agreements calling for
“significant” prison sentences, Holder said. Two of them were
charged yesterday.  “The breadth of the conspiracies brought to light today
are as egregious as they are pervasive,” said Scott Hammond, a
deputy assistant attorney general who worked on the
investigation. “They involve more than a dozen separate
conspiracies operating independently but all sharing in common
that they targeted U.S. automotive manufacturers.”  ‘Significant’ Sentences  The executives and companies involved in the price-fixing
cartels used code names and attended meetings in remote
locations to hide their conduct, the Justice Department said.  U.S. criminal antitrust fines amounted to $1.14 billion in
2012, according to figures on the Justice Department’s antitrust
division website.  “We require suppliers to comply with all applicable
laws,” said Dion Corbett, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Toyota.
The carmaker had no comment on the specific case.  Mark Fields , Ford’s chief operating officer, told reporters
in  Detroit  the company works “very closely with our suppliers,
and trust is very important to us. That’s what we value most in
our suppliers.”  Parts Penalties  Hitachi Automotive agreed to pay $195 million for fixing
prices of starter motors, alternators and air flow meters and
timing valves, among other parts, the department said.
Mitsubishi Electric agreed to pay $190 million for fixing prices
of starter motors, alternators and ignition coils, while  Mitsuba
Corp. (7280)  agreed to pay $135 million for rigging prices of
windshield washer systems, starter motors and fan motors, among
other components.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. agreed to pay a $14.5
million criminal fine for fixing prices of compressors and
condensers, while  Jtekt (6473)  Corp., an Osaka-based maker of bearings
and steering systems, agreed to a $103.3 million fine.  Mitsuba, a Kiryu, Japan-based manufacturer of car motors,
said it will book an extraordinary loss of 13.3 billion yen for
the fine in the three months ending Sept. 30, according to a
 statement .  NSK Ltd. (6471) , Jtekt and  T. RAD Co. Ltd. (7236) , will also book
extraordinary losses in the second quarter for the fine,
according to statements from the companies.  Plea Agreements  Hitachi Automotive agreed to pay the fine, the Tokyo-based
subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd. said in a  statement .  Mitsubishi Heavy also agreed to pay and ordered Masahiko Arihara, executive vice president, and Kiyonobu Toma, executive
corporate adviser, to return 20 percent of their pay for two
months, according to a  statement  from the company.  The plea agreements must be accepted by a federal judge to
become final.  The Mitsubishi Heavy case is U.S. v.  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011) , 2:13-cr-20711, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  