-- Goldman Said to Be Among Buyers of $1.5 Billion Dong Stake
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-27T13:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/goldman-said-to-be-among-buyers-of-1-5-billion-stake-in-dong.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is part of
a group that’s close to buying a stake in Dong Energy A/S,
 Denmark ’s largest utility, a person involved in the transaction
said.  The group, which includes a unit of New York-based Goldman
and Danish pension funds ATP and PFA, will pay more than 8
billion kroner ($1.5 billion) for a stake that’s greater than 20
percent, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Danish newspaper Borsen reported earlier
today that Goldman and the two funds are seeking a stake,
without saying how it obtained the information.  Denmark’s government said in February it will sell a stake
in the Skaerbaek, Denmark-based utility which is restructuring
after losing money on failed natural gas bets. Goldman would be
the lead buyer taking a greater stake than the pension funds,
the person said.  Goldman wouldn’t say if the bank is seeking to buy a stake
in Dong, according to an e-mail from Joanna Carss, a London-based spokeswoman.  The parties are still negotiating terms for how they would
exit the investment, the person said. The buyers want a clause
allowing them to sell their stake to the government or a
timetable for an initial public offering of Dong shares, the
person said.  The government pulled a planned IPO of Dong in 2008 after
the global financial crisis triggered a stock market slump.  Stake Valuation  The Danish Finance Ministry in Copenhagen wouldn’t comment
on the talks, spokesman Jakob Boeving Arendt said in an e-mail.
Karsten Anker Petersen, a Dong spokesman, said the company had
no comments on the share sale.  Hilleroed-based ATP declined to comment, Annemette
Moesgaard, head of communications, said by phone. Thomas Torp, a
spokesman at Copenhagen-based PFA, said by phone the fund had no
comments.  Oestjysk Energi I/S, an Odder, Denmark-based minority owner
in  Dong Energy , in June exercised an option to sell a 1.06
percent stake to the government in a transaction that valued the
whole utility at 33.2 billion kroner. The Oestjysk Energi
transaction will be used to calculate the valuation of the stake
bought by Goldman and the pension funds, the person said.  Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon said Feb. 27 that Denmark,
which now owns an 81 percent stake in Dong, will retain a
majority share in the utility and still plans to hold an IPO. A
public listing would be relevant at the earliest in “some
years,” he said then.  Dong is selling shares as part of a financial restructuring
announced in February to cut costs, reduce debt and bolster
investments in oil and gas exploration as well as offshore wind
farms. The plan includes cutting costs by 20 percent and selling
assets to raise 10 billion kroner.  Dong said in April the company is being advised by  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  