-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Estimates Lowered by Hintz
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-09-27T12:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-estimates-lowered-by-hintz.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  had their earnings estimates lowered by Brad Hintz, a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, amid a decline in trading he
called “a full-scale rout.”  Hintz cut Goldman Sachs’s third-quarter per-share earnings
estimate by 15 percent to $2.62 and the full-year estimate by
8.6 percent to $15.59 per share, according to a note today about
the two New York-based banks. Morgan Stanley’s per-share third-quarter estimate was decreased 20 percent to 41 cents, and the
2013 figure dropped 4.8 percent to $1.98.  “While the third quarter is typically seasonally soft, Q3
2013 appears to be turning into a full-scale rout in trading as
weak activity and limited risk-taking constrained performance,”
Hintz wrote. Fixed-income trading volume could decline 20
percent to 25 percent on average in the three months ended Sept.
30, he wrote.  Analysts have been reducing their third-quarter earnings
estimates for the biggest U.S. banks. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
nation’s largest lender, said trading revenue will probably fall
this period and Jefferies Group LLC said revenue from fixed-income trading plunged 88 percent in its fiscal third quarter,
which ended Aug. 31, compared with a year earlier.  Marty Mosby , an analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC,
downgraded shares of Goldman Sachs and  Bank of America Corp. ,
the second-biggest U.S. bank, to neutral from buy as revenue
from capital-markets and mortgage banking declines, according to
a note today.  Fixed-income trading revenue at the biggest U.S. banks will
probably fall 20 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier amid lower volume, Richard Staite, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities LLP, said in a note this week. That led him to
cut his estimate for Goldman Sachs’s per-share third-quarter
earnings by 18 percent and Morgan Stanley’s by 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  