-- Rory McIlroy Starts Own Management Group After Going Winless
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-27T15:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/golfer-mcilroy-starts-own-management-company-after-going-winless.html
Two-time major golf champion Rory McIlroy has formed his own management group after leaving
Horizon Sports Management.  It’s the second change in two years for the 24-year-old
Northern Irishman. He left International Sports Management for
Horizon in October 2011, four months after winning his first
major at the  U.S. Open .  “The golfer’s business interests will from now on be
managed by Rory McIlroy Inc.,” according to a  statement  on his
website.  Donal Casey, an actuary, will be chief executive officer of
the group, while Barry Funston, a business executive and
longtime friend of the McIlroy family, will run the golfer’s
foundation, according to the statement. Both men will serve on
the group’s board, along with McIlroy’s father, Gerry.  Horizon said it was disappointed with McIlroy’s decision to
end his contract, which has “a number of years to run.”  “Since October 2011, Horizon has achieved exceptional
results for Rory in realizing his commercial objectives,” the
company said in its own statement. “Under Horizon’s management,
Rory has signed some of the most lucrative endorsements in
sports history. Rory’s decision to seek a termination of the
 management contract  with Horizon is now regrettably in the hands
of legal advisers.”  McIlroy took over the top spot in the  Official World Golf
Ranking  for the first time in March 2012 and captured his second
major at the  PGA Championship  five months later.  In January of this year he signed an agreement to use  Nike
Inc. (NKE)  equipment after five years with Titleist. The Irish Times
said the deal was worth as much as $250 million over 10 years.  McIlroy hasn’t won a tournament on either the U.S.  PGA Tour 
or European Tour in 2013, dropping from first to sixth in the
world ranking. His best major finish was a tie for eighth place
at the PGA Championship and he failed to qualify for the Tour
Championship, the season-ending event on the American tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 