-- Google Faces Fine for Not Complying With French Privacy Demands
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-27T15:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/google-fails-to-comply-with-french-data-privacy-demands.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces a fine for
failing to make changes to its privacy policies sought by French
regulators.  Google informed  France ’s data-privacy regulator that it
contested findings that its policies weren’t in compliance with
national rules, the National Commission for Computing and Civil
Liberties, the country’s data protection watchdog known as CNIL,
said today on its Website. In June, the regulator gave Google a
three-month deadline to comply with the requested modifications.  Google faces probes across  Europe  over changes to harmonize
privacy policies for more than 60 products last year. Global
data-protection regulators in June wrote to the  Mountain View ,
California-based company urging Chief Executive Officer Larry Page to contact them about possible issues with its web-enabled
eyeglasses, called Google Glass.  The data regulator will now appoint someone to start a
formal sanctions procedure, CNIL said.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Al Verney, a
Brussels-based spokesman for Google, said by phone. “We’ve
engaged fully with CNIL throughout this process and will
continue to do so going forward.”  CNIL can levy a maximum fine of 150,000 euros ($203,000),
and 300,000 euros in case of a repeated offense, Isabelle
Falque-Pierrotin, chairwoman of the French authority, said in
June. Other regulators may impose sanctions of up to 1 million
euros, potentially exposing Google to “several million euros”
of fines on top of damaging its image, she said.  Personal Data  The French data protection watchdog had ordered the company
to spell out for users why it collects information “to
understand practically the processing of their personal data,”
better inform users of its privacy policy, and “define
retention periods of personal data processed that do not exceed
the period necessary for the purposes for which they are
collected.”  Six European privacy regulators started “coordinated”
enforcement actions in April over the company’s failure to
address complaints about its new privacy policy. A spokesman for
the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office said it is still
reviewing Google’s response.  Data protection regulators from the 28-nation EU, that make
up the so-called  Article 29 Data Protection Working Party , wrote
to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  last October,
 saying the company  “empowers itself to collect vast amounts of
personal data about  Internet users ” without demonstrating that
this “collection was proportionate,” and asking the company to
bring its policy in line with EU rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  