-- Iceland Central Bank Demands ‘Solutions’ From Bank Creditors
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-09-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/iceland-central-bank-demands-solutions-from-bank-creditors.html
Kaupthing Bank hf  and Glitnir Bank
hf won’t be able to complete a creditor accord unless they come
up with a solution on how to deal with $3.8 billion in krona-denominated assets, central bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said.  “In order to go into composition they need an exemption
from the central bank of Iceland,” Gudmundsson said in an
interview from Reykjavik. “For the central bank of Iceland to
make that exemption or give that exemption, there has to be a
solution regarding the krona assets of these banks that’s
compatible with the balance of payments equilibrium in Iceland
and financial stability.”  Offshore creditors hold about $8 billion trapped by the
krona restrictions as policy makers struggle to scale back the
measures without triggering a currency selloff. Prime Minister
Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson has said he wants writedowns on 461
billion kronur ($3.8 billion) in claims held by the creditors of
Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki Islands hf to help the
government ease the currency controls.  The caretaker of Kaupthing Bank hf said last week it won’t
ask creditors to accept kronur claims to be written off in full  “The winding up committee is obliged by law to preserve
the value of Kaupthing’s assets,” Johannes Runar Johannsson, a
member of the winding-up committee, said in an interview last
week. “It’s therefore difficult, or even impossible, to see how
the winding-up committee could make such a recommendation, given
its legal duties.”  Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki all failed in October
2008 after running out of cash to sustain their debt-funded
expansions. The banking crash plunged the economy into its worst
recession in six decades, forcing the government to impose
restrictions on the krona and to seek an international bailout.  The central bank is probing ideas from both Kaupthing and
Glitnir on how to move forward with creditor settlements,
according to Gudmundsson. Conditions for granting exemptions to
the lenders have yet to be fulfilled, he said.  “They know that, and if they want the exemption they have
to take measures to fulfill that condition,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  