-- Tiger Woods Wins U.S. PGA Tour Player of Year for 11th Time
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-27T13:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/tiger-woods-wins-u-s-pga-tour-player-of-year-for-11th-time.html
Tiger Woods  was named the U.S. PGA
Tour’s Player of the Year for the first time in four years and
record-extending 11th for his career, capping a season in which
he won five events and led all players with $8.6 million in
prize money.  Woods, 37, won the award in a vote of U.S. tour players.
 Matt Kuchar ,  Phil Mickelson ,  Adam Scott  and Henrik Stenson were
also on the ballot.  The No. 1 player in the  Official World Golf Ranking , Woods
won five of the 16 tour events in which he competed. No other
player on the ballot won more than twice this season, which
ended Sept. 22 with Stenson’s victory at the Tour Championship
in Atlanta.  Woods, who hasn’t won one of golf’s four major titles since
the 2008  U.S. Open , said he was “very satisfied” with his
season after finishing 22nd out of 30 players in the Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club.  “Overall, at the end of the year, I think it’s been a
really good year,” Woods told reporters as the Tour
Championship ended.  Woods was second in the tour’s season-long points
competition to Stenson of  Sweden , the winner of the points title
and its $10 million bonus to go with his victories at the Tour
Championship and Deutsche Bank Championship, two of the four
season-ending playoff events.  The Player of the Year award, named after 18-time major
tournament winner  Jack Nicklaus , is intended to focus on the
golfer who does best on the U.S. tour, with voting limited to
members of the circuit, the richest in golf.  Trailing Nicklaus  Woods has won 14 major championships, four behind
Nicklaus’s record, and 79 U.S. tour events, three shy of  Sam Snead ’s career mark.  Ballots for the award went out to PGA Tour players after
the conclusion of the Tour Championship. Vote totals weren’t
disclosed in a statement released today by the  Ponte Vedra
Beach , Florida-based Tour.  Woods, a full-time U.S. tour player since 1997, also won
the  PGA of America’s  Player of the Year and Vardon Trophy awards
today. The Vardon Trophy goes to the tour player with the lowest
average adjusted score for the season, with Woods topping the
list at 68.985 strokes per round.  Jordan Spieth was named Rookie of the Year by the U.S.
tour. Spieth, winner of the John Deere Classic and the only
first-year player to qualify for the Tour Championship, became
the youngest player to win a PGA Tour event since 1931 when he
captured the John Deere title at age 19. Spieth led all rookies
in earnings and finished 10th on the money list with $3.9
million.  Spieth was selected for the rookie honor over Derek Ernst,
Russell Henley and David Lingmerth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  