-- Linde Names Buechele as CEO to Succeed Reitzle in 2014
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-09-27T10:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/linde-names-buechele-as-ceo-to-succeed-reitzle-in-2014.html
Linde AG (LIN)  said Wolfgang Buechele
will become chief executive of the German industrial-gas
supplier, taking the former private equity executive to a
company where he was once one of its most important clients.  Buechele, 54, will start at Linde on May 1, replacing
retiring Wolfgang Reitzle, the Munich-based company said. In the
two years since leaving Linde customer Borsodchem Zrt of
Hungary, the German national has built his reputation at
Helsinki-based water-treatment chemical maker  Kemira Oyj. (KRA1V)   Buechele, who held executive roles at Permira, Blackstone
and  BASF SE (BAS) , is joining Linde as it battles  Air Liquide SA (AI)  for
the top spot in the industry supplying gases such as oxygen to
welders and hospitals. Reitzle, 64, turned Linde from an
equipment company to a specialist in the field, trebling its
share  price  in the decade he held the job.  “It is very hard to follow Reitzle,” said Stuttgart-based
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst Ulle Worner, who
recommends buying Linde shares. “He’s made them into a focused
gas company, taken them away from being a diversified industrial
player. They’re now a world leader.”  Reitzle sold under-performing assets and acquired larger
industrial gas company BOC Group Plc in 2006.  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX index has less than doubled during his tenure.  Buyout Years  In a similar vein, Buechele has had his own hand in
corporate turnarounds and mergers. At Kemira, Buechele
orchestrated a companywide revamp to hone the focus on more
profitable areas for water treatment, including the mining,
paper and oil-drilling sectors. Quitting the board of BASF in
2008 after less than a year, he took on roles at Blackstone and
Permira, which owned isocyanate maker Borsodchem.  Reitzle has completed $21.8 billion in takeovers at Linde,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, including the
acquisition of BOC and last year’s $3.8 billion purchase of
respiratory-therapy provider Lincare Holdings Inc.  The German company in December 2006 completed the 4
billion-euro disposal of its Kion forklifts business to  Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts (KKR)  & Co. and  Goldman Sachs (GS) ’s private equity unit as
it focused on gas and engineering services.  Kion Group AG (KGX)  sold
shares for the first time publicly this year. Reitzle also
severed ties with the company’s roots by selling the
refrigeration division to  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  in 2004.  Linde is targeting operating profit of at least 4 billion
euros in operating profit, which the company defines as earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and is
seeking a return on capital employed of about 14 percent in
2016. The company is pursuing savings intended to cut as much as
900 million euros in costs.  “Reitzle is leaving behind a well set up company,”Worner
said. “Buechele is very well-known inside the industry, with a
great deal of experience that he can bring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  