-- India’s Rupee Heads for Fourth Weekly Gain on Inflow Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-27T04:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/india-s-rupee-heads-for-fourth-weekly-gain-on-inflow-optimism.html
India’s rupee headed for a fourth
weekly gain on optimism the central bank’s efforts to boost the
supply of dollars will ease concerns about financing the
nation’s current-account deficit.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan this month
allowed banks to borrow more from abroad and offered to swap the
funds, along with dollars raised through deposits from citizens
living overseas, at concessional rates. The shortfall in the
broadest measure of trade will narrow to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2014 from a record
4.8 percent in the prior period, according to Religare Capital
Markets Ltd.  The rupee gained 0.6 percent this week and 0.2 percent
today to 61.93 per dollar as of 10:05 a.m. in Mumbai, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency’s
6.1 percent advance in September is the best performance among
 Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, fell 247 basis points, or 2.47 percentage points, since
Sept. 20 to 14.97 percent.  “Concerns over current-account-deficit funding have
largely faded after the RBI’s recent measures,” Tirthankar
Patnaik, a strategist at Religare Capital in Mumbai, wrote in a
research report today. “A sooner-than-expected Fed taper,
leading to sharp rupee depreciation, and rising commodity prices
remain key downside risks.”  ‘Least Bad’  Global funds bought a net $2 billion of Indian stocks this
month, exchange data show, partly spurred by the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s decision on Sept. 18 to not pare its monthly bond
purchases. The inflows helped the rupee rebound 11.2 percent
from an all-time low of 68.8450 touched Aug. 28.  “Forget tapering. To make money in these markets, you have
to dabble a bit in the risky stuff,” analysts at BNP Paribas
SA, including Singapore-based Mirza Baig, wrote in a research
report today. “The rupee looks the least bad among the problem-child currencies; sell the dollar against the rupee.”  India ’s  current-account  gap widened to $23 billion in the
three months through June from $18.08 billion the previous
period, according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of economists before data due next week. This jump was
caused by a drop in exports and a surge in gold imports,
according to Religare, which predicts inward shipments of the
metal will now fall after curbs imposed by policy makers, and
exports will improve as the  U.S. economy  recovers.  One-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.1 percent today to
62.50 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 0.3 percent to 62.61. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  