-- Indian Bonds Complete Worst Week This Month After Rate Increase
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-27T12:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/indian-bonds-head-for-worst-week-this-month-after-rate-increase.html
India’s 10-year bonds completed
their worst week this month after the central bank unexpectedly
boosted its benchmark  interest rate  on Sept. 20.  The yield on notes due 2023 touched the highest level in a
month after  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan raised
the  repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent to curb
inflation, the first increase since 2011. Bonds pared declines
after the government announced its borrowing plan for the second
half of the year through March 2014, which showed it will keep
annual debt sales within target.  The yield on the 7.16 percent sovereign debt due May 2023
jumped 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, this week to
8.71 percent in Mumbai, according to prices from the central
bank’s trading system. It climbed to 8.85 percent on Sept. 23,
the highest since Aug. 28.  “Along with the hardening of short-term rates, the
unexpected rate hike late last week also sent the long-term bond
yields higher,” DBS Bank Ltd. economists including Singapore-based Radhika Rao wrote in a note today. “The government’s
decision to stick with the second-half borrowing schedule
triggered a shallow pullback, but failed to completely soothe
nerves. Concerns here are that the borrowing plan might be
raised later this year if the fiscal deficit overshoots the
budgeted assumptions.”  India  will borrow 2.35 trillion rupees ($38 billion) in the
six months through March, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said on Sept. 23.  Cash Injections  Declines in bonds were also curbed after the central bank
said it will take steps as required to ensure adequate cash
supply in the financial system. The RBI is injecting about 1.5
trillion rupees into markets every day via money-market
operations and export-credit refinance, it said in a statement
on Sept. 25.  The central bank’s assurance on cash “should be a near-term respite for  government bonds , while monetary policy bias
and forex volatility continue to be sources of concern,”
Barclays Plc analysts including Mumbai-based Siddhartha Sanyal
wrote in a report this week.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, is
the highest among Asian currencies after  Indonesia ’s rupiah,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell nine basis
points this week to 8.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  