-- Intesa’s Bazoli Is Said to Plan Meeting With CEO on His Future
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-09-27T07:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/intesa-s-bazoli-is-said-to-plan-meeting-with-ceo-on-his-future.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Supervisory
Board Chairman Giovanni Bazoli is scheduled to meet with Chief
Executive Officer Enrico Cucchiani next week as at least one of
the bank’s top three investors wants to push him out, people
familiar with the matter said.  Bazoli, 80, may meet Cucchiani either Sept. 29 or Sept. 30,
when the CEO of Italy’s second-largest bank by assets returns
from a business trip to  New York , one of the people said, asking
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The
discussion may be crucial to decide whether Cucchiani still has
the support of investors before a regularly scheduled board
meeting Oct. 1, according to two people.  Cucchiani, 63, frequently doesn’t involve other executives
before making key decisions and instead relies on external
consultants, according to three people.  The Financial Times reported Sept. 24 that friction between
Cucchiani and Bazoli has emerged and the CEO could be ousted. A
spokesman for Milan-based Intesa declined to comment.  The lender’s three largest shareholders are banking
foundations, Compagnia di San Paolo, Fondazione Cariplo and
Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo. They own a
combined stake of 19 percent. Officials at Compagnia di San
Paolo and Fondazione Cariparo declined to comment, while
Giuseppe Guzzetti, chairman of the Cariplo foundation told
reporters in  Rome  earlier this week he wasn’t aware of any
tension.  Strengthening Capital  Cucchiani, a former member of  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s management
board, was appointed CEO in 2011, replacing  Corrado Passera , who
left the bank to become a minister in the Italian cabinet of
former Prime Minister  Mario Monti . He beat out Intesa’s two
general managers, Gaetano Micciche and Marco Morelli, who had
been described as the front-runners by Italian newspapers.  Intesa has risen 23 percent since Cucchiani took the helm
on Dec. 22, 2011, compared with a 43 percent increase of the
Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index. Intesa’s second-quarter profit slumped to 116 million euros ($157 million) from
470 million euros a year earlier after non-performing loans rose
amid an economic recession.  Cucchiani also is a former director at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest bank, and worked at McKinsey & Co., Gucci Group
and Italian insurer Lloyd Adratico SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  