-- Italy Business Confidence Rises to Two-Year High on Growth Hopes
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-27T08:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/italy-business-confidence-rises-to-two-year-high-on-growth-hopes.html
Italian business confidence rose to
the highest in two years, a sign of optimism that the euro
region’s third-biggest  economy  will emerge from a recession by
the end of 2013.  The manufacturing-sentiment  index  climbed in September to
96.6 from a revised 93.4 in August, the Rome-based national
statistics office  Istat  said today. That was the highest reading
since August 2011. Economists predicted 93.4, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey . The index is based
on a poll of about 4,000 businesses.  Business executives and  households  grew optimistic this
month that the economy may soon exit its two-year slump, the
longest since World War II.  Consumer confidence  rose to the
highest since June 2011 as Italians’ sentiment about their
employment expectations and the current economic situation
increased, Istat said earlier this week.The government forecasts
that the economy will return to growth next quarter and continue
to expand in 2014.  Still,  industrial production  unexpectedly fell in July,
contrasting with signs of optimism in recent surveys.  Istat initially reported the business confidence index at
92.9 for August. The survey was taken in the first half of the
month, before the resurgence of political uncertainty on the
survival of Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s coalition government.  With the political parties that support Letta bickering
over the fate of former premier  Silvio Berlusconi , the
government may find it difficult to implement measures to
lighten the tax burden on households and businesses including
the cancellation for 2013 of an unpopular property levy on main
residences.  The Italian Senate is considering Berlusconi’s possible
expulsion from the chamber because of his tax-fraud conviction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  