-- Italy Banks Face Capital Risk Amid Low Profit, IMF Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-09-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/italy-banks-face-capital-risk-amid-low-profit-imf-says.html
Italian banks’ capital buffers risk
being depleted due to poor asset quality and weak profitability
should an economic recession persist, the International Monetary
Fund said.  Twenty of  Italy ’s banks, which account for about one-third
of the nation’s banking industry, will see their Basel III core
capital measures slide by as much as 14 billion euros ($19
billion) below a key global benchmark in 2015 should an economic
downturn continue into next year, the Washington-based fund
said in an e-mailed report published today.  Banks in the euro region’s third-largest economy are
struggling to improve asset quality and profitability as the
longest recession in more than 20 years makes it harder for
businesses and households to repay loans. Italy’s economy may
contract 1.7 percent this year, according to the average
estimate of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after shrinking
2.4 percent in 2012.  “Addressing the buildup of non-performing loans since the
crisis will remain a challenge for Italian banks well after the
recession,” the IMF said. Strengthening provisioning practices
and creating a deeper distressed-debt market would facilitate
the disposal of the credit, it said.  The capital shortfall of banks could widen should they be
forced to increase provisions or reclassify loans as a result of
upcoming European Central Bank-led asset quality reviews, the
IMF said. Accelerating the write-off of bad loans would improve
profitability and reduce funding costs, increasing confidence in
the industry and helping to increase lending, the IMF said.  ‘Hot Spot’  Italy’s economy will probably expand by 0.7 percent next
year, the IMF said, confirming its outlook published in July.
Under the adverse scenario applied to banks, the economy would
contract 3.9 percent this year and by 0.7 percent in 2014, it
said.  Italian banks will be the “hot spot” for the ECB review
due to their sizable stock of bad loans,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a
report today.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the
country’s two biggest lenders, may need to set aside an extra 5
billion euros in provisions to cover default risk, it said.  Non-performing loans rose to 7.2 percent of total lending
in July from 5.7 percent a year earlier, the Italian banking
association ABI said two weeks ago. The bad loans grew 22
percent to 139.8 billion euros in the period, it said.  Business confidence in Italy rose to a two-year high in
September, a sign of optimism that the economy will emerge from
recession. The manufacturing-sentiment  index  climbed to 96.6
from a revised 93.4 in August, the Rome-based national
statistics office Istat said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  