-- Italy Halts Budget Decisions as Letta Seeks to Gauge Support
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-28T14:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/italy-mulls-delay-of-vat-increase-to-january-as-cabinet-teeters.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s Cabinet delayed approval of key economic measures as
political tensions in the coalition led the premier to seek to
verify parliamentary support for his government.  “I am not available to continue without clarity” Letta’s
office said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  Letta’s administration suspended all key economic decisions
pending a clear backing from the parties in the governing
coalition, the premier’s office said. “There’s no guarantee of
government and parliamentary continuity,” according to the
statement.  Strains between former Premier Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party and Letta’s  Democratic Party  intensified this week
as Berlusconi’s lawmakers threatened to resign en masse in the
event that a Senate committee votes to expel him. Letta’s party
says the expulsion of Berlusconi, who was convicted of  tax fraud 
last month, is required under a law passed last year.  Ministers failed to pass a decree including a measure that
would have postponed a value-added tax increase scheduled for
Oct. 1 to Jan. 1, according to a draft of the proposal obtained
by  Bloomberg News . A delay of the VAT increase was one of the
key planks in Silvio Berlusconi’s electoral campaign, along with
the cancellation of a property tax on first homes announced last
month.  Confidence Vote  A confidence vote in Parliament won’t be held before Oct.
1, Minister for Parliamentary Relations Dario Franceschini was
cited by Ansa as saying at an event near Florence today. In that
case, there won’t be enough time to avoid the VAT increase,
Deputy Finance Minister Stefano Fassina said in a telephone
interview. “The VAT increase is inevitable and the PD and
Berlusconi are to blame,” he said.  The euro region’s third-largest economy has been a key
concern for investors worried about the future of the euro.
While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge last
year to do “whatever it takes” to shore up the currency has
kept a lid on Italian bond yields, a political crisis has the
potential to cause new turmoil across the region’s bond market.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, this week to 4.42 percent at 5 p.m. London
time yesterday, the biggest increase since the period ended Aug.
23.  Tensions between the coalition partners “represent a key
risk to the economic outlook,” the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report before the Cabinet meeting yesterday. “Loss of
market confidence could be significant and push Italy into a
self-reinforcing bad equilibrium and protracted period of slow
growth.”  No Alternatives  Berlusconi’s party has yet to decide whether it will
express its support to Letta’s government,  Il Messaggero 
reported today, citing Renato Schifani, PD chief whip in the
Senate. Without the backing of his allies early elections would
be the only option, as alternative majorities don’t seem to be
an option, Messaggero reported, citing Schifani.  “Based on rational analysis, the collapse of Letta’s
government is not convenient for Berlusconi,”  Roberto
D’Alimonte , a political science professor at  Rome ’s Luiss
University, said by phone. “Berlusconi is just trying to take
advantage of the situation by putting pressure on Letta and
Italian President Napolitano to keep alive the attention on his
case, also in the eyes of his electors, and to obtain more
favorable conditions” for his penalty, he said.  Berlusconi, who turns 77 tomorrow, is unlikely to spend a
day in jail for the tax-fraud verdict. His four-year prison
sentence will probably be reduced to one year of house arrest or
community service, due in part to leniency guidelines. The
three-time premier is appealing separate criminal convictions
for illegal use of wiretaps, abuse of office and paying a minor
for sex. He has denied all charges, saying the trials amount to
political persecution.  In an e-mailed statement today, Napolitano denied press
reports Berlusconi didn’t respond to his phone calls. In a
separate speech at an event near Naples today, the Italian
President, who met Letta before yesterday’s cabinet meeting,
stressed the need for stability, saying  Italy  doesn’t need a
“permanent election campaign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  