-- Mizuho Bank Penalized for Transactions With ‘Anti-Social’ Groups
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-09-28T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/mizuho-bank-punished-for-transactions-with-anti-social-forces-.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s
lending unit was penalized by  Japan ’s banking regulator for
failing to take steps to end more than two years of transactions
with “anti-social” groups.  Mizuho Bank Ltd. was ordered to strengthen legal compliance
and administrative controls, the Financial Services Agency said
in a  statement  in  Tokyo  yesterday. The unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value made loans to the anti-social
groups, the FSA said, without identifying them. The phrase is
often used in Japan to describe criminal organizations.  Japanese authorities have stepped up efforts to combat
yakuza gangs, whose activities range from extortion to fraud and
money laundering, according to the National Police Agency. In
the first penalty of its kind against a Japanese bank since
2007, the FSA told Mizuho to make a “clean break” from the
groups after conducting 230 transactions, mostly car loans.  “There could be reputation risks, but Mizuho may not
receive any direct impact on its business as this is just an
internal controls matter,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Lending to anti-social groups
will become one of the main focuses of Japanese regulators in
future.”  Mizuho made transactions valued at about 200 million yen
($2 million), an FSA official said at a news briefing in Tokyo,
asking not to be named in accordance with the agency’s policy.  Improvement Plan  The bank has to formulate measures to prevent a recurrence
and submit a business improvement plan by Oct. 28, the regulator
said. It will report on its progress at the end of November and
December and then every three months.  Mizuho “takes this order very seriously and deeply regrets
these occurrences,” the bank said in a  statement . The Tokyo-based company hasn’t decided any internal penalties yet,
spokeswoman  Masako Shiono  said by phone.  Yesterday’s action is the latest blow to Mizuho after the
FSA punished the bank for a computer glitch that delayed
transactions following the nation’s March 2011 earthquake.  In 2007, the agency ordered Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc.’s banking unit to suspend some operations for a week after
finding that a branch in Hyogo prefecture, western Japan, did
business with an anti-social group for more than 30 years.  Japanese police are doubling efforts to crack down on the
yakuza, the National Police Agency said in a white paper
published in 2011. The gangs are increasingly turning to
businesses such as construction, finance, waste disposal and
securities markets to supplement their more traditional income
sources, according to police.  The U.S. is also clamping down on the gangs, imposing
sanctions on the two biggest groups as part of an effort by
President  Barack Obama  to combat transnational criminal
organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  