-- JPMorgan Joins Nomura Selling Notes Linked to Peripheral Banks
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-09-27T09:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/jpmorgan-joins-nomura-selling-notes-linked-to-peripheral-banks.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
the creditworthiness of banks in the euro region’s periphery are
the highest in six months as investors gain confidence lenders
will benefit from the region’s improving economy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  led issuance
of $42.3 million of the securities in September, the most since
$167.2 million in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes are tied to the debt of lenders including
 Spain ’s  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , Banco BPI SA of Portugal and
UniCredit SpA.  The euro area’s economy emerged from its longest-ever
recession in the second quarter and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said this week he’s ready to use another
longer-term refinancing operation if needed to curb market
rates. Bank credit risk is improving, with investors demanding
102 basis points of extra yield to hold their debt instead of
 government bonds , down from 179 a year earlier, according to
Bloomberg bond index  data .  “Peripheral banks have been beaten up over the past few
years, but there is growing investor comfort with them and more
willingness to take on that exposure, especially in Spain where
the restructuring of balance sheets has been extensive and
visible,” said Steve Hussey, head of financial institutions
credit research at AllianceBernstein Ltd. in  London .  Spanish Lenders  Spanish banks took more than 200 billion euros ($270.6
billion) of impairments between June 2008 and December 2012 amid
the collapse of a decade-long property boom that sent  home
prices  plunging and burdened banks with more bad loans,
according to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. The country’s
lenders, which have received 129 billion euros of capital
injections since the end of 2007, are in a strong position to
pass an ECB asset quality review next year, BBVA’s chief
financial officer Manuel Gonzalez Cid, said Sept. 25.  JPMorgan issued the first credit-linked notes tied to
 Portugal ’s Banco BPI since at least 1999, Bloomberg data show.
The largest U.S. bank by assets raised $19.8 million from two
offerings that pay 4.7 percentage points and 4.8 percentage
points more than the three-month euro interbank offered rate.  Nomura sold $5.5 million of 15-year callable notes tied to
UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, with coupons of 9.1 percent
this month, as well as 2.28 million euros of 5.26 percent
securities linked to Banco Popolare SC. Italian banks’ gross
non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending rose to
7.2 percent in July from 5.7 percent a year earlier, according
to the Italian Banking Association ABI.  Craig MacDonald, a spokesman for JPMorgan in London,
declined to comment on the notes, while Nomura spokesman  Rob
Davies  was unable to comment immediately.  “Interest in peripheral banks is emblematic of the risk-on
environment, with investors looking to take advantage of wider
credit spreads on offer in countries like Spain and Italy” said
Michael Symonds, a credit analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  