-- Keystone Pipeline Project Faces Nebraska Court Showdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   W i t o s k y
-- 2013-09-27T23:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/keystone-pipeline-project-faces-nebraska-court-showdown.html
The proposed Keystone XL pipeline
faces a court challenge in Nebraska, where three property owners
contend state lawmakers gave the governor illegal power to take
away their land for the project.  The Nebraska Legislature transferred to Governor Dave Heineman and, through him, to Calgary-based pipeline builder
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , its authority over eminent domain in
violation of the state constitution’s separation of powers, the
landowners said in a court filing.  Today they asked Judge  Stephanie Stacy  in Lincoln, the
state capital, to strike down that legislation.  “The legislature is not empowered to delegate power to a
private company at the expense of its residents,” their lawyer,
David Domina, told Stacy today.  The Keystone XL pipeline, which has also triggered lawsuits
challenging eminent domain in  Texas , would connect  Alberta ’s oil
sands to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast. Because the project
crosses the national border, it is subject to U.S. State
Department review.  While congressional Republicans and some Democrats have
pressed President  Barack Obama  to approve the $5.3 billion
project, his administration has yet to take action.  ‘Significantly Exacerbate’  The president, in a June speech at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said the pipeline shouldn’t be built if it’s found
to “significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution.  About 75 pipeline opponents, including those pressing the
case before the court, rallied outside the Lancaster County
Courthouse in Lincoln before today’s hearing. Inside, spectators
lined up for seats in a packed courtroom.  The hearing lasted about 35 minutes, after which Stacy said
she would issue a written ruling without giving a time frame for
doing so.  The legislation at issue amended a prior measure, the Major
Oil Pipeline Siting Act, that had placed the state’s  Public
Service Commission , or PSC, in charge of any pipeline project as
a regulator of common carriers. The new bill gave pipeline
builders the option of seeking approval from the governor and
the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, bypassing the
PSC.  “Nebraska will move forward on the review process of the
proposed Keystone XL pipeline and any future pipelines that will
create jobs and reduce U.S. dependence on Middle Eastern oil,”
Heineman, a Republican, said in an  April 2012 statement  issued
upon signing the bill. “The review process is a top priority
for Nebraska.”  Limited Authority  Heineman’s authority is limited to decisions about where
the pipeline would run, state Attorney General Jon Bruning
argued in court papers, disputing the landowners’ claims that
the measure violates the separation-of-powers principle.  The state also disputed whether TransCanada qualifies as a
common carrier, calling it a “pipeline carrier.”  “Prior to 2011, pipeline carriers were automatically
provided with eminent domain authority to construct pipelines
in, across and through  Nebraska ,” according to Bruning’s
filing.  “We don’t anticipate this court case will impact the
timing of a decision on Keystone XL,” Grady Semmens, a
TransCanada spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
governor’s decision approving the route has not been stayed
pending the outcome of the court challenge, it remains valid and
there is no legal bar to the Department of State moving ahead
with its process.”  Pipeline Routing  State Assistant Attorney General Katherine Spohn denied
Nebraska residents’ rights had been violated, telling Stacy
today that the measure complied with the state’s constitution
and that objectors could challenge the pipeline routing once it
is decided.  “There’s no denial of rights to property owners,” she
said.  Landowners’ lawyer Brian Jorde, in a phone interview
yesterday, said his clients are concerned as Nebraska taxpayers
and landowners.  “They’re concerned about the potential environmental
effects, concerned that a foreign, for-profit company, came into
Nebraska with eminent domain power to take their land,” Jorde
said.  The landowners seek to restore PSC oversight so that the
agency can go through its siting process, Jorde said.  ‘Cut Out’  “The way the legislation is written, the pipeline company
itself, the applicant, gets to choose,” whether to seek
approval from the PSC or deal with the governor, Jorde said.
“If they chose the governor and the governor says ‘I like this
route,’ then the PSC is completely cut out, and that’s exactly
what they’ve done.”  TransCanada has the power to take property under eminent
domain, leaving landowners with the choice of accepting an
offered price for land or going to court, Jorde said.  “Meanwhile, TransCanada gets the land,” he said.  While only one of the plaintiffs, Susan Dunavan of York
County, owns land in the pipeline’s path, the other two may also
be subject to eminent domain, Jorde said. They are Randy
Thompson of Lancaster County and Susan Luebbe of Holt County,
according to the complaint.  “No one in Nebraska should be threatened by a corporation,
foreign or domestic,” Dunavan said at the rally. “This
pipeline is not for Nebraska. It is not for the  United States .
It is solely for the benefit of  Canada  and the oil industry.”  “They gave eminent domain to a foreign corporation,”
Thompson said. “I don’t know how you feel about it, but I sure
as hell don’t like it.”  The case is Thompson v. Heineman, CI 12-2060, Lancaster
County, Nebraska, District Court (Lincoln).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Witosky in the Lincoln, Nebraska, courthouse at
   twitosky@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  