-- KKR to Buy Panasonic Health Care Unit for $1.67 Billion
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-09-27T14:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/kkr-to-buy-panasonic-health-care-business-for-1-67-billion.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  agreed to buy  Panasonic
Corp. (6752) ’s health-care unit for about 165 billion yen ($1.67
billion).  A wholly owned subsidiary of the U.S. private-equity firm
will purchase all shares and assets of  Panasonic Healthcare Co. ,
according to a statement from the companies. KKR then will
allocate 20 percent of the shares of the wholly owned unit to
Panasonic. The Osaka-based Japanese electronics maker expects
the transaction to add 75 billion yen in profit and said it is
studying the effects of the sale on its annual forecast.  “We believe that partnering with KKR will also allow us to
learn from KKR’s global operational and business management
expertise as we pursue the next stage in growth,” Panasonic
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  said in the statement.  Panasonic Healthcare, which provides digital medical-record
systems and makes instruments that measure blood glucose, would
be KKR’s biggest acquisition in  Japan , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Panasonic is selling control of the unit
as it focuses on a 250 billion-yen plan to reverse  losses  at its
electronics business in the next two years.  New York-based KKR got preferential negotiating rights
after two rounds of bidding, three people with knowledge of the
matter said earlier this month.  KKR completed raising a $6 billion Asian-focused investment
pool, its second for the region, this year. It raised a $4
billion pan-Asian fund in 2007 and a $1 billion fund focused on
 China  in 2010. The firm said in July that it had deployed more
than $5.5 billion in 30 companies throughout  Asia .  In April, KKR said it hired Hirofumi Hirano, a former
executive at AlixPartners LLP, to head its Japanese unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  