-- Kumba, ArcelorMittal South Africa Start Supply Talks
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-04T12:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/kumba-and-arcelormittal-south-africa-start-new-supply-deal-talks.html
(Corrects to show that Duduzane Zuma’s former business
associate is no longer an ICT shareholder in fifth paragraph of
story published on Sept. 27.)  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s  Kumba Iron Ore (KIO) 
unit and  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s
biggest steelmaker known as AMSA, said they’re in talks to
secure a permanent deal for delivery of the raw material.  Kumba in December agreed to a one-year deal with AMSA to
supply as much as 4.8 million metric tons of iron ore from its
Sishen mine,  Africa ’s largest iron-ore operation, to the local
unit of the world’s biggest steel producer at an average price
of $65 a ton. The arrangement ends on Dec. 31.  “Discussions are under way on the possibility of a new
supply agreement for iron ore from Kumba’s mines, including
Sishen and Thabazimbi,” AMSA, based in Vanderbijlpark, 70
kilometers (44 miles) south of Johannesburg, said in a
statement.  Kumba in March 2010 canceled a 2001 agreement to supply
AMSA with 6.25 million tons of ore a year at cost plus three
percentage points from Sishen after the steelmaker’s partial
mining right over the operation expired the previous year. They
delayed arbitration until court proceedings over the right are
concluded.  South Africa’s Supreme Court of Appeal in March dismissed
an appeal by the state and Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd.
to have rights to the complex reinstated. A former shareholder
of ICT, Jagdish Parekh, was a business associate of President
Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane. The case continues in the
Constitutional Court. Duduzane Zuma is not a shareholder in ICT.  Kumba’s Sishen Iron Ore Co. controls and operates the
Sishen mine, while  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  owns 20 percent of
SIOC, as the unit is known.  Kumba “and AMSA are hoping that their discussions will
lead to agreement on the long-term supply of iron ore from
SIOC’s mines,” Kumba said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  