-- Naira Rallies on Central Bank Support: Lagos Mover
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-09-30T08:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/naira-rallies-third-week-on-central-bank-support-lagos-mover.html
(Corrects range that central bank targets for naira in
fourth paragraph of story published on Sept. 27.)  The naira strengthened, set for a
third weekly gain against the dollar, as the  Central Bank of
Nigeria  tightened control of foreign-currency sales at its
regular auctions.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest crude producer advanced 1
percent to 159.79 by 3:02 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital,
after the Abuja-based central bank said it was suspending
wholesale dollar auctions in a notice published on its website
yesterday. The currency has gained 0.7 percent this week as
Governor Lamido Sanusi pledged to use foreign-currency reserves
to support the naira when needed.  The bank wants “to ensure that people will not buy dollars
and stockpile them,” Sewa Wusu, an analyst at Sterling Capital
Ltd., said by phone from Lagos. “They want to ensure that the
demand for the dollar is used.”  The central bank sells foreign currency at twice-weekly
auctions to keep the naira within a range of 3 percentage points
above or below 155 per dollar. Wholesale auctions saw lenders
bid for dollars without saying what the money be used for, Wusu
said. The retail auctions now require that information, and the
bank “reserves the right to reject bids that are deemed to be
unrealistic,” according to the statement. The changes take
effect Oct. 2.  “The excess demand for the naira in the auction will be
reduced, because the banks will not be taking position, only the
end-users,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer at
Financial Derivatives Co., said by phone from Lagos.  The Sanusi-led Monetary Policy Committee held  Nigeria ’s
benchmark lending rate at a record high 12 percent on Sept. 24.  “We’re committed to the stability of the  exchange rate  and
we’ll not, unless we’re forced to, allow the naira to weaken,”
the governor said that day.  The naira weakened 2.4 percent this year against the
dollar. The central bank sold $600.2 million at foreign-currency
auctions this week from $600 million in the prior five days.
Nigeria’s gross reserves fell to $45.7 billion as of Sept. 25,
compared with $46.9 billion at the end of August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  