-- NATO Member Turkey Turns to Sanctioned Chinese Co. for Missiles
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-09-27T10:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/nato-member-turkey-turns-to-sanctioned-chinese-co-for-missiles.html
Turkey  picked a state-run Chinese
company over U.S. and European rivals to co-produce missile
defense systems as it seeks partnerships capable of growing
domestic arms production amid a military buildup in the region.  While the company, China Precision Machinery Import-Export
Corp., or CPMIEC, has been sanctioned by the U.S. for alleged
missile sales to  Iran , the multibillion dollar partnership will
boost Turkey’s defense industry and serves the nation’s goal of
diversifying arms suppliers, according to Nihat Ali Ozcan, an
analyst at the Economic Policy Research Foundation in Ankara.  Turkey approved CPMIEC’s lowest bid of about $3 billion
amid questions over the Chinese system’s compatibility with
NATO-owned early warning systems, Hurriyet Daily News reported
today. Milliyet newspaper said yesterday that the project would
cost around $4 billion.  “Turkey has already been cooperating with  China  in
production of short-range missiles and the latest decision
underlines its eagerness to develop its own military
technology,” Ozcan said. “Turkey clearly opted for a cheaper
option while eliminating possible political snags over supplies
and their use.”  NATO Ties  Turkey, which has the second-largest army by personnel
numbers in the Western military alliance, has had friction with
the U.S., which has NATO’s biggest military, in defense ties in
the past. No U.S. companies bid for a Turkish attack helicopter
contract in 2006 after Turkey insisted on full access to
specific software codes, which the U.S. considers a security
risk. Turkey partnered with  Italy  instead in a $3 billion
project to co-produce 50 attack helicopters for its army.  Turkey selected CPMIEC’s HQ-9 SAM system over Patriot
missile interceptors from a U.S. partnership between  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , S-300 missiles from  Russia ’s
state-run arms trader Rosoboronexport and the Aster 30-based
SAMP/T SAM system by French-Italian partnership Eurosam.  CPMIEC and its affiliates were banned in 2006 from doing
business in the U.S. for allegedly selling missile technology to
Iran, according to the U.S. State Department. A unit of the
state-owned company “made nearly 300 illegal shipments to U.S.
firms since a ban was imposed on CPMIEC and its affiliates,”
according to an analysis of shipping records by the Wisconsin
Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a nonprofit proliferation
watchdog, the Wall Street Journal reported on Jan. 4, 2010.  Turkey’s decision on long-range missiles comes amid
increasing concerns over risks emanating from  Syria ’s civil war
as well as missile programs in Iran and Cyprus, Ozcan said.
Production would take years, he said.  NATO allies including the U.S.,  Germany  and the Netherlands
earlier this year placed Turkey under the protection of six
Patriot missile batteries deployed on its 900-kilometer (560-mile) border with Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  