-- NBA Players Union Hires Search Firm to Find Hunter Replacement
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-27T15:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/nba-players-union-hires-search-firm-to-find-hunter-replacement.html
The National Basketball Players
Association has retained Reilly Partners, a Chicago-based
executive search firm, to find a replacement for ousted
Executive Director  Billy Hunter .  Bob Reilly, the firm’s chief executive officer and co-founder, will lead the process, said Ron Klempner, the union’s
acting executive director. Last month Reilly spoke to the
players at their annual summer meeting in Las Vegas, where Los
Angeles Clippers All-Star  Chris Paul  was named as the
association’s president.  The firm’s clients have included the National Football
League Players Association, the National Hockey League Players
Association, the University of  Notre Dame  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,
according to its website.  Hunter was fired amid charges of nepotism and abuse of
union resources. Player representatives from 24 of the 30 teams
voted unanimously in February to fire Hunter, ending the former
federal prosecutor’s 16-year tenure. Hunter was making $3
million annually.  Hunter’s dismissal ended almost a year of speculation about
his future with the association, punctuated by the results of an
audit of the union conducted by New York-based law firm Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison. The review concluded that,
while Hunter did nothing illegal, he failed to manage conflicts
of interest, lacked proper corporate governance and didn’t
disclose that his $3 million-a-year contract wasn’t properly
ratified.  Hunter’s Rebuttal  In his rebuttal, Hunter said his contract was valid and
that he has always put players first. Hunter sued the union,
former president  Derek Fisher  and his publicist, Jamie Wior, in
May, alleging they engaged in secret negotiations with team
owners to end the 2011 NBA lockout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  