-- New Jersey Same-Sex Weddings Must Be Allowed, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-09-27T21:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/new-jersey-same-sex-couples-must-be-allowed-to-marry-judge-says.html
Same-sex couples in  New Jersey  must
be allowed to marry because the state’s current civil-union law
doesn’t offer them equal protection, a judge ruled.  Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson ruled today in Trenton
that she “will order the state to permit any and all same-sex
marriages.” Unless the ruling is blocked, it would take effect
Oct. 21, making New Jersey the 14th state to allow gay marriages
along with the  District of Columbia .  Jacobson ruled before a trial on a request by Garden State
Equality and Lambda Legal, which represents six same-sex couples
and their children who sued. They asked Jacobson for the ruling
after the U.S. Supreme Court on June 26 struck down a federal
law denying benefits to same-sex married couples.  “Every day that the state does not allow same-sex couples
to marry, plaintiffs are being harmed,” Jacobson ruled.
“Plaintiffs are ineligible for many federal marital benefits at
this moment, and their right to equal protection under the New
Jersey Constitution should not be delayed until some
undeterminable future time.”  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who is expected to
win re-election in November, vetoed a same-sex marriage bill
last year. He said the question of gay marriage should be
decided by voters in a referendum, and he will honor the
results.  Civil Right  Democratic lawmakers who control the Legislature resisted
Christie’s call, saying gay marriage is a civil right that
doesn’t belong on the ballot. Christie’s administration defended
civil unions in the case before Jacobson.  “Governor Christie has always maintained that he would
abide by the will of the voters on the issue of marriage
equality and called for it to be on the ballot this Election
Day,” said spokesman  Michael Drewniak . “Since the legislature
refused to allow the people to decide expeditiously, we will let
the  Supreme Court  make this constitutional determination.”  Troy Stevenson, executive director of Garden State
Equality, New Jersey’s largest gay-rights group, cheered the
ruling and vowed to pursue a fight that took on new urgency
after the Supreme Court ruling.  “We will win marriage equality through litigation or
legislation -- we just won the first round through litigation,”
Stevenson said in an interview. “We will continue fighting
until we have the dignity of marriage equality.”  ‘Devastating’ Consequences  In arguments before Jacobson in August, Lambda Legal’s
lawyer, Lawrence Lustberg, said that not allowing same-sex
couples to marry will have “devastating” consequences because
the federal government denies an array of benefits to couples
who are not married. He said the question is a matter of equal
protection under the law and has moral overtones.  Jacobson agreed, ruling that the ineligibility of same-sex
couples for federal benefits hurts them in “a wide range of
contexts,” such as pension benefits, family leave protections
and tax benefits.  “If the trend of federal agencies deeming civil union
partners ineligible for benefits continues, plaintiffs will
suffer even more, while their opposite-sex New Jersey
counterparts continue to receive federal marital benefits for no
reason other than the label placed upon their relationship by
the state,” the judge wrote.  ‘Equal Protection’  Such unequal treatment “requires that New Jersey extend
civil marriage to same-sex couples to satisfy the equal
protection guarantees of the New Jersey Constitution.”  Christie’s Democratic challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono, said the ruling “reaffirms that all New Jerseyans, no
matter who they love, deserve the right to marry.” The
governor, she said, “stands on the wrong side of history” and
must decide “whether to be an obstacle or to be part of the
solution.”  Hayley Gorenberg,  Lambda Legal ’s deputy legal director,
said the news is “thrilling.”  “We argued that limiting lesbians and gay men to civil
union is unfair and unconstitutional, and now the court has
agreed,” Gorenberg said in a statement.  Democratic lawmakers have pushed for an override of
Christie’s veto. The gay-marriage bill passed 24-16 in the
Senate and 42-33 in the Assembly.  An override would require 27 votes in the Senate, where
Democrats rule 24-16, and 54 in the Assembly, where they
dominate 48-32.  The case is Garden State Equality v. Dow, L-001729-11, New
Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  