-- Norilsk Sees Nickel Surplus Shrinking Next Year on Idled Plants
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-09-27T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/norilsk-sees-nickel-surplus-shrinking-next-year-on-idled-plants.html
OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, urged producers to start idling
unprofitable operations to fight a surplus that has damped
prices and caused losses.  Consecutive quarters of losses should push companies to cut
output, which may narrow the nickel surplus 30 percent to 70,000
metric tons in 2014 from 100,000 tons this year, according to
Anton Berlin, marketing director at ZAO NormetImpex, a unit of
Norilsk Nickel.  Nickel, used in stainless steel, tumbled into a  bear market 
in May and is set for a third yearly loss, as demand waned and
 China  increased output of a substitute derived from lower-grade
ores. Additions to Chinese nickel pig iron capacity outstrip
closures, creating a third consecutive annual surplus in 2013,
according to a Deutsche Bank AG report in August.  “Unfortunately, we don’t see significant changes on the
nickel market yet compared with what we had at the start of the
year,” Berlin said in an interview Sept. 25. “From 35 to 40
percent of producers are still loss-making and the gap between
supply and demand remains high.”  Nickel traded at about $13,887 a ton on the London Metal
Exchange by 10:35 a.m. local time, down 19 percent this year,
making it the worst performing industrial metal.  Norilsk Nickel (GMKN)  posted net profit of $545 million in the
first half, down 63 percent from the same period of 2012, while
Glencore Xtrata Plc recognized a $7.7 billion charge on Xstrata
mining assets, which include nickel.  Few Percent  “We are disappointed that we aren’t seeing capacities
closing,” Berlin said. “International industrial groups are
just subsidizing their loss-making operations, while other high
cost producers are afraid to lose their client base. That delays
the decision to cut capacity and doesn’t allow the price to
recover.”  Norilsk hopes that the average price will rise by a few
percent in 2014, while not seeing “significant changes on the
market,” Berlin said. Macquarie Group Ltd. forecasts a nickel
surplus of about 80,000 tons this year, less than Berlin’s
estimate, and about the same in 2014.  The nickel price is “on the verge of the production cost
of Indonesian nickel ore miners,” meaning there isn’t much
further to fall, according to Berlin.  Indonesia ’s fulfilling a promise to ban nickel ore exports
to China from 2014 would help to reduce NPI output, estimated to
exceed 400,000 tons this year, Berlin said. It’s not clear
whether the country will impose the ban, he said.  China’s development of rotary-kiln-electric furnace, or
RKEF, technology to produce NPI, won’t have as strong an impact
on the market as some analysts have said, according to Berlin.
RKEF is only used in 20 percent to 25 percent of NPI output and
only one plant has managed to lower production costs as low as
$12,000, Berlin said. That plant is next to a port, he said.  NPI makers using older technologies have costs ranging from
$14,000 to about $18,000 per ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  