-- Northrop Gets $114 Million Pentagon Order for Drones
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-09-27T22:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/northrop-gets-114-million-pentagon-order-for-drones.html
Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  received a
$114.2 million order for the last three Global Hawk Block 30
drones that the Pentagon initially tried to cancel.  The  Department of Defense  announced the deal today.  Northrop, based in Falls Church,  Virginia , tripled its
political giving and increased spending on lobbying as it fended
off efforts by President  Barack Obama ’s administration to cut
spending for the drones.  The Global Hawk can stay airborne for 32 hours and has been
used to support U.S. troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. The
unmanned aircraft flies intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance missions over large areas.  The administration had said the Block 30 version was
unaffordable in an era of budget cuts, and that the manned U-2
planes could accomplish the same missions.  “The  Air Force  continues to support the U-2 as the
platform of choice,” Acting Air Force Secretary Eric Fanning
said Sept. 16 at the Air Force Association’s Air and Space
Conference at National Harbor in  Maryland .  Congress disagreed, including funding for purchasing the
three Global Hawk drones in the Defense Department budget and
pressuring Pentagon officials to buy the planes.  “The Global Hawk spans much more territory, it’s more
efficient, it’s unmanned and it’s the technology of the
future,” said Representative Jim Moran of Virginia, 68, a
senior Democrat on the House Appropriations defense subcommittee
whose district includes Northrop’s headquarters. “The U-2 has
been around since I was a kid. Any system that is as old as I am
needs to be replaced.”  Drone Mandates  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican, joined Moran in complaining to
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel that the Air Force was delaying
the congressionally mandated drone purchases.  “The Air Force has continued to ignore clear congressional
intent,” the lawmakers wrote May 13.  Randy Belote , a Northrop spokesman, said the company was
“pleased” with the decision. He said the company remains
committed to “providing operational value for the war-fighter.”  During the first six months of 2013, Northrop Grumman’s
political action committee made $1.3 million in federal campaign
donations. Among all corporate PACs, that was second only to
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and three times the $372,000
contributed by Northrop’s PAC during the same period two years
ago, Federal Election Commission reports show.  Northrop, the fifth-biggest Pentagon contractor, spent $9.3
million to lobby from January to June, up from $8.6 million in
the first half of 2012, according to U.S. Senate filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  