-- Obama Lets Arkansas Direct Medicaid Patients to Exchange
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-27T17:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/obama-lets-arkansas-direct-medicaid-patients-to-exchange.html
The U.S. government agreed to a
proposal by  Arkansas  in which the state will buy private health
insurance for 200,000 low-income adults using Medicaid funds.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced
the compromise in an e-mail four days before the debut of state
insurance exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act. The
plan may cost the federal government as much as $1.1 billion in
its first year. The health law sought to have states expand
existing government-managed Medicaid programs for the poor next
year to cover everyone earning about one-third more than the
U.S. poverty level.  While the federal government has pledged to pay the entire
expense of the expansion until 2017, some Republican-led states
balked. The Arkansas program, in which insurance companies will
be given the  Medicaid money  to manage plans for new enrollees,
may serve as a template for  Iowa ,  Ohio ,  Michigan  and other
states that had been weighing options.  “It represents a way to do a Medicaid expansion without it
looking like Medicaid,” said Matt Salo, the executive director
of the National Association of Medicaid Directors. “That in and
of itself makes it a very, very attractive option for states
that are currently in the ‘no’, or ‘unsure’ or ‘leaning no’
columns.”  Democratic Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe, in an effort to
appease his Republican-controlled legislature, had asked the
Obama administration earlier this year for a waiver to pursue
the state’s proposed version of Medicaid expansion. The
legislature voted in April and has been waiting on federal
approval since.  Beebe said  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. health secretary,
called him this morning to tell him the plan was approved.  ‘Positive Attention’  “Our actions have drawn positive attention from across the
country, and now we will focus on getting this insurance to to
the Arkansans who need it to lead healthier, more productive
lives,” he said in a statement.  Just more than half the U.S. states have agreed to expand
their Medicaid programs under the health-law rules, with the
rest either rejecting the idea or sitting on the fence. Iowa’s
Republican governor, Terry Branstad, has submitted an
application to the U.S. agency for an Arkansas-style expansion.  The Obama administration has said it will approve a limited
number of expansions using private plans, without saying exactly
how many. Under terms of the arrangement, the expansion can’t
cost the federal government any more than it would to expand the
traditional state-run Medicaid program.  Plan Review  The Arkansas plan “will include a strong evaluation
component that will test whether this model yields improvements
in care and costs,”  Marilyn Tavenner , the administrator of the
U.S. Medicare and Medicaid agency, said in a letter to Beebe.  The U.S. cost for the Arkansas plan will be capped at
$5,736 per person in the first year, or about $1.1 billion for
200,000 people, Tavenner’s agency said in documents attached to
her letter. The cap rises to $6,276 per person in 2016. There is
no limit on the number of people Arkansas can enroll, as long as
they meet eligibility requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  