-- Obama Defeat on FERC Seen Opening Door for Arkansas Regulator
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-27T20:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/obama-defeat-on-ferc-seen-opening-door-for-arkansas-regulator.html
Among the potential nominees to
head the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is  Arkansas ’
top utility regulator, a woman who served in that state’s
attorney general’s office and is slated to lead a national
regulatory group next year.  Colette Honorable, along with two current FERC members, was
cited as a probable candidate by a person familiar with the
process who asked not to be named in discussing sensitive
deliberations. President  Barack Obama ’s first pick, Ron Binz,
has failed to win the support of a majority of the Senate
committee considering the nomination.  “We’re happy to see who they send us,” said Robert Dillon, a spokesman for Republicans on the Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, as the White House considers
replacements for Binz.  Honorable, the chairman of the Arkansas Public Service
Commission, and FERC Commissioners John Norris and Cheryl LaFleur, are among potential candidates Republicans would
consider, Dillon said. Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the
party’s top official on the committee, doesn’t have a candidate
in mind to lead the FERC and is open to anyone who isn’t as
controversial as Binz, he said in a phone interview.  The future leadership of the federal agency, which
regulates the interstate transport of electricity and natural
gas and polices energy markets for manipulation, has been thrown
into chaos due to opposition to Binz, a former chairman of the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission. All 10 Republicans on the
22-member panel, as well as Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia
Democrat, have said they would vote against him.  Mike Beebe  Honorable, appointed to her post by Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, is a lawyer and first vice president of the
National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners. The
group expects to elect her as its next president in November.  Honorable had been chief of staff to Beebe when he served
as the state’s attorney general. She served in the Consumer and
Civil Litigation divisions, and as senior assistant attorney
general overseeing Medicaid fraud cases.  Honorable declined to comment on her possible FERC
nomination, Rob Thormeyer, a spokesman for the state-regulators’
group, said in an e-mail. Norris and LaFleur didn’t immediately
respond to messages left at their FERC offices today to discuss
their potential candidacies.  White House  The White House has been considering other candidates to
lead the FERC since it became clear this week that Binz didn’t
have the backing of a majority of the Senate committee.  Manchin told reporters and editors yesterday at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast that the White House was considering
alternatives to Binz. He said President Barack Obama should have
picked Norris in the first place.  Free-market and coal-industry groups have opposed Binz,
saying that he favored renewable energy at consumers’ expense
while leading the Colorado commission. As chairman of the state
panel, Binz backed a Colorado law that allowed utility  Xcel
Energy Inc. (XEL)  to convert coal plants to natural gas.  Binz, who has the support of clean-energy groups and 12
former FERC commissioners from both parties, has said that he
isn’t against coal as a source of power generation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  