-- Obama Commits $320 Million to Aid Bankrupt Detroit
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-09-27T21:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/obama-set-to-deliver-320-million-to-aid-bankrupt-detroit.html
With $320 million of federal, state
and private aid in hand, top White House officials came to
 Detroit  and vowed to help the bankrupt city fight crime, improve
mass transport and eradicate blight.  The money is mostly grants from federal or state programs
for which the city is qualified, or for which it needed red tape
cut to speed access. Some is expected from private businesses
and philanthropy groups. President  Barack Obama  also has
appointed Don Graves deputy assistant secretary of the U.S.
Treasury Department, to oversee Detroit’s recovery, said  Gene Sperling , director of the National Economic Council.  “We only have one goal, and that is to have all of Detroit
working together for one Detroit, with the Obama administration
as a key partner,” Sperling said today.  The city, once an auto-manufacturing powerhouse, declared
the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy in history on July 18
after years of decline in which its population fell by more than
half, to 700,000 from 1.8 million. The city has more than $18
billion in long-term obligations and is plagued by unreliable
buses, broken street lights and long waits for police and
ambulances.  Sperling led a delegation that included Attorney General
Eric Holder, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan and Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx. They met for
more than two hours privately with about 70 city and state
officials, as well as community leaders who included Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat; emergency manager Kevyn Orr and Republican
Governor  Rick Snyder , who appointed Orr in March.  Civic Singularity  Asked at a press conference why it took so long for the
federal government to intervene in a city that has declined for
decades, Sperling replied, “With bankruptcy, this is an
exceptional thing that requires exceptional effort.”  The actions underscore the fine line the administration and
state officials must walk, tapping existing programs and unused
or underutilized funds, while not asking Congress for federal
dollars. Top lawmakers and administration officials have said
there is no pathway for a federal bailout of the city.  Donovan said it doesn’t matter whether the aid to Detroit
is considered new or redirected money.  “A family living next to a blighted house, they don’t care
whether it’s new money or old money they never would have
seen,” Donovan said. “It’s money that will make a difference
in their view.”  Heavy Lift  Sperling said another meeting is planned this year to
discuss education and job training.  “We don’t expect this to be easy, but we expect this to be
successful,” he said  Bing said Detroiters will see positive change in two or
three years.  Some city debt rallied today. General-obligation bonds
maturing in April 2028 traded at about 94 cents on the dollar,
the highest since July 18, when the city filed for bankruptcy.
The yield on the securities, backed by Assured Guaranty Corp.,
is 2.23 percentage points more than top-rated bonds, the
smallest gap since July 15.  The White House will commit $150 million for demolition of
blighted properties and neighborhood redevelopment, in federal
and other funds.  Empty City  Grants of $65 million and $25.4 million from public and
private sources will be used to tear down and refurbish
buildings. Detroit has almost 70,000 empty and abandoned homes
and 80,000 empty lots, amounting to 20 square miles of vacant
land, about the size of  Manhattan , according to a Detroit Future
City report.  The demolition money is welcome, though with a typical cost
of $10,000 to tear down each forsaken structure, much more is
needed, said John George, founder of Motor City Blight Busters
Inc. His group is working to secure and remove empty structures
primarily on the northwest side.  “We’ll take what we can get,” George said in an
interview. “Blight is like a cancer: If you don’t nip it in the
bud, it spreads and kills everything. You’ve got to start
chemotherapy, if you will, especially in the neighborhoods.”  The Obama administration also announced $3 million from the
 Justice Department  for additional police officers, establishing
a bike patrol and supporting youth anti-violence programs. The
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  will expedite access to $25
million to hire 150 firefighters and to buy equipment.  First Step  Police take an average of 58 minutes to respond to priority
calls, compared with a national average of 11 minutes, Orr said
in a June report. The department’s roster has shrunk by 40
percent since 2003, he said.  “The only way to rebuild the city is to provide a safe
environment for residents and businesses,” said Mark Diaz,
president of the Detroit Police Officers Association. “We need
a lot of work. It’s going to take more than one gesture, but
we’re excited about the recognition by the White House.”  The Obama administration will deploy almost $140 million in
transit funding, by ensuring access to more than $100 million in
Transportation Department grants, including $24 million for bus
repairs and security cameras, according to the announcement.
Another $25 million in grants will be made available to help a
streetcar project.  “These are funds that are greatly appreciated,” said
Megan Owens, executive director of Transit Riders United, a
Detroit-based nonprofit organization. Typically, one of every
six buses is off the road for repairs, Owens said.  “It results in extremely overcrowded buses, people left at
bus stops,” she said. “In recent months it feels like it’s
getting worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  