-- Obama Calls Rouhani as Optimism Precedes Iran Talks
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-27T20:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/obama-calls-rouhani-as-optimism-precedes-iran-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  phoned his
Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani, to discuss the outlook for
nuclear talks, as a thaw between the countries gained momentum
with the first contact between their leaders in decades.  The call today took place as Rouhani was en route to the
airport in New York after addressing the United Nations earlier
this week, Iran’s official IRNA news agency reported. Afterward,
Obama told reporters at the White House that there’s a “unique
opportunity” to reach an agreement, though he said he’s
“mindful” of the obstacles.  Iran’s pursuit of atomic technology has led Obama and his
allies in Europe to tighten economic sanctions, and the U.S. and
 Israel  to threaten military action, to prevent the Islamic
republic from obtaining nuclear weapons.  Iran  denies that it’s
seeking to do so. Rouhani took office last month after winning
election on a pledge to end Iran’s global isolation and ease the
trade curbs, and at the UN this week he has repeatedly said his
government is ready for a deal.  The nuclear talks stalled in April, when Rouhani’s
predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, was still in power. They got
under way again in New York late yesterday when U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry and his counterparts from five other world
powers met with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif,
who proposed a goal of implementing an agreement within a year.  It was the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter since the
Islamic revolution of 1979. The participants agreed to “jump-start the process so we could move forward with a view to agree
first on the parameters of the endgame,” Zarif said afterward.  Geneva Talks  Diplomats and analysts have warned that the real test of
Rouhani’s commitment to an accord will start when detailed
negotiations resume in Geneva on Oct. 15. Concerns about Iran’s
nuclear program remain, and “one meeting and a change in tone,
which was welcome, doesn’t answer those questions yet,” Kerry
said late yesterday.  In a UN address earlier this week, Rouhani, 64, said Iran
maintains its “inherent right” to enrich uranium. The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency circulated a  document 
yesterday in which Iran stuck to its positions, including
barring inspectors from visiting the Parchin military base to
investigate whether tests were conducted there related to
triggering a nuclear device.  “Rouhani has a big interest in moving quickly to show that
he can get sanctions relief, but whether he can deliver the
rollback in their program that we will need for that remains to
be seen,” said Dennis Ross, Obama’s former adviser on Iran and
now a counselor at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy.  ‘All Forces’  Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei controls the
country’s nuclear program. Rouhani told reporters in New York
earlier today that he has the support of “all forces” in Iran
for the next phase of nuclear talks, and will present a proposal
in Geneva.  Rouhani won support from voters in Iran’s June election by
promising to improve an economy wrecked by the sanctions. Oil
exports, Iran’s main source of revenue, have dropped by half to
less than 1 million barrels a day, and inflation has almost
doubled in two years, reaching 39 percent last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  