-- Obama Meeting With India’s Singh to Cover Defense, Trade
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-27T18:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/obama-meeting-with-india-s-singh-to-cover-defense-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  praised
improving defense and commercial ties with India, including
progress on a deal for U.S. companies to sell nuclear power
technology, as he met at the White House today with Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh.  The agenda for the leaders of the world’s largest economy
and the world’s second most-populous nation also included
discussion of an investment treaty, smoothing trade tensions and
climate change.  Singh’s visit took place taking place as India and
 Pakistan , neighbors with nuclear weapons and a history of
tension, are seeking to improve relations amid renewed fighting
in the disputed territory of Kashmir. The U.S. president hosts
Pakistan’s new prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, next month.  India and Pakistan will both benefit from a “peaceful
reduction in tensions,” Obama said to reporters at the White
House. Greater stability in nearby  Afghanistan  would also have
benefits across the subcontinent, he said.  “The epicenter of terror still remains focused in
Pakistan,” Singh said. “India needs the United States to be
standing by our side.”  ‘Long Game’  Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow at the Center for
American Progress, a Washington policy institute, said there are
“no fireworks” expected from the visit beyond a possible
military equipment announcement or modest progress on the
nuclear initiative or trade. The administration, she said, is
playing “the long game.”  “Obama is trying to undertake this rebalance to the Asia-Pacific, and India is seen as being the whole cornerstone of
that rebalance,” she said.  The effort by Obama, 52, and Singh, 81, to expand the U.S.-
India alliance is running up against friction caused by
differences that include Indian legal liability issues hindering
implementation of a civil nuclear deal affecting U.S. companies
including Westinghouse Electric Co. and  General Electric Co. (GE)   “We’ve made enormous progress on the issue of civilian
nuclear power,” Obama said.  Business Complaints  Eighteen business organizations including the National
Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
wrote to Obama yesterday complaining of discriminatory trade
barriers in India and asking him to raise concerns with Singh.  India’s trade violations include a failure to protect
intellectual property rights and rules that favor local
information-technology and clean-energy producers, the U.S.
business groups, which are part of the Alliance for Fair Trade
with India, said in their letter to Obama.  India is trying to jump-start its recovery from the global
economic crisis by taking “shortcuts that are contrary to
international norms,” Linda Menghetti Dempsey, vice president
for international economic affairs for the National Association
of Manufacturers, said in an interview.  “Now is the moment to raise this issue at the highest
level,” Dempsey said.  Governors from 14 U.S. states --  Colorado , Connecticut,
Georgia,  Idaho ,  Kansas ,  Maine , Maryland, Ohio,  Oklahoma ,
Pennsylvania,  Tennessee ,  Vermont , Washington and  Wisconsin  --
this week also wrote to Obama, asking him to address similar
concerns about trade with India.  India is ranked as the world’s 10th largest economy based
on 2012 gross domestic product data compiled by the
International Monetary Fund. In terms of buying power by
country, India ranks third, behind the U.S. and  China .  Investment Increase  Trade in goods and services between the U.S. and India was
$86 billion in 2011, according to the Office of the United
States Trade Representative, with India ranking as the U.S.’s
13th largest goods trading partner. U.S. foreign direct
investment in  India  rose to $27.1 billion in 2010, a 29.5
percent increase from the year before.  While trade and investment cooperation has expanded
greatly, progress since Obama took office in 2009 and announced
India as a priority has been “nowhere near what people had
hoped,” Wadhams said. “People think it could be quadruple”
what it is now.  One of India’s chief concerns heading into the visit, she
said, is the uncertainty of the U.S. presence in postwar
Afghanistan after 2014. “They’re worried that the Obama
administration is completely mishandling the transition in
Afghanistan and that we’re going to leave it irresponsibly.”  Singh’s National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon said in
a Sept. 20 speech that relations between the U.S. and India
“have come a long way in the last decade.”  While “some today speak of drift in the relationship,”
Menon said, “I find this a rather strange way to describe a
relationship where the two governments have 32 dialogue
mechanisms meetings each year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  