-- Hockey Says Australian Budget Worse Since Pre-Election Statement
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-27T01:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/hockey-says-australian-budget-worse-since-pre-election-statement.html
Australian Treasurer  Joe Hockey 
said the nation’s budget has worsened since a pre-election
statement less than seven weeks ago as the new coalition
government announced the final deficit for last fiscal year.  “The presented numbers in the pre-election economic and
fiscal outlook are different to what exist today,” Hockey told
reporters in Canberra today in his first press conference since
the election. “There has been a further deterioration in the
budget. We are methodically going through every line item of the
budget and identifying where the numbers are robust and also,
appropriately, looking at some of the forecasts.”  The coalition, which ousted Labor on Sept. 7, is pledging
to cut red tape and lower taxes to boost the $1.5 trillion
economy as a China-led mining investment boom crests. Hockey is
grappling with rising unemployment and cooling growth as a high
currency hurts manufacturing and  service industries .  Treasury said in its pre-election outlook released Aug. 13
that the federal deficit will widen to A$30.1 billion this
fiscal year that ends June 30, 2014, and is no longer projected
to return to balance in 2015-16. The coalition had said before
the election that Australia faces a budget emergency.  “The numbers that were released in the economic statement
have deteriorated,” Hockey said. “I’m not going to speculate
on it, but I can say to you that they have deteriorated.”  Rate Cuts  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board have cut the benchmark rate by 2.25 percentage points in
an almost two-year easing cycle to a record of 2.5 percent to
help revive non-resource industries.  The budget shortfall in the 12 months to June 30 was A$18.8
billion ($17.6 billion), the government said today in announcing
the final budget outcome for 2012-13. The previous Labor
government abandoned a surplus pledge in December last year as
revenue failed to meet projections.  “These are the  Labor party ’s numbers,” Hockey said of the
deficit last fiscal year. “This is a historic figure.”  Since the election, a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne
Institute survey showed  consumer confidence  rose 4.7 percent
this month to the highest level since December 2010 as the
prospect of a change of government and lower rates boosted
sentiment. Business confidence surged last month to the highest
level since May 2011, with sentiment lifting in all industries,
according to a separate survey from National  Australia  Bank Ltd.  The final budget outcome showed general government sector
net debt was A$153 billion.  The new government, which is yet to announce when
parliament will reconvene, needs to legislate before the end of
the year to raise the nation’s debt ceiling, Hockey said. That
will be one of its legislative priorities in the first week of
parliament sitting, along with laws to repeal a tax on mining
profits and the carbon-pricing mechanism, he said.  “I’m advised that we’ll go extremely close to the debt
limit of A$300 billion before Christmas,” Hockey said. “We
will deal with it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  