-- OGX Said Planning to Miss $44.5 Million Bond Payment
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-28T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/ogx-said-planning-to-miss-44-5-million-bond-payment.html
Eike Batista ’s decision to postpone
payments on local bonds issued by his Brazilian oil producer  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  means the company doesn’t plan
to pay an Oct. 1 coupon on dollar debt, according to two people
with direct knowledge of the plan.  The OGX Austria unit, which holds all of the 2.1 billion
reais ($932 million) in local notes, agreed to postpone a Sept.
25 payment for an undisclosed amount until March 25, Rio de
Janeiro-based OGX said in a regulatory filing yesterday. Non-payment of the securities, sold to the offshore unit as a way of
avoiding taxes on international payments, means OGX won’t pay a
$44.5 million dollar debt coupon, the people said, asking not to
be named as the plan hasn’t been made public.  The decision not to pay the coupon on $1.06 billion of
dollar notes due 2022 moves Batista’s flagship company closer to
 Latin America ’s largest corporate default on record. The former
billionaire is seeking to renegotiate debt and keep OGX afloat
after some of the offshore deposits he had valued at $1 trillion
turned out to be duds, triggering a selloff that wiped out about
$30 billion of his personal fortune.  The agreement with OGX Austria avoids a local bond default,
OGX said in the filing. The oil producer declined to comment on
the international debt payment plans.  Cash Position  Planner Corretora de Valores SA, the fiduciary agent of
local securities linked to the international bonds, said it was
informed that local bondholders approved a new flow of payments
for the 2.1 billion reais in securities and decided not to ask
for a early redemption of the debt.  As of June 30, OGX had 722 million reais in cash and
equivalents and 8.7 billion reais in total debt, including $2.6
billion of notes due 2018. A default of the $3.6 billion
international bonds would be the region’s biggest corporate
default, according to data compiled by Moody’s Investors
Service.  OGX’s C ratings reflect imminent default given its tight
liquidity position and the need for  capital expenditures  to
increase production and cash flow,  Fitch Ratings  said after
downgrading OGX from CCC. The company also has about 500 million
reais in debt with banks, one of the people said.  Debt Talks  OGX is in talks with bondholders to convert debt to equity
and get at least $250 million in fresh capital, two people with
direct knowledge of the matter have said. The talks have been
complicated because OGX is losing money and needs money to test
production at its most promising field, Tubarao Martelo.  Creditors of Batista’s shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  hired law
firm Bingham McCutchen LLP in preparation for the possible
restructuring of $500 million in bonds, two people briefed on
the arrangements said Sept. 9. That replicates a decision by OGX
bondholders, which last month hired Rothschild to advise on a
restructuring, a person with knowledge of the agreement said.  The oil producer’s $2.56 billion of debt due 2018 has
tumbled 3.3 cents to 17 cents on the dollar since Sept. 20, when
OGX announced the departure of Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro. Four days later, the company hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to work
alongside advisers including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  