-- Mol Drops as Croatian Court Seeks to Detain CEO: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-27T15:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/mol-drops-as-croatian-court-seeks-to-detain-ceo-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, fell to a one-month low as a court in  Croatia  ordered
the detention of Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi .  Croatia and Mol have been at odds over the Budapest-based
company’s control of  INA Industrija Nafte d.d . Former Croatian
premier Ivo Sanader is serving a term for corruption related to
a 2009 agreement that gave Mol control over  INA . Hernadi failed
to appear before Croatia’s Office for Suppression of Corruption
and Organized Crime on Sept. 25, court spokesman Kresimir Devcic
said by phone today. Mol lawyer Pal Kara has no knowledge of a
request to question Hernadi and regards the case as “flawed in
form and substance,” he said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg today.  The shares dropped 1.3 percent to 15,860 forint by the
close in Budapest, extending the loss this quarter to 6.4
percent. The benchmark  BUX Index (BUX) , in which Mol has the biggest
weighting at 30 percent, fell 0.4 percent today, bringing its
decline in the past three months to 1.9 percent.  “The news is negative as the Hernadi case could weaken
Mol’s position in ongoing negotiations between the Croatian
government,” Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC
Securities, a unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said in an e-mail today.  INA Talks  Croatia, which joined the European Union in July, has
sought to re-establish the state’s influence over INA. The
government earlier this month initiated talks with Mol, asking
that INA be developed as an independent company and not as a
subsidiary. The two sides met in Zagreb on Sept. 18, and agreed
to meet once a month to discuss management, cost control,
investment and profit sharing, among other things.  Hernadi, who has been chairman of Mol since 2000, also
became CEO the following year, according to Mol’s website.  The Croatian case “appears to be influenced by interests
seeking to intimidate both the company and its Chairman,” Kara
said in the e-mail. “The Croatian court appears to be
justifying the issuing of a detention order by an alleged danger
of escape, a claim which is both unreasonable and baseless.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  