-- London’s Midtown Offices Replace West End for Returns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-27T09:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/london-s-midtown-offices-replace-west-end-for-returns.html
Offices in  London ’s Midtown
produced higher returns for investors than the rest of central
London in the first half as planned infrastructure improvements
helped lift rents,  Investment Property Databank Ltd. and broker
Farebrother Ltd . said.  Properties in the area stretching from Farringdon Road to
Tottenham Court Road generated a total return of 5.9 percent
compared with 5.4 percent in the  West End  and 4.3 percent in the
 City of London  financial district. Midtown’s total return of 4.8
percent, which includes rents and changes in values, trailed the
West End’s 4.9 percent six months ago, though it beat the City’s
3.4 percent return.  Midtown’s diverse tenants, “the relatively low levels of
stock and limited development pipeline have combined to make it
London’s most compelling investment proposition,” Alastair
Hilton, head of investment at Farebrother, said in the
statement. The Crossrail train, due to be open in 2018, and
improvements to the existing Thameslink railway will make
Midtown “one of the most accessible places in the U.K.,” he
said.  Tenants are looking beyond more traditional districts for
offices as transport links to the west of the City of London
improve and space becomes increasingly limited in the West End.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is among investors in the district,
buying The Adelphi Building for 265 million pounds ($426
million) and Lacon House for 90 million pounds, according to the
report. The value of all transactions in Midtown fell to 1.1
billion pounds in the period from 1.4 billion pounds a year
earlier.  Overseas investors were involved in 71 percent of the
transactions during the period, according to the report. Far
eastern investors accounted for 17 percent of deals, according
to the report.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  