-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise on China Industrial Data, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-27T01:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/hong-kong-stocks-rise-on-china-industrial-data-u-s-jobs.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index heading for its biggest monthly advance in a
year, after  China ’s industrial profits climbed and U.S. jobless
claims unexpectedly dropped.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.4 percent to 23,220.15 as of
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong, with about six shares rising for each
that fell. The gauge is heading for a 1.2 percent drop this
week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the
H-share index, gained 0.3 percent to 10,569.08.  The Hang Seng Index climbed 6.4 percent this month through
yesterday, poised for its biggest monthly advance since
September 2012, after a gauge of China manufacturing rose to a
six-month high and the Federal Reserve unexpectedly refrained
from cutting stimulus. The equity benchmark traded at 11.1 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The  H-share index  entered a bull
market this month after rebounding 20 percent from a June low.  China’s industrial profits rose 24.2 percent in August from
a year earlier, according to data release by the National Bureau
of Statistics, after gaining 11.6 percent the month before.  Futures on the S&P 500 gained 0.1 percent. The gauge rose
0.3 percent yesterday after a Labor Department report yesterday
showed the number of Americans filing applications for
unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week. The economy
expanded at faster pace in the second quarter from the previous
three months, with gross domestic product rising at a 2.5
percent annualized rate, the Commerce Department said.  The U.S. equity gauge pared gains yesterday as investors
weighed whether lawmakers can avoid a looming government
shutdown, with House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican,
saying he doesn’t expect his chamber to pass a stopgap spending
bill amid a fight over funding President  Barack Obama ’s health
care law. Boehner also said he does not expect a shutdown to
happen.  The Fed said after its meeting last week that it wants to
see more signs of strength in the  labor market  before paring its
$85 billion of monthly asset purchases. The central bank is
expected to wait until December before taking the first steps in
slowing stimulus, according to 24 of 41 economists surveyed
Sept. 18-19 by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  