-- Osborne Increases BOE Home-Plan Checks as Bubble Fears Rise
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-27T11:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/osborne-to-introduce-annual-check-on-u-k-s-help-to-buy-plan.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will introduce annual checks with the  Bank of England 
over his Help-to-Buy program as he responds to mounting concerns
that the plan may fuel excessive  house-price  increases.  Osborne and the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee will
reassess the program, which helps buyers purchase homes with as
little as a 5 percent deposit, every September starting next
year, the Treasury in  London  said. The FPC will advise Osborne
on whether key parameters, such as the price cap and the fee
charged to lenders, remain appropriate.  The chancellor’s  plan  has drawn criticism from the
 International Monetary Fund  and Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
who say it may spark a property bubble. The first phase,
interest-free loans for buyers of newly built homes, began in
April and has already contributed to the strongest housing
market since the financial crisis. Data today showed home values
rose the most in more than a year this month and the FPC said
this week it’s ready to act if any risks to stability emerge.  “Now that the FPC have set out their latest assessment of
the housing market, the final such assessment before the launch
of the Help to Buy scheme, we are setting out more detail on how
its role will work,” the Treasury said. The FPC, BOE Governor
 Mark Carney  and Osborne agree that “developments in the housing
market represent a broadening recovery from low levels of
activity, but that we must remain vigilant.”  Guarantees meant to spur 130 billion pounds ($209 billion)
of  mortgage lending  will be available for all homes costing as
much as 600,000 pounds from January.  FPC Approval  The FPC, led by Carney, will also have to give its
agreement if a future government decides to extend the program
beyond its current three-year lifespan, the Treasury said.  “We welcome the opportunity for the FPC to assess each
year the effect of the Help to Buy scheme on the sustainable
evolution of the housing market and to advise on whether the
price cap and fees charged to lenders are appropriate,” the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The FPC said on Sept. 25 said that while property activity
remains below its historic average, it “judged that it should
closely monitor developments in the housing market and banks’
underwriting standards.” The panel also said it would be
“vigilant to potential emerging vulnerabilities.”  ‘Stable Door’  Nationwide Building Society  said today that  house prices 
advanced 0.9 percent this month. On the year, values climbed 5
percent, the biggest annual increase since July 2010, and all 13
U.K. regions tracked by Nationwide saw gains in the third
quarter, the first time that’s happened since 2007.  Halifax said this month that  home prices  rose for a seventh
month in August and will probably continue to increase through
the rest of the year. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors has urged the FPC to set a cap on rises.  Adding official aid to an already improving market “is not
a risk worth taking” and the chancellor’s move to give more
power to the BOE over the plan may not be enough, said Rob Wood,
an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  “Considered in isolation, this change looks like closing
the stable door after the horse has bolted,” said Wood, a
former BOE official. “The scheme cannot be reviewed until next
September and reducing the 600,000-pound cap is unlikely to be a
big deal for the bulk of the country outside London.”  With Britain in the midst of its political party conference
season less than two years before the next general election,
rival lawmakers are pledging to ease planning curbs and build
more homes as rising values puts home ownership beyond the reach
of young Britons.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s lead over Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  has narrowed to single digits
over the past year, with the government benefiting in part from
a strengthening economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  