-- Emerging Stocks Trim Monthly Advance as Sberbank Tumbles
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-09-27T22:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-chinese-industrial-profits-increase.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
trimming the biggest monthly rally in 20 months, as OAO Sberbank
led declines in  Russia  and Indian lenders retreated on concern
the central bank will tighten monetary-policy further.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 0.3 percent to
999.88, extending its weekly retreat to 1.3 percent. Sberbank
slumped 2.9 percent amid bets Russia’s biggest lender will need
additional capital to pay dividends at the level sought by
government.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  decreased 2.4 percent in Mumbai. The
Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index fell for a sixth day. South
Africa’s rand capped the longest slide in almost two months.  Sberbank would need to boost capital to pay 35 percent of
income in dividends and lending would slow if such a rule was
set, Interfax and RIA Novosti cited Chief Executive Officer
Herman Gref as saying.  India ’s central bank will add to last
week’s surprise rate increase, seven of 10 analysts said in a
Bloomberg News survey. Mounting concern that a political impasse
over the U.S.  federal budget  will hurt the world’s largest
economy also drove emerging-market equities lower.  “Managers are going to try to lock in their gains,”
 Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion,
said by phone. “Particularly in asset classes that are
perceived as riskier, including emerging markets.”  The benchmark measure for developing nations has rallied
6.3 percent in the quarter. It traded at 10.5 times projected
earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.2 percent to $41.24. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 4.6 percent to 23.44.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa posted its first weekly decline in
September on concern that a U.S. political impasse will curb
global demand for riskier assets.  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA , the oil company founded by  Eike Batista ,
extended its plunge for the week to 26 percent.  Russian stocks fell, paring the best monthly gain in almost
two years. Sberbank, which has the second-biggest weighting on
the Micex Index, posted the biggest decline since June 20. The
nation’s Finance Ministry is calling for state-run companies to
increase payouts to at least 35 percent of profit under
international accounting standards from 2016.  Turkish Shares  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index capped the longest
slide since July 26 as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS
dropped at least 2.9 percent.  Indian stocks declined, with the benchmark index halting a
four-week rally, after central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan’s
comment that inflation is still high.  ICICI Bank (IBN)  dropped to the
lowest level since Sept. 5. The S&P BSE Bankex Index retreated
1.8 percent.  China’s stocks  capped a third straight monthly advance as
gains by drugmakers and technology companies countered losses in
companies linked to the Shanghai free-trade zone.  Shanghai Fosun
Pharmaceutical (Group) Co. (600196)  and Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. led a
gauge of health-care stocks to the biggest increase among
industry groups.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. (600018)  tumbled
for a second day after more than doubling this quarter.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 331 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  