-- Park Slumps First Time in 3 Days on Output Halt: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-09-27T15:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/park-slumps-most-in-three-weeks-on-output-halt-istanbul-mover.html
Park Elektrik Uretim Madencilik
Sanayi ve Ticaret AS , the Turkish miner owned by Ciner Group,
slumped for the first time in three days on concern a halt in
production of a raw material will hurt earnings.  The  shares  fell as much as 3.3 percent and traded down 1.5
percent at 5.44 liras at the close in Istanbul, paring the
third-quarter rally to 23 percent. Trading was about 77 percent
of the stock’s three-month daily average volume, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index (XU100)  slumped
1.1 percent.  Park temporarily suspended production of asphaltite, used
in power generation, at its facility in the southeastern
province of Sirnak, the Istanbul-based company said in a
statement after the market closed yesterday. The material
accounted for 13 percent of revenue in the second quarter, Park
said. The company that purchases the product has halted
electricity production, according to the statement. Park sells
the material to Silopi Elektrik Uretim AS, another Ciner unit,
it says on its website.  “Investors are probably worried that the development would
decrease net income,” Ece Mandaci, an analyst at Burgan
Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone interview today.  Park reported a  profit  of 21.9 million liras ($11 million)
in the second quarter, down 51 percent from a year earlier.  Park Termik Elektrik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, a Park Elektrik
unit, has decided to distribute dividends, the company said
yesterday in a separate filing. Park Elektrik will get 6.08
million liras from the payout, it said.  “This is a positive development that may have prevented a
bigger slump in the shares,” Mandaci said. The analyst has a
buy recommendation for Park Elektrik with a 12-month price
target of 8.20 liras.  Park Elektrik  trades  at 6.4 times estimated 12-month
earnings compared with a multiple of 9.8 for  Turkey ’s benchmark
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ten analysts
have a buy recommendation on the stock, with none having a hold
or sell,  data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  