-- Petrominerales Surges and Pacific Slumps Before Trading Halt
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-09-27T18:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/petrominerales-surges-and-pacific-slumps-as-toronto-trade-halted.html
Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG)  shares posted a
record gain and  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  dropped in Bogota
as the two Colombian crude producers were put on trading halt in
Toronto pending news.  Petrominerales, based in Calgary, surged 18 percent to
15,780 pesos at 12:21 p.m. in Bogota before the stock was
suspended. Pacific Rubiales, the world’s fastest-growing major
crude producer, fell 2.7 percent to 38,760 pesos.  Petrominerales Chief Executive Officer Corey Ruttan and his
counterpart at Pacific Ronald Pantin both declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg.  “Obviously putting two and two together, you get the story
that Pacific is bidding for Petrominerales,”  Rupert Stebbings ,
equity markets vice president at  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  in Medellin,
 Colombia , said in a phone interview. “It’s going to depend on
what they pay for it, and that will be the deciding factor if
there is a transaction.”  In an Aug. 13 interview, Pantin didn’t rule out a bid for
Petrominerales as Pacific looks to buy a low-density crude
producer in Colombia in a bid to reduce the cost of transporting
its mostly heavy oil.  “It’s a great company, they have a lot of light oil,”
Pantin said at the time. “I am not negotiating with them. I am
keeping an eye on all of them.”  ‘Huge Cost’  Pacific’s compound  production growth  over the last five
years is 47 percent, the fastest among 109 producers with a
market value of at least $5 billion tracked by Bloomberg. The
group average is 8.4 percent growth, the data show. The company,
based in Bogota, buys gasoline on the international market and
blends it with heavier oil before sending the mix to port at a
“huge cost,” Pantin said.  Petrominerales, which produces mostly from fields in
Colombia’s Llanos basin, reported a 31 percent decline in
second-quarter production. July output rose and the company has
opportunities to continue growing, Ruttan said in an Aug. 9
interview, declining to comment on the company’s prospects as an
acquisition target.  Today’s move wiped out a year-to-date loss for
Petrominerales. The shares trade at 14 times estimated 2013
earnings and have a market value of $703 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pacific Rubiales (PREC)  fetches 12 times forecast profit and has a
market capitalization of $6.57 billion, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  