-- Philippine Peso Has First Weekly Drop in September; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-27T08:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/philippine-peso-set-for-first-weekly-drop-this-month-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso completed its
first weekly decline this month on concern recent gains were
excessive and as the risk of a potential U.S. government
shutdown deterred investors. Bonds fell.  The peso reached a three-month high earlier in the week,
prompting central bank Governor Amando Tetangco to warn on Sept.
25 that the authority will respond to “excessive market
exuberance or disappointment.” The U.S. Congress has until the
end of this month to agree on spending measures before the
government hits its borrowing limit in October.  “The uncertainty in the U.S. is affecting sentiment to a
certain extent,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist at ING Groep
NV in  Manila . “A correction was expected after three weeks of
appreciation in the currency.”  The peso weakened 0.7 percent in the past five days to
43.333 per dollar in Manila, paring this month’s advance to 2.9
percent, data from Tullett Prebon Plc show. It fell 0.2 percent
today and touched 43.01 on Sept. 23, the highest level since
June 18.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, slid 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, this week to 6.03 percent.  Government bonds snapped a two-week advance. The yield on
the 8 percent notes due July 2031 climbed 28 basis points to
5.00 percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services. The rate rose five basis points today.  The Philippine central bank appears resistant to the peso’s
strength, and it probably intervened around the 43 per dollar
level after the Federal Reserve meeting on Sept. 18, analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG led by Singapore-based Ray Farris wrote
in a report on Sept. 25. Credit Suisse is bearish in the “near
term” on the peso, according to the report.  The Fed surprised markets on Sept. 18 when it decided to
maintain its $85 billion a month bond-purchase program that has
fueled appetite for emerging-market assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  