-- Pimco Says 7-8 Year, 20-Year JGBs Cheap on Distorted Yield Curve
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-09-27T00:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/pimco-says-7-8-year-20-year-jgbs-cheap-on-distorted-yield-curve.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
is focusing on Japanese government debt maturing in 7 years to 8
years and 20 years that is relatively cheap, said Tomoya Masanao, head of portfolio management for  Japan .  “The 10-year government bond yield is so low and is not
justifiable from a fundamental perspective,” Masanao said in an
interview in Tokyo on Sept. 24. “There is hardly any room for
yields to fall any further” on three-to-six year notes.  Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, is basing
its strategy on what it calls the “distortion” of the yield
curve caused by the Bank of Japan’s unprecedented bond-buying
program, Masanao said. The central bank announced on April 4
that it would buy more than 7 trillion yen ($71 billion) of JGBs
a month to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.  Benchmark 10-year and 20-year yields dropped to four-month
lows of 0.665 percent and 1.545 percent respectively, earlier
this week. The extra  yield  investors demand to hold 2033 debt
over 10-year securities fell to 0.88 percentage point on Sept.
25, the least since July 9. On the same day, the  gap  between six
and eight year rates narrowed to a four-month low.  “The JGB market is moving to a world where yields are
artificially suppressed by the BOJ’s large government bond
purchases from one where yields were fundamentally low,” said
Masanao. “Yields will probably correct upward at some point as
the economy improves.”  The 10-year yield was little changed at 0.685 percent as of
9:11 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s biggest interdealer debt broker.  Abenomics Outlook  Investors will probably demand higher yields to hold JGBs
after 6 to 12 months whether or not Abenomics succeeds, Masanao
said, referring to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus program
of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and regulatory reform.  “If Abenomics fails, the economy may just return to where
it was before -- a deflation equilibrium -- but investors may
react differently and demand a higher risk premium in JGBs, as
they will conclude that Japan will be unable to take any more
measures to exit deflation while public debt increases
further,” Masanao said.  Japan’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace since
2008 in August on higher energy costs, a government report
showed today. Consumer prices excluding fresh food increased 0.8
percent from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said. The
median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a gain of 0.7 percent.  IMF Estimate  The International Monetary Fund estimates Japan’s debt will
grow to 245 percent of gross domestic product this year. The
nation will spend 22.2 trillion yen servicing debt in the fiscal
year begun in April, accounting for more than half of total tax
revenue and occupying about 24 percent of the government’s
budget, Finance Ministry estimates showed in January.  “It’s not wise for long-term investors to aggressively buy
JGBs at current levels,” Masanao said. “Yields are likely to
stay capped at low levels in the near term, but we are probably
close to a bottom of the range.”  Japan’s 10-year bond yields  were  as low as 0.315 percent
and as high as 1 percent this year.  Investors may want to avoid yen debt when choosing
corporate securities, according to Masanao.  “We don’t see yen-denominated corporate bonds attractive
to overweight because the credit spreads are extremely tight,”
he said. “The dollar-denominated corporate bonds issued by
Japanese megabanks are attractive even compared to global peers,
given their high credit quality and the domestic economy’s
growth prospects.”  Japanese corporate bonds have returned 0.2 percent this
month, while company debt worldwide has gained 0.7 percent, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach,  California , and is
a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  