-- Pipeline Billionaire Ready for Next Round of Deal Making: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-09-27T17:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/pipeline-billionaire-ready-for-next-round-of-deal-making-energy.html
Kelcy Warren, the billionaire
running the third-largest U.S. natural  gas pipeline  company,
says the days of deal making are returning.  Railroads and competing pipeline operators are taking
market share, leaving networks with smaller regions and
struggling to find business. To survive, companies need a
geographically diverse portfolio of assets across an array of
oil and gas products that can weather slowdowns in individual
sectors or regions, Warren, chairman and chief executive officer
of  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP) , said in an interview.  Mergers and acquisitions are the fastest way to grow now,
according to Warren, who acknowledges getting a reputation as a
deals-obsessed “cowboy” after leading a $13 billion buying
spree in 2011 and 2012 to expand the reach of his company’s
group of master limited partnerships, or MLPs.  “You’re going to see the resumption of some kind of M&A
strategy that we deliberately shelved for quite a period now,”
the 57-year-old Texan said Sept. 24 in his Dallas office. “I
believe you’re going to see some MLPs look for a warm spot to go
curl up as early as next year.”  Pipeline mergers and acquisitions fell this year to about
half the $58.3 billion announced two years ago, the biggest
spate since at least the start of 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Warren said he expects deals to pick up
industrywide as more operators feel financial pressure, creating
growth opportunities for larger operators like  Energy Transfer 
Partners, which has a $24.8 billion market value.  Seller’s Market  Companies organized as MLPs don’t pay U.S. income taxes and
distribute most of their free cash as taxable income to
investors through partnership units, which trade like stock.  It’s certainly a seller’s market in the pipeline industry
today, Ethan Bellamy, an analyst at  Robert W. Baird , said in a
phone interview. The larger MLPs that can weather a downturn are
hungry for more assets to keep growing while the smaller players
are struggling to keep up with the need to increase
distributions to unitholders, he said.  “The competition for assets is intense,” Bellamy said.
“If you have something that’s MLP-qualifying, whether it’s held
privately, whether it’s a public corporation, there’s an MLP
that is probably sniffing around.”  Warren isn’t limiting his growth plans to acquisitions.
Pipeline construction and conversion projects are still on the
drawing board, including its Trunkline crude project. The line
is planned to have a capacity to carry 420,000 barrels a day
from  Illinois  to the Gulf Coast.  New Projects  Energy Transfer and partner  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  extended the
deadline to sign up customers for the pipeline to Sept. 30 after
response was sluggish. If the project still fails to garner
enough shipper interest and Enbridge decides against
participating, Warren said he’ll consider shrinking the pipeline
capacity by about half and moving ahead with the project alone.  “Nothing has changed about our perspective on the
project,” Glen Whelan, a spokesman at Enbridge, said in an e-mail.  Warren also sees potential growth in  Mexico , and said he is
“aggressively” studying the possibility of a cross-border gas
pipeline.  “We see a lot of opportunity to the south,” he said.  Rail Competition  Oil companies  are spurning some new pipeline projects as
the geographic spread between crude prices narrows to the
smallest in almost three years, underscoring the risk for
shippers when committing to traditional 10-to-15-year contracts.
The drop in crude spreads from near-record highs to multiyear
lows means lower profits for shippers, who want to sell their
product for the highest price in a destination market.  Meanwhile, growing rail transport is filling the gap while
offering greater flexibility for North American producers and
refiners, who can now ship their crude on trains connecting
Alberta and North Dakota producers to East and West Coast
refiners not served by pipelines.  Pipeline companies concentrated in one producing region
will have less resilience to survive the competition, Warren
said.  “They’re going to have their heyday and then they’re going
to have their decline,” he said. “Unfortunately, I’m afraid
we’re going to have to feel some more pain for there to be great
consolidation.”  Debt Concerns  Energy Transfer’s planned return to the deals table may
alarm some investors who are concerned that the level of debt
and would prefer to see Warren concentrate on making the most of
what he’s already got.  “They’ve bought enough assets at this point,”  Darren Horowitz , an analyst at  Raymond James , said in a phone
interview. “What they need to figure out how to do is
effectively integrate all these assets,” while paying down
debt.  Energy Transfer Partners, the largest of four affiliated
MLPs, carried $13.4 billion in net debt at the end of the second
quarter, according to Baird analysis. That’s 3.9 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
over the past 12 months. Energy Transfer Equity, the owner of
the general partner overseeing ETP, meanwhile had debt that’s
3.4 times its distributed cash flow, according to Baird.  Energy Transfer Equity is up 43 percent this year, while
Energy Transfer Partners has climbed about half that amount at
21 percent. The benchmark Cushing 30 MLP index rose 21 percent
in the same period.  The industry has been good to investors. Tortoise Energy
Infrastructure Corp., the best-performing energy fund this year
with more than $100 million in assets, has pipeline and
“midstream” partnerships among its largest holdings. The fund
has gained 29 percent year-to-date, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Credit Rating  Warren promises that any deals he does won’t hurt the
group’s investment-grade credit ratings. He’s also determined to
increase investors’ distribution payments, which will be boosted
by 1 cent per unit in the third and fourth quarters, the
partnership said last month.  He declined to discuss future growth of the distribution
amount other than to say, “We will continue to please the
market in that regard.”  Warren co-founded Energy Transfer Partners in 1995 with Ray C. Davis, who retired from Energy Transfer in 2007 and is now
part-owner of the Texas Rangers professional baseball team. The
company started with 200 miles of pipelines in East Texas,
focused solely on moving the heating and power-plant fuel within
the state boundaries.  As investors began to cool on the company late last decade,
Warren said he realized Energy Transfer was too narrowly focused
on one geographic area.  Buying Spree  To broaden the business, he started a series of
acquisitions in March 2011 with a $1.93 billion deal for LDH
Energy Asset Holding LLC.  Energy Transfer Equity (ETE)  prevailed in a
bidding war against rival  Williams Cos. (WMB)  to buy Southern Union
Co. for $5.6 billion, while Energy Transfer Partners agreed to
buy Sunoco Inc. for $5.3 billion last year.  “Ultimately he’s a guy that likes to buy stuff and be an
empire builder,” said Bellamy, the Baird analyst.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP)  are the largest U.S. natural-gas pipeline operators
based on market value. Energy Transfer Partners is third-largest.  Gas Exports  Of the four publicly traded MLPs affiliated within the
Energy Transfer group,  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL)  is the best
positioned financially to make deals, Warren said.  Gas exports rank among potential investments Warren is
studying. Energy Transfer, along with partner  BG Group Plc (BG/) , is
planning to build a liquefied natural gas export terminal in
 Lake Charles ,  Louisiana . As the joint venture works on obtaining
the final government permits that will allow it to proceed,
Warren said he’s considering investing in other  Gulf Coast  LNG
projects.  Because investors demand steady growth, acquisitions will
remain an essential part of Energy Transfer’s strategy, though
don’t expect deals the size of Sunoco or Southern Union, Warren
said in the interview this week.  “You’re going to see a very deliberate, careful, well-thought-out open-mindedness to M&A,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  