-- Political Tensions May Harm Italy’s Economic Recovery, IMF Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/political-tensions-may-harm-italy-s-economic-recovery-imf-says.html
Disputes in Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s coalition may hinder investor confidence in Italy
and jepopardize its return to growth from the longest slump
since World War II, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Tensions between the coalition partners are apparent and
represent a key risk to the economic outlook,” the Washington-based lender said today in a report. “Loss of market
confidence could be significant and push Italy into a self-reinforcing bad equilibrium and protracted period of slow
growth.”  The IMF reiterated forecasts published on July 4 of an
economic contraction of 1.8 percent this year and 0.7 percent
expansion in 2014. Letta’s budget plan last week saw gross
domestic product falling 1.7 percent in 2013 and rising 1
percent next year. The government also expects the country’s
two-year recession to end in the fourth quarter.  Italy’s ability to boost its growth potential may
strengthen with the implementation of comprehensive reforms and
other measures including the program of arrears payments
to private companies, today’s report said.  Still, progress may be hampered by bickering between the
parties in Letta’s over the fate of former premier  Silvio Berlusconi , whose People of Liberty party has threatened to
topple the government if he is expelled from the Senate. Letta’s
 Democratic Party  is seeking to strip Berlusconi of his Senate
seat after he was convicted of  tax fraud  in August.  Rating Risk  “An unstable coalition” may lead “to policy slippages,
stalling of structural and fiscal reforms, or rating
downgrades,” today’s report said.  Italy’s credit rating was lowered to BBB, or two
levels above junk, on July 10 by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited
a weakening of economic prospects. In March,  Fitch Ratings 
downgraded Italy’s long-term debt to BBB+ from A- with a
negative outlook. Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s
credit rating by two steps to BAA2 in July last year.  Italy needs to reduce its public debt, which at about 130
percent of GDP is  Europe ’s second biggest, and should consider
the sale of state assets, today’s report said. The IMF forecasts
the deficit will widen to 3.2 percent of GDP this year. That’s
more than the government’s 3.1 percent estimate and 0.2 percent
above the European Union limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  