-- Porn Addict Meets Match in ‘Don Jon’; Tame Blues: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/porn-addict-meets-match-in-don-jon-tame-blues-movies.html
Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s Jon Martello
is a neatnik who arranges his life around family, church, gym
and sex. He gets a lot of sex. But he prefers porn.  That’s his dilemma when he meets a blonde princess named
Barbara Sugarman ( Scarlett Johansson ), who calls on a siren’s
array of erotic artillery to reduce him to jello.  Porn she absolutely forbids, no discussion. But he’s an
addict.  Though it’s set in New Jersey rather than Brooklyn, “ Don
Jon ” -- written and directed with frenzied energy by Gordon-Levitt -- cheerfully steals from the 1977  “ Saturday Night
Fever ” in its tale of an Italian-American stud-slash-dolt who
harbors a spark of life that draws him toward the wider world.
It’s even more condescending to the small-minded characters
around him, if that’s possible. “Don Jon” is also fast and
funny.  Jon’s deliverance comes in the form of a messed-up pothead
named Esther who sees through his insulation and tells him what
he needs to hear.  The down-shift from cartoon romance to romantic drama would
be jarring if Esther were played by a lesser actress than
 Julianne Moore , who makes the wisdom she’s given to deliver
sound like good hard sense from an older woman who’s been
through hell.  She’s touching, Johansson is wonderfully awful and Gordon-Levitt is electric, making it easy to forgive the movie its
meannesses. Unless you happen to be Italian-American.  “Don Jon,” from Relativity Media, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘Muscle Shoals’  Songs as energizing as “When a Man Loves a Woman” and
“Brown Sugar” leave us wanting more, so maybe it’s fitting
that a documentary about the place that delivered those
gutbucket classics does the same.  But “ Muscle Shoals ,” Greg “Freddy” Camalier’s feature-length film hitting select theaters before airing on PBS in
early 2014, leaves us unsatisfied for all the wrong reasons.  Ruminations on Native American legends and Helen Keller’s
water pump would be fine in an Alabama travelogue, but in
“Muscle Shoals?”  Couldn’t we please get back to “Mustang Sally?”  Rock Superstars  In the 1960s, Muscle Shoals, the backwoods Alabama town
that housed FAME recording studio and its rival facility Muscle
Shoals Sound Studios, drew rock and soul superstars looking to
tap the area’s homegrown funk rhythms.  Some, like  Aretha Franklin , were surprised to learn that
those beats came from a rhythm section composed entirely of
white boys barely out of their teens -- the Swampers, as they
came to be known (and name-checked in Lynyrd Skynyrd’s “Sweet
Home Alabama”).  “Muscle Shoals” explores the cross-racial camaraderie
that launched gems from Arthur Alexander’s “Anna” to  Paul Simon ’s “Kodachrome.” Wonderful old footage shows the  Rolling
Stones  hearing their first playback of “Wild Horses” and
Franklin laying down the opening piano chords of “I Never Loved
a Man the Way that I Loved You.”  Alongside interviews with  Mick Jagger , Percy Sledge,  Keith Richards , Jimmy Cliff, Bono and Clarence Carter, among many
others, the film properly credits FAME founder Rick Hall as the
man who started it all.  And as intriguing as the still-living Hall is -- his life
story absolutely twangs with a blues song’s misery and missed
chances -- “Muscle Shoals” lags when it strays from those
perfect beats.  “Muscle Shoals,” from  Magnolia Pictures , is playing in
 New York . Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and  Craig Seligman  at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 