-- Positive Spin on Iran Nuclear Talks Faces Test Next Month
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-27T08:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/positive-spin-on-iran-nuclear-talks-faces-test-next-month.html
Foreign ministers from the U.S. and
five other powers met with  Iran ’s top diplomat to see whether
the Islamic Republic’s new administration is serious about
resolving disputes over its nuclear program.  While the talks yesterday went well, the test will come
when detailed negotiations resume in Geneva Oct. 15, the
diplomats said. During the session at the  United Nations , U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  met one-on-one for 30 minutes with
his Iranian counterpart, Javad Zarif, the highest-level formal
talks between the U.S. and Iran since before the 1979  Islamic
Revolution .  Kerry said that Zarif’s presentation was “very different
in tone and very different in the vision” of the future on
questions about Iran’s nuclear activities.  “Needless to say, one meeting and a change in tone, which
was welcome, doesn’t answer those questions yet” about Iran’s
cooperation on the nuclear issue, Kerry said yesterday. Zarif
“did put some possibilities on the table,” Kerry said.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  and the U.K.’s
 William Hague  both said the atmosphere was better than in
previous talks, though Westerwelle said, “We are looking for
actions.”  The talks were “very good and substantive,” Zarif said
later, as he joined new Iranian President Hassan Rouhani who was
addressing the  Council on Foreign Relations  and the  Asia Society 
in  New York .  There was an agreement to “jump-start the process so we
could move forward with a view to agree first on the parameters
of the endgame,” Zarif said.  He described his one-on-one conversation with Kerry as
“more than a chat.” Kerry said the talk was about “how to
proceed.”  Deal Timeline  Iran wants to reach and fully implement a nuclear deal
within a year, according to a State Department official who
asked not to be named because the talks were private.  Zarif’s meeting was with the foreign ministers from the
five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S.,
Russia, U.K.,  France  and China, plus Germany -- known as the
P5+1 group, which includes  Catherine Ashton , the European
Union’s foreign policy chief.  Joking that he first thought his timetable might be too
ambitious, Zarif said he “saw that some of my colleagues were
even more ambitious and wanted to go faster.”  Rouhani, who took office in August, has asserted a desire
to resolve tensions over his nation’s nuclear program, which the
U.S. and its European allies say is being used to develop a
nuclear weapons capability.  Ending Sanctions  Expectations are high among Iranians who voted for Rouhani
that he’ll improve relations with the world and bring relief to
the economy by winning an end to international financial
sanctions imposed because of Iran’s failure to address concerns
over its nuclear program.  In his UN address earlier this week, Rouhani, 64, said Iran
is ready to enter talks “without delay” to demonstrate that
the nuclear program is solely for peaceful purposes. While his
remarks were less confrontational than speeches by his
predecessor,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the U.S. and other nations are
eager to test whether Iran has shifted on substance and is ready
to take actions to foreclose the possibility of using its
nuclear program to develop weapons.  “Rouhani has a big interest in moving quickly to show that
he can get sanctions relief, but whether he can deliver the
roll-back in their program that we will need for that remains to
be seen,” said  Dennis Ross , President  Barack Obama ’s former
adviser on Iran who is now a counselor at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy.  High Expectations  “What is clear is that the era of small-for-small is
over,” Ross said in an interview, referring to past proposals
for minor concessions in return for limited sanctions relief.
“Either the deal must be big-for-big or it won’t happen.”  The early signs raise questions about whether Rouhani has
fueled expectations that are outpacing the reality. The Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency  circulated a  document 
yesterday in which Iran stuck to its positions, including
barring inspectors from visiting the Parchin military base to
investigate whether tests were conducted there related to
triggering a nuclear device.  The ultimate authority that Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah
Ali Khamenei  has over the country’s nuclear program also has
prompted questions about what Rouhani can do.  “I haven’t seen a dramatic change in what they’re willing
to offer, or on the limits to what they’re willing to do” said
Gary Samore, who was Obama’s top coordinator for  arms control 
and weapons of mass destruction until February.  ‘Good Chance’  Alireza Nader, a senior policy analyst in Arlington,
 Virginia , for Rand Corp., said a “good chance” exists that
diplomacy will be able to defuse the nuclear tensions.  “We shouldn’t expect Rouhani to reset U.S.-Iran
relations,” he said. “That may not be possible. But Iran’s
desire to lift sanctions and the U.S. goal to limit  Iran’s
nuclear program  provides a point of convergence between the two
countries.”  The U.S. and Israel, which views an Iranian nuclear weapon
as an existential threat, have threatened military action if
negotiations fail. Israel has said enrichment should be halted
and most of Iran’s enriched uranium -- which could be further
processed to make fuel for a bomb -- should be removed from the
country.  Rouhani was elected on a pledge of easing Iran’s
international isolation and repairing an economy crippled by
sanctions. Oil exports have dropped by half, to less than 1
million barrels a day, and inflation almost doubled in two years
to 39 percent last month.  $100 Billion  Iran’s decades-old nuclear program has cost the country an
estimated $100 billion, including its investments in
infrastructure as well as lost foreign investments and oil
revenue due to sanctions, according to an April report by the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.  Rouhani said in a speech yesterday that Iran is “ready to
work toward removing any ambiguity and answer any reasonable
question about Iran’s peaceful nuclear program.” He also said
that Iran will never forgo its “inherent right” to nuclear
technology, including enrichment, and that sanctions aimed at
changing its behavior will only punish ordinary citizens and
poison the environment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  