-- Pound Strengthens as Carney Reported Saying No Need for More QE
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-27T15:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/pound-advances-on-report-carney-sees-no-need-for-more-stimulus.html
The pound rose toward an eight-month high against the dollar after  Bank of England  Governor
 Mark Carney  told a U.K. newspaper he saw no case for further
asset purchases as the recovery has gained traction.  Sterling extended a fourth weekly gain, the longest run in
a year, as Carney told the Yorkshire Post that policy makers
would consider expanding  quantitative easing  only if the economy
faltered. The pound rose versus all but two of its 16 major
counterparts as a gauge of U.K.  consumer confidence  climbed to
the highest level in almost six years and  house prices 
increased. U.K. government bonds rose with German bunds as
European stocks declined, boosting demand for safer assets.  “This sits with the tone we’ve seen recently from the Bank
of  England , where there was an absence of very dovish
rhetoric,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in London. “The message is that there
may be further asset purchases should the recovery stall but the
data suggest that things are returning to normal. The market has
quashed most of its hopes that there could be more QE.”  The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.6133 at 4:32 p.m. London
time after climbing to $1.6163 on Sept. 18, the highest since
Jan. 11. Sterling has strengthened 0.8 percent this week, the
longest run of weekly gains since September 2012. The U.K.
currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 83.95 pence per euro.  ‘Personal View’  Carney spoke during a visit to the northern city of Leeds,
according to the Yorkshire Post.  “My personal view is, given the recovery has strengthened
and broadened, I don’t see a case for quantitative easing and I
have not supported it,” he said in an interview with the
newspaper published today on its website.  GfK NOP Ltd.’s  consumer-sentiment index  increased to minus
10 this month, the highest since November 2007, from minus 13 in
August, the London-based group said. U.K.  house prices  rose 0.9
percent after climbing a revised 0.7 percent in August,
according to  Nationwide Building Society .  The pound has risen 6.8 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro appreciated 6
percent, while the dollar weakened 0.6 percent.  U.K. 10-year gilts rose for a fifth day as speculation the
Italian government will collapse sent European stocks lower.  Italy’s Prime Minister Enrico Letta meets President Giorgio Napolitano today to discuss the government’s prospects for
survival after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s allies this
week threatened to step down from the coalition if he is
expelled from the Senate. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares
slipped 0.3 percent.  Gilts Advance  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.71 percent after dropping to 2.70
percent, the lowest since Aug. 27. The 2.25 percent bond
maturing in September 2023 rose 0.3, or 3 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 95.995. The yield has declined 21 basis points
 this week .  Gilts still handed investors a loss of 3.3 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. German securities fell 1.7 percent and Treasuries
declined 2.5 percent.  The Treasury said today Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will introduce annual checks with the Bank of England’s
Financial Policy Committee on whether his Help-to-Buy program is
fueling excessive price increases in the housing market.  “The pound is deriving support from Governor Carney’s
comments on QE,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London,
wrote in a note to clients. “More interesting to us was the
news that Chancellor Osborne will give the Financial Policy
Committee some control over containing how the Help-to-Buy
scheme is implemented.”  That will provide greater policy flexibility and remove the
potential burden on interest rates as a tool for managing the
economy and help anchor expectations for when the central bank
eventually raises  interest rates , Halpenny wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  