-- Power Assets Said to Seek $5 Billion From Unit Spinoff
-- B y   F o x   H u ,   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-09-27T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/power-assets-said-to-seek-5-billion-from-unit-spinoff-1-.html
Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) ,
controlled by Asia’s richest man, Li Ka-shing, is seeking to
raise as much as $5 billion by selling units in its  Hong Kong 
electricity arm, two people with knowledge of the plan said.  Power Assets plans to sell as much as a 70 percent stake in
the division through a business trust structure, the company
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.
That may be worth $5 billion, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  A $5 billion sale would be the biggest initial public
offering in Hong Kong since October 2010, when  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) 
raised $20.4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Li is selling assets in the former British colony, where growth
is slowing, as he pursues acquisitions in Europe.  “ Li Ka-shing  is cashing out in a relatively good market,
which is consistent with his divestment strategies,” Ronald
Wan, chief China adviser at Asian Capital HK Co., said by phone
yesterday. “He may want to seek overseas assets with higher
growth rates as the Hong Kong electricity unit is a stable and
mature business.”  Proceeds from the spinoff will enable Power Assets to
pursue acquisitions in the global power industry, it said in the
statement. Li’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  may exit its ParknShop
supermarket chain in Hong Kong, while buying  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
Irish unit.  IPO Recovery  The spinoff is a commercial decision and shouldn’t be seen
as a withdrawal of capital from Hong Kong, Power Assets said in
a separate statement yesterday.  IPOs are staging a recovery in Hong Kong after the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 17 percent from this year’s
low in June. The value of IPOs in the city reached $7.8 billion
this year, poised to surpass the $8 billion for the whole of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investor sentiment seems to have improved for Hong Kong
IPOs as compared with the first half of the year when primary
equity activity in the region was all about Southeast Asia,”
said Philippe Espinasse, former head of  equity capital markets 
for Asia at Nomura Holdings Inc. and author of “IPO: a Global
Guide.”  Power Supplier  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc are joint
sponsors for the listing. The Hong Kong stock exchange has
approved the spinoff, which is conditional on approvals from
shareholders and the listing committee.  IFR  Asia  reported the size of the sale earlier yesterday.  Hongkong Electric, which started operations in 1890,
provides electricity to about 568,000 customers. The company,
one of two major power suppliers in the city, reported a profit
of HK$4.5 billion ($580 million) in 2012 and had a net asset
value of HK$5.6 billion as of Dec. 31, according to the
statement.  Outside of Hong Kong, Power Assets has interests in assets
from gas distribution to wind farms in the U.K., Australia,
China,  New Zealand ,  Thailand , Canada and the Netherlands.  Earnings from the company’s power assets outside of Hong
Kong surged to HK$5.1 billion last year, from HK$700 million in
2007, it said.  Power Assets has partnered with other companies controlled
by Li to acquire assets in  Europe . It took part in a bid to buy
Dutch waste processor AVR-Afvalverwerking BV for 943.7 million
euros ($1.3 billion) in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  