-- Premier Farnell Gains as Goldman Recommends Buying: London Mover
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-09-27T11:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/premier-farnell-gains-as-goldman-recommends-buying-london-mover.html
Premier Farnell Plc (PFL)  climbed as much
as 3.9 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
recommendation to buy, saying the U.K. supplier of electronic
and industrial products stands to increase market share.  The  shares climbed  2.2 percent to 215.60 pence at 12:48
p.m., for the biggest gain on the FTSE 350 Index today. That
took the advance to 11 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 800 million pounds ($1.29 billion).  Goldman upgraded its recommendation from neutral because
Premier Farnell “is well positioned to take advantage of
improving market conditions,” analysts led by Charles Wilson
said in a note today. It “stands to gain market share from
small ‘mom and pop’ competitors and improve sales due to its
extensive product offering in conjunction with its improved
online platform.”  Premier Farnell will focus on segments including
nanotechnology, medical, lighting and energy rather than
industries such as defense, which are affected by spending cuts,
Chief Executive Officer Laurence Bain said in an interview on
Sept. 19.  Economic confidence in the euro area rose in September,
adding to signs the single-currency bloc’s recovery is gaining
momentum. An index of executive and consumer sentiment rose for
a fifth month to 96.9 from a revised 95.3 in August, the
European Commission in Brussels said today.  U.K.  consumer confidence  advanced to the highest in almost
six years in September, and  labor productivity  rose for the
first time in two years in the second quarter, led by the
manufacturing industry.  Of 17 analysts who follow Premier Farnell and share their
findings with Bloomberg, nine recommend buying the stock, four
suggest holding and four advise selling. The average 12-month
price target for the stock is 245.55 pence, based on 11
estimates, implying a potential gain of 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  