-- Premiership Rugby Says Most Pro 12 Clubs Support New Tournament
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-27T13:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/premiership-rugby-says-most-pro-12-clubs-support-new-tournament.html
Almost all the teams in Europe’s
top three leagues are ready to join a new club competition being
set up by  England  and  France  to replace the Heineken Cup, the
chairman of England’s top rugby union league, said in an
interview.  Quentin Smith, head of Premiership Rugby, said his
organization is in talks with nearly every team in the Pro12
league about joining the tournament, which has commitments from
the combined 26 clubs in England and France’s top leagues. The
Pro12 comprises Ireland,  Wales , Scotland and  Italy ’s top teams.  “We’re talking to pretty much everyone,” Smith said in a
Sept. 25 interview. “We’re in a process of negotiation. For
clubs to join they have to wrestle at times, sometimes even
wrangle, with their governing unions. There are some issues for
them still to resolve.”  Smith said he was “definitely” confident that the Pro12
clubs wanted to join.  England’s Premiership Rugby and France’s Ligue Nationale de
Rugby said in June 2012 that they would quit the Heineken Cup,
Europe’s elite cross-border club rugby competition, because of
unfair commercial and qualification criteria. The two leagues
each receive 24 percent of Heineken Cup revenues while the Pro12
gets the remaining 52 percent. The new proposal suggests an
equal, three-way split.  Six clubs apiece from the English and French leagues
qualify for the Heineken Cup, while 10 of the Pro12 teams
advance.  Scotland  and Italy are each guaranteed two berths,
which effectively means automatic qualification since there are
currently only two clubs from each of those nations in the
Pro12. English and French clubs say this is unfair as their
clubs’ participation is determined by league position.  Talks  Following a year of talks between the six nations over a
new accord, the two league bodies said Sept. 10 that they were
starting work on a new tournament for the 2014-2015 season. On
Sept. 22 they gave it a name -- the Rugby Champions Cup -- and
said further information about the competition’s format and
commercial details will be made available next month.  “We’ll have a revived and reinvigorated European
competition which will be much fairer, have better arrangements
for qualification and seeding, better corporate governance and a
greater degree of fairness in terms of the distribution of
revenues,” Smith said.  The tournament will be open to clubs from the other four
nations, and second and third-tier competitions are also being
created to allow teams from developing rugby nations, such as
Spain, Portugal, Romania and  Russia , “to percolate upwards,”
Smith said. The three competitions will each feature 20 teams,
compared to the 24 in the Heineken Cup and second-tier Amlin
Cup.  National Approvals  The International Rugby Board said two weeks ago any new
pan-European club tournament would require the approval of
national governing bodies. IRB Chief Executive Officer Brett
Gosper said in a Sept. 18 interview that the Dublin-based global
body backs a full European competition that doesn’t include just
two countries.  The French Rugby Federation said in a statement last week
that the proposed breakaway is “irrelevant and inappropriate”
because no international match or competition involving its
clubs can be organized outside the FFR’s framework without prior
agreement.  Smith said that he expects the tournament to be backed by
all of  Europe ’s governing unions.  “If they don’t, they’re responsible for killing European
rugby,” he said. “It would be calamitous for the other teams
and unions not to participate.”  New Talks?  Heineken Cup organizer European Rugby Cup, which Smith said
has held at least nine rounds of talks without coming up with a
new accord for the structure of European club rugby for the
2014-15 season and beyond, is entering mediation on Oct. 23 in
Dublin. Smith says neither the English nor the French will
attend.  “There’s nothing to mediate,” Smith said, adding that if
the ERC had a proposal, it should have put it on the table
earlier. “The stable door is not only shut, it’s bolted.”  Smith’s full-time job is a mediator in legal disputes,
including sporting ones. He has no commercial interest in
Premiership Rugby for which he acts as an independent chairman
on a part-time basis, he said. He is also a director of England
Rugby 2015 Ltd., the company set up to organize the  Rugby World
Cup  in England in two years.  He said that while the goal is to create a new tournament
involving clubs from all six nations, a competition involving
just the English and French clubs is also viable.  Lucrative  “We’re very confident that we could run a very successful
and credible competition with the French,” he said. “It would
be very lucrative, we wouldn’t be splitting the pot with
others.”  Nigel Currie, director of sports marketing and sponsorship
agency brandRapport, says a solely Anglo-French tournament could
succeed commercially because those nations have much bigger
broadcast audiences compared to the other countries.  “It would be relatively attractive,” Currie said. “The
English and French are in the bargaining position. Without the
English and French, the competition would just revert to what
they have already, the Pro 12.”  Smith said that he sees little reason for anyone to block
the new European tournament, given that it is “much more
lucrative.”  “The teams know,” Smith said. “The unions may struggle
with this a little bit but the teams know. The teams want to
play. Those players want to be playing on the best stage that
gives them visibility and gives them the best opportunity to be
playing for their national teams.”  Committed to Talks  The Irish, Welsh, Scottish and Italian rugby unions
released statements yesterday saying that they are committed to
negotiations, and that their clubs “will not be participating
in future tournaments which do not have the full approval of the
IRB or the relevant national rugby unions.”  A spokesperson for the Irish Rugby Football Union said in
an interview that the IRFU does not see the Anglo-French
proposal as “the way forward” and that it would be working
with the other unions on the “existing structure.”  Mick Dawson, chief executive officer of Irish club
Leinster, which won three of the last five Heineken Cups, said
in a statement that the team will only play in a competition
sanctioned by the IRFU and IRB.  The Scottish Rugby Union declined to comment and the
Italian and Welsh unions had not responded to messages by the
time this story was written.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  