-- Rare Optimism on Iran Nuclear Dispute Preceeds Hard Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-27T16:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rare-optimism-on-iran-nuclear-dispute-preceeds-hard-talks.html
Iran  agreed with world powers to
accelerate negotiations on its nuclear program, talks that will
test the country’s readiness to make concessions and allay
concerns it’s seeking the capability to produce nuclear weapons.  Top diplomats from the U.S. and five other nations met
yesterday at the United Nations with Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif, who proposed a goal of reaching and
implementing a comprehensive deal within a year.  They agreed to “jump-start the process so we could move
forward with a view to agree first on the parameters of the
endgame,” Zarif said later, when he joined new Iranian
President Hassan Rouhani, who was addressing the Council on
Foreign Relations and the Asia Society in New York.  While saying yesterday’s talks went well, diplomats said
the test of whether the Rouhani regime’s show of moderation is
more than rhetorical will begin when detailed negotiations
resume in Geneva on Oct. 15. Iran is under pressure from
international economic sanctions to curtail its uranium
enrichment and take other steps to resolve questions about its
nuclear program.  The U.S. and  Israel  say they suspect that Iran is secretly
trying to develop the ability to make nuclear weapons, and have
threatened military action to ensure that doesn’t happen. Iran
says the program is for peaceful purposes.  ‘Change in Tone’  “Needless to say, one meeting and a change in tone, which
was welcome, doesn’t answer those questions yet,” U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry said.  Zarif “did put some possibilities on the table,” Kerry
said. The Iranian presentation was “very different in tone and
very different in the vision” of the future, he said.  During the session, Kerry met one-on-one for 30 minutes
with his Iranian counterpart, the highest-level formal talks
between the U.S. and Iran since before the 1979 Islamic
Revolution. Zarif said it was “more than a chat,” and Kerry
said their discussion was about “how to proceed.”  At the meeting were foreign ministers from the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council --  China ,  France ,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- plus  Germany , known as the
P5+1, and Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy
chief. Zarif joked that he first thought his timetable might be
too ambitious, then “saw that some of my colleagues were even
more ambitious and wanted to go faster.”  ‘Inherent Right’  In a UN address earlier this week, Rouhani, 64, said Iran
is ready to enter talks “without delay.” He also said Iran
maintains its “inherent right” to enrich uranium.  While his remarks were less confrontational than speeches
by his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the U.S. and other
nations want to test whether Iran is ready to foreclose the
possibility of using its nuclear program to develop weapons.  “Rouhani has a big interest in moving quickly to show that
he can get sanctions relief, but whether he can deliver the
rollback in their program that we will need for that remains to
be seen,” said Dennis Ross, President  Barack Obama ’s former
adviser on Iran who is now a counselor at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy.  Some early signs raise questions about whether the
expectations Rouhani has raised are outpacing the reality. The
Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency circulated a
 document  yesterday in which Iran stuck to its positions,
including barring inspectors from visiting the Parchin military
base to investigate whether tests were conducted there related
to triggering a nuclear device.  Iranian Proposal  The U.S. and Israel also have concerns about the Arak
heavy-water reactor nearing completion, which would produce
plutonium for thermonuclear weapons.  Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, controls the
country’s nuclear program, and that, too, has prompted questions
about what Rouhani can do.  Rouhani told reporters in New York today that he has the
support of “all forces” in Iran for the next phase of nuclear
talks. He said Iran is ready to resolve outstanding issues
quickly, and will present a proposal at the Geneva meeting.  Kerry told CBS that the U.S. is looking for steps such as
capping uranium enrichment at a low level and increasing
international monitoring of declared and suspected nuclear
sites, in an interview to be aired on the “60 Minutes” program
Sept. 29. Excerpts were e-mailed by the State Department.  Alireza Nader, a senior policy analyst in Arlington,
 Virginia  for the Santa Monica, California-based Rand Corp., said
a “good chance” exists that diplomacy will be able to defuse
the nuclear tensions.  ‘Point of Convergence’  “We shouldn’t expect Rouhani to reset U.S.-Iran
relations,” Nader said. “That may not be possible. But Iran’s
desire to lift sanctions and the U.S. goal to limit Iran’s
nuclear program provides a point of convergence.”  Rouhani was elected on a pledge to ease Iran’s
international isolation and repair an economy crippled by the
sanctions. Oil exports, Iran’s main source of revenue, have
dropped by half to less than 1 million barrels a day, and
inflation has almost doubled in two years, reaching 39 percent
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  