-- RBS Names Corsair-Led Group in Pre-IPO Branch Investment
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rbs-says-corsair-group-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-314-branches.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
said a group headed by private-equity firms Corsair Capital LLC
and Centerbridge Partners LP is the preferred investor ahead of
a planned initial public offering of its 314 branches.  The consortium agreed to pay 600 million pounds ($966
million) for as much as 49 percent of the business, Edinburgh-based RBS said in a statement yesterday. Corsair, based in New
York, will take the stake in the branches through a bond that
converts into shares after the IPO and pay as much as 200
million pounds more based on the performance of the stock.  RBS has to sell the branches, branded as Williams & Glyn’s,
by 2014 to comply with European Union state-aid rules after
receiving a 45.5 billion-pound bailout in 2008 and 2009. Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Hester, who departs at the end of
September, said last month while  RBS (RBS)  would prefer to sell the
business in an IPO, it is open to private offers.  “This deal concludes what has been a very competitive
process, with several highly credible bidders,” RBS Finance
Director Bruce Van Saun said in the statement. “This
transaction demonstrates that Williams & Glyn’s is a viable and
attractive business which will be positioned as a strong,
customer-focused challenger bank.”  Shares Drop  RBS fell 1.2 percent to 366.5 pence in London trading. The
shares have gained about 13 percent this year.  The securities unit of Britain’s largest government-owned
bank will provide the Corsair-led group with a 270 million-pound
loan to help finance the bid, according to the statement. RBS
was advised by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and the acquiring consortium worked with
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Barclays Plc.  RIT Capital Partners Plc and Church Commissioners for
 England  are among investors in the consortium. The Williams &
Glyn’s management team will include John Maltby as CEO and
Philip N. Green, Mervyn Davies and Lance West as future
directors, according to the RBS statement.  The group saw off a competing bid from a joint bid from
AnaCap Financial Partners LLP and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which was
similarly structured, according to people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified.  W&G Investments Plc (WGI) , backed by money managers including
 Schroders Plc (SDR) ,  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . and Lansdowne
Partners Ltd., offered as much as 1.75 billion pounds to buy the
business outright, it said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Disappointed’  “We are disappointed that our final proposal was not
accepted by the board of RBS as we believed it offered full and
fair value for the assets on offer and would have provided
certain value to RBS shareholders,” W&G Chairman Andrew Higginson said in the statement.  The RBS branches have about 22.2 billion pounds in customer
deposits and 19.7 billion pounds of total assets, the bank said.
They generated 305 million pounds in operating profit in 2012,
about 10 percent of RBS’s annual total.  “This looks like a pretty good deal for RBS,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, England,
with a buy recommendation on the shares. “The equity upside is
still there for them.”  RBS and the U.K. Treasury will engage with the EU to agree
an extension to the sale deadline, it said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
Spain’s biggest bank, abandoned its 1.7 billion-pound planned
purchase of the branches in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  