-- Treasury Sales Would Continue in Shutdown With Data in Doubt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/treasury-sales-would-continue-in-shutdown-while-data-in-doubt.html
The  U.S. Treasury  will continue
selling debt in the event of a government shutdown next week,
while economic reports from the Commerce Department will be
suspended and the Bureau of Labor Statistics will stop
operations.  Contingency plans for the federal agencies were released
yesterday in advance of a shutdown that will start Oct. 1 unless
Congress acts.  The Senate voted to finance the government through Nov. 15
after removing language to choke off funding for President
 Barack Obama ’s health care law, putting pressure on the House to
avoid a shutdown.  The Treasury said yesterday in a  blog post  that it would
keep paying interest on the government’s debt and maintain
collections and daily cash management. It would also keep up
disbursements of  Social Security  and other federal benefits, as
well as “critical government-wide accounting activities.”  The  Internal Revenue Service  would stop responding to
taxpayer questions by telephone in the case of a closure, the
Treasury said. The IRS also would halt “non-automated
collections and tax-processing activities but would continue
activities necessary for the protection of government
property,” according to the post.  Services and activities provided by the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis , the Economics and Statistics Administration and the
Census Bureau are among those that would be suspended in a
shutdown, according to the Commerce Department’s plan.  Commerce Reports  Data on construction spending, scheduled for release on
Oct. 1, as well as factory orders, retail sales and gross
domestic product are all reported by agencies within the
Commerce Department.  The Labor Department’s Employment and Training
Administration said it will continue to issue weekly  jobless
claims  figures.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics will suspend all operations
and staff, commissioner Erica Groshen said in a memo. The agency
left open the possibility of publishing certain data, including
the Oct. 4 employment report, should a release be deemed to be
part of the “orderly cessation of activities.”  The agency cited the example of the 1995 federal government
shutdown, which occurred after consumer price index figures had
been prepared but not yet released to the public.  “The risk of disclosure of the CPI data during a shutdown
was deemed to be unacceptable, and releasing the CPI report was
deemed to be part of the orderly cessation of activities,”
Groshen said in the memo. So the Office of Management and Budget
authorized some Labor Department officials to release the
inflation data.  Capitol Hill  The Republican-controlled House passed a measure that would
deny funding for President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act as
part of a bill to pay for government operations after the Sept.
30 end of the fiscal year.  Senate Democrats , who passed a
measure to keep the government open through Nov. 15, said they
won’t accept conditions.  A shutdown of the federal government would reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points
depending on its length, economists say.  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc. estimates a three-to-four week shutdown would cut growth by 1.4 points. Zandi
projects a 2.5 percent annualized pace of fourth-quarter growth
without a shutdown. A two-week shutdown could cut growth by 0.3
percentage point to a 2.3 percent rate, according to St. Louis-based  Macroeconomic Advisers  LLC.  Funding Gaps  Seventeen funding gaps happened between 1977 and 1996,
based on a Congressional Research Service analysis. In 1995 and
1996, interruptions lasted from Nov. 14 to Nov. 19 and from Dec.
16 to Jan. 6, as Republicans led by then-House speaker  Newt Gingrich  clashed with President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  Those back-to-back shutdowns cut gross domestic product by
0.25 percentage point in the fourth quarter of 1995, almost
entirely because federal employees were furloughed, according to
an analysis by  Joel Prakken , senior managing director at
Macroeconomic Advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  