-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Gain as Inflation Seen in Check
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-27T04:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/treasuries-head-for-weekly-gain-as-inflation-seen-in-check.html
Treasuries headed for a third
weekly gain, the longest run in more than five months, before
data economists said will show the  Federal Reserve ’s preferred
inflation gauge declined last month even as spending increased.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  has risen 0.8
percent in September, reducing 2013’s loss to 2.5 percent. The
personal consumption expenditures deflator probably rose 1.2
percent in August from a year earlier, slowing from 1.4 percent
in July, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead of
the report today. Personal spending gained 0.3 percent from the
month before, the survey showed.  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 2.66 percent as
of 1:36 p.m. in Tokyo, Bloomberg Bond Trader data show. The 2.5
percent note due in August 2023 traded at 98 19/32. The yield
climbed to 3.01 percent earlier this month on expectations the
Fed would trim its bond-buying program and then fell after
policy makers unexpectedly maintained purchases and cut their
outlook for the economy.  “U.S. growth is unlikely to accelerate greatly,” said Jin Kenzaki, a foreign bond strategist in  Tokyo  at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit. “Treasuries have been
oversold.” Ten-year yields may fall to 2.45 percent in the near
term, he said.  The Fed in its statement last week reiterated its concern
that inflation below its 2 percent target may pose risks to the
world’s biggest economy.  Japan ’s 10-year yield was little changed at 0.685 percent.
The Bloomberg Japan Sovereign Bond Index rose 0.5 percent this
month and has returned 1.9 percent in 2013.  Auction Results  Treasuries declined yesterday as the U.S. sold $29 billion
in seven-year debt to weaker-than-average demand.  The auction  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount offered, was 2.46, versus
an average of 2.63 for the past 10 sales before yesterday’s. It
was the last of three note sales this week totaling $97 billion.  Treasuries also fell yesterday as a Labor Department report
showed initial claims for  jobless  benefits in the U.S. decreased
by 5,000 to 305,000 in the week ended Sept. 21.  A Bloomberg
News survey of economists projected an increase.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index rose 3 percent to 77.6. The average for
the past year is 68.81.  For the week, 10-year yields have fallen seven basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The last time
yields dropped for three weeks was in a row in the period ended
April 5.  Washington Showdown  A confrontation between President  Barack Obama  and  House
Republicans  over the  federal budget  helped drive demand for the
relative safety of  U.S. debt . If Congress can’t agree on a
stopgap spending bill, the federal government faces a shutdown
of non-essential services on Oct. 1, the start of the fiscal
year. Separately, Congress must vote to raise the nation’s
borrowing limit.  Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the top-performing  DoubleLine
Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , said the Fed won’t lower its monthly
asset purchases until a new chairman takes over at the central
bank at the end of January.  The Fed has indicated that a cut in its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases will depend on economic data, and it’s
unlikely that those numbers will improve sufficiently by next
month to warrant a reduction in the purchases by October,
Gundlach said yesterday on a conference call with investors.  Gundlach Performance  Gundlach’s DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund returned 0.3
percent this year through yesterday, putting it ahead of 92
percent of rivals. It gained an annualized 6.9 percent over the
past three years, ahead of 97 percent of peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George, who has
dissented against adding stimulus, said labor-market gains
warrant tapering the Fed’s bond purchases immediately and
halting buying by mid-2014.  “Recognizing that there has been clear, ongoing
improvement in the labor market and other parts of the economy
is not to suggest the end of  accommodative policy , but instead
acknowledges that it is time to move away from using policy
tools that were appropriate during the financial crisis and
begin the long process of adjusting policy to more normal
conditions,” she said yesterday in a speech in Denver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  