-- Treasury Would Continue Operating Debt Programs in Shutdown
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-09-27T21:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/treasury-would-continue-operating-debt-programs-in-shutdown-1-.html
The  U.S. Treasury  would continue
operating debt programs and managing its cash if the government
shuts down next week, the department said today.  The  Internal Revenue Service  would stop responding to
taxpayer questions by telephone, the Treasury said in a blog
post. The IRS also would halt “non-automated collections and
tax-processing activities, but would continue activities
necessary for the protection of government property.”  The Senate voted today to finance the government through
Nov. 15 after removing language to choke off funding for
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, putting pressure on
the House to avoid a federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1. The
vote was passed on a party-line vote of 54-44.  People with IRS appointments related to audits,
collections, appeals or taxpayer-advocate cases “should assume
their meetings are canceled” if the government closes and will
be rescheduled later, according to the blog post. The IRS is a
bureau of the Treasury Department.  The Treasury’s fiscal service would maintain payments,
collections and daily cash management. “This includes resources
to support disbursements of interest on the debt, disbursements
of  Social Security  and other federal benefits, and maintaining
critical government-wide accounting activities,” the department
said.  Zandi Estimate  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
estimates a three-to-four week shutdown would cut growth by 1.4
percentage points. Zandi projects a 2.5 percent annualized pace
of fourth-quarter growth without a shutdown. A two-week shutdown
could cut growth by 0.3 percentage point to a 2.3 percent rate,
according to St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  