-- Regulator Said to Look Other Way on Unsafe Mexican Trucks
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/regulator-said-to-look-other-way-on-unsafe-mexican-trucks.html
Regulators determined to let
Mexican trucks on U.S. roads under a trade deal have downplayed
safety shortcomings with companies in a border-crossing pilot
program, according to safety, trucking and labor groups.  Trucking authorities violated their own rules by letting
one company keep operating over the border after its safety
rating was lowered, and overlooked other carriers’ failures to
disclose affiliations with unsafe operators, according to
protests filed with the U.S. government by advocates, trade
groups and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters union.  “They need these companies, they need the numbers,” said
Fred McLuckie, director of federal legislation and regulation
for the  Teamsters , which unsuccessfully sued to stop regulators
from allowing Mexican trucks. “They’re looking the other way.”  President  Barack Obama  and Mexican President Felipe Calderon signed an agreement in March 2011 to end $2.4 billion
in Mexican tariffs on U.S. products, in exchange for opening the
border to Mexican trucks meeting American safety and
environmental regulations. The tariffs were imposed after the
U.S. canceled a previous program to allow Mexican trucks.  U.S. agricultural exports to Mexico fell 26 percent to
$5.55 billion in 2009 after the tariffs were imposed on products
including wine, pork, apples and onions. They had increased
every month in 2008 from the same period a year earlier.  Mexican companies allowed into the U.S. under the latest
agreement have been cited for thousands of violations, records
 show .  Speaking English  One truck belonging to GCC Transporte SA de CV, the company
that’s crossed the border most often, was stopped for violations
18 times between August 2012 and August 2013.  It was found to have defective or missing axle parts, brake
defects, a cracked frame, inoperative signals, oil and grease
leaks, non-working lights, windshield-wiper defects and a tire-tread separation.  Servicio de Transporte Internacional y Local SA de CV, the
Mexican company that’s been  inspected the most , was cited for 44
violations on a single day -- July 31, 2013. Citations included
tire separations and leaks, oil and grease leaks, inoperative
signals and a brake-compressor violation.  Its driver-fitness score of 99.2 percent indicates fewer
than 1 percent of U.S. carriers have worse records. Almost all
of the violations are for drivers who aren’t fluent in English,
according to government records.  Mexican drivers must be able to read and speak English well
enough to understand U.S. highway signs and signals, respond to
official inquiries and fill out regulatory reports, according to
an April 13, 2011, Federal Register notice. U.S. truck and bus
drivers have similar requirements.  There have been no fatal crashes involving Mexican trucks
in the past two years and one involving injuries, according to
regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg. Servicio has been
involved in three crashes that resulted in vehicles needing to
be towed away, records show. The records don’t say who was at
fault.  Companies Needed  The U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, which
regulates truck and bus safety, set up a pilot program to help
determine whether Mexican companies met the agreement’s
requirements. It estimated in 2011 it would need 46 participants
to generate enough inspection data to show the Mexican industry
was safe enough to fully open U.S. roadways.  Almost two years into the three-year border-crossing test,
which stemmed from the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement,
only 13 companies are participating.  Opponents of Mexican trucks are making “a ridiculous
attempt” to impede the pilot program because they don’t want
the border opened, said Porter Corn, a veteran U.S. driver who
lives in  Mexico  and publishes the website  Mexico Trucker Online .  Special Attention  Mexican companies’ safety scores are lowered by paperwork
violations that don’t relate to safety, he said in an interview.
All of the companies have a clean record on the most important
indicator of all -- crashes, Corn said.  Opponents “want every Mexican company to be held to a
perfect standard,” Corn said. “They’re grasping at straws.”  GCC Transporte and  Servicio de Transporte Internacional 
account for almost 80 percent of the border crossings and 82
percent of inspections under the pilot program, according to
FMCSA data.  GCC accumulated 1,160 vehicle maintenance violations in a
two-year period, according to Advocates for Highway and Auto
Safety, a  Washington  consumer group connected to the insurance
industry. Another applicant to the pilot program withdrew when a
similar number of violations was disclosed, the group said.  GCC’s vehicle-maintenance record places it in the lower 33
percent of carriers in the U.S. While regulators don’t usually
intervene at companies not in the lowest 20 percent, they
flagged GCC for added attention because of violations within the
past year that were enough to take its trucks out of service,
the agency’s website indicates.  Skepticism Questioned  GCC is a subsidiary of  Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua SAB de
CV , a building products company with operations in Mexico, the
U.S. and Bolivia. It maintains a U.S. headquarters in Denver.  Enrique Jaurrieta, GCC’s operations manager in Ciudad
Juarez, Mexico, who is listed as a company contact on documents
filed with FMCSA, didn’t respond to two e-mails seeking comment.  Servicio, also based in Juarez, ranks in the lowest 4
percent of trucking companies for vehicle maintenance, according
to regulatory data. In 7,357 inspections, there were 11,700
violations.  It was cited for 1,372 driver-fitness safety violations in
the two years ending Aug. 23, according to the trucking
regulator’s website.  “Advocates cannot fathom why the FMCSA is not extremely
concerned with the ability of STIL to adhere to U.S. safety
regulations, and why the agency is not more skeptical regarding
STIL’s failure to voluntary disclose its affiliates,” the
consumer highway safety group said in its public comments when
Servicio’s application to the pilot was pending.  Sibling Companies  Hector Mendoza, Servicio’s president, didn’t respond to two
e-mails seeking comment.  Maria Garcia, who is listed as an agent for both GCC and
Servicio in FMCSA records, didn’t respond to two phone calls and
an e-mail seeking comment.  Advocates has filed comments with the FMCSA protesting its
approvals of seven Mexican companies for the pilot program.  One,  Tristan Transfer , is part of a brother-sister
combination with another company, Trujillo Transfer. Trujillo
uses trucks owned by Transportes Cel, which had the worst record
for repairs of any U.S. carrier tracked by the FMCSA, Advocates
said in its public comments. None of these ties were disclosed
in Tristan Transfer’s application, the group said.  Tristan trucks have operated in the U.S. 18 times, agency
records show.  Ruben Martinez Cruz, listed as the company contact on
Tristan Transfer’s application, didn’t return a phone call
seeking comment. Trujillo Transfer and Transportes Cel didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Nothing Missed  Ram Trucking SA de CV of Laredo,  Texas , shares a  website , a
physical address and a manager with Zaro Transportation LLC, a
company that has more driver violations than 99.1 percent of the
U.S. trucking industry and more maintenance violations than 94.4
percent, according to regulatory data. Ram has crossed the
border once during the pilot program.  Jorge Gutierrez, who identified himself as Ram’s safety
manager, said in an interview that Zaro set up Ram as a separate
company with a new truck and separate drivers. The company has a
good track record, he said.  “They are doing all of the compliance,” Gutierrez said.
“They don’t want to miss anything with the U.S. DOT.”  Seven of the 13 Mexican companies failed to disclose ties
to U.S.-registered companies, and five of those seven have ties
to carriers with bad safety records, said Shaun Kildare,
research director at Advocates.  The regulator’s application for the pilot program states,
in English and Spanish, that companies must disclose any
relationship they’ve had with another trucking company, broker
or freight forwarder in the last three years.  Thoroughly Vetted  Applicants undergo a rigorous clearance process, and those
selected to participate are monitored to ensure they operate
safely, said Marissa Padilla, a FMCSA spokeswoman.  Mexican companies in the pilot are subject to the same
regulatory standards used to determine whether affiliated U.S.
carriers are legally tied, Padilla said.  “In every case raised, FMCSA thoroughly vetted the ties of
the Mexican carrier applying to participate and determined it to
be a separate legal entity,” Padilla said. “The agency cannot
discriminate against one company based on the record of
another.”  The trucking regulator’s second-highest official, Bill
Bronrott, said in an Aug. 14 letter to Advocates President
Jacqueline Gillan that companies in the pilot program have
passed exhaustive safety reviews and are operating safely.  “To date, the safety record of the participating carriers
demonstrates that the protocols built into the pilot program are
a success,” Bronrott said. “FMCSA is confident that the
program is working as designed.”  Rating Lowered  Bronrott defended the agency’s decision to allow
Transportes Monteblanco SA de CV to remain in the pilot program
after having its safety rating lowered from “satisfactory” to
a temporary “conditional” after an audit. The rating was
returned to “satisfactory” 30 days later. Transportes
Monteblanco has crossed the U.S. border 192 times, according to
regulatory data.  The agency provides all carriers the opportunity to improve
their safety ratings by correcting deficiencies, he said in the
Aug. 14 letter.  Transportes Monteblanco was audited, made changes and is
now rated “satisfactory,” Juan Carlos Fuentes, a company
manager, said in an e-mail.  “We made the corrective actions for the items identified
on the period requested for any transport company,” Fuentes
said.  The performance of an affiliated carrier, by itself, is not
generally grounds to deny a Mexican company’s application,
Bronrott said in his letter.  Reincarnated Carriers  Opponents say that counters the agency’s position behind
its crackdown in the U.S. on “reincarnated” carriers.  Mexican carriers can’t be allowed to use the pilot program
“as an opportunity to reincarnate,” said Todd Spencer,
executive vice president of the Owner-Operator Independent
Drivers Association, based in Grain Valley, Missouri, which
joined the protests and lawsuit.  “It not only goes against Congress’s intent for the pilot
program, but is opposite to the very foundation of our highway
safety laws,” Spencer said.  The owner-operators and Teamsters lost legal challenges to
the program in April. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
ruled Congress decided Mexican truckers with valid commercial
licenses were qualified to drive on U.S. roads, the court ruled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  