-- Reykjavik Geothermal Agrees to Build 1,000 Megawatts in Ethiopia
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-09-27T17:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/reykjavik-geothermal-agrees-to-build-1-000-megawatts-in-ethiopia.html
Reykjavik Geothermal , the Icelandic
company that’s helped build  power plants  in more than 30
countries, agreed to develop as much as 1,000 megawatts of
projects in  Ethiopia  over the next 10 years.  The company expects to spend a total of $4 billion and will
begin drilling test wells early next year, Chairman Michael Philipp said in an interview today in New York. About 10
megawatts will be in operation by 2015, with a total of 500
megawatts by 2018. A second phase may include as much as 500
additional megawatts of capacity. Ethiopian Electric Power Corp.
has agreed to buy all the electricity under a 25-year contract.  “This is the kind of commitment you need to get the
financial backing to finalize the development phase,” Philipp
said. About one-fourth to one-third of the project will be
financed with equity.  The Great Rift Valley in  East Africa , which spans eight
countries, may have as much as 20 gigawatts of potential
geothermal energy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
agreement between Reykjavik Geothermal and Ethiopia may be the
first of many on the continent, said  Mark Taylor , a Bloomberg
New Energy Finance analyst.  “This could be the thing that cracks open the market --
for this company and for others to develop more projects
there,” Taylor said. “It could widen the base for geothermal
development in the region.”  The project planned in Ethiopia’s Corbetti Caldera region
will be Africa’s largest geothermal power plant, and is part of
President  Barack Obama ’s $7 billion plan to double electricity
access in Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria and Tanzania.  “My vision is that over 30 years we will harness the
80,000 megawatts of renewables that we have,” including
hydroelectric, wind and solar, Ethiopia’s Prime Minister
Hailemariam Desalegn said today. “Aid is not a solution. Trade
and investment is a solution. Trade and investment have a
lasting impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  