-- Rights Lawyer Allred Joins N.Y. Bar: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rights-lawyer-allred-joins-n-y-bar-business-of-law.html
Civil-rights lawyer  Gloria Allred ,
known for handling high-profile cases involving women’s issues,
joined the  New York  State bar.  “I look forward to asserting, protecting and vindicating
the legal rights of women and minorities in New York and
assisting them in their right to enjoy equal protection under
the law,” Allred said in a statement.  Allred, 71, has practiced for 37 years and is a partner in
the Los Angeles law firm Allred, Maroko & Goldberg. Most
recently, she represented the former San Diego communications
director who sued the city and ex-mayor Bob Filner for sexual
harassment. She also was counsel to Jodie Fisher, whose
accusations of sexual harassment against Hewlett-Packard Co.
Chief Executive Officer Mark Hurd led to his departure from the
company and a confidential settlement.  Allred has several cases in New York, including
representing more than two dozen people who say they were
sexually abused at the elite Horace Mann School. She said she
previously received temporary permission to argue cases in the
state and joining the bar seemed like a natural next step.  She was sworn in to the New York bar Sept. 25 by Karen K. Peters, the first woman to serve as a presiding justice of the
Appellate Division of the  Supreme Court  of New York for the
Third Judicial Department. While Allred doesn’t anticipate
opening a New York office, she expects an increased case load in
the state, beginning with interviews all day today.  “Two days after being admitted, I’m going to be seeing
clients all day,” Allred said yesterday in a phone interview.
“I can’t wait to get started.”  Companies Increase Legal Spending by 3 Percent, Survey Shows  Legal spending by companies around the world increased by 3
percent to a median of $32 million, according to a survey by HBR
Consulting.  “This modest growth reflects stabilization in the efforts
to control and manage legal costs for law departments,” Lauren
Chung, senior director and survey editor, said in a statement.  The survey of 280 companies focuses on legal spending,
staffing, organization, compensation and management practices.  According to the survey, inside legal spending jumped more
than outside spending, rising 5 percent as 52 percent of survey
participants said they increased the number of lawyers between
2011 and 2012. The median company reported 32 lawyers worldwide.  The survey also found a slight increase in the outside
counsel rate, with an average hourly rate for the three top-billing firms of $461 in the U.S., up from $458 reported in the
last survey.  Firm News  Ashurst Slates Full Financial Integration for Nov. 1  The final step in the merger between Ashurst LLP and Blake
Dawson will be completed Nov. 1, creating a 1,800-lawyer firm
with 28 offices in 16 countries and combined revenue of more
than 550 million pounds ($882 million).  Ashurst announced its intention to combine with the
Australian firm in 2011. In March 2012, Blake Dawson was re-branded Ashurst Australia. The firm will have a single profit
pool, with partners paid under a managed lock-step system, and a
unified management structure.  “We have been operating as one firm for some time,” James Collis, global managing partner, said in a statement. “Full
economic integration will facilitate even greater collaboration
and flexibility across teams and practices globally, thereby
enhancing client service and opportunities for revenue growth as
well as driving greater efficiency.”  In July,  Asia  Pacific  law firm  King & Wood Mallesons and
London-based SJ Berwin LLP announced plans to form a law firm
with about $1 billion in revenue and more than 2,700 lawyers,
also as of Nov. 1. That deal added SJ Berwin to Asia’s largest
law firm, formed last year by the combination of Beijing-based
King & Wood and Sydney-based Mallesons Stephen Jaques.  Moves  Former Washington Mayor Fenty Join Perkins Coie  Former Washington Mayor Adrian Fenty joined Perkins Coie
LLP’s business development department in Silicon Valley, where
he will focus on the firm’s emerging companies and venture
capital practice and strategic initiatives. He was most recently
special counsel at Klores Perry Mitchell PC.  “Adrian is an incredibly intuitive business thinker and a
savvy strategist,” Buddy Arnheim, firmwide chairman of  Perkins
Coie ’s emerging companies and venture capital practice, said in
a statement. “His experience in the public and private sectors
will be invaluable to many of our emerging company clients.”  Fenty was mayor of Washington from 2007 to 2011. After
leaving office, he provided strategic advice and business
development consulting to companies including Rosetta Stone
Inc., Everfi Inc. and Cap Gemini SA.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  Reed Smith Adds Singapore Energy Partner Ball  Reed Smith LLP said Charles Ball will join the firm in
Singapore in the global energy and natural resources group. He
previously was with Herbert Smith Freehills.  Ball has more than 12 years of experience in Asia, based
first in Tokyo and then for the past six years in Jakarta. He
advises companies in the energy and natural resources sector on
disputes, crisis management and compliance issues, with a
primary focus on regulatory compliance and country risk issues.  He is dual-qualified in the U.S. and England and  Wales  and
is admitted as an Arbitrator of the Indonesian National
Arbitration Board.  “Many of our energy and natural resources clients have
significant interests and operations across Asia, and in
particular South East Asia, and it is important that we can
support them wherever they do business,” Kyri Evagora,  Reed
Smith  partner and co-head of the firm’s Energy & Natural
Resources Group, said in a statement.  “Charles’s experience
across the region, and especially in Indonesia, helps us to
considerably strengthen our offering to these clients.”  Reed Smith has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Bracewell & Giuliani Expands IP Litigation Practice in  Seattle   Bracewell & Giuliani LLP added partner Douglas F. Stewart
and an associate to the firm’s Seattle IP litigation practice.
Both were previously with Dorsey & Whitney LLP in Seattle.  Stewart is a registered patent attorney who focuses on
patent-infringement litigation and counseling. He represents
clients in wireless-network encryption, database optimization,
telematics, data transmission and other matters.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 470 lawyers at offices in Texas,
New York, Washington, Connecticut, Seattle, Dubai and London.  Litigator Robert Kenney Joins Blank Rome as Partner  Blank Rome LLP added Robert J. Kenney Jr. to the corporate
litigation group as a partner based in New York. He was
previously a partner at Hofheimer Gartlir & Gross LLP in New
York.  “With more than 20 years of experience handling a variety
of complex corporate litigation matters in state and federal
courts throughout the country, Rob is an excellent addition to
our litigation team,” Alan J. Hoffman, co-chairman and managing
partner, said in a statement.  Kenney focuses his practice on corporate and commercial
litigation, including contract disputes, corporate theft, fraud,
false advertising, international law and telecommunications law.  Blank Rome has almost 500 attorneys at offices in the U.S.
and Shanghai.  Moppin Joins Kaufman Dolowich as Partner in San Francisco  Kaufman Dolowich & Voluck LLP said Timothy W. Moppin joined
the firm in its  San Francisco  office. Moppin was a partner at
Jackson Lewis LLP.  Moppin has 25 years of experience in labor and employment,
environmental and construction law. His employment practice
focuses on the defense of management in race, sexual-harassment
and age-based discrimination claims, as well as employment
litigation. Moppin also provides counsel and training to clients
in employment matters, including terminations, trade-secret
protection and leaves of absence.  Kaufman Dolowich is based in Woodbury, New York, and has
offices in  New York City ,  New Jersey ,  Pennsylvania , San
Francisco, Los Angeles and  Florida .  Litigation  Chevron Wins Ruling to Keep Judge in Case Over Ecuador Verdict  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  won a ruling to keep the judge overseeing a
case over allegations of fraud in a $19 billion pollution
verdict in  Ecuador  despite claims he has favored the company.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s  Theodore Olson , a lawyer for
the second-largest U.S.  oil company , argued yesterday to a
three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan that
U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan has been “comprehensive”
and “thorough,” and that a switch would be a waste of
resources.  In a legal dispute that has lasted for about 20 years,
Ecuador residents are seeking damages for oil pollution
allegedly caused by Texaco in the Amazon rainforest. Chevron,
which purchased Texaco in 2001, claims the Ecuadorians and their
legal adviser, Steven Donziger, improperly influenced a court in
that country to issue a $19 billion verdict in 2011.  A trial over the matter is scheduled for Oct. 15 in
Manhattan federal court.  “I can’t tell you how many motions or proceedings there
have been” in the case before Kaplan, Olson said. “Our
opponents have won a lot of those.”  James Tyrrell, a lawyer at Patton Boggs LLP, who represents
two of the Ecuadorian claimants, argued that Kaplan issued some
inappropriate findings in previous orders that conflicted with
an earlier decision by the appeals court. Tyrrell also contended
that the judge is accommodating the San Ramon, California-based
oil company’s effort to encourage courts around the world not to
enforce the Ecuadorian verdict.  Chevron denies there was company wrongdoing in Ecuador and
alleged that Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former  oil fields , which were taken over by state-owned
PetroEcuador. The U.S. company also claims that it was released
from future liability by an agreement between Texaco and the
Latin American country.  This month, Chevron said it won’t seek money damages
against the two Ecuadorians in the fraud case. The oil company
asked that a jury determine liability claims against Donziger
and his law firm.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeals court case is In re Naranjo, 13-00772, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  