-- RN Holding Surges as Rosneft to Buy Out Minorities: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-27T12:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rn-holding-surges-as-rosneft-to-buy-out-minorities-moscow-mover.html
OAO RN Holding was poised for the
biggest jump on record as OAO Rosneft’s Chief Executive Officer
said the oil producer will buy back minority shareholders at a
market premium.  Shares surged as much as 18 percent, trading 11 percent
higher at 59.90 rubles by 3:49 p.m. in Moscow. The volume of
shares was equivalent to 10 times the three-month average.  State-controlled Rosneft will comply “voluntarily” with a
government order to buy back the stock, CEO  Igor Sechin  said
today at an investor conference in Sochi,  Russia . The price will
be set at an 18-month weighted average, which represents a
premium of 20 percent to 30 percent to the current market price,
he said during a panel led by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .
Shares in RN Holding, as the TNK-BP venture was renamed, have
gained 12 percent this month through yesterday.  “This is a decent decision,” Stanislav Kopylov, who helps
manage about $3 billion, including shares of RN Holding, at
UralSib Asset Management in Moscow, said by phone. “We had an
idea that a buyout would occur based on the share price gains we
saw this month before the decision. The buyout premium is quite
conservative considering how much the stock had fallen after the
acquisition was announced.”  ‘Good Step’  Rosneft became the world’s biggest publicly traded oil
producer by volume in March after it bought TNK-BP, a venture
between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires. Rosneft’s decision
not to buy out minority stakes in TNK-BP, followed by moves to
borrow from the company and end the dividend policy, sent  TNK-BP
Holding (TNBP) ’s shares tumbling 26 percent on March 26, the most on
record.  “It is a good step forward,” Mattias Westman, CEO of
Prosperity Capital Management Ltd., which oversees about $4.5
billion of Russian assets, said by e-mail. “We will see what
exactly the bid will be.”  Prosperity and investors, including Templeton  Emerging
Markets  Group and Allianz Investments, the asset-management arm
of  Europe ’s biggest insurer, said at the time Rosneft was
putting Russia’s reputation at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  