-- Roche’s Kadcyla Beats Herceptin in Delaying Cancer Progression
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-09-27T19:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/roche-s-kadcyla-beats-herceptin-in-delaying-cancer-progression.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Kadcyla almost
doubled the delay in disease progression for advanced breast
cancer patients compared with those whose doctors were free to
choose any other treatment, a study showed.  In a trial among 602 patients whose cancer was inoperable
or had recurred after treatment with drugs including Roche’s
Herceptin and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb, those receiving
Kadcyla lived a median of 6.2 months without their disease
progressing, compared with 3.3 months for those whose doctors
chose a different therapy, according to data to be presented at
a cancer conference in Amsterdam today.  Previous trials have shown Kadcyla, which won U.S. approval
in February as a treatment for people with HER2-positive breast
cancer that has spread, was superior to Tykerb in delaying
disease progression. Today’s result shows it’s also better than
a combination of Herceptin with other chemotherapy drugs, which
was the main alternative therapy chosen by doctors.  “Few drugs have been able to achieve both improved
progression-free survival and a better toxicity profile,” Hans
Wildiers, who led the study at the University Hospitals Leuven
in  Belgium , said in a statement. The results show Kadcyla “has
the potential to be a new treatment paradigm for this group of
patients who currently have few options.”  Kadcyla, also known as T-DM1, is a so-called antibody-drug
conjugate that combines Herceptin with a cell-killing drug
called DM1 using technology licensed from Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  that shepherds the drug
directly to the cancer cell, reducing collateral damage to
healthy cells.  First-Line Treatment  The trial, called Th3resa, is ongoing. Patients in the arm
receiving treatment chosen by their doctors have been given the
option of crossing over to the Kadcyla arm, and 44 have done so,
according to the statement. Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland ,
is also testing Kadcyla as a first-line treatment for women with
metastatic, or spreading,  breast cancer .  About 25 percent of breast tumors are distinguished by a
protein called HER2 on the surface of the cancer cells that
causes them to multiply more quickly. Herceptin, which generated
5.9 billion Swiss francs ($6.5 billion) in sales last year,
latches on to HER2, interfering with it without killing the
cell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  