-- Troops Would Forgo Pay During Shutdown, Pentagon Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-27T20:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/troops-would-forgo-pay-during-shutdown-pentagon-says.html
U.S. troops would work at least
temporarily without pay if the federal government runs out of
money on Oct. 1, according to a Pentagon memo.  If a budget impasse in Congress leads to a government
shutdown, the Defense Department’s contingency plan calls for
placing many civilian employees on temporary furloughs while
military personnel continue to report for duty.  “Military personnel will not be paid until such time as
Congress makes appropriated  funds  available to compensate them
for this period of service,” Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said in a Sept. 25 memo to senior managers.  Troops also may be asked to perform duties that would
normally be handled by civilian employees on furlough, or unpaid
leave, the plan says.  Temporary duty travel would be canceled in most cases.  About half of the Defense Department’s 800,000 civilian
employees would be furloughed, forcing as many as 400,000
workers to go without pay until Congress can restore funding,
Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale said at a news conference
today.  Many civilian workers already were furloughed for six days
this year as part of the automatic budget cuts known as
sequestration, which required the Pentagon to reduce planned
spending by $37 billion.  Morale Blow  “It is one more blow to the morale of our civilian
workforce,” Hale said of the additional round of furloughs that
would be required under a shutdown.  Officials appointed by President  Barack Obama  and confirmed
by the Senate aren’t subject to furlough, the plan says. Foreign
nationals who are paid with funds from their host countries are
also exempt.  “A shutdown would require our troops to go into combat
while receiving only an IOU,” Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat who heads the Senate Armed Services Committee, said in
a statement urging Congress to resolve a budget stalemate.
“It’s unconscionable that some members of Congress would place
their own policy preferences ahead of the needs of our troops
and their families.”  The Senate voted today to finance the government through
Nov. 15 after removing language to choke off funding for the
2010 health-care law, putting pressure on the House to act in
time to avoid a federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1.  “Our message to Congress is this: do not shut down
the government, do not shut down the economy, pass a budget on
time, pay our bills on time,” Obama said in remarks today.  Paychecks Halted  Under the Pentagon plan, contractors wouldn’t be affected
if their contracts were fully funded and awarded before a
shutdown begins.  No new contracts could be awarded and no existing contracts
could be expanded unless a contractor is needed to support an
exempted activity.  Troops due to be paid Oct. 1 will still receive that
paycheck, even if government spending authority runs out that
day, Hale said. Paychecks slated to be issued on Oct. 7 and
later could be halted, he said.  The plan includes a five-page list of exempted activities
that wouldn’t be affected, including military operations,
recruitment activities, emergency response, medical care,
litigation work, criminal investigations and financial
management.  Military Funerals  Defense Department lawyers must sort out how to apply those
guidelines to specific jobs and tasks in determining who should
be exempted from furloughs and what activities must be
curtailed, Hale said.  Navy ships deployed on missions will be allowed to continue
their work, while ships on training exercises may not be, he
said.  While military funerals at Arlington National Cemetery can
proceed, death benefits wouldn’t be paid immediately for troops
who die after a shutdown begins, Hale said.  “The department will, of course, continue to prosecute the
war in  Afghanistan , including the preparation of forces for
deployment into that conflict,” Carter said in his memo. “The
department must, as well, continue many other operations
necessary for the safety of human life and protection of
property, including operations essential for the security of our
nation.”  Carter said Pentagon leaders remain hopeful that Congress
will provide a stopgap spending measure to avoid a shutdown.  “I hope we are all wasting our time planning this lapse”
of funding, Hale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  