-- Rosengren Says ‘Overdue’ Money-Fund Rules Needed for Stability
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-27T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rosengren-says-overdue-money-fund-rules-needed-for-stability.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said tougher oversight of money-market
mutual funds is “overdue” and called on the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to adopt rules that curb risks to the
financial system.  “The financial stability concerns surrounding MMMFs remain
real, five years after the financial crisis,” Rosengren said in
remarks prepared for a speech today in New York. “MMMF runs
should not be allowed to once again impede the flow of stable
funding within our financial system.”  Rosengren echoed a call by all 12 Fed district banks
presidents that the SEC extend its proposed rules for money-market mutual funds to a bigger chunk of the industry’s $2.6
trillion in assets. All money funds that buy corporate debt, not
just those that cater to institutional investors, should abandon
their fixed $1 share price, the Fed presidents said in a Sept.
12 letter to the SEC.  “While the severe runs occurred at institutional prime
funds during the last financial crisis, there is no assurance
that the next crisis will avoid retail funds,” Rosengren said.
“With no government support and with some institutional
investors in retail funds, retail funds may be much more prone
to runs than the SEC proposal presumes.”  The SEC’s floating share price would apply to about $968
billion in institutional funds that buy corporate debt, known as
prime funds, and $78 billion in institutional funds focused on
municipal debt, as they are currently categorized by the
industry, according to data compiled by fund research firm
iMoneyNet in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Extending the rule to
prime retail funds would add about $517 billion.  Withdrawal Fees  The Fed’s regional bank chiefs also objected to a second
part of the SEC’s plan, also put forward by the commission on
June 5, that would allow funds to halt redemptions and impose
withdrawal fees during times of stress.  “The reason for my strong opposition” is “that liquidity
fees and gates fundamentally change the investor’s decision-making process during a financial crisis in a way that increases
the potential for financial instability, and could be worse than
no reform at all,” Rosengren said.  “If other investors run, the investor could be faced with
gates and fees even though the underlying assets have
experienced no change in value,” he said.  The SEC’s proposals are aimed at preventing a recurrence of
the run on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets
in September 2008. The panic was triggered by the closure of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, whose net asset value, or
NAV, dropped below $1 a share on losses from debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., becoming the second fund ever to
break the buck.  Stability Concerns  “Moving to a floating NAV and treating MMMFs like all
other mutual funds -- if valuation is appropriately addressed --
would reduce the financial stability concerns around MMMFs,”
Rosengren said.  Several money fund providers, including Boston-based
Fidelity Investments and Pittsburgh’s Federated Investors Inc.,
have urged the SEC to abandon or narrow its proposal to force
some funds to adopt a floating share price, arguing this would
damage the funds’ appeal to investors and utility for borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  