-- Rousseff Tweets Touting Brazil Economy to Boost Popularity
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-09-27T19:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rousseff-tweets-touting-brazil-economy-to-boost-popularity.html
Breaking almost three years of
silence from her official Twitter account, Brazilian President
Dilma Rousseff today sent a series of tweets joking with a
famous parody account and defending  Brazil ’s economy.  The burst of social media activity comes a year before
she’s up for reelection and three months after her popularity
plunged in the wake of the biggest protests in a generation.  Rousseff’s return to Twitter is an attempt to neutralize a
public image of being brusque and stern ahead of her campaign
for reelection, according to Alexandre Barros, head of Early
Warning, a political risk consulting firm.  “It’s something to better her image and show she’s
accessible, that she talks to people, that she’s nice, because
her reputation as far as being open isn’t very good,” Barbosa
said in a phone interview. “She got better popularity today,
and it’s an attempt to push this a little bit further.”  The fake account, known as ‘ ‘Dilma Bolada ,” has almost
147,000 followers and is managed by Jeferson Monteiro, who sat
beside Rousseff at the presidential palace during the exchange.
They tweeted about Rousseff’s response to allegations of U.S.
espionage, the “More Doctors” program and economic growth.  “Of all economies worldwide, Brazil’s growth was the third
fastest in the second quarter,” Rousseff tweeted. “Whoever
bets against Brazil always loses.”  Rousseff’s official  twitter  account has 1.9 million
followers and was originally created in April 2010. Rousseff
tweeted today that she will extend her social media presence to
Instagram and  Facebook. (FB)   Approval of Rousseff’s government rose to 37 percent in
September, up from 31 percent in July, according to a poll
published today by the National Industry Confederation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  