-- Rupiah Set for Weekly Drop on Deficit Concerns; Bonds Decline
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-09-27T03:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/rupiah-set-for-weekly-drop-on-deficit-concerns-bonds-decline.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell this week,
leading declines in  Asia , on concern government measures to
address the record trade and current-account deficits will have
limited impact.  Government bonds  declined.  Imports are likely to remain “large” as companies that
buy products from abroad allowed the weaker rupiah to erode
profits rather than rein in their purchases, David Sumual, chief
economist at PT Bank Central Asia, said yesterday. The
government will announce August trade data next week, after
imports exceeded exports by a record $2.3 billion in July.  Bank
Indonesia  raised its benchmark  interest rate  this month and in
August to try and stem a slide in the currency.  “The rupiah continues to underperform the rest of the
region” partly because government efforts to tackle the trade
and current-account deficits are not expected to have much
impact, said Roy Teo, a senior currency strategist at ABN Amro
Bank NV in  Singapore . “If we see signs that the trade and
current-account balances are improving then we will be less
bearish on the currency.”  The currency slid 1.8 percent this week to 11,558 per
dollar as of 10:08 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 0.9 percent today and
has tumbled 14 percent this quarter, the most since 2008.  One-month non-deliverable forwards lost 1.4 percent this
week and 0.6 percent today to 11,403 per dollar in offshore
trading. That is 1.2 percent stronger than the onshore spot rate
and comes after the contracts traded as much as 6.6 percent
weaker than the domestic rate a month ago.  Spot Discount  “In recent times, we see the spot rate at a discount to
the forwards, which could be due to several factors, such as
month-end demand from importers,” Teo said.  A daily  fixing  used to settle the forwards was set at
11,279 per dollar today, from 11,011 on Sept. 20, according to
the Association of Banks in Singapore.  The government eased mineral-export quotas and increased
taxes on luxury-goods imports in August. It plans to relax
limits on foreign investment in certain industries next month,
Finance Minister Chatib Basri said on Sept. 24.  One-month implied volatility on the rupiah, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was
little changed this week at 16.85 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It increased 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage
point, today.  The yield on the government’s 5.625 percent bonds due May
2023 rose 34 basis points this week to 8.22 percent, according
to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  