-- Russian Raises 2014 Inflation Target on Government’s Tariff Plan
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-27T15:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/russian-raises-2014-inflation-target-on-government-s-tariff-plan.html
Russia ’s central bank increased its
target for consumer-price growth by half a point for 2014,
saying a government plan to allow partial increases in fixed
costs for consumers necessitated the revision.  Bank Rossii will target an  inflation  rate of 5 percent next
year, higher than the 4.5 percent level sought when the
government was planning to halt all tariff increases for
households and businesses in 2014, the Moscow-based regulator
said in a website  statement  today. The bank maintained its
targets for 2015 and 2016 at 4.5 percent and 4 percent,
respectively, according to the statement.  “Given the planned increase in tariffs for households,
attaining the 2014 inflation target of 4.5 percent would have
required tighter monetary policy in the short term than
initially planned, with the ensuing risks for economic growth,”
the central bank said.  Elvira Nabiullina, a former economy minister who became
central bank chairman in June, wants the government to share the
burden of taming price growth as the monetary authority shifts
to targeting inflation in 2015. Nabiullina threatened to tighten
policy if tariffs were raised for households, which she said
Sept. 19 would add 0.5 percentage point to 2014 inflation.  Reaching the earlier target under the new tariff plan would
require tightening monetary policy, raising risks for growth,
the central bank said.  Better Plan  “This sounds actually better for the economy as a whole,
because the tariffs need to approach market levels to improve
the efficiency in the economy,” Sanna Kurronen, an economist at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki, said by e-mail. “Five percent is
still clearly lower than this year, and as inflation is coming
down anyway I think this is a good time to hike tariffs.”  Consumer prices advanced 6.5 percent from a year earlier in
August, leaving the inflation rate above this year’s target of 5
percent to 6 percent for a 12th month. The central bank held its
main lending rates this month, opting against cheaper borrowing
costs to stimulate the economy.  Economists projected the central bank would cut its key
one-week rate, at which it offers auctions to provide or absorb
liquidity, by a half-point in the fourth quarter to 5 percent,
according to the median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The single policy rate, introduced by the central bank
at a Sept. 13 meeting, was set at 5.5 percent.  The cost for large Moscow banks to borrow from one another
for three months may tumble 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
point, over the next three months, according to forward-rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That’s down from as much as 56
basis points on Aug. 8.  Those prices will increase at the rate of the previous
year’s inflation, scaled down by a coefficient of 0.7 percent,
according to the statement. The central bank plans to publish a
draft of its monetary-policy plan for the next three years on
Sept. 30, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Moscow at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  