-- Samsung Offers to Settle EU Antitrust Probe on Patents
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-27T15:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/samsung-submits-commitments-in-eu-antitrust-probe-almunia-says.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of smartphones, offered to settle a
European Union probe into whether it tried to use mobile-phone
patents to hinder competition from  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.  “After lengthy discussions, Samsung has sent us a set of
commitments seeking to address our concerns,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today in a speech in  New York .
“We will formally market test these proposed commitments with
other market participants in the coming weeks.”  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, told
Samsung last December it may have violated competition rules by
seeking injunctions against Apple products in various European
countries based on essential technology patents, so-called
standard-essential patents, or SEPs, that it owns.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
 Motorola Mobility Holdings (MMI)  unit,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and
Samsung trade victories in divergent court rulings across the
world on intellectual property. Almunia has said he is targeting
“rules of the game” to prevent companies from unfairly
leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  If, after it has tested Samsung’s remedies with rivals and
complainants, the commission concludes that the commitments
address its concerns, “we will take a commitment decision which
would -- I believe -- bring clarity on SEPs and injunctions
across the industry,” Almunia said today.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, declined to
comment on the details of Samsung’s remedies.  Constructive Talks  Samsung based in Suwon,  South Korea , said it has been “in
constructive” talks with the EU. It declined to comment on what
remedies it has offered.  “We believe our proposals will provide appropriate
resolution to reduce uncertainties” concerning standard
essential patents “and confirm our long-standing commitment to
fair and reasonable licensing of our technologies,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement. “Samsung has always preferred to
compete in the marketplace, not in courtrooms, and we will
continue to invest in our intellectual property rights to
promote innovations to benefit consumers and the industry.”  Samsung began seeking injunctions against Apple in courts
in EU countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement of
patents for 3G technology, according to the commission. The two
companies have filed duelling patent lawsuits around the world
over a variety of intellectual property issues.  Industry Agreements  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  When the disputed mobile-phone technology was adopted in
 Europe  as a standard, Samsung “gave a commitment that it would
license the patents which it had declared essential to the
standard on FRAND terms,” the commission said in 2012.  Samsung failed to prevent the EU complaint when it
announced on Dec. 18 it plans to withdraw injunctions in Europe
that seek to block sales of Apple products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  