-- Scene Last Night: Moelis, Sokol Push Ayn Rand; Lafayette
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-09-27T15:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/scene-last-night-moelis-sokol-push-ayn-rand-lafayette.html
Reading  Ayn Rand ’s “ Atlas
Shrugged ” in 2006 gave Ken Moelis the “motivation and
backbone” to quit running the investment bank at UBS AG and
found his own firm.  Moelis, chief executive officer of investment bank Moelis &
Co., gave an account of his history with the book as featured
speaker last night at the Ayn Rand Institute dinner in the
penthouse of the St. Regis Hotel.  He said he first tackled the 1,100-page novel in high
school, perhaps not fully grasping Rand’s Objectivist philosophy
(his brother had told him he could skip the big speech at the
end).  The second time was in his 20s, when he was sleeping under
his desk at Drexel Burnham Lambert and leaving birthday parties
to go back to work at midnight.  Reading the book reminded him, “This is the point of life,
to succeed. I recommitted to being the best I can be at this
job.”  He also decided to explore  Rand ’s passions, seeking out the
paintings of Vermeer, reading Victor Hugo -- he loves the
heroism of Jean Valjean in “Les Miserables” -- and trying
Aristotle.  The third time he read the book, Moelis was on vacation.  At the point in the book when Dagny Taggart takes control
of building her own railroad line, as he recalled, he got on the
phone with his superiors at UBS to discuss a complex deal.  He was having a great year, but when the call ended, “I
looked at my wife and said, ‘I’m quitting as soon as I can,’”
Moelis said. His firm today has 600 employees.  “The main thing is, reality is what it is, ’a’ is ’a’.
There is no such thing as a contradiction. If you find that,
check your premises. One of them is wrong. Your brain is what
you got, it’s your way out of things.”  Fourth Time  Moelis is now reading the book a fourth time as part of a
firm-wide book club.  Also attending the dinner were  David Sokol , CEO of Teton
Capital LLC, who left Berkshire Hathaway Inc. amid allegations
he broke insider-trading rules, and Cliff Asness, co-founder of
AQR Capital Management LLC.  “To me the book is an IQ test for people,” Sokol said.  “I don’t tend to believe in required reading, but I do
believe everyone should read it,” Asness said. “It’s a
wonderful philosophy of life.”  Lafayette’s Ship  “At the end of the day, sometimes in life you just get
excited by odd things,” said Miles Young, chairman and CEO of
Ogilvy & Mather LLC, in a telephone interview yesterday.  Young was talking about why he got involved in the
reconstruction of Hermione, the ship that carried Lafayette to
the U.S. in 1780 with French troops and supplies that helped
force Cornwallis’s surrender during the Revolutionary War. The
new frigate will sail from Rochefort,  France , in 2015 to retrace
the journey.  “For me, the thing really is the story of Lafayette,
because it’s so utterly incredible and amazing that a boy at the
age of 19 could come here, befriend  George Washington , become a
general, and then come back having persuaded the French
government to come off the fence,” Young said.  Young is president of the American Friends of Lafayette-Hermione, which had a reception Wednesday at the French
Consulate. The group seeks to raise $2 million to $3 million for
the project. Moet Hennessy has signed on as a “grand
benefactor.” The year of the voyage will coincide with the
cognac maker’s 250th anniversary.  “Lafayette’s motto was ’Cur non?’ or ‘Why not?’ That’s
what attracted me to this,” Young said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s podcast and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 