-- SEC Trial Lawyer Who Beat Fabrice Tourre Said to Step Down
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-09-27T15:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/sec-trial-lawyer-who-beat-fabrice-tourre-said-to-step-down.html
Matthew Martens, the head of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s trial unit who won a
fraud ruling in court against former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
executive  Fabrice Tourre , is leaving the agency, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Martens, 41, joined the SEC in August 2010 as the
enforcement division struggled to restore its reputation after
missing  Bernard Madoff ’s multi-billion dollar fraud. His deputy,
Matthew Solomon, will take over as chief litigation counsel when
he leaves in the coming weeks, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the decision is not yet public.  Martens, who earlier in his career worked as a law clerk
for former Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist, was
thrust into the spotlight as the lead trial attorney to argue
the SEC’s case against Tourre, who had been accused of
misleading investors about a financial product linked to
subprime mortgages. Martens’ victory in court bolstered pledges
by SEC Chairman Mary Jo White to seek more onerous settlements
even if it could lead to more trials.  His departure comes as a setback to White’s efforts to
strengthen the agency’s bench of litigators. In a speech
yesterday, White said that having a formidable trial threat is
essential for reaching meaningful settlements with securities
violators.  Solomon, 40, joined the SEC in April 2012 from the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the  District of Columbia , where he was
chief of the fraud unit. He holds degrees from Wesleyan
University and  Georgetown University Law Center .  Solomon began his career as a law clerk for U.S. Judge
James Robertson at the District Court for the District of
Columbia. He also served as a clerk for Judge Dennis Jacobs at
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit, the SEC said.  Martens, who is in talks with several private law firms,
hasn’t yet decided where he will work after leaving the SEC,
according to the person.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  