-- Shutdown Nears as U.S. Republicans Plot Against Obamacare
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-09-27T21:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/shutdown-nears-as-u-s-republicans-plot-against-obamacare.html
The U.S. government edged closer to
a partial shutdown in three days as  House Republicans  prepared
to lob another anti-Obamacare volley at  Senate Democrats  who vow
they won’t accept it.  House Republicans, divided over how far to take their fight
against President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health care law, will meet
at noon tomorrow to decide what conditions they want to attach
to a short-term spending bill. They could vote as soon as
tomorrow and may consider an extension of just a few days to buy
time, said Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma .  The main options include a one-year delay in provisions of
the health law such as the mandate that individuals buy health
insurance and several tax increases. Senate Democrats, who
passed a measure to keep the government open through Nov. 15,
said they won’t accept conditions, warning that the House’s
refusal to adopt a no-strings-attached spending bill will force
agencies to close.  “This is the only legislation that can avert a government
shutdown,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, before the chamber adjourned for the weekend. “House
Republicans should think long and hard about what’s at stake and
who would be hurt by a government shutdown.”  Budget brinkmanship has become a routine in Washington,
particularly since Republicans gained control of the House in
the 2010 election. A last-minute deal before midnight Sept. 30
is still possible, even with both sides seemingly dug into
opposing positions.  Stocks Decline  Concerns that the budget impasse will hurt economic growth
helped push the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its first weekly
decline since August. That index fell 0.4 percent to 1,691.75
today in New York, and dropped 1.1 percent for the week. The
rate on 10-year Treasury notes dropped three basis points to
2.62 percent at 5 p.m.  Obama accused House Republicans of “political
grandstanding” that has hurt economic growth, and he urged
Congress to work together to pass a spending plan and then adopt
legislation to increase the nation’s borrowing authority.  “Do not shut down the government. Do not shut down the
economy,” Obama said today at the White House. “Pass a budget
on time. Pay our bills on time. Refocus on the everyday concerns
of the American people.”  Obama spoke hours after the  U.S. Senate  voted 54-44 to
finance the government through Nov. 15 after removing Republican
language to choke off funding for the health law. The Senate’s
move puts pressure on the House to avoid a federal shutdown set
to start Oct. 1.  ‘Train Wreck’  “The House will take action that reflects the fundamental
fact that Americans don’t want a government shutdown and they
don’t want the train wreck that is Obamacare,” said  Brendan
Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner .
“Grandstanding from the president, who refuses to even be a
part of the process, won’t bring Congress any closer to a
resolution.”  House Republican leaders haven’t identified their next
move, and they’ve been stymied by internal disputes. The initial
plan from Boehner and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  would have let
the Senate remove the Obamacare defunding language and send the
spending bill right to Obama.  Under pressure from Tea Party-backed members, the leaders
relented and forced the Senate to send the bill back to them.  Then, Boehner of Ohio and Cantor of  Virginia  tried to get
Republicans to shift their energy to the fight over raising the
$16.7 trillion debt ceiling. They offered a proposal that would
pair a debt-limit increase with a long list of Republican
priorities on regulation, energy and entitlement spending.  16 Members  The same group of Republicans, including Representatives
Tom Graves of  Georgia  and Mark Meadows of  North Carolina , pushed
Boehner to wait and continue the spending-bill debate.
Republicans have 232-200 majority, meaning as few as 16 members
can force the leadership to move their way by threatening to
withhold their votes.  Cole, who is close to the speaker, said leaders will have a
plan ready for rank-and-file to present at tomorrow’s closed-door meeting.  “They’ve got a pretty good sense of where the conference
is,” he said in an interview.  At least 60 lawmakers support a proposal from Graves to
attach a one-year delay to the House’s next spending bill. They
argue that it’s akin to the delay the administration provided
for the requirement that employers provide health insurance.  ‘So Simple’  “The argument to me is so simple, so basic: Treat all of
America, Mr. President, like you treat big business,” said
Representative  Jim Jordan , an Ohio Republican.  House Republicans will get little if any help from
Democrats, said Representative  Xavier Becerra  of  California ,
chairman of the Democratic caucus.  “We want a clean budget vote,” Becerra told reporters
today. “That’s all Democrats are saying.”  Democrats, including Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York,
called on Boehner to show “courage” and pass a clean spending
bill with Democratic votes.  “Just step up to the plate and do it,” Schumer said.
“He’s not going to lose his speakership. He’s not going to lose
his election. Please - enough already.”  Senate Democrats easily cleared a hurdle to cut off debate,
which required the support of 60 senators. The chamber voted
79-19 to proceed to the measure. All 19 “no” votes were from
Republicans, including  Ted Cruz  of Texas,  Kentucky ’s Rand Paul
and Florida’s Marco Rubio, three potential 2016 presidential
aspirants.  Cruz Rebuffed  Most Senate Republicans, including Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, rejected calls from Cruz to oppose
cutting off debate. Cruz, who staged an almost 22-hour speech
this week to protest the health-care law, said halting debate
would pave the way for Democrats to restore funding.  Cruz told reporters after the vote that he hoped his talk-a-thon “had a positive impact on framing the issue for the
American people and mobilizing and energizing those who are
hurting under Obamacare to speak out and have their voices heard
in Washington.”  In a statement, he said he hoped Senate Republicans would
“rise to the challenge” when the House sends back the bill.  Before the vote, McConnell said he would support a one-year
delay of the law and called on Democratic senators to join with
Republicans.  “Let’s work together to actually do it,” he said. “The
American people want this law repealed. Republicans want this
law repealed.”  Chamber Letter  In a letter to lawmakers today, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and other business groups urged Congress to keep the
government open and raise the debt limit, and then “return to
work on these other vital issues,” including entitlement
spending.  Following the short-term budget debate will be what Boehner
promised would be a “whale of a fight” on raising the debt
limit. The government won’t be able to pay all its bills by the
end of October without an increase, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Obama reiterated his refusal to negotiate on the debt
ceiling.  “It would have a profound destabilizing effect on the
entire economy -- on the world economy, because America is the
bedrock of world investment,” he said. “Voting for the
Treasury to pay America’s bills is not a concession to me.
That’s not doing me a favor.  That’s simply carrying out the
solemn responsibilities that come with holding office up
there.”  The bill is H.J. Res. 59.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  