-- Sirius Holders Suit Against Liberty Tossed by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-27T21:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/sirius-holders-suit-against-liberty-tossed-by-judge.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. investors
can’t proceed with a lawsuit claiming company directors let
billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp. take control of
the satellite-radio provider without paying a premium or holding
a shareholder vote on the deal, a judge ruled.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rejected
allegations today that Sirius’s board improperly allowed Liberty
Media officials to engineer a takeover of the broadcaster in
2009 in exchange for a $530 million loan to keep then-struggling
company out of bankruptcy. Investors waited too long to
challenge the directors decision to enter the loan agreement
that gave Malone a chance to buy the company, the judge added.  Sirius shareholders aren’t entitled to “sit on the
sidelines benefitting from the investment Liberty Media made in
Sirius until after the statute of limitations expires and then
belatedly seek to deprive Liberty Media of the benefits of the
contract it received in exchange,” Strine said in throwing out
the suit.  The ruling comes as Sirius officials push the company
beyond radio into telematics, which connects cars with wireless
technology. In July, Sirius announced a partnership with AT&T
Inc. that connects  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  autos in  North America  with
roadside assistance and stolen-vehicle tracking.  Courtnee Ulrich, a Liberty Media spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on Stine’s decision.  Spinoff Planned  Liberty Media gained majority control of Sirius in January
after buying 50 million shares of the radio operator and getting
regulatory approval for the deal.  Liberty Media, based in Englewood,  Colorado , plans to spin
off its Sirius stake, Malone said in 2012. Malone gained a
40 percent equity stake in the satellite broadcaster as part of
the 2009 loan deal.  Liberty Media is a holding company with investments
including stakes in the cable TV programmer  Starz LLC  and  Major
League Baseball ’s  Atlanta Braves . Several Sirius directors,
including former Chief Executive Officer Mel Karmazin, left
after the takeover.  Sirius shareholders lost a bid to have Strine issue an
injunction blocking Malone from acquiring the satellite
broadcaster last year.  Liberty wound up making billions of dollars on the deal as
Sirius shares increased more than 20-fold from 16 cents on Feb.
17, 2009, when the loan was announced, to $3.92 today.  Defensive Measures  Under the terms of the loan, Malone promised not to acquire
a controlling interest in Sirius for three years in exchange for
directors agreeing not to set up anti-takeover defenses, lawyers
for the City of Miami Police Relief and Pension Fund said in
court filings. The fund invested in Sirius shares and sued over
the deal.  Once that period expired, Sirius directors argued they
still couldn’t put defensive measures in place based on the loan
agreement’s terms and Malone was able to buying a controlling
interest in the satellite broadcaster without submitting the
acquisition to a shareholder vote or paying a takeover premium.  Strine concluded Sirius investors should have immediately
challenged the board’s decision to agree to the loan terms and
company directors were correct in considering themselves barred
from erecting anti-takeover defenses by the pact.  The case is In RE Sirius XM Shareholder Litigation, CA No.
7800, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  