-- Soccer’s Lionel Messi Interviewed by Judge in Tax Investigation
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-27T14:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/soccer-s-lionel-messi-interviewed-by-judge-in-tax-investigation.html
Lionel Messi , the record four-time
world soccer player of the year, and his father were interviewed
today by a judge investigating whether they should be charged
with  tax evasion .  Television pictures showed Messi smiling as he was cheered
and slapped on the back when he arrived at a court on the
outskirts of Barcelona. The 26-year-old Argentine spent about
two hours in the courthouse. His father, Jorge, arrived earlier
for a separate hearing.  The Messis demonstrated “a great will” to settle the
affair and not get into a tussle about financial regulations in
their meeting with the judge, their lawyer Cristoball Martell
said in comments broadcast on Television Espanola.  Prosecutors filed a complaint in June that said the
Barcelona player and his father evaded 4.2 million euros ($5.7
million) in taxes on endorsement-contract payments from Adidas
AG, PepsiCo Inc.,  Procter & Gamble Co . and other companies. The
government is pursuing the case after the Messis paid 5 million
euros, the amount prosecutors say they evaded, plus interest.  If charged and convicted, Messi -- who has played for
Spanish champion Barcelona since he was 13 -- and his father
could be fined as much as 21 million euros and given one-year
suspended prison sentences.  According to prosecutors, the pair diverted 10 million
euros to  tax havens  in Belize and Uruguay from 2007 through
2009. Messi’s father said last month his son had nothing to do
with the tax structure and blamed former business partner
Rodolfo Schinocca for the arrangement.  Schinocca said in an e-mail from  Argentina  that he wasn’t
responsible for Messi’s taxes, only organizing commercial deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  