-- South Korea Calls on Japan to Drop Heritage Push for Labor Sites
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-27T05:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/south-korea-calls-on-japan-to-drop-heritage-push-for-labor-sites.html
South Korea  called on Japan to
reassure neighbors about its defense expansion and drop plans to
seek world heritage status for sites where Koreans were used as
forced labor last century.  South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se made the remarks
during his meeting yesterday with his Japanese counterpart,
Fumio Kishida, on the sidelines of the United Nations General
Assembly annual meeting in  New York , the Foreign Ministry in
Seoul said on its  website .  One of the potential heritage sites, known as Battleship
Island, was featured as the villain’s hideout in the most recent
James Bond movie, “Skyfall.” South  Korea  says Koreans were
forced to work at the mining facility before and during World
War II.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s decision to raise the
country’s defense budget for the first time in more than a
decade has rattled relations with its Asian neighbors.  Japan 
occupied South Korea from 1910 until its defeat in the war in
1945 and sent about 150,000 Koreans into forced labor in Japan,
according to the South Korean government.  “Yun expected Japan to strengthen its defense and security
posture in a way that dispels neighbors’ worries and doubts
arising from past history,” the ministry said. “Yun asked
Japan to reconsider seeking  UNESCO world heritage  status for the
modern industrial sites of Kyushu and Yamaguchi suffused with
the painful history of our people being forced to work.”  Forced Labor  More than 31,100 Koreans were forced laborers in Kyushu and
Yamaguchi during the Japanese occupation, according to the
 Commission  on Verification and Support for the Victims of Forced
Mobilization under Japanese Colonialism in Korea, which is
affiliated with the prime minister’s office.  Japan is seeking world heritage status for sites on the
island of Kyushu and the neighboring prefecture of Yamaguchi.  The talks between Yun and Kishida marked the second high-level meeting between the neighbors since Abe took office in
December and South Korean President Park Geun Hye in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  