-- Spain Rules Out Tax Hikes to Meet 2014 Budget Goals
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-09-27T12:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/spain-rules-out-tax-hikes-to-meet-2014-budget-goals.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro ruled out further tax increases for next year, banking
on a  return to growth  to trim the European Union’s widest
deficit.  The government forecasts the economy will grow 0.7 percent,
trimming the  unemployment rate  to 25.9 percent. Economic growth
will bolster revenue, and the government plans an overhaul of
tax rules next year after a review, Montoro said at a press
conference in  Madrid  today after the cabinet approved the 2014
budget.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who has seen his public
support tumble as a corruption scandal compounded discontent at
his austerity policies, is betting that the end of a six-year
slump will help  Spain  comply with  EU deficit  rules after posting
the bloc’s largest shortfall last year. The  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  have raised doubts
about Spain meeting this year’s goal, while the EU forecast in
May Spain’s budget deficit will rise to 7 percent next year
compared with a target of 4.5 percent.  “It’s going to be a recovery without consumption and
without jobs so that doesn’t help your tax revenues,” Jose Carlos Diez, a professor of economics at  ICADE (ICAD)  University in
Madrid, said in a telephone interview.  Deficit Reduction  Domestic demand will continue to drag on GDP, contributing
a negative 0.4 percent, the government’s forecasts show.
Exports, which don’t generate sales-tax revenue, will rise 5.5
percent after a 5.7 percent increase this year. The budget is
based on a 10-year bond yield of 4.3 percent, where it’s trading
now, and the euro at $1.33.  “Next year it will be easier to reduce the deficit because
there will be more growth and so more income,” Rajoy said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television this week.  The government also passed a law to sever the link between
inflation and administered prices, to avoid second-round
effects. The bill excludes pensions and wage bargains, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said.  Spain is due to send its budget plans to the European
Commission this month for the EU to assess its chances of
bringing the deficit back within the bloc’s 3 percent limit by
2016. The shortfall rose to 10.6 percent last year after the
country received EU aid to bail out its banking sector.
Excluding bank aid, the deficit was revised down to 6.84 percent
today from 6.98 percent.  Still, ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s commitment to protect
the euro and signs of a recovery in Spain have helped push down
its borrowing costs. The yield on it’s  10-year benchmark  bond
was little changed at 4.34 percent at 2:22 p.m. in Madrid. That
compares with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent percent a little
over a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  