-- Star-Ledger Reaches Agreement to Avoid Newspaper Shutdown
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-27T16:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/star-ledger-unions-say-deal-reached-to-avoid-shutdown.html
The Newark  Star-Ledger ,  New
Jersey ’s largest newspaper, will avoid a shutdown after reaching
an agreement with workers last night.  “We’re done -- we have a deal,” said Ed Shown, who leads
a coalition of unions serving the paper’s staff. The two parties
had negotiated through the evening to meet a deadline set for
today. Richard Vezza, the newspaper’s publisher, said both sides
should be congratulated on the deal.  “I’m happy we can keep such an important paper in
publishing,” he said.  The unions, which still have to vote on the new contract,
agreed to the $9 million in cuts that the company had been
seeking, Shown said. Earlier this month, the publisher warned it
would have to shut down the paper at the end of this year if it
didn’t get cost concessions from the unions.  The Star-Ledger, owned by billionaire Si Newhouse and his
family, has been operating in the red for at least the past two
years, according to Vezza. The loss exceeded $19 million last
year and the company will probably see a similar deficit this
year, he said earlier this week.  The paper’s parent company, Advance Publications Inc., has
been cutting back on staff and circulation at its other
publications amid an industrywide slump. Advertisers and readers
are increasingly switching to the Internet, where ad rates are
cheaper and the content is largely free.  “Both sides should be commended,” Shown said. “And I’d
like to thank the Newhouse family for making a deal, because
there was no doubt they were going to close this down if they
didn’t get what they wanted.”  The Star-Ledger has at least  360 employees  and is the 15th-largest newspaper in the U.S., with an average weekday
circulation of 340,778, according to  figures  from the Alliance
for Audited Media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  