-- Stockton to Unveil Plan Including Cuts for Creditors
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/stockton-to-unveil-plan-including-cuts-for-creditors.html
Stockton, California, is scheduled
to unveil a bankruptcy exit plan today that may call for raising
 sales tax , cutting employee benefits and imposing cuts on
creditors who are owed more than $350 million.  Should city officials approve the proposal as early as Oct. 
3, it would be submitted to the federal judge in  Sacramento  
overseeing the bankruptcy, Stockton’s lead bankruptcy attorney, 
Marc A. Levinson, said in an e-mail.  Creditors who may be targeted for cuts won’t be surprised
by most of what they see, said Dale Ginter, a bankruptcy
attorney who has been following the case.  “There have been a lot of negotiations leading up to
this,” he said. Ginter represented retired city workers in the
bankruptcy of Vallejo, California, which set legal precedents
used in the Stockton case. “This may be a bit more like the
throwing down of the gauntlet by the city” for further talks.  Since about April, Stockton has been in discussions with a
group of bondholders and bond insurers, including Assured
Guaranty Corp. and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  Should those
negotiations continue, each side will begin to focus on the
legal strengths and weaknesses of the proposed plan of
adjustment, Ginter said.  Stockton, an agricultural center of 296,000 about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is among four
municipalities that have said they will ask creditors including
bondholders to take less than the principal they are owed. The
others are  Detroit , San Bernardino, California, and Jefferson
County,  Alabama .  Broad Outlines  Since filing for bankruptcy last year, Stockton has
revealed the broad outlines of its strategy in court documents,
court hearings and public statements. Elected officials put a
0.75 cent sales-tax increase on the November ballot to fund
police services and help the city exit bankruptcy and they have
negotiated concessions with current and former city employees.
Before the city filed for bankruptcy, officials asked creditors
to accept less than they are owed.  Stockton has refused to impose a reduction on what it owes
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers,
which provides pensions to its employees. That position was
challenged by bondholders and bond insurers, who tried to have
the city thrown out of bankruptcy earlier this year.  In denying that request, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher M. Klein said the dispute over whether Calpers should also take
a cut could be brought back as part of a potential court fight
over a proposed plan of adjustment.  Bondholders may try to convince Klein that the proposal
should be rejected because it can’t meet a test set out in the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  that requires that a plan be fair and
equitable and not discriminate against creditors unfairly,
Ginter said.  James O. Johnston, a bondholder attorney, declined to
comment on the proposed plan.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-bk-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  