-- Stranded NYC Commuters Ask Why Metro-North’s Power Failed
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-09-27T14:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/stranded-nyc-commuters-ask-why-metro-north-s-power-failed.html
Less than a year after  Consolidated
Edison Inc. (ED)  left 900,000 customers in the dark during  Hurricane
Sandy , the utility faces the wrath of stranded commuters over a
 power failure  that has crippled trains from New York to  Boston .  Con Edison, based in New York, has warned it may take weeks
to restore electricity to the  Metro-North Railroad ’s busiest
line, which serves  Connecticut  and parts of suburban Westchester
County. An electrical fault cut power on a feeder cable while an
alternate was out of service for improvements.  “It’s like this post-apocalyptic commute, courtesy of
Metro-North,” said John Weiss of Larchmont, New York, as he
hopped on a train bound for nearby  Stamford , Connecticut,
yesterday. The New York City Landmark Preservation Commission
lawyer said he didn’t understand why there was no backup plan,
when “it just seems on a regular basis they have these semi-disasters.”  The latest high-profile power failure for Con Edison
follows Sandy, the worst storm in the company’s history, which
brought flooding that left lower  Manhattan  without power for
days. A few months before Sandy, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
a Democrat, stepped in to resolve an employee lockout by the
company that led to protests outside the Upper East Side home of
Kevin Burke, the chairman and chief executive officer.  Power Needed  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy, a Democrat, said
yesterday that Con Edison representatives told him the company
is working to get a portion of the electricity needed to the
commuter line. The power would come from three transformers to
be tested this weekend, Malloy said. He said updates will be
provided to residents the night before the Sept. 30 commute.  “There appears to have been little plan for this type of
catastrophic failure,” Malloy said during the briefing at Grand
Central.  Today, at the Larchmont station on the  New Haven  line,
darkened information boards greeted commuters who waited 30
minutes between trains. Dozens of riders who failed to find
seats stood for the duration of the ride to Manhattan’s Grand
Central Terminal, which took about 45 minutes, 10 minutes longer
than usual.  The alternate cable taken offline for maintenance might be
restored to service by Oct. 7, Malloy said.  Street Poles  Meanwhile, Con Edison is trying to feed power from street
utility poles through cables and into transformers, said Mike Clendenin, a company spokesman.  Metro-North, part of the state-owned  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , tested the system with just one feeder
cable and saw no issues before it went down, said Adam Lisberg,
an MTA spokesman. The rail operator is running buses and diesel-powered trains to accommodate no more than a third of the New
Haven route’s regular ridership. This is the second major
disruption on the line this year, after a May 17 collision left
at least 75 people injured.  The power failure also affected Northeast Corridor
passenger-rail service, as  Amtrak   canceled  its Acela Express
trains between New York and Boston through Sept. 29.  Three Weeks  The cable failed next to the train station in  Mount Vernon ,
New York, on Sept. 25. It had an oil leak, the cause of which is
under investigation, said Allan Drury, a Con Edison spokesman.  Such a failure typically takes two to three weeks to fix,
the company said. The utility and Metro-North are seeking
alternatives to speed restoration. Among the options is drawing
power from a nearby system in Harrison,  New York , Drury said.  Con Edison last week named John McAvoy, the head of its
Orange & Rockland unit, to take over as CEO on Jan. 1, after
Burke’s Dec. 31 retirement. Its shares have declined  10 percent 
since the start of 2012, compared with a 4.6 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index.  The company has cut its union workforce, raising concern
that service may be affected, said John Melia, a spokesman for
the Utility Workers Union of America Local 1-2, which represents
electrical employees.  “This catastrophic failure is a symptom of their whole
mindset, which is we will operate it in a ‘just-in-time’
fashion,” Melia said by telephone. “Things like this are going
to happen over and over again.”  Finger Pointing  The union complained to state regulators about service
quality in the past year as Con Edison sought higher rates. A
July lockout of workers led to neglected repairs and maintenance
work, Melia said. The company was then overwhelmed by Sandy, he
said.  “Con Edison continually maintains its system to provide
the highest levels of safety and reliability and optimizes the
use of employees and contractors,” Drury said in response. “We
are focused on working with Metro-North to solve the problem,
not on assigning blame.”  As work went on to restore power on the busy route,
commuters were left to dash for seats on the few trains that
were running yesterday afternoon.  Would-be riders flocked to the reader boards in Grand
Central, all eyes turned to be the first to catch the track
announcement for the next train toward New Haven. As soon as the
number went up, dozens sprinted en masse for the gate, to grab a
seat or at least find room to stand.  For Frank Capolino at the cavernous station’s Trackside
Commissary, the competition meant fewer customers stopping along
the way for a beer.  “They’re not worried about drinking anymore. They just
want to get home,” said Capolino, who has served passing
commuters for 23 years.  Robert Powell , a 49-year-old investment banker, said he
paid a car service $140 to bring him into the city from his home
in Weston, Connecticut.  “Everybody’s frustrated with everybody,” Powell said
before boarding a home-bound train. “It’s just kind of hard to
believe that in the biggest and best city in the world, the
trains don’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 