-- U.K. House-Price Growth Accelerates to Fastest Pace in 13 Months
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-27T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-k-house-price-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-pace-in-13-months.html
U.K.  house prices  rose the most in
more than a year in September as improving confidence and
government measures helped drive buyers onto the market,
 Nationwide Building Society  said.  Prices advanced 0.9 percent, the most since August 2012, to
an average 172,127 pounds ($275,700), the Swindon, England-based
customer-lender said today. They climbed 5 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest annual increase since July 2010.  The strengthening  property market  has prompted politicians
including Business Secretary Vince Cable to warn that government
measures to make more credit available may help stoke a bubble.
While the Bank of England said this week housing activity
remains at a low level by historic standards, it’s alert to any
risks to stability.  “Demand is being supported by an improvement in the
availability and a reduction in the cost of credit,” said
 Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide. “The improving
economic outlook is also encouraging more people to take their
first steps into the property market.”  House prices  rose in all 13 U.K. regions tracked by
Nationwide in the third quarter. That’s the first time that’s
happened since 2007. Although price increases are outpacing wage
growth, affordability is being supported by  low interest rates ,
with the average mortgage payment for a first-time buyer
equaling 29 percent of take-home pay, Nationwide said.  The lender also said that while the pace of homebuilding is
starting to recover, it’s still “well below” the pace needed
to keep up with demand.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said on
Sept. 25 that it would “closely monitor developments in the
housing market.” It said it would be “vigilant” and that it
has tools such as additional  capital requirements  on  mortgage
loans  and the tightening of affordability tests to address any
risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  