-- U.K. to Review Police Bail Times After Reporter Arrests
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-27T07:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-k-to-review-police-bail-times-after-reporter-arrests.html
Britain’s Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said the U.K. should review the time police can bail a
suspect without charge after complaints that people are being
held in legal limbo for as long as three and a half years.  Data released under Freedom of Information legislation in
May showed more than 57,000 people are on police bail in
 England ,  Wales  and  Northern Ireland . Of those, 3,172 have been
waiting for more than six months. Suspects released on police
bail are told they must return to the police station at a given
time while a decision is made on whether to charge them.  The Law Society in England and Wales, which represents
solicitors, has called for a 28-day time limit on police bail.  “Serious sensible questions have been raised and the
matter does need consideration,” Grayling said in an interview
late yesterday in his London office. He said his cabinet
colleague, Home Secretary Theresa May, is responsible for “what
and how” the matter is reconsidered.  Police investigating illegal behavior by journalists at
U.K. newspapers including  Rupert Murdoch ’s Sun and News of the
World, and  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , have arrested more than 60
reporters since April 2011, according to industry magazine Press
Gazette. Of those, 26 have been charged, 12 have been cleared
and 23 remain on police bail, the magazine said.  Neil Wallis, former Deputy Editor of the now defunct News
of the World, was arrested in 2011 and put on police bail for 20
months until 2013 when prosecutors said he wouldn’t be charged.
Wallis described the experience as “purgatory” for the
uncertainty it imposed on him and his family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  