-- U.K. Productivity Rises 0.5% in First Increase for Two Years
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2013-09-27T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-k-productivity-rises-0-5-in-first-increase-for-two-years.html
U.K. labor productivity rose for
the first time in two years in the second quarter, led by the
manufacturing industry.  Productivity measured by output per hour increased 0.5
percent from the first quarter, when it was unchanged, the
 Office for National Statistics  said in  London  today. That’s the
first growth since the second quarter of 2011. Manufacturing
productivity rose 0.7 percent and services was up 0.1 percent.  The  Bank of England  has said that productivity will pick up
as the economy recovers, which will restrain the pace of hiring.
Policy makers introduced forward guidance last month and plan to
keep the  key interest rate  at a record low until unemployment
falls to 7 percent, which they project may not happen until late
2016. Economists forecast it will reach that level sooner and
investors have increased bets on a rate increase before 2016.  Today’s report also showed that unit labor costs increased
2.2 percent in the three months through June, the most since the
second quarter of 2009. The increase was partly due to bonus
payments being deferred to take advantage of a  tax cut .  Output per worker rose 0.5 percent in the second quarter
and output per job increased 0.3 percent.  In a separate release, the ONS said services output
increased 0.2 percent in July from the previous month and was up
1.8 percent from a year earlier. In the quarter through July,
services, which account for about three quarters of the economy,
grew 0.5 percent. The biggest contributor to the monthly
increase was business services and finance, followed by
distribution, hotels and restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  