-- Royal Mail’s $5.3 Billion IPO Said to Be Fully Subscribed
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-27T14:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-k-s-royal-mail-valued-at-5-3-billion-ahead-of-ipo.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd. has buyers
for all shares to be sold in an initial public offering valuing
the 360-year-old U.K. postal service at as much as 3.3 billion
pounds ($5.3 billion), two people briefed on the matter said.  The sale began today and was fully subscribed within hours,
mainly on demand from institutions, according to the people, who
asked not to be named because an update on the fundraising was
sent only to investors. Royal Mail shares, open to applications
until Oct. 8 before trading commences on Oct. 11, will be priced
at 260 pence to 330 pence apiece, according to a statement.  The Royal Mail selloff will be the biggest privatization in
the U.K. since former Prime Minister  John Major  broke up British
Rail in the 1990s. The volume of IPOs in  Europe  has tripled in
the year-to-date versus 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
as investors are drawn by strengthening economies in the region.  “We are encouraged by the interest shown by potential
investors so far,” Business Secretary Vince Cable said in the
government statement. “This will give Royal Mail access to the
private capital it needs to modernize.”  Royal Mail, which is based in London, will have a market
capitalization of between 2.6 billion pounds and 3.3 billion
pounds once listed, with 401 million to 522 million shares due
to be sold, equating to as much as 52.2 percent of its capital.  Government Stake  The future of the remaining state shareholding will be
determined later, Minister for Business and Enterprise Michael Fallon told Bloomberg Television today. Postal services “aren’t
businesses that sit naturally in the public sector,” he said,
adding: “Its future lies in the private sector.”  The U.K. government wouldn’t be able to block a foreign
takeover of Royal Mail once the shares are traded, Fallon said,
while adding that the company will have access to capital needed
to expand internationally as other nations open postal markets.  Royal Mail has a 53 percent  share  of U.K. parcel deliveries
and reported revenue of about 9.1 billion pounds in fiscal 2013.
Its operating profit, after some costs, was 440 million pounds.  One of the country’s largest employers with more than
150,000 staff, Royal Mail has shifted away from letters to more
lucrative package shipping, competing with  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  of the
Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express.  The government, which decided in 2011 to privatize Royal
Mail, will retain between 37.8 and 49.9 percent of stock,
assuming no over-allotment options. A further 15 percent of
shares may be made available beyond the base offer, it said.  Strike Poll  The government expects about 70 percent of the base offer
to go to institutional investors and the rest to retail buyers
and Royal Mail workers. The minimum application for the retail
offer is 750 pounds of stock, or 500 pounds for employees.  Staff, some of whom plan to strike over the sale, will also
be handed a total of 10 percent of the shares for free out of
the government holding, valued at as much as 331 million pounds.  The Communications Workers Union said in a statement that
the IPO is driven by “political dogma” and that Royal Mail can
be profitable and successful under public ownership. A strike
ballot closes Oct. 16, with walkouts possible from Oct. 23.  Britain’s opposition  Labour Party  said today Royal Mail is
being sold so ministers “can raise a quick buck” amid concern
about the possible impact on local communities, adding that
privatizing such a profitable business “makes no sense.”  Bookrunners for the sale are Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Merrill Lynch & Co., with Investec Ltd.,
Nomura Bank International Plc and RBC Europe Ltd. lead managers,
said the government, which is being advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   Royal Mail will have an implied dividend yield of 6.1 to
7.7 percent of its initial market value for the year ending
March 31, with a notional full-year dividend of 200 million
pounds, the statement said. For the period in which the shares
will actually be traded the payment will be 133 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  