-- U.S. Hog Herd Shrinks for First Time in 3 Years as Virus Spread
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-s-hog-herd-shrinks-for-first-time-in-3-years-as-virus-spread.html
The U.S. hog herd at the start of
the month probably shrank for the first time since 2010 as a
virus killed piglets, reducing supply and sparking a rebound in
pork prices.  The herd declined to 67.463 million hogs as of Sept. 1,
down 1 percent from the same date last year, a Bloomberg survey
of 10 analysts showed. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will
release its quarterly  estimate  of hog inventories at 3 p.m. in
 Washington . Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus was found in at
least 17 states since April, killing piglets and slowing growth
in hogs, the  American Association of Swine Veterinarians  said.  There have been about 644 confirmed cases of the virus
since April, a National Animal Health Laboratory Network  report 
showed Sept. 25. Infected suckling  pigs , which are three weeks
old or younger, have seen as high as 100 percent mortality.
Wholesale-pork prices are up 8 percent from a three-month low on
Sept. 5 and 29 percent higher than a year ago.  “There was enough of the disease in enough places that
it’s going to impact pigs per litter and survivability,”  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  in
Columbia, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a spreading
disease, and the impact is growing.”  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s Lean-Hog Index, a measure
of cash prices used to settle futures, is up 19 percent this
year. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
has fallen 1.5 percent, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities has climbed 14 percent. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury
Bond Index is down 2.4 percent.  Older Pigs  Most of the animals affected by the virus were older pigs
that stopped eating for two to three days and then typically
recovered. The effect can be severe on an individual farm when
the virus wipes out two to three weeks of newborn pigs.
 Mortality  in suckling and early weaned pigs is 30 percent to 100
percent, according to the Iowa Pork Industry Center.  Tighter supplies are encouraging  hedge funds  and other
large speculators to boost bets on higher prices. The net-long
 position  in hog futures and options reached 95,076 contracts as
of Sept. 17, the most bullish since the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission began reporting the data in 2006.  Reduced supplies may not last long. The virus is helping to
keep hog futures “very high,” up 18 percent from a year ago,
which provides an “enormous incentive” for farmers to expand
their herds, according to Plain, who has studied the industry
for three decades.  Continued profitability  Hog farmers have been making on average $15 a head since
mid-June, partly because of the drop in the cost of feed corn,
said John Nalivka, president of commodity researcher Sterling
Marketing Inc. in  Vale ,  Oregon . Corn futures are down 35 percent
this year as U.S. farmers prepare to harvest what the USDA
estimates will be a record 13.843 billion bushels.  With feed costs declining, hog producers may earn $28 a
head on average from December through next year, said Nalivka, a
former USDA economist. The cost of corn for hogs that will be
sold in 2014 is down about 35 percent from corn expenses for
hogs marketed this year, Nalivka said. Continued profitability
will spur expansion, he said.  As September began, 5.866 million  hogs  were being held back
for breeding, up 1.4 percent from 5.788 million a year earlier,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Sow  slaughter  declined 1.4
percent in the eight months through Aug. 31 compared with a year
earlier, government data show.  Pork Opportunity  Another incentive for expansion is a pickup in demand for
pork as an alternative for higher-priced beef, Nalivka said.
Domestic beef production may drop 5.7 percent next year, while
pork output may increase 3.2 percent, the USDA said in a  report 
on Sept. 18.  “Beef prices are going higher, and that’s going to make
pork very competitive,” Nalivka said. “They’re going to want
to fill that demand. It creates a very good situation for the
pork industry to grab some market share.”  While the breeding herd is expanding, which means more
pigs, the number of animals per litter may be little changed.
Sows averaged 10.14 pigs per litter during the three months
ended Aug. 31, compared with 10.13 pigs a year earlier,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Plain projects that the number of pigs per litter will be
down 1 percent because the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus is
“extremely deadly” for young pigs. The tally reflects the
number of pigs weaned, not the number born. Pigs are weaned at
around three weeks, he said.  Fewer Slaughtered  Fewer animals per litter means fewer hogs go to slaughter.
The inventory of hogs to be sold for slaughter probably dropped
1.3 percent in the three months ended Aug. 31 from a year
earlier, according to the Bloomberg survey. It’s unknown how
many pigs have died and how many farms have been affected, said
Harry Snelson, a veterinarian and director of communications at
the  American Association  of Swine Veterinarians.  “This is really going to show up from an economic
standpoint four to five to six months down the road, when those
pigs who died would have been going to market,” Snelson said in
a telephone interview. “That’s where you’re potentially going
to see a gap. We don’t know how significant it’s going to be at
this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 