-- U.S. Corporate Swaps Increase; J.C. Penney Credit Risk Eases
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-27T18:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-s-corporate-swaps-increase-j-c-penney-credit-risk-eases.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose amid concern that a political impasse over the  federal
budget  may constrain economic growth. The cost to protect the
debt of  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  fell.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 80.6 basis points as of 2:17
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are apprehensive that the combined prospect of a
budget standoff between the White House and Congress and
haggling over the debt ceiling might curb demand for company
bonds and stocks, according to  Michael Kraft , senior portfolio
manager at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management in New York.  “Until there’s some perceived progress or some headway in
this situation, you’re going to see a little bit of investor
apprehension,” Kraft said in a telephone interview.  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to avert a shutdown by
shifting to a debt-ceiling fight ran into opposition from some
Republicans in another setback for efforts to keep the U.S.
government operating after Sept. 30.  The swaps measure typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  J.C. Penney  Credit risk for J.C. Penney fell after the department-store
chain announced a share offering to raise as much as $932
million and lowered its year-end liquidity forecast.  Swaps protecting against losses on the debt declined 1.8
percentage points to 19.5 percent upfront as of 10:30 a.m.,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps tied to the unit of  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that
guaranteed some of Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage-linked
securities during the financial crisis fell after reaching the
highest level in more than four months.  Five-year default swaps tied to debt of MBIA Insurance
Corp. decreased 0.8 percentage point to 16.8 percent upfront
from the highest level since May 3, CMA data show.  Series 21 of the Markit CDX North American High Yield
Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds
which began trading today was at 396 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. That’s 43.1 basis points higher than Series 20’s
closing price of 352.9 basis points.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.5 basis point to 132.1
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 5.8 basis points to 683.7.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  