-- U.S. Stocks Post First Weekly Drop in a Month on Budget
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/u-s-stocks-post-first-weekly-drop-in-a-month-on-budget.html
U.S.  stocks  fell for the week,
giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its first decline since
August, amid concern that budget fights in  Washington  could lead
to a government shutdown and slow the economic recovery.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped at
least 3.9 percent for the week, pacing losses among financial
shares. J.C. Penney Co. dropped 30 percent after lowering its
year-end liquidity forecast. Lennar Corp. and KB Home each
climbed 2 percent as earnings topped analyst estimates and data
showed new-home sales increased in August.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  gained 6.2
percent as earnings were boosted by North American sales.  The  S&P 500  declined 1.1 percent to 1,691.75 for its first
weekly drop since Aug. 30. The benchmark gauge is poised for a
quarterly gain of 5.3 percent, its third straight three-month
advance. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 192.85 points, or
1.3 percent, to 15,258.24.  “All eyes are on Washington right now,” said Jim Russell,
chief equity strategist for U.S. Bank Wealth Management in
Cincinnati. He helps oversee $112 billion. “This will
increasingly be a negative headwind for consumer confidence,
business confidence, and therefore will probably slow the
economy to some degree should a lack of agreement persist.”  The  U.S. Senate  voted to finance the government through
Nov. 15 after removing language to choke off funding for the
health-care law, putting pressure on the House to avoid a
federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1. The vote sets up a weekend
of negotiating and brinkmanship that could continue until
spending authority expires on Sept. 30.  Government Shutdown  “I don’t think either the bond or the stock market has
fully priced in an actual government shutdown,” Sam Wardwell,
an investment strategist at Pioneer Investments in  Boston , said
in a phone interview. His firm manages about $217 billion.  A shutdown of the U.S. government would reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points
depending on its length, according to economists at Moody’s
Analytics Inc.  The economy expanded at a faster pace in the second quarter
from the previous three months, data during the week showed,
with gross domestic product rising at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate. Other reports showed Americans unexpectedly filed fewer
claims for  unemployment benefits , while an index of  consumer
confidence  dwindled to a five-month low in September as
Americans’ views on the economy dimmed.  Stimulus Strategy  Investors have been watching economic reports to help
determine whether growth is sufficient for the  Federal Reserve 
to begin cutting bond purchases at its next meeting in October.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on Sept. 18 it would not
yet begin scaling back its $85 billion monthly bond buying
program, pushing equity indexes to a record high. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said it will begin tapering when economic data
shows a stronger U.S. recovery.  The week featured comments from several Fed regional bank
presidents. Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley
said budget battles in Washington are among the risks to the
outlook and he wants to see more momentum in the economy before
paring the pace of the central bank’s bond buying.  His Atlanta counterpart  Dennis Lockhart  said monetary
policy should focus on creating a more dynamic economy, while
Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central
bank harmed its credibility with the decision last week.  The Fed will take the first step in reducing its monthly
bond purchases in December, according to 59 percent of 41
economists in a Sept. 18-19 survey.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “The FOMC’s decision to postpone tapering on the back of
weaker-than-forecast economic data creates a challenging
investing environment,” Trevor Mottl, Susquehanna Financial
Group LLLP’s New York-based head of derivatives strategy, wrote
in a Sept. 23 note to clients. “On one hand equities should
benefit from the additional stimulus, but the prospect of
tapering at the October or December meeting may result in a
choppy, range-bound equity market.”  The concerns about the budget impasse and central bank
stimulus come as the end of the third quarter approaches.
Investors should expect $23.5 billion in selling of equities and
buying of bonds as pension fund managers rebalance their
portfolios, Ramon Verastegui, head of engineering and strategy
at Societe Generale SA in New York, wrote in a Sept. 25 note.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
gauge of  S&P 500 (SPX)  options prices known as the VIX,  jumped  18
percent to 15.46 for the biggest weekly advance in a month. The
measure has declined 14 percent this year.  Consumer-staples providers dropped 2.1 percent as all 10
main groups in the S&P 500  declined . Financial shares lost 1.9
percent.  Banks Tumble  Goldman Sachs fell 5.8 percent to $159.85 for the biggest
drop in the Dow. The bank joined the 30-stock gauge at the close
of trading Sept. 20. Morgan Stanley sank 3.9 percent to $27.08
and Citigroup Inc. lost 4.5 percent to $48.89.  The biggest U.S. banks’ fixed-income trading revenue will
probably fall 20 percent in the third quarter from a year ago on
lower volumes, according to Richard Staite, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities LLP. Goldman and Morgan had their earnings
estimates lowered by Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst, amid a decline in trading he called “a full-scale
rout.”  J.C. Penney plummeted 30 percent to $9.05, its largest
weekly decline ever, after a Goldman Sachs analyst raised
concerns about the chain’s liquidity. The department-store chain
began a share offering to raise as much as $932 million and
lowered its year-end liquidity forecast. J.C. Penney, which
hasn’t turned a quarterly profit since mid-2011, is down  54
percent (JCP)  for the year.  BlackBerry Buyout  BlackBerry Ltd. fell 8 percent to $8.03 as it reached a
preliminary buyout agreement that could take the company private
in a $4.7 billion deal. The Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone
maker also released a more complete  financial report  following a
preliminary statement in the previous week showing a wider loss
and an unexpectedly sharp revenue decline.  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., BlackBerry’s largest
investor, said on Sept. 23 it had signed a tentative offer to
purchase the company with help from other partners.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. lost 1.9 percent to $74.36. The
world’s biggest retailer plummeted 1.5 percent on Sept. 25,
weighing on the overall market, after telling suppliers it’s
cutting orders placed with suppliers this quarter and next to
address rising inventory.  Consumer discretionary stocks showed the best performance
for the week, with a 0.2 percent decline.  Basketball Shoes  Nike surged 6.2 percent to a record $73.64 for the biggest
advance in the  Dow. (INDU)  The world’s largest sporting-goods company
posted fiscal first-quarter  profit  that topped analysts’
estimates after demand for running and basketball shoes helped
North American sales. Nike started trading in the Dow average
during the week as part of the biggest reshuffling of the gauge
since April 2004.  Lennar jumped 2 percent to $35.86, and KB Home rose 2
percent to $17.98. Both homebuilders posted quarterly earnings
that beat estimates as they sold more homes and raised prices.  Economic reports during the week showed housing prices in
20 cities rose in the 12 months through July by the most in more
than seven years, while purchases of new homes increased in
August.  Applied Materials Inc. soared 10 percent, the biggest
weekly gain since 2009, to $17.60 as the largest chipmaking-equipment supplier said it would acquire Tokyo Electron Ltd. for
$9.39 billion in stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  