-- Lufthansa Hands Back $68 Million of Unused EU Carbon Allowances
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-27T12:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/lufthansa-hands-back-68-million-of-unused-eu-carbon-allowances.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, handed back 50 million euros ($68
million) of unused European Union carbon permits after the bloc
suspended its cap on international flight emissions.  Airlines led by Lufthansa, Air France-KLM Group and British
Airways returned EU Aviation Allowances worth a total $681
million, based on yesterday’s closing price on ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The companies handed back 103 million permits,
the European Commission said in a  statement .  More than 400 aircraft operators worldwide were exempted
from the pollution limits for a year following protests from
countries including  China , the U.S. and  Russia . The curbs were
rolled back to cover only emissions from flights within EU
airspace instead of entire routes to and from the region.  The EU stopped enforcing the limits to “create a positive
atmosphere” for United Nations-sponsored talks on a global
emissions market for aviation,  Connie Hedegaard , the bloc’s
climate chief, said in November. Nations are meeting in  Montreal 
until Oct. 4 to iron out differences for a market-based
mechanism to cut airlines’ greenhouse-gas output.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the EU’s climate
commissioner, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  The unused allowances for 2012 will be re-sold to the
market as permits valid for the period from 2013 through 2020,
according to the commission, the regulatory arm of the EU. The
total that had been set aside for auctioning in the period will
be reduced by the same amount, the commission said.  The EU’s Emissions Trading System is the cornerstone of the
bloc’s plan to cut  greenhouse gases  that scientists blame for
global warming. It imposes pollution limits on factories,
airlines and power companies that have to submit one emission
permit for every metric ton of carbon dioxide they discharge or
pay a fine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 Avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  