-- UN Security Council Meeting on Syria Chemical Resolution
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-27T00:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/un-security-council-meeting-on-syria-chemical-resolution.html
The United Nations Security Council
is meeting tonight on  Syria  after its five permanent members
agreed on terms of a resolution requiring President Bashar al-Assad’s government to surrender its chemical weapons.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, in New York for the
UN General Assembly, confirmed today there was a basic agreement
on a resolution to implement a U.S.-Russian plan to have Assad
turn over his toxic arsenal to international control for
eventual destruction. The council is seeking a vote on it
tomorrow, according to Russia’s UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin.  A U.S. State Department official, who asked not to be
identified, said Russia had agreed to a strong, binding and
enforceable resolution, marking the first time the Security
Council will have declared the use of chemical arms as a threat
to peace and security.  Agreement on the terms of a Syria resolution has been
complicated by disagreements between the U.S. and  Russia  over
including the threat of punitive measures, up to military force,
against Assad’s government if it fails to give up its chemical
weapons for eventual destruction.  Russia has used its veto to block previous Security Council
attempts to censure the Syrian regime for actions during a 2
1/2-year civil war that has killed more than 100,000 people and
displaced millions more, according to UN estimates.  Lunch Agreement  Australia ’s UN ambassador, Gary Quinlan, who holds the
council’s rotating presidency, said that the panel would meet at
about 8 p.m. New York time. The council was planning to discuss
the measure without voting tonight, according to a UN diplomat
who asked not to be identified discussing details that hadn’t
been released publicly.  Envoys from the five veto-wielding Security Council members
-- the U.S., U.K., Russia,  France  and  China  -- reached agreement
yesterday on the most contentious issues during a lunch hosted
by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, according to a UN diplomat
who asked not to be identified.  The resolution builds from an agreement reached this month
in Geneva between Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
that averted a U.S. military strike against Syria to punish
Assad’s government for an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack that
the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.  Russia and the Assad regime continue to insist that rebel
groups were responsible for the attack, a claim that U.S.
President  Barack Obama  dismissed as “fantasy” in remarks to
the UN earlier this week.  Practical Hurdles  The executive council of the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague must decide on a
road map for eliminating Syria’s stockpile before the UN
Security Council acts. Churkin said tonight that the U.S. and
Russia had submitted a draft road map to the chemical-weapons
group, which was expected to render a decision tomorrow.  Even if the plan succeeds in eliminating Assad’s stockpile
of chemical weapons on the stated timetable, which is unlikely
given the practical hurdles, that would not tip the balance of
power against the Syrian leader, according to a U.S. official
who follows the Syrian conflict closely.  First, Assad’s arsenal of conventional weapons, especially
artillery and air power, has accounted for more than 98 percent
of the casualties in the war, has been resupplied by  Iran  and is
sufficient to overcome the divided and scattered rebel groups
and maintain the regime’s hold on the capital, the Alawite
heartland on Syria’s Mediterranean coast and a corridor between
the two, said the official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss intelligence reports.  Nerve Gas  Even if the chemical weapons agreement holds, Assad may
have gotten a good deal by agreeing to give up his nerve gas and
other chemical weapons and avoiding a U.S. military strike that
could have damaged his conventional arsenal and scattered and
demoralized his troops, said the official.  In addition, the official said the internecine fighting
between militant Islamic rebel groups, some with close ties to
the Iraqi offshoot of al-Qaeda, and more moderate groups has
strengthened Assad’s hand and created new doubts about U.S. and
European efforts to arm and train rebel groups. In particular,
the official said, two or three of the 13 rebel groups that
yesterday defected to the extremists were under consideration
for receiving Western aid.  The U.S. and its European allies have been seeking to
include an enforcement provision under Chapter 7 of the UN
Charter because of doubts that Assad will fully comply. Russia
had resisted those demands, arguing that the use of force in
other Mideast and North African nations, such as Libya, has
caused more chaos in the region, not less.  The framework agreement reached between Kerry and Lavrov in
Geneva said that, if Syria violates the disarmament plan, the
Security Council should impose penalties, without specifying the
actions to be taken.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  