-- UniCredit, Intesa Need Extra Provisions, Barclays Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-09-27T08:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/unicredit-intesa-need-extra-provisions-barclays-says.html
Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  may need to set aside an extra 5 billion euros
($6.8 billion) for bad loans as the European Central Bank
prepares an asset quality review,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  The country’s banks covered 39 percent of bad loans with
provisions compared with a European average of 58 percent,
Barclays analysts Antonio Rizzo and Rohith Chandra-Rajan said in
an e-mailed report from  London  today. UniCredit and Intesa, the
two biggest banks, are better covered than the country’s
average, he said.  Italian banks are struggling to improve credit quality as
the longest recession in more than 20 years makes it harder for
firms and households to repay their debts. The economy is
expected to contract 1.7 percent this year, according to the
average estimate of 43 economists on Bloomberg, after shrinking
2.4 percent in 2012.  “With the asset quality review looming, Italian banks are
under pressure given their sizeable stock of non-performing
loans and relatively lower levels of coverage,” Rizzo and
Chandra-Rajan said. “Moreover, recent actions by the Bank of
Italy suggest that coverage will increase further.”  The European Central Bank, which will take over supervision
of the banking system next year, is due to conduct the review of
the continent’s banks that may lead to further writedowns and
capital raising.  Profit Pressure  Though manageable, the extra provision requirements at
UniCredit and Intesa will “shed an additional 26 percent of
pre-provision profits, on average,” Barclays said.  UniCredit said it set aside 1.67 billion euros for bad
loans in the second quarter compared with 1.83 billion euros a
year earlier as it doubled profit to 361 million euros. Intesa’s
loan-loss provisions increased to 1.4 billion euros from 1.08
billion euros in the period.  Italian banks will be the “hot spot” for the ECB’s review
because they are the most vulnerable in Europe in terms of
impaired loans, which represent 116 percent of tangible equity,
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said in an e-mailed report this month. The
lenders have a total capital shortfall of 8 billion euros to 21
billion euros assuming 20 percent to 40 percent of bad loans are
cleaned up, it said.  The Bank of Italy ordered banks to set aside provisions
amounting to 43.5 percent of non-performing loans in the fourth
quarter of last year. The ratio had stood at 31 percent three
months earlier. The monitoring of banks’ provisioning and asset
quality is continuing, the bank said in July.  Non-performing loans rose to 7.2 percent of total lending
in July from 5.7 percent a year earlier, the Italian banking
association ABI said two weeks ago. The bad loans grew 22
percent to 139.8 billion euros in the period, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  