-- United Tumbles After Reducing Revenue Forecast on Fares
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-09-27T20:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/united-falls-most-in-19-months-on-fares-to-pace-airlines-slide.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
fell the most in almost two years after lower fares overseas
spurred the world’s largest carrier to cut its third-quarter
forecast for a benchmark revenue gauge.  The shares  dropped  9.3 percent to close at $30.91 in  New
York , the biggest drop since Oct. 3, 2011. That sent the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index lower by 2.8 percent.  United reduced its revenue forecast for each seat flown,
citing lower fares on some overseas flights operated in
conjunction with other airlines and rivals adding seats on China
routes. Advanced bookings for the next six weeks in the Pacific
region are down 1.7 percent compared with the same period a year
earlier, the Chicago-based carrier said yesterday.  The airline has “a larger exposure” to the Chinese market
than its U.S. competitors, Duane Pfennigwerth, an analyst at
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , said in an e-mail. “China remains an
important market for the airline and one they would be unlikely
to pull back from.”  Pfennigwerth, who is based in New York, rates the shares
equalweight, the equivalent of a hold recommendation.  United’s revenue for each seat flown a mile will increase
2.5 to 3.5 percentage points, according to a  filing  yesterday, a
range that was about 1 percentage point less than previous
projections. While advanced bookings in the Pacific region are
down, all other areas are higher.  “Pacific revenue weakness likely extends into” all of
2014 based on a 19 percent capacity increase in airline seats
between the U.S. and  China  this quarter and an expected 17
percent jump in the fourth quarter, Daniel McKenzie, an analyst
at Buckingham Research Group Inc., said in a report today.  McKenzie lowered his rating on the shares to neutral from
buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  