-- Urine Spills Staining Image of Wockhardt’s Generic Drugs
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-09-27T04:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/urine-spills-staining-image-of-wockhardt-s-generic-drugs.html
The Indian factory that makes
copies of a popular heart pill sold in the U.S. turns out to be
a jumble of dilapidated buildings with blighted windows
connected by flaking pipes and capped by a rusty roof.  When U.S. Food and Drug Administration inspectors visited
the  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL)  plant that produces generic copies of the
heart tablet Toprol-XL in July, they found urine spilling over
open drains, soiled uniforms and mold growing in a raw-material
storage area. They summarized their findings in a filing
obtained by Bloomberg via a  Freedom of Information Act  request.  The document, known as an FDA Form 483, listed 16 so-called
observations about Wockhardt’s factory in Chikalthana, 200 miles
east of Mumbai, including concerns about quality control. While
the FDA isn’t commenting on the possibility of enforcement
action, such forms can be a prelude to export restrictions. A
typical one contains only four to eight entries, said John
Avellanet, managing director of Cerulean Associates LLC, an FDA
compliance consultancy in Williamsburg, Virginia.  “This is very serious,” Avellanet said in an e-mail after
reviewing the document. “Think of it as a giant vote of ‘no
confidence’ from the FDA.”  Shares Fall  Wockhardt fell 5 percent to 551.05 rupees at 10:00 a.m. in
Mumbai, the most since Sept. 17. That compares with a 0.4
percent drop in India’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index.  “Wockhardt’s down because its biggest product comes from
this facility,” said Prakash Agarwal, an analyst at CIMB
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “That will be a big overhang
on the stock.”  As U.S. regulators step up inspections, they’re finding
more examples like Wockardt’s. The FDA has filed reports on four
Indian facilities in the past six months and curbed exports at
two drugmakers, including  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , the
country’s largest. The findings highlight the contrast between
immaculate headquarters like Wockhardt’s in Mumbai and working
conditions at remote locations in India, where a fifth of the
world’s generics are made.  Wockhardt’s Chikalthana plant makes  metoprolol , a generic
version of the heart pill sold by London-based AstraZeneca Plc
under the brand name Toprol-XL. The white copycat tablets with
beveled edges were approved for sale in the U.S. in July 2010
and belong to a class of medicines called beta blockers, which
make the heart beat slower and with less force.  Wockhardt currently controls about 26 percent of the U.S.
market for that pill, according to Needham & Co. Metoprolol
alone makes up about 14 percent of the company’s 56 billion
rupees in annual revenue. About $1.1 billion of generic Toprol-XL tablets are sold in the U.S. by companies including Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Par Pharmaceutical Co., data compiled
by Danbury, Connecticut-based IMS Health show.  FDA Mandate  The FDA’s mandate includes inspecting overseas drugmakers
cleared to sell medicines in the U.S. to monitor safety. The
agency didn’t report finding contaminated pills. The Chikalthana
filing marks the second time this year the regulator has noted
diversions from what it calls current good manufacturing
practices at a Wockhardt factory. The facility was intended to
serve as a production backup after the FDA issued a  warning
letter  in July about the company’s plant in Waluj, near the
industrial city of Aurangabad.  The FDA curbed the Waluj plant’s right to export to the
U.S., saying Wockhardt’s response to a Form 483 lacked
sufficient corrective action. The inspectors noted seven
observations at Waluj, less than half the total for Chikalthana.  Warning Letter  Ranbaxy, India’s largest drugmaker, had a third plant
banned from exporting drugs to the U.S. last week. Another
drugmaker,  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  said last week a facility in
Bangalore being bought by Mylan Inc. got a warning letter after
an inspection in June.  Wockhardt has hired consultants, appointed a new quality
supervisor and is working on a better compliance system to
address the report on Chikalthana, it said in a response to
questions e-mailed by the public-relations firm  Ketchum Sampark .  The FDA carried out the Chikalthana inspection from July 22
to July 31 jointly with the Irish Medicines Board and U.K.
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, which said
in an e-mailed response to questions that it, too, identified
“a number of manufacturing issues.”  The FDA’s 10-page report on Chikalthana notes missing and
undocumented drug samples and an instance in which a worker
didn’t record observed values during testing, instead stating he
could remember the figures “in his head.”  Urine Smell  A check of the linen room found worker uniforms crusted
with dirt. Raw-material storage areas had “significant mold
growth” and the men’s toilets and toilets for the manufacturing
gowning areas had urinals with inadequate drainage piping, with
urine found to fall directly on the floor where it was collected
in open drains and causing an odor, according to the report.  Inspectors found tablets stored at the wrong temperature,
raw materials and finished drugs kept in makeshift storage areas
with no cleaning or temperature procedures, and condensate
droplets falling from an overhead air handling unit onto
shipping containers of pills, they wrote.  ‘Every Small Thing’  They also expressed concern about quality control
procedures, mentioning “multiple examples” in which “samples
appeared to have been tested into compliance.”  “The challenge for Indian companies comes in the
execution,” Dinkar Saran, a PricewaterhouseCoopers principal in
 Boston , said in a telephone interview. “How do you convey that
every small thing you do can impact the quality of the
medicine.”  Wockhardt has responded to the report and awaits an FDA
decision, according to the statement sent by Ketchum Sampark.  “We are also leveraging technology and deploying
enterprise-wide software that will streamline the entire quality
and compliance system,” the company said. “This is backed by a
comprehensive compliance training program for all personnel
responsible for manufacturing and quality control.”  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the FDA in Silver
Spring,  Maryland , wouldn’t comment on the Form 483 or the chance
of export restrictions because the regulator doesn’t discuss
potential enforcement action.  Stock Impact  “It’s very difficult to speculate on what may happen,”
Managing Director Murtaza Khorakiwala said on a teleconference
with analysts on Aug. 14 to discuss first-quarter earnings,
according to a transcript of the briefing. “We hope that we
don’t go -- we don’t end up with a warning letter or an import
alert.” Export restrictions at Chikalthana are less likely than
they were at Waluj, Khorakiwala said on the call.  If the FDA limits the plant’s ability to export, it could
trim $350 million from annual revenue, creating “a big problem
for Wockhardt,” according to Bino Pathiparampil, a health-care
analyst at IIFL Institutional Equities in  Mumbai .  Such an event may also cost investors. When a factory from
rival Ranbaxy got hit with FDA export curbs on Sept. 16, the
company’s  stock price plunged  30 percent to 318.5 rupees, the
worst one-day slide since at least January 1991. The news
dragged down other Indian pharmaceutical stocks, including
Wockhardt, which lost 19 percent that day and the next.  Drug Quality  Products from two other Ranbaxy plants were prohibited from
export to the U.S. in 2008 because of quality control issues
that were part of fraud allegations, which the company agreed to
settle in May for $500 million. Gaurav Chugh, a Ranbaxy
spokesman, did not return telephone calls and an e-mail.  Ranbaxy and Wockhardt are part of an industry  India ’s
Department of Commerce says exported $14.6 billion of medicines
last year -- a number that may reach $25 billion by 2016. More
than one in seven generic drugs bought in the U.S. are Indian-made, the country’s Commerce Department estimates.  Demand for copycat versions of branded drugs are at the
root of India’s pharmaceutical success. As the population ages
in the U.S. and Europe, causing health-care spending to swell,
governments are counting on generics to keep costs down.  “We want American consumers to be confident that the drugs
they are taking are of the highest quality,” Howard Sklamberg,
who heads the office of compliance at the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in a Sept. 16  statement .  U.S. regulators are stepping up efforts to monitor the
safety of medicines flowing into the country. The number of drug
inspections in India has more than doubled in the past five
years. The agency ran 195 checks last year, up from 13 in 2000,
according to data supplied by the regulator. By 2017, it will be
required to inspect foreign firms as often as domestic ones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  