-- Uruguay Ready to Back UPM Plan to Boost Pulp Output, Mujica Says
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a ,   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2013-09-27T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/uruguay-ready-to-back-upm-plan-to-boost-pulp-output-mujica-says.html
Uruguay ’s President Jose Mujica
said he’s prepared to allow a pulp plant owned by  Finland ’s  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  to boost production if it meets stricter
environmental requirements.  The plant, on the Uruguay River that borders  Argentina ,
will probably be allowed to raise production from its current
1.1 million tons per year, Mujica said in an interview. He
declined to say if output could climb as high as the 1.4 million
tons sought by the company. He said he will discuss his decision
with Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner Sept. 30
before making a final announcement.  “I’m going to make a decision in the middle,” Mujica said
yesterday in  New York , adding that Helsinki-based UPM will have
to ensure the  plant  lowers the temperature and amount of
phosphorus in the water it returns to the river. “The decision
is not simple. It’s a give and take.”  Mujica, who said he’s already shared his decision with UPM,
is betting on foreign investments in the country’s natural
resources to sustain growth in the  $49 billion  economy. The
government is seeking to exploit iron ore reserves that will
require a new deep water port on its Atlantic coast that will
begin construction in 2014.  Minera Aratiri , owned by Dubai-based Zamin Group, has been
since 2007 seeking government approval to carry out a project
that would allow exports of 18 million metric tons a year of
iron-ore. Mujica said his government will sign in two months the
contract that Aratiri says would convert Uruguay into the
world’s  eighth-largest producer  of the mineral.  Debt Issuance  The government will invest about $400 million into a
breakwater for the new port to facilitate the exports and could
tap local and global debt markets, private investors and
regional governments to complete the project, he said.  “We have the ability to issue local debt, we have access
to global credit markets,” Mujica said. “We don’t have any
doubts” about being able to make the investment, he added.  Uruguay’s dollar bonds have lost 13 percent so far this
year, double the 6.5 percent decline in emerging market debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index. The country has
an investment-grade BBB- rating from  Standard & Poor’s , putting
the country of three million people in the same category as
 Spain  and the  Philippines .  Mujica said Uruguay is on track to expand  3.8 percent  this
year. The South American nation expanded 5.6 percent last year.  The $1.1 billion pulp plant was the South American
country’s biggest investment ever when it began operations in
2007. The project fueled protests by Argentine environmental
groups, who blocked bridges connecting the countries because
they said it would pollute the river.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in New York at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  