-- Venezuela’s Maduro Said to Drop U.S. Trip Over Cuban Jet
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-09-27T19:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/venezuela-s-maduro-said-to-drop-u-s-trip-over-cuban-jet.html
A senior Obama administration
official is disputing Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro’s
claim that plots against his life by former U.S. government
officials forced him to cancel a trip this week to New York.  Maduro called off plans to take part in the United Nations
General Assembly, citing the threats. The Cuban government was
likely concerned that a new airplane it had loaned Maduro might
be seized on U.S. territory, according to the Obama
administration official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record and asked not to be identified.  The Venezuelan leader, who returned home Sept. 25 from a
state visit to China, said he learned of threats against him
from “various sources” during a stopover in  Vancouver  on his
way to New York and decided instead to head back to Caracas.
Maduro would have addressed the annual General Assembly for the
first time since becoming head of state following the death
earlier this year of longtime President Hugo Chavez.  “The clan -- the mafia -- of Otto Reich and Roger Noriega
once again had planned a crazy, terrible provocation that can’t
be described in any other way,” Maduro said, referring to two
former assistant secretaries of state for Western Hemisphere
Affairs who Maduro frequently accuses of plots against
Venezuela. Both served under President George W. Bush.  Maduro, 50, was traveling in a Russian-made Ilyushin
aircraft loaned by the government of Cuba,  Venezuela ’s closest
ally, according to the official from President  Barack Obama ’s
administration.  ‘Safer in NY’  “Maduro’s accusation is ridiculous and unfounded,”
Noriega said today in an e-mailed comment. “My guess is he
would be safer in NY than he is in Caracas because of the
infighting within his criminal regime.”  Cuban government assets are blocked in the U.S. under a
five-decade-old U.S. embargo, and are vulnerable to claims by
American citizens against the government in  Havana  following the
communist revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power in 1959.  The U.S. official said that a Cuban plane transporting a
Venezuelan official to New York wouldn’t fall under the
protections granted to diplomatic missions, and the U.S.
government couldn’t have stopped a private citizen from seeking
to file a claim in court on the aircraft.  Venezuelan officials proposed that Maduro and his
delegation change planes in Vancouver to use a pair of
Venezuelan jets for the flight to New York, and the U.S.
immediately agreed, according to the Obama administration
official. The U.S. then learned that Maduro had canceled the
trip to the UN, citing alleged plots on his life.  Cuban Plane  Maduro had flown to China and back in a borrowed Cuban
plane because his presidential jet, manufactured by  Airbus SAS (EAD) ,
had mechanical problems after undergoing five months of
maintenance in  France . Maduro has said that Venezuela is
considering legal action against the European aviation company.  The Venezuelan government does not have another plane
capable of transporting Maduro and the aides that travel with
him, Jose Machillanda, a retired army colonel who teaches at the
Caracas-based Ceppro research institute, said today in a
telephone interview.  Venezuela’s Information Ministry didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mailed inquiry after business hours yesterday on why
Maduro didn’t travel on to New York.  Airspace  While the self-professed socialist leader accused the U.S.
of inventing “thousands of excuses” for declining to authorize
his transit over Puerto Rico last week, his plane did receive
permission to pass through U.S. airspace on his way from
Venezuela to  China  through an “extraordinary effort” by U.S.
authorities with only a day’s notice instead of the required
three, a State Department spokesman said on Sept. 20.  In a national address carried on television and radio,
Maduro said one plot against him could’ve caused unspecified
violence in New York, while the other could’ve affected his
physical safety.  “I had to fulfill my maximum objective, to preserve my
physical integrity, my life, and Venezuelan honor,” Maduro
said, alleging that the U.S. had information about the plots.  The U.S. rejects involvement in any plots to harm
Venezuelan officials or to destabilize the Venezuelan
government, said a State Department official, who asked to not
be identified. Both U.S. officials said the Venezuelan
government has made frequent public allegations of conspiracies
concocted in the U.S., and asserted that Maduro’s government has
not shared any evidence of alleged threats to be investigated.  ‘Outlandish’      Earlier this year, the State Department called Venezuelan
government allegations of U.S. schemes to destabilize the nation
“unsubstantiated and outlandish.”  Maduro won election in April after Chavez -- who died in
March -- had asked voters to choose him should Chavez be unable
to complete his mandate. When he was vice president, Maduro
asserted in January that authorities had uncovered a plot by
opposition factions to assassinate him and National Assembly
President Diosdado Cabello.  A former bus driver, Maduro is facing increasing economic
challenges at home. Shortages of goods in Venezuela, including
sugar and beef, are stoking consumer prices as importers
struggle to obtain foreign currency.  Inflation accelerated to 45 percent last month from 43
percent in July, the highest rate among 114 economies tracked by
Bloomberg. The central bank’s scarcity index is 20 percent,
meaning that one out of about every five consumer staples is out
of stock at any given time.  Black-Market  Venezuela Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said Sept. 17
that the country would unveil a new foreign-exchange system to
increase the supply of U.S. dollars and narrow the gap between
the official and black-market exchange rates. One dollar buys
41.4 bolivars on the black market, compared with 6.3 bolivars at
the official rate, according to rate-tracking website
dolartoday.com, which shows the values at the Colombian border.  If the government fails to act, the bolivar may depreciate
to 60 per dollar by December,  Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  