-- Vietnam Third-Quarter GDP Growth Accelerates as Exports Hold Up
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-27T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/vietnam-third-quarter-gdp-growth-accelerates-as-exports-hold-up.html
Vietnam ’s economic growth quickened
this quarter as rising foreign investment helped support
manufacturing and exports, countering weak lending from a
banking industry burdened by bad debt.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.54 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, accelerating from a 5 percent gain
in the previous three months, according to data released by the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi today. In the nine months
through September, the economy grew 5.14 percent, compared with
the 5.1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Vietnam’s  exports  climbed 16 percent in the first nine
months of the year from the same period a year earlier on sales
of electronic items and  mobile phones , while pledged foreign
direct investment rose 20 percent in the first eight months,
government data showed. Overseas demand is helping support an
economy that’s been hurt by faltering credit growth, with  Fitch
Ratings  estimating bank bad debt at about 15 percent of
outstanding loans, the highest among six Southeast Asian
countries it covers.  “Export-oriented production is still going along well,
particularly in electronics,” said Adam McCarty, a Hanoi-based
economist at Mekong Economics. “It’s the state-owned
enterprises and the banking sector that keep growth from
returning to past levels.”  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung plans to complete a revamp
of state enterprises by 2015 and has set up an asset management
unit to resolve non-performing loans. The country’s bad debt is
also among the highest in the Asia-Pacific region, said Alfred Chan, Singapore-based director of financial institutions at
Fitch.  Mobile Phones  A  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  unit will start construction on a
$1.2 billion chip and electronic components factory in Vietnam
next month, the Saigon Times reported Sept. 11.  Vietnam in June devalued the dong for the first time since
Dec. 2011, and the central bank has cut its refinancing rate
eight times since the start of 2012. Still, credit grew 6.5
percent from Jan. 1 to the end of August, according to the
monetary authority, lower than a full-year target of 12 percent.  Vietnam’s economy expanded 5.25 percent last year, the
slowest pace since at least 2005, government data showed. The
National Financial Supervisory Commission said last month GDP
growth next year may be 5.6 percent to 5.8 percent.  Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  in September was the slowest in more than a year,
data showed earlier this week. The government aims to curb price
gains at 7 percent annually from 2013 to 2015 and then below 5
percent, Vuong Dinh Hue, the Communist Party’s Central Economic
Committee chief, said Sept. 23.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from Minh Bui in  Tokyo . Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  