-- Violin Memory Plunges on Debut After Raising $162 Million
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-09-27T20:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/violin-memory-plunges-on-debut-after-raising-162-million-in-ipo.html
Violin Memory Inc. (VMEM) , a maker of
high-speed data storage systems that’s partly owned by  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , plunged on its first day of trading.  The stock fell to $7.02, 22 percent below the offer price,
in New York today. Violin Memory raised $162 million by selling
shares for $9 each, after offering them for $8 to $10 apiece,
according to a statement yesterday and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Violin Memory, which has booked losses every year since at
least 2010, faces increasing competition after Hewlett-Packard
Co., a former customer, started selling its own storage product.
EMC Corp., International Business Machines Corp. and Dell Inc.
bolstered their own storage offerings through acquisitions.  Hewlett-Packard ended its deal to resell Santa Clara,
California-based Violin Memory’s storage, telling Bloomberg in
October it favored its own 3PAR devices. The world’s second-biggest personal-computer maker represented only 10 percent of
Violin’s revenue in the first six months of this year, down from
as much as 65 percent last year.  In 2013, Violin Memory’s largest customers included
Computer Security Solutions Inc. and Avnet Inc., which both
resell the products to other clients.  The company had a net loss of $59.2 million in the six
months through July 31, on revenue of $51.3 million, filings
show.  “We are a company that is in the investment phase,” Don Basile, the chief executive officer of Violin Memory, said by
phone today from the New York Stock Exchange. “For some
investors, we’re a little early in our growth cycle.”  Fusion-io Slump  At the IPO price, Violin Memory was valued at $736.4
million. When the company confidentially filed for an IPO last
October, the valuation being discussed approached $2 billion,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Basile has led Violin Memory for the past four years,
shifting its focus to flash storage, which is faster and more
efficient than hard drives. Globally, the storage market
exceeded $23 billion in sales this year and is projected to
increase 65 percent to $38 billion by 2017, according to an
 August report  by International Data Corp.  Shares of  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) , a competing storage company where
Basile formerly served as chief executive officer, have slumped
42 percent this year as competition increased.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America
Corp. managed Violin Memory’s offering. The stock is listed on
the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol VMEM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  