-- Wal-Mart Supplier Li & Fung Says No Order Cutbacks in U.S.
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   A n j a l i   C o r d e i r o
-- 2013-09-27T03:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/wal-mart-supplier-li-fung-says-no-order-cutbacks-as-u-s-solid.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, said U.S. orders are
solid and it hasn’t seen reductions from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “There hasn’t been any cutbacks from Wal-Mart orders,”
 Bruce Rockowitz , chief executive officer of the Hong Kong-based
company, said today. “When you look across the orders that come
from the  United States , they are very solid for Wal-Mart.”  Wal-Mart is cutting orders it places with suppliers this
quarter and next to address rising inventory, according to a
Sept. 17 e-mail from the company to a supplier. Li & Fung, whose
customers also include  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , reported
first-half profit last month that missed analyst estimates amid
sluggish demand from U.S. retail customers.  Li & Fung’s orders from Wal-Mart are at more than 90
percent of the company’s capacity for the year,Rockowitz said
in an interview. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is
also placing orders for 2014 as normal, Li & Fung said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “We are pretty much right on track on what we’ve been
targeting for this year to get back to our 2011 level,”
Rockowitz said. The second half of the year has also improved
from the first half, the executive said.  The company dropped 0.5 percent to HK$11.38 as of 10:44
a.m. in Hong Kong trading today after yesterday’s 3.1 percent
loss. The stock has dropped 17 percent this year, compared with
a 2.2 percent gain for the benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  Christmas Orders  Orders for the Christmas season this year have improved
over last year and 2011, Rockowitz said. No “big gains” are
expected for the holiday, he said.  U.S. holiday-season sales are projected to rise 2.4 percent
this year, the smallest gain since 2009, according to
ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based firm.  Wal-Mart in August cut its annual profit forecast after
shoppers’ reluctance to buy more than necessities hurt second-quarter sales. U.S. shoppers have been coping with elevated
unemployment, higher taxes and rising gas costs.  Retail customers have all adopted a “more cautious view
toward their winter sales this year,” Li & Fung said in August.  U.S. consumers have focused spending on home products,
while tablets for children are “solid,” Rockowitz said today.
Apparel is one “anemic” area,  he said, as “there is not that
much exciting fashion going on for now.”  Li & Fung, which traces its beginning to 1906 when parent
Li & Fung Group was founded, supplies U.S., European and Asian
retailers with toys, clothes and furniture.  The company’s net income fell 16 percent to $96 million for
the six months ended June from a year earlier, excluding a
writeback in the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Li  in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  