-- Wall Street Owning Least Since 2002 Speeds Retreat: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/wall-street-owning-least-since-2002-speeds-retreat-muni-credit.html
Wall Street securities firms are
pulling back from the $3.7 trillion municipal market at the
fastest pace since 1986, helping fuel the worst performance in
U.S. local debt in more than a decade.  Brokers and dealers held  $19 billion  of city and state debt
as of June 30, the least since 2002 and a 39 percent drop from
three months earlier, according to Federal Reserve data released
Sept. 25. It was the steepest quarterly decline since 1986 for
the tax-exempt market’s middlemen, who typically provide a buyer
base during times of stress.  The companies have unloaded further since July, even as
municipal debt rebounded after the Fed unexpectedly refrained
from reducing its monthly bond purchases, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The retrenchment can increase price swings and
elevate the yield levels at which certain buyers will emerge,
said  Peter Hayes , head of munis at New York-based  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , which manages $109 billion of local debt.  “When we do see market dislocation, it’s probably going to
be exacerbated because of the lack of liquidity,” Hayes said.
“It’s going to take a bigger price adjustment or yield movement
to attract the value buyer, and for the municipal market, that
means the cross-over buyer.”  2013 Decline  Even with a rally this month, the municipal market has lost
3.3 percent this year through Sept. 25, the biggest tumble since
the same period in 1999, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. Individuals have joined Wall Street firms in the exodus
from local debt, withdrawing a record $43.7 billion from muni
mutual funds in 17 straight weeks through Sept. 18, according to
Lipper US Fund Flows data.  “We are looking at a somewhat less liquid market, and I’m
not sure that changes just because the market stabilizes,” said
George Friedlander, chief muni strategist at New York-based
Citigroup Inc.  With heightened volatility, brokers and dealers are
inclined to thin inventories to lessen vulnerability to munis,
said Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors
in Concord,  Massachusetts . That inflates the cost of borrowing
for states and cities, he said.  Crisis Legacy  “It’s the legacy of the financial crisis,” Fabian said,
referring to the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.
“Munis are more expensive from a risk-management perspective.
The main concern would be that if the market does weaken, their
cost of borrowing will rise faster.”  By one measure, 10-year muni yields have been the most
volatile in four years. Ninety-day volatility has approached 40
percent since June, almost double the level at the start of the
year, and the highest since mid-2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Localities sold about $224 billion of long-term debt this
year through Sept. 20, the least in two years. Sales this year
are about 13 percent less than the same period of 2012,
Bloomberg data show.  “Issuance is likely to remain weak or lower through the
rest of the year,” said  Michael Decker , co-head of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association’s
municipal securities division. “So there will be less trading
activity and as a result, there will be smaller dealer
positions.”  Borrowing Break  The sales calendar remains slower than average. Issuers
from  California  to Connecticut plan to offer  $8.9 billion  of
long-term debt in the next 30 days, compared with a five-year
average of almost $10 billion.  As borrowings slowed, the municipal market shrank about 0.2
percent to  $3.72 trillion  in the three months through June, the
Fed data showed. Households owned about  $1.65 trillion  of the
securities, the least since 2007.  While securities firms and households have been cutting
holdings, U.S. banks and depository institutions are buying the
most ever.  Banks have added local debt every quarter for the past four
years, to about  $390 billion  as of June 30, almost double what
they held at the end of 2007.  That trend may persist, especially if muni yields stay
above  interest rates  on Treasuries, Decker said.  “Banks are flush with cash,” Decker said.  Market Week  Municipalities plan to issue about $4.1 billion of long-term debt next week, the slowest non-holiday period since
August, even as yields are the lowest since June. At 2.69
percent, benchmark 10-year yields compare with 2.65 percent on
Treasuries with a similar maturity.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 102 percent, compared with a 10-year average of about 95
percent. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared
to federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Washington ’s Tobacco Settlement Authority is set to issue
$334.4 million of revenue bonds as soon as Sept. 30, Bloomberg
data show. Proceeds will repay debt sold in 2002, offering
documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 