-- Westports Said Poised to Price IPO at Top End of Proposed Range
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-27T12:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/westports-said-poised-to-price-ipo-at-top-end-of-proposed-range.html
Westports Holdings Bhd. , the main
terminal operator at one of  Malaysia ’s biggest ports, is set to
price its initial public offering at the top end of the proposed
range, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  The bankers already got more than enough demand for the
shares, said the people, who asked not to be named as the
process is private. Given the reaction, the sale will close
later today, instead of Oct. 1 as laid out in the listing
prospectus, one of the people said.  Shareholders including billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s Hutchison
Port Holdings are selling 813.2 million shares for 2.30 ringgit
to 2.50 ringgit apiece, they said. At the top end, the sale will
raise 2.03 billion ringgit ($630 million), making it Malaysia’s
biggest this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Westports Executive Chairman G. Gnanalingam didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment outside regular
business hours today.  Westports, with almost 4,000 employees, has a 69 percent
share of container volume at Port Klang, with six terminals and
the potential to build another three, according to its  website .
Led by Chief Executive Officer Ruben Emir Gnanalingam, it
handled container throughput of 6.9 million 20-foot equivalent
units last year, the company said.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG are among the banks managing the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  