-- Zachary Quinto’s Five-Star ‘Menagerie’; ‘Arguendo’: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-27/zachary-quinto-s-five-star-menagerie-arguendo-stage.html
A still, black pool surrounds the
vibrant revival of “The Glass Menagerie” that opened last
Thursday night on Broadway.  We’re mesmerized even before we meet Tom Wingfield, the
narrator of  Tennessee Williams ’s haunted memory play.  Tom is broodingly essayed by gravel-voiced Zachary Quinto.
He brings not just star quality but sandpaper cunning and
furtiveness to the role of a son who just wants out of the
prison of his life.  The St. Louis apartment Tom shares with his badgering
mother and crippled sister has been reimagined by the brilliant
designer Bob Crowley as a dark dream linking heaven and hell.  The fire-escape where Tom smokes and dreams of leaving is a
staggered tower rising skyward like a lightning bolt. A neon
sliver of a moon occasionally glimmers above the inky pool to
indicate a night scene, spookily accented by Natasha Katz’s
lighting.  That’s a bold departure from the dingy setting usually
employed to heighten the distance between Tom’s gauzy
recollections and shabby reality.  While he ran off to the movies, his mother Amanda
desperately hawked magazine subscriptions on the telephone while
conniving to snare the elusive “gentleman caller” who might
marry frail Laura and release them from poverty.  Cherry Jones  Cherry Jones also defies expectations, playing Amanda not
as a badgering witch but as a cauldron of disappointment
overwhelmed with love and fear for her children’s futures.  Warm and touchingly humane, she anchors the near perfect
quartet completed by Celia Keenan-Bolger, who makes Laura more
than just a wind-tossed leaf, and Brian J. Smith’s effusively
amiable Gentleman Caller, whose kiss embodies all the dashed
hope that is Laura’s fate.  The play has been sensitively staged by the “Once” team
of John Tiffany and movement director Steven Hoggett. You will
probably forgive them, as I did, the digressions into mimed
business that occasionally stop the play in its tracks.  At the Booth Theatre, 222 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *****  Kitty Kat  Is nude go-go dancing protected expression under the First
Amendment?  “Pasties” don’t often appear in the same sentence as
“U.S.  Supreme Court ,” but they were part of the sideshow in
1991, when the Rehnquist Court heard arguments in the case of
Barnes v. Glen Theatre.  The oral arguments are heard verbatim in “Arguendo,” the
latest work from  Elevator Repair Service , which brought us the
remarkable “Gatz.”  The title is a legal term meaning “for the sake of
argument,” which the Justices used in their often humorous
grilling of the lawyers pleading the case.  When an Indiana prosecutor says the law reasonably prevents
a man from walking into a bookstore naked, Justice Antonin Scalia counters that “he can evidently sing in an opera without
his clothes on” and wonders “how does one draw the line
between, uh, ‘Salome’ and the Kitty Kat Lounge?”  Scalia’s skepticism makes the outcome -- a 5-4 decision
upholding the ban -- worthy of the drama.  Cover Up  Director  John Collins ’s production has grown gaudier and
sillier since I wrote about it in a workshop last January. It
devolves into a circus complete with male nudity and a public
crack-up that undermines the proceedings, though it works as
farce.  Five actors mix and match roles, which can be confusing
(different actors play Scalia, for example). Especially when
designers David Zinn (set), Ben Rubin (projections) and  Mark
Barton  (lighting) swamp the proceedings with images of words,
words, words.  Bad decision for a company where those words matter
supremely.  Through Oct. 13 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 