-- M&S to Speed Up Online Delivery After Decades of Underinvestment
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-05-08T17:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/m-s-to-speed-up-online-delivery-after-decades-of-underinvestment.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  said it
plans faster delivery of online orders and will make products
more available as it targets 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) of
e-commerce sales and addresses two decades of underinvestment.  The largest U.K. clothing retailer will seek the capability
to deliver goods on the day they are ordered, Laura Wade-Gery,
executive director of multi-channel e-commerce, said today at an
e-commerce distribution center in  Castle Donington ,  England . M&S
currently offers next-day delivery, putting it behind
competitors such as  Next Plc. (NXT)   The Castle Donington warehouse and upgrades to the supply
chain will help the retailer to increase the availability of
clothing 9 percent by 2015, Bolland said. The site, which opened
earlier this year, is “the most-high tech environment in the
world,” Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said, likening it
to the set of the movie “The Matrix.”  M&S has trailed competitors in embracing Internet shopping.
The retailer has about 6 percent of the U.K. market for clothing
and footwear online, compared with about 11 percent overall.  To bridge the gap, M&S is investing 300 million pounds in
information technology and the  supply chain . The retailer is
seeking to increase multi-channel sales to as much as 1 billion
pounds by 2014 from 559 million pounds last year. E-commerce
sales rose 23 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 0.6
percent growth in total same-store sales.  M&S has “under-invested in this infrastructure for upwards
of 20 years,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart said today.
The retailer’s supply chain has historically been “slow and
expensive” with inventory in more than 50 locations, he said.  ‘Bigger Benefits’  Castle Donington in central England, one of three
distribution centers planned by M&S, will process about a
million units a day. The retailer will also have a port site in
southwestern England to ship products overseas.  M&S has introduced a forecasting system for its food
business that has cut the number of sold-out items by 15
percent,  information technology  director Darrell Stein said
today. Changes to the clothing system will have “bigger
benefits” than in food, he said, without being more specific.  The retailer expects to boost annual profit by 45 million
pounds a year by 2015 through changes to its purchasing methods,
said Krishan Hundal, director of general merchandising sourcing.  M&S is moving toward shipping products to the U.K. and
shifting them to warehouses itself, rather than relying on
suppliers. The retailer still has to convert its “big
suppliers” to that higher-margin model, Hundal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  