-- Accused CIA Imposter Gets Court Supervision for Forgery
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-08T16:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/accused-cia-imposter-gets-court-supervision-for-forgery.html
A Virginian who the government said
posed as a CIA agent and recruited people to rob banks was
sentenced to time served and three years of court supervision as
part of a plea deal with prosecutors.  Joshua Brady, of Matoaca, Virginia, must stay away from the
Internet for one year and receive mental health treatment, U.S.
District Judge John Gibney said today in Richmond, Virginia.
Brady, who pleaded guilty in January to sending a forged judge’s
signature to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  in a dispute over an
unpaid mobile-phone bill, was credited for the seven months he
spent in jail awaiting trial.  “This isn’t related to CIA delusions,” Gibney said.
“This is just criminal activity trying to get something out of
Verizon.”  The plea deal resolves more serious charges against Brady,
in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, accusing the 26-year-old of being behind at least three attempted bank robberies in
the Washington area last year while posing as a federal agent
who went by the name Theo.  Through Carolina Villegas, an Army reservist he met on an
online dating website called sugardaddyforme.com, Brady
persuaded 21-year-old Herson Torres to go into banks in
Alexandria and Fairfax County,  Virginia , with handwritten notes
demanding money, prosecutors said.  Torres said he was brought into the scheme by Villegas, an
old high school friend, and that he was told by Brady that the
goal was to test the banks’ security.  $25,000, Job  Torres said Brady told him he could earn $25,000 and a job
with the government by taking part in the mission dubbed
“Operation Downstrike.”  Villegas has declined to comment about the allegations.  None of the robbery attempts over four days succeeded and
Torres was eventually arrested. Torres told police about Theo,
the man who hired him and gave all the orders -- even though
Torres had never met him. He showed them a so-called immunity
letter on  Defense Intelligence Agency  letterhead that Brady had
given him.  The lead detective, John Vickery, had Torres locked up on
an attempted robbery charge while he investigated. He soon began
receiving calls from Theo, who claimed to work for the Central
Intelligence Agency and sought Torres’s release. Theo made
similar claims to Washington-area defense lawyers he hired to
represent Torres.  Calls Traced  Investigators traced the calls to Brady through Villegas,
who found a way to get around an Internet program Brady was
using to disguise his real phone number.  On Aug. 17, Brady, who lives with his mother in Matoaca,
more than 100 miles (161 kilometers) south of the Washington
area, was arrested and charged with impersonating a government
official and three counts of attempted bank robbery. Each crime
carried a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.  Brady was awaiting trial for using a forged federal judge’s
signature at the time of his arrest. In the past, Brady had
posed as a computer security consultant, a hacker and a
University of Virginia law student, federal prosecutors said in
court papers.  Brady could have faced as long as five years on the forgery
charge. The terms of the plea deal allowed for a sentence of
seven months, the time that Brady spent in jail after his
arrest. He was released in March to his mother’s custody.  Repeat Offender  Court filings in Virginia sketch a repeat offender whose
father was in and out of prison. Since 2005, Brady had been
accused of posing as an entrepreneur seeking multimillion-dollar
deals for computer hardware, stealing $1,100 from a woman to
whom he promised an Xbox 360, and writing bad checks.  In the past seven years he was charged in three criminal
cases. He was found guilty in one, pleaded no contest in
another, and pleaded guilty in the third. He was released in
2012 after a year in prison for violating the terms of his
sentence in the Xbox case.  Brady’s lawyers argued he suffered from mental illnesses
that made him unable to form the intent to commit the crimes he
was charged with. Brady has PTSD, paranoid schizophrenia, and
schizotypal personality disorder, according to the doctor hired
by his lawyers.  After conducting an additional mental exam, the
government’s doctor diagnosed Brady with a delusional disorder
that could have posed problems during the bank robbery trial.  Monitoring Needed  In an April 30 filing, prosecutors said the court needed to
monitor Brady closely to make sure he doesn’t commit more
crimes, including getting a confidentiality waiver from Brady so
that his probation officer can learn from his doctor whether he
was taking prescribed medications and other treatment.  Prosecutors also sought a complete Internet ban as a
probation requirement.  “Brady’s mental illness creates significant risks that he
will engage in further criminal activity similar to the
Alexandria charges,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Moore said
in the filing.  Prosecutors said Brady tried to deceive the government’s
forensic psychologist who examined him by exaggerating his
psychological problems. Brady had “an extreme tendency to
endorse rare symptoms of mental illnesses” and the doctor’s
results showed Brady was trying to “fake bad,” according to
the government’s filing.  In an October jailhouse interview, Brady insisted he was an
intelligence agent. He claimed he was being penalized for trying
to blow the whistle on the CIA for letting Torres take the fall.  Training Operation  “This was not the kind of operation I wanted to work on,”
he said from behind a glass partition in the Northern Neck
Regional Jail in Warsaw, Virginia. The purpose of Operation
Downstrike, he said, was to train Torres for clandestine work.  “When they pull the alarm, then you have a short time to
get out of there,” he said. “You need to be able to escape,
and that’s going to be stressful. If you crack under stress,
then you’re useless to the agency.”  Neither Villegas nor any of the other robbery participants
was ever charged. In October, state prosecutors dropped the case
against Torres without explanation.  While remarking upon Brady’s following the terms of his
release from jail in March, Gibney said, “other than the
occasional bank robbery, he’s done pretty good.”  Moore responded that if Brady doesn’t follow up with his
treatment and other sentencing requirements, then additional
crimes may be committed by people at Brady’s behest.  Next Time  “This time, it may not be something the court finds
comical, like these aborted bank robberies,” Moore said. “This
time it may involve someone being killed.”  During today’s sentencing, Brady, wearing glasses and a
brown blazer with khaki pants, disavowed any relationship with
the CIA. He thanked Gibney and the justice system for
identifying and treating his mental illness.  “Looking back on this, I’m not sure how I could even
fathom working for the CIA,” Brady said. “It seems quite silly
to me I had those delusions.”  Gibney said the Internet restriction would last for only
one year because “in order to survive in modern society, you
have to have access to the Internet.”  After the sentencing Brady said he still hadn’t received
his computers and other materials seized by the government. When
asked for comment he said, “Mental health treatment should get
more attention in this country.”  He then added, “That’s about all my lawyer would allow me
to say.”  The case is U.S. v. Brady, 11-cr-00314, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Richmond, Virginia,
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 