-- Activision Sees Headwinds After First-Quarter Tops Views
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-09T14:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/activision-sees-headwinds-after-first-quarter-tops-views.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest
U.S. video-game maker, fell the most in two years after offering
a guarded outlook because of uncertain customer demand for new
consoles and its “World of Warcraft” online game.  Activision declined 6.6 percent to $14.25 at 10:29 a.m. in
 New York . The  Santa Monica , California-based company’s shares
had dropped as much as 8.3 percent earlier, the most since
February 2011, after Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick said
with yesterday’s first quarter results that Activision faces
challenges, including customer losses for “World of Warcraft.”  “The risks and uncertainties in the back half of 2013 are
more challenging than our earlier view, especially in the
holiday quarter,” Kotick said in a  statement . He cited changing
release dates for rival products, the disappointing introduction
of Nintendo Co.’s Wii U and the unknown reception that awaits
new consoles from Microsoft Corp. and Sony Corp.  The “World of Warcraft” game lost about 1.3 million
subscribers, according to the statement. The company reported
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as digital
sales for “Call of Duty” doubled.  Net income rose 19 percent to $456 million, or 40 cents a
share, from $384 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier,
Activision said. Excluding items, profit of 17 cents beat the
11-cent average of 21 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, whose parent  Vivendi SA (VIV)  is studying options
that may include divestitures, has weathered an industry decline
on the strength of “Call of Duty” shooter games, the online
multiplayer “World of Warcraft” and “Skylanders,” which
marries a video game with collectible figures.  Quarterly Sales  “World of Warcraft” has seen its membership base decline
by 1.9 million subscribers in just a year, said  Michael Pachter ,
an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , who
recommends the stock. He had forecast a 100,000-subscriber
decline, less than a tenth of the loss.  “It’s becoming harder for them to keep the game fresh,”
Pachter said. “They got a boost from the expansion pack and
it’s hard to now keep those people engaged.”  First-quarter  revenue  increased 13 percent to $990 million
from a year earlier. Excluding changes in deferred revenue,
sales increased 17 percent to $804 million, compared with
estimates of $705.1 million.  This quarter, Activision forecasts adjusted sales of $590
million, shy of the $601 million average of 22 analysts’
estimates. Profit is projected at 5 cents a share, in line with
analysts.  Year Outlook  For the year, Activision predicts profit of 82 cents a
share, excluding items, and revenue of $4.25 billion on that
basis. Analysts are estimating profit of 85 cents on revenue of
$4.28 billion.  Activision benefits from online follow-on sales of new
content for games that go on sale at retail locations once a
year. The company plans to release “Call of Duty: Ghosts” on
Nov. 5  Activision, led by Kotick since 1992, is 61 percent owned
by Paris-based Vivendi, also parent of  Universal Music . The
French company has been under pressure from investors to boost
its share price, and Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou last July said
“it’s a possibility” his company may sell Activision.  Activision in February said it “is considering or may
consider during 2013, substantial stock repurchases, dividends,
acquisitions, licensing or other non-ordinary course
transactions” and related debt financings, according to a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  