-- Airport Tower Overnight Shifts Retained, U.S. FAA Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-08T17:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/airport-tower-overnight-shifts-retained-u-s-faa-says.html
U.S. aviation regulators said they
will keep 72 air-traffic control facilities open during
overnight hours, reversing a plan prompted by across-the-board
budget cuts.  The Federal Aviation Administration said in an e-mail
statement today it won’t shutter the towers “at this time.”  The FAA acted after Congress passed legislation April 26
giving the agency authority to transfer funds within its budget
to end air-traffic controller furloughs that caused thousands of
flight delays. The agency ended furloughs the next day.  “We applaud FAA for having listened to airports’ calls to
end plans to close 72 FAA facilities for overnight operations,”
Greg Principato, president of Airports Council International-North America, a Washington-based trade group, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The FAA hasn’t said whether it still intends to stop
funding 149 airport towers operated by contractors at small and
mid-sized airports. The FAA earlier said it would cease paying
for the towers June 15 in the cuts known as sequestration.  While the law’s language doesn’t address the towers, 124
members of the House and Senate wrote FAA Administrator Michael Huerta and his boss, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, on May
2, saying their intent was that the towers stay open.  The FAA has to cut $637 million from its $16 billion budget
by Sept. 30.  Airline Flights  The list of facilities FAA said today would remain staffed
around-the-clock included some with thriving commercial
business, such as  Chicago ’s Midway International, Sacramento
International in  California  and Fairbanks International in
 Alaska .  “I am happy that the FAA finally has come to its senses,
but leaving the airport employees and Midway neighbors in limbo
this long was unacceptable and no way to run a major
metropolitan airport,” Representative Dan Lipinski, an Illinois
Democrat, said in a press release.  “I believe closing the control tower at Midway for any
length of time undoubtedly would have had a negative ripple
effect on air travel throughout the country,” Lipinski said.  The  facilities , 70 airport towers and two radar rooms, were
selected because they had low traffic levels during midnight
shifts.  Of the 72 facilities slated to close for some period of
time, 54 didn’t have enough flights to justify 24-hour air-traffic service late at night, according to an FAA analysis
obtained by Bloomberg.  Lawmaker Intervention  Tri-State Airport in Huntington, West Virginia, didn’t have
a single period during the day or night when it averaged more
than four flights per hour, according to FAA documents. The
airport’s tower is open 24 hours a day, according to FAA.  Fewer than four flights an hour for any five-hour stretch
justifies closing a tower during those times, according to FAA’s
guidance on air-traffic staffing.  The agency has had difficulty closing air-traffic
facilities, even after steep drops in traffic at some airports,
according to public records and 10 former FAA officials
interviewed by Bloomberg.  Members of Congress from both parties intervened at least
26 times with the FAA from 2010 through May 2012 on air-traffic
staffing or the location of facilities, according to public
records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  