-- Akamai Seeks Recognition in Security as It Fights Anonymous
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-09T20:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/akamai-seeks-name-recognition-in-security-as-it-fights-anonymous.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  expects its
new online-security services to eventually generate hundreds of
millions of dollars a year -- assuming the company can get
people to notice it sells them.  Akamai, best known for helping speed up the delivery of Web
content,  began offering  a security product called the Kona Site
Defender last year. The idea is to use the company’s network of
132,000 servers, which handle as much as 30 percent of the
Internet’s traffic, to strike down hacker attacks before they do
damage. The trouble is getting the message out, said Chief
Executive Officer Tom Leighton.  “People don’t know we’re in the security business,”
Leighton said this week at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .
“People don’t often think to call us.”  Akamai’s security business had $22 million in revenue last
year. With the ever-growing threat of cybercrime, the division
could eventually get as big as the company’s unit that speeds up
websites, Leighton said. That business accounted for almost half
of Akamai’s $1.4 billion in annual sales.  Leighton said he’s adding 90 people to Akamai’s  sales force 
to help spread the word about its security and performance
products. The company is looking for ways to expand beyond the
content-delivery market, which is becoming a lower-margin
commodity industry. Leighton, who co-founded Akamai and became
CEO in January, said security is the company’s fastest-growing
unit.  ‘Comparable Business’  “As people realize they need to be protected just as much
as they need to be fast, it’s a comparable business,” he said.  Shares of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company have
climbed 11 percent this year. The stock rose less than 1 percent
to $45.61 at the close today in New York.  Akamai has already built up a reputation among hackers,
Leighton said. Groups like Ababil and Anonymous, which have
orchestrated attacks against corporate and government websites,
will avoid targets that Akamai is protecting, he said.  “You can watch them in the chat groups when they’re
attacking a site and they’ll say, ‘Oh, it’s an Akamai site,
let’s move on,’” he said. “We do stop Ababil, we do stop
Anonymous -- the big forces out there.”  Akamai can’t typically tout its successes because clients
fear that broadcasting their use of the product will put them at
risk, Leighton said.  “The only customer that allowed us to use their name was
the London Olympics,” he said. “Nothing bad happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  