-- Halfords Jumps to Two-Year High on Analyst Upgrade: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-08T15:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/halfords-jumps-to-two-year-high-on-analyst-upgrade-london-mover.html
Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , the U.K.’s biggest
seller of bicycles, rose to the highest in two years after
JPMorgan predicted the stock will gain as the retailer improves
service and wins market share in biking gear and repairs.  Halfords, which also operates car service centers across
the U.K. and Ireland, will boost revenue “through a halo effect
of better service, wider product range and a stronger multi-channel offering,” Georgina Johanan, an analyst at JPMorgan,
said today in a note. She raised her recommendation to
overweight from underweight, and predicted the stock will gain
about 10 percent in 12 months from yesterday’s closing price.  The  stock  jumped 4.5 percent to 385.7 pence, the highest
closing price since June 2011 in  London . Halfords, based in
Redditch,  England , hasn’t declined since April 19 and leads
gains among the 14 companies in the FTSE 350 General Retailers
Index over the past month, with an advance of 24 percent.  Halfords in October appointed Matthew Davies, formerly the
leader of the Pets At Home chain, to be chief executive officer,
and said it would improve service and add more cycling parts
online. “High-quality management should drive increasing
enthusiasm,” JPMorgan’s Johanan said.  Davies said April 10 that Halfords sees a “huge”
opportunity to boost the auto center business, for which it
intends to open 20 to 30 new outlets a year. The repair portion
of the business benefited from last year’s cold weather, which
improved car maintenance sales in the fiscal fourth quarter and
hurt cycling revenue, Davies said.  Halfords is scheduled to report full-year earnings on
May 23.  Of 21 analysts who report their recommendations to
Bloomberg, eight advise buying the shares, while seven have a
hold rating and six advocate selling. Johanan’s target price of
405 pence compares with the average from 14 analysts of 363.6
pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  