-- American Residential Raises $287.7 Million in IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-09T22:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/american-residential-raises-287-7-million-in-ipo.html
American Residential Properties Inc. (ARPI) ,
an owner of single-family rental homes, raised $287.7 million in
an initial public offering and closed unchanged after pricing
the stock at the bottom of the proposed range.  American Residential, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , sold
13.7 million shares at $21 each, according to a statement
yesterday, after offering them for $21 to $23. The stock, which
fell as much as 6.4 percent after it began trading on the  New
York  Stock Exchange under the symbol ARPI, closed at $21.  “Our strategy all along has been to obtain the lowest cost
of capital and have the best operating platform,” Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Schmitz said in a telephone interview
today. “Although people look at this as a new industry, there’s
really nothing new about renting single-family homes. What’s new
is that it’s being aggregated, we’re introducing professional
management and we’re raising institutional capital.”  Institutional investors have stepped up purchases of
single-family homes to lease, seeking to take advantage of
 prices  that are 29 percent below their 2006 peak. American
Residential plans to organize as a real estate investment trust,
it said in  filings .  Demand for rentals has increased as the homeownership  rate 
declines because people lost properties to foreclosure or can’t
qualify for a  mortgage  amid tighter lending standards. About 14
million single-family homes are rented, an asset class worth
$2.8 trillion, according to a report last month by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Private Offerings  American Residential, founded in 2008 and led by Schmitz
and President Laurie Hawkes, has raised $372 million since July
in three private offerings. As of April 30, the company owned or
had rights to acquire more than 3,600 homes in Arizona,
California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Nevada,  North
Carolina ,  South Carolina , Tennessee and Texas, Hawkes said.
Another 600 homes are owned in a separate entity called ARP
Phoenix Fund I LP.  Proceeds from the IPO will be used to acquire, restore,
lease and manage single-family homes as rental properties and
for general purposes. Morgan Stanley led the sale.  It’s been common for REIT shares to drop after recent IPOs
because the companies don’t have a track record of earnings or
dividends, said Jason Arnold, an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in  San Francisco . In the case of American Residential,
an added factor is its new business model, he said.  “Investor unfamiliarity with the story and the fact that
the business model isn’t yet fully proven could play a factor as
well,” Arnold, who covers mortgage REITs and specialty finance,
said in a telephone interview.  Silver Bay  American Residential is the second single-family rental
company to go public, after  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) , which
sold shares in December. Silver Bay fell 0.6 percent to $19.40
today in New York, and is up 4.9 percent since its IPO.  Colony American Homes Inc., a single-family rental operator
founded by Thomas Barrack Jr., filed a preliminary plan last
week to raise as much as $100 million in an IPO. Others looking
to sell shares include American Homes 4 Rent, headed by  Public
Storage (PSA)  founder B. Wayne Hughes, and Oakland, California-based
Waypoint Homes Realty Trust Inc., which owns more than 3,000
rental homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  