-- Manchester United Coach Ferguson to Retire After 26 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-08T14:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/manchester-united-manager-alex-ferguson-retires-from-soccer-team.html
Alex Ferguson  will retire as British
soccer’s most successful manager, having led  Manchester United 
to 38 trophies in 26 years.  The 71-year-old Scot, who guided United to a record-extending 20th English league title last month, will step down
at the end of the season and join the board, United said. Chief
Executive Officer David Gill said the team would “move
relatively quickly” to appoint a replacement. Everton’s  David Moyes  is the bookmakers’ favorite to get the job.  Ferguson mixed youth-team players such as  Ryan Giggs  with
foreign talent including  Cristiano Ronaldo  in a period of
domestic dominance featuring 13 Premier League titles, five F.A.
Cups and four League Cups. He also guided the Red Devils to two
European Cup wins.  “The decision to retire is one that I have thought a great
deal about and one that I have not taken lightly,” Ferguson
said in the statement. “It is the right time. It was important
to me to leave an organization in the strongest possible shape
and I believe I have done so.”  Stability and success under Ferguson, who abandoned plans
to retire at the end of the 2001-02 season, enabled United to
become one of soccer’s financial powerhouses. The northwest
 England  team’s owners, the U.S.-based Glazer family, held an
initial public offering on the  New York  Stock Exchange in
August, raising $233 million by selling 10 percent of the 135-year-old club at $14 per share.  Team Game  The shares fell 31 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $18.46 in New
York Stock Exchange trading today after declining as much as 5.5
percent. They’ve risen 30 percent this year.  In a prospectus for a bond the team issued in January 2010,
the possibility of Ferguson leaving and potentially jeopardizing
future success was raised as one of the risk factors attached to
investing in the club.  “He will probably be a very hard if not impossible act to
follow,”  Gordon Taylor , who has been chief executive officer of
the Manchester, England-based Professional Footballers’
Association since 1981, said by telephone. “His DNA is
throughout the club: he emphasized football was a team game that
was bigger than any individual.”  United Co-Chairman Joel Glazer said in the team statement
that Ferguson’s “determination to succeed and dedication to the
club have been truly remarkable.”  Ferguson, who played for Glasgow-based Rangers among other
Scottish clubs, made a name for himself as a coach at Aberdeen.
During an eight-year stint through 1986, he led the club to
three Scottish league titles, breaking the hegemony of Rangers
and Celtic. He also won the European Cup Winners’ Cup in 1983.  First Trophy  After joining United, he initially struggled to win over
fans with some calling for him to be fired following a losing
streak that included a 5-1 defeat at  Manchester City  in 1989.
Ferguson kept his job after United turned around its form and
won the F.A. Cup the following year, the first of his trophies
with the club.  The team’s previous experience in replacing a long-term
manager didn’t go smoothly. Matt Busby retired in 1969 after a
24-year tenure, returning for a brief spell in 1970-71 after
Wilf McGuinness was fired. The club didn’t win another trophy
until 1977 and dropped out of England’s elite division for the
1974-75 season.  “We will move relatively quickly,” Gill said on MUTV, the
club’s television channel. “I’m not going to define how quickly
that is though.”  Everton manager Moyes is the 1-20 favorite to replace
Ferguson, according to odds offered by Coral Bookmakers, so a
successful $20 bet would return just $1 plus the stake. Real
Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  is second at 12-1, while Borussia
Dortmund’s Juergen Klopp is 16-1.  Replacement  “My betting would be David Moyes, not a loudmouth like
Jose Mourinho,” Edward Freedman, who was managing director of
United’s merchandising unit for five years through 1997, said by
telephone. “It’s important that it’s someone like Moyes because
it’s a public company and you need to be good with the press and
not shoot from the hip.”  Ferguson was “wise and very understanding” about the
commercial side of the club, Freedman said.  Ferguson is retiring after regaining the Premier League
title that Manchester City won last season with a goal in the
final moments of the last game. United won the title this season
with several weeks left.  As Ferguson exits the club, 15 members of the first-team
squad are at age 23 or under. Gill, who will step down as
United’s CEO after 10 years on June 30, has repeatedly said that
the club will seek advice from Ferguson about the next coach.  Gill said in the team statement that United has been
preparing for Ferguson’s retirement and his successor can count
on staff that are “among the most loyal” in sports.  ‘Winning Mode’  Ferguson “has put the team in the winning mode and a lot
of managers will want to build on that,” the PFA’s Taylor said.
“But it will be the most daunting task to replace him.”  Ferguson’s accomplishments make him one of sports’ most
successful managers. The team has won 75 percent of its home
games under Ferguson, who also has 161 more Premier League
victories than the second-placed coach, Arsenal’s Arsene Wenger,
according to Opta Sports. He still trails Liverpool’s Bob Paisley, who is the only manager to have won the European Cup
three times.  The Scot’s records match those of some of the greatest
managers in sports. Boston Celtics coach Red Auerbach won 9
National Basketball Association titles between 1950 and 1966,
while  Vince Lombardi  had five National Football League
championships, including victories in Super Bowl I and II, for
the  Green Bay Packers .  Former New York Yankees bosses Joe McCarthy and Casey Stengel both won  Major League Baseball ’s World Series seven
times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  