-- Manchester United’s Ferguson Considers Retiring: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-08T03:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/manchester-united-s-ferguson-considers-retiring-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ferguson’s Future  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is said to be
considering retiring after more than 26 years in the job and may
make an announcement as soon as this week, the  Daily Telegraph
reported , without saying where it got the information.  The squad’s players-versus-coaches golf day yesterday was
overshadowed by suggestions that Ferguson, 71, would be making
an announcement before the May 12 Premier League match against
Swansea at Old Trafford, the newspaper added.  Players were told at the golf event that the club is
preparing a major announcement at the Swansea game, when it will
receive the Premier League trophy, the  Daily Express reported .  Hip Factor  Ferguson, who has been United manager since 1986, is
reviewing his position because of an impending hip replacement
operation in the offseason, the  Daily Mirror reported .  With United Chief Executive Officer David Gill stepping
down next month and the manager’s brother,  Martin Ferguson ,
poised to stand down as the club’s chief scout, Ferguson is also
considering whether it’s the right time for him to finish, the
Mirror added.  Moyes Among Favorites  Everton manager  David Moyes , 50, is among the favorites to
replace Ferguson and may spend a season as his fellow Scot’s
assistant before taking charge, the  Daily Mail reported .  Moyes’s contract expires during the offseason and he has
said that he would weigh up his options at the end of the
current campaign, the newspaper added.  Champions League  Moyes’s lack of extensive experience in coaching a team in
Europe’s elite  Champions League  could rule him out of becoming
Ferguson’s potential successor, the  Guardian reported .  Other managers who may be of interest to United include
Real Madrid’s  Jose Mourinho , Malaga’s Manuel Pellegrini and
Juergen Klopp, who guided  Borussia Dortmund  to this season’s
Champions League final, the newspaper added.  Rooney  United striker  Wayne Rooney  told teammates that he wants to
join  Bayern Munich  after becoming frustrated with his role at
Old Trafford, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The German champion is understood to be close to sealing a
30 million-pound ($46.4 million) deal to sign the England
forward, who is intrigued by the prospect of working with former
Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola, who will take over at Bayern in
the offseason, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  