-- AngloGold Appoints Finance Head Venkatakrishnan to CEO
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-08T15:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/anglogold-ashanti-appoints-finance-head-venkatakrishnan-as-ceo.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  has appointed
Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan, its finance head, as chief executive
officer to lead the third-biggest producer of the metal.  The appointment is effective immediately, Johannesburg-based AngloGold said in a statement today. The company
considered internal and external candidates after  Mark Cutifani 
stepped down to lead  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  on April 3, leaving
Venkatakrishnan, 48, known as Venkat, and Executive Director
Tony O’Neill as joint interim CEOs.  Venkat offers a “seamless” transition as he is familiar
with AngloGold’s operations, finances and strategy, David Davis,
a mining analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., said last month. His
appointment comes before wage negotiations expected in June,
held through South Africa’s Chamber of Mines. The National Union
of Mineworkers, an ally of the ruling African National Congress,
has said it will seek a double-digit increase.  “Venkat’s challenge will be to manage the difficult
relationship between mine workers, unions, the ANC and economic
reality,” John Meyer, an analyst with London-based SP Angel
Corporate Finance LLP, said in an e-mailed note. “The recent
gold-price fall combined with an uncertain outlook for the metal
gives less room for maneuver.”  Bullion had its biggest two-day drop in 33 years last
month. The metal has rebounded 9.6 percent from a two-year low
it touched on April 16. AngloGold gained 1.6 percent to 169.66
rand by the close in Johannesburg.  ‘Extremely Pleased’  Venkat was the chief financial officer at Ashanti
Goldfields until that company’s merger with AngloGold Ltd. in
May 2004, creating what is now AngloGold Ashanti, the producer
said in its statement. He became CFO of the combined entity and
joined the board in 2005.  “We’re extremely pleased to have an executive of Mr.
Venkatakrishnan’s caliber to lead AngloGold Ashanti through the
next phase of its development,” Chairman Tito Mboweni said in
the statement.  The company had a proposal to split its South African
assets from mines elsewhere rebuffed by the country’s
government, three people familiar with the matter said last
month. Shareholders including John Paulson, the billionaire
whose hedge fund is the largest investor in AngloGold, have said
a reorganization would boost the value of its stock.  Venkat will remain CFO until further notice as AngloGold
undertakes a global search for his replacement, the company
said.  “We will build on the good work done over the years in
order to realize the value inherent in our portfolio, while
placing a sharp focus on returns, margins and free cashflow,”
Venkat said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  