-- Anthony Shakes Off Shooting Rut as Knicks Tie Playoff Series
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-08T04:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/anthony-shakes-off-shooting-rut-as-knicks-tie-nba-playoff-series.html
For  Carmelo Anthony , patience was the
key as he shook off a postseason shooting slump and led the  New
York Knicks  to a 105-79 win against the  Indiana Pacers  that tied
their National Basketball Association series at one game apiece.  Anthony scored 32 points, including a third-quarter layup
that tied the game at 64-64 and triggered a 30-2 Knicks run that
put the game away. Game 3 in the best-of-seven Eastern
Conference semifinal series, the Knicks’ first appearance in the
second round since 2000, is set for May 11 at Indianapolis.  The NBA’s scoring champion said he was playing too quickly
in recent games. He went 13-of-26 from the field last night at
New York’s Madison Square Garden after shooting 32 percent in
his previous four games. He had missed 117 shots in the playoffs
heading into last night, more than all but three NBA players had
attempted in the entire postseason.  “I can’t stop being aggressive,” Anthony, 28, told
reporters. “I did a good job of making adjustments out there,
just being patient.”  In the Western Conference semifinals, the visiting  Memphis 
Grizzlies evened their series with the Oklahoma City Thunder at
one game each by winning 99-93 last night.  Mike Conley  had 26
points, 10 rebounds and nine assists for Memphis, which hosts
Game 3 on May 11.  Kevin Durant  had 36 points, 11 rebounds and
nine assists for the Thunder.  Heat-Bulls  Tonight, the defending champion  Miami Heat  try to even
their series at 1-1 as they host the  Chicago Bulls  and the  San
Antonio Spurs  seek a 2-0 advantage against the visiting  Golden
State Warriors .  For the second straight game, Anthony wore a sleeve on his
left shoulder because of an injury he aggravated in the previous
round against the  Boston Celtics . He scored 22 points in the
second half and broke a 2-for-28 3-point slump with two
successful shots from beyond the arc in the fourth quarter.  Now, both teams will get three days to rest. The Knicks,
the oldest team in the NBA with an average age of more than 31,
have not had three full days off between games since the All-
Star break in the middle of February.  Pacers forward  Paul George  said the biggest difference in
Game 2 was that Anthony “just caught fire.”  “We were still contesting shots, we made it as difficult
as we could, but that’s why he’s an elite player,” George said
in a news conference. “He has the ability to make contested
shots.”  Knicks Rebounds  Anthony and Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  both said after New
York’s 102-95 Game 1 loss on May 5 that the team was
“outworked” by the Pacers, who outrebounded the Knicks 44-30
in the opener. Last night, New York had 37 rebounds, two more
than  Indiana , and forced 21 turnovers, and Woodson said his
players “made all the hustle and necessary plays for us to win
this game.”  Pacers coach Frank Vogel agreed, especially regarding the
fourth quarter, when Indiana was outscored 33-13.  “We turned the ball over, we didn’t make free throws, we
gave up second shots, and didn’t guard the paint or the rim,”
Vogel said of the final quarter before adding, “and we didn’t
score.”  The Knicks had five players score in double figures last
night, including Iman Shumpert with 15 and  Raymond Felton  with
14. The team’s 20 assists were the most they’ve had in five
games.  Losing Record  Despite the improved play, Woodson said after the game that
he did not feel momentum had shifted in the Knicks’ favor. New
York has an 0-5 record in playoff series when losing Game 1 at
home.  “The bottom line is that we lost home-court advantage
after losing the first game, and the only way to get out of this
series is we gotta go get one,” Woodson said. “It would be
nice to start on Saturday.”  While the Knicks have met the Pacers in seven of their last
13 playoff appearances, this is the first series without Indiana
guard Reggie Miller, nicknamed the “Knick Killer” for big
playoff performances at Madison Square Garden throughout his
Hall of Fame career.  Last night was the 18th anniversary of Game 1 of the 1995
Eastern Conference semifinals, when Miller scored eight points
in a nine-second span to beat the Knicks 107-105 in  New York .  Sitting courtside as part of TNT’s broadcast team, Miller
shared a pre-game embrace with Academy Award-nominated director
Spike Lee, a Knicks season ticket holder, with whom he traded
verbal jabs throughout much of the 1994 and 1995 playoff series.  “This is the mecca of basketball; you are on Broadway,”
Miller said in an interview with NBA TV. “It is a tremendous
honor to come in here, play well, get a win, win a series and to
be successful.”  -- Editors: Rob Gloster, Dex McLuskey  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  