-- Lanxess Considering Job Cuts and Site Closures on Weak Demand
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-08T12:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/lanxess-considering-job-cuts-and-site-closures-on-weak-demand.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemical maker that
joined  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index in September, is
considering job cuts and site closures at a unit making
preserving agents and rubber chemicals to counter lower demand.  “As CEO you always have to ask the question: Can you, or
must you, give up a non-critical site if the product is made at
several sites?” Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said
today on a call. “It is too early to quantify job cuts that may
eventually be necessary.”  Under scrutiny is the performance chemicals unit, which
also makes pigments and leather additives, he said. Heitmann,
who said that no jobs would be lost in Germany, is also reducing
investment this year to 600 million euros ($788 million) from a
previous 650 million euros to 700 million euros.  Lanxess, based in Leverkusen, generates 40 percent of sales
from the tire and auto industries, leaving it vulnerable as
European car sales slide to a 20-year low and the  European debt
crisis  weighs on construction spending. The CEO said it’s too
early to say which international sites would be affected by any
restructuring measures, which won’t cost the company more than
40 million euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items fell to 174 million euros in the first three
months from 369 million euros, Lanxess said today. Sales dropped
12 percent to 2.1 billion euros. Shares of Lanxess were little
changed at 57.46 euros as of 12:12 p.m. local time.  Pricing  Profitability suffered as the synthetic-rubber maker went
beyond compensating customers for a drop in input costs, cutting
selling prices even further in a bid to keep clients, Heitmann
said today.  “We did that knowingly to defy the difficult market
conditions along with long-standing customers that we have a
good relationship with,” Heitmann said. “We still ask for
higher prices for our premium products.”  The company also predicted lower-than-estimated operating
profit in the second quarter, saying Ebitda before one-time
items will probably fall to less than 220 million euros. That
compares with an average analyst prediction of 250 million
euros, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Ebitda before special items is expected to be less than 1
billion euros for the full year, Lanxess said today. Analysts
are estimating profit of 989.2 million euros. The company
reiterated medium-term targets for earnings of 1.4 billion euros
in 2014 and 1.8 billion euros in 2018.  A plant in Zwijndrecht,  Belgium , that makes butyl rubber,
used in the inner linings of car tires, is closed for four weeks
this month. Production in Orange,  Texas , of ethylene propylene
diene monomer, or EPDM, used in wiper blades and door sealants,
stopped production for as many as six weeks before reopening in
April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  