-- Lanxess Sees Lower-Than-Estimated Profit on Car Industry
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-08T07:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/lanxess-sees-lower-than-estimated-profit-on-car-industry.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemical maker that
joined  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index in September, predicted
lower-than-estimated operating profit in the second quarter on
weaker orders from the tire and auto industries.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items will probably fall to less than 220 million
euros ($288 million) in the three months through June, the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company said today. That compares with
250 million euros that analysts were predicting, according to
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Axel Heitmann said today that he
plans further measures to counter “ongoing demand weakness” at
the performance chemicals unit, which makes preserving agents,
pigments, leather and rubber chemicals. Lanxess already said it
will idle synthetic rubber factories in  Belgium  and the U.S.
European car sales are sliding to a 20-year low, with
registrations dropping 10 percent in March, the 18th consecutive
decline, the  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association  said
last month.  “We are not immune to a sharp drop in demand, but we are
responding to it pro-actively as always,” Heitmann said in a
statement today. “These measures are not merely designed to
achieve short-term savings. We aim to raise the competitiveness
of our international sites.”  Shares of Lanxess fell 1.1 percent to 56.6 euros in
Frankfurt trading as of 9:35 a.m. local time. The stock has
dropped 15 percent this year, cutting the company’s market value
to 4.7 billion euros.  Capex Restrained  Lanxess is reducing its capital expenditure for the full
year and is planning to spend about 600 million euros instead of
the previously envisaged 650 million euros to 700 million euros,
it said today.  Ebitda before special items is expected to be less than 1
billion euros for the full year, Lanxess said today. Analysts
are estimating profit of 989.2 million euros. The company
reiterated medium-term targets for earnings of 1.4 billion euros
in 2014 and 1.8 billion euros in 2018.  A plant in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, that makes butyl rubber,
used in the inner linings of car tires, is closed for four weeks
this month. Production in Orange,  Texas , of ethylene propylene
diene monomer, or EPDM, used in wiper blades and door sealants,
stopped production for as many as six weeks before reopening in
April.  Ebitda before special items dropped 53 percent to 174
million euros and sales fell 12 percent to 2.1 billion euros in
the first quarter. Those figures beat analyst estimates of 169
million euros for earnings and 2.04 billion euros for revenue.
Net income in the quarter plunged 87 percent to 25 million
euros, in line with estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  