-- Apple, Trader Joe’s, Google, JCI: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-08T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/apple-trader-joe-s-google-jci-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPad and
iPhone, applied for a patent on a battery aimed at using space
within a mobile device more efficiently.  Application  20130108907 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office May 2, covers curved battery
cells for portable electronic devices.  Apple said in the application that a curved battery pack
can use the area outside of the rectangular space ordinarily
reserved for such an energy source. A curved battery could
occupy space that is “curved, rounded, or irregularly shaped,”
the Cupertino, California-based company said. That could allow
designs for devices to diverge from the standard rectangular
configuration.  The curve would be formed by applying a pressure of at
least 0.13 kilogram-force per square millimeter to the layers of
a battery cell at a temperature of 85 degrees Celsius (185
Fahrenheit) according to the application.  Apple applied for the patent in October 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Trader Joe’s Sues Canadian Grocer for Reselling Goods  Trader Joe’s Co., a supermarket chain with more than 390
locations, sued a Canadian grocer for trademark infringement for
allegedly reselling its branded goods without authorization.  According to the complaint filed May 1 in federal court in
Seattle, Michael Normal Hallatt, who does business as Pirate
Joe’s and Transilvania Trading, buys Trader Joe’s branded
products multiple times a week from legitimate retail outlets,
transports them across the border to Canada and sells them “at
significantly higher prices.”  Hallatt’s Vancouver-based store also advertises that it
sells Trader Joe’s products and provides customers with shopping
bags from the chain, the South Pasadena, California-based
company claims. Trader Joe’s also claimed that Hallatt’s
piratejoes.ca website features elements of its trade dress.  The public gets the false impression that Hallatt’s store
is affiliated with the chain, Trader Joe’s said. The California
chain also claims that its branded goods sold in Hallatt’s store
may not be governed by the company’s “stringent quality-control
standards.” Trader Joe’s says it is aware of at least one
customer who became ill after consuming frozen food bought from
Hallatt’s store.  The higher prices charged in the Canadian store are harmful
to Trader Joe’s name, damaging its reputation “for offering
high-quality, affordable groceries,” according to the
complaint.  The company asked the court for money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs and an order barring further
infringement, including unauthorized resale of its products.
Additionally, Trader Joe’s asked for an order for the
destruction of all infringing promotional material and the
removal of all Trader Joe’s trademarks from PirateJoes.ca.  Hallatt  told  the Vancouver Province newspaper that he
hasn’t broken any laws and that his right to resell the products
is stronger than the chain’s right to protect its brands.  The case is Trader Joe’s Co. v. Hallatt, 2:13-cv-00768,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  YouTube Said to Plan $1.99 Subscription Channels in Coming Weeks  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube will offer paid subscription channels
during the next few weeks, people with knowledge of the matter
said, expanding the choices for television viewers beyond
traditional pay-TV packages.  Each channel will cost about $1.99 a month, with some
variety in price, said one of the people, who sought anonymity
because the plans aren’t public. The platform will help
programming partners generate revenue beyond advertising and
one-time rentals of movies and TV shows, YouTube said May 6 in
an e-mailed statement.  “We’re looking into creating a subscription platform that
could bring even more great content to YouTube,” the company
wrote, without discussing specifics.  With paid YouTube channels,  Mountain View , California-based
Google would join  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Hulu LLC and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in
offering an online alternative to traditional pay TV. Fees could
provide YouTube and its suppliers with a supplement to
advertising revenue to help pay for more expensive productions
and broaden options for viewers outside of cable or satellite
services.  Google has been stepping up efforts to boost the unit’s
revenue beyond advertising. YouTube’s video-rental service
includes titles from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , for a typical price of $3.99.  The company also has built a state-of-the-art production
facility near Venice, California, and is spending $100 million
on grants ranging from few hundred thousand to a few million
dollars to filmmakers and artists.  YouTube’s most popular fare is still typified by the young-
adult goofing of channels like “Smosh” and comedian Ryan Higa.
By contrast, Netflix and Amazon have been bidding up traditional
TV content such as “Breaking Bad” and “Downton Abbey,” while
expanding into original programming with shows such as “Orange
Is the New Black,” produced by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   Gawker Sued by ‘Dr. Phil’ Production Company Over Te’o Story  Gawker Media LLC, owner of the Deadspin sports blog, was
sued for copyright infringement for posting an episode of the
“Dr. Phil Show” about the “fake girlfriend” hoax perpetrated
against former Notre Dame University linebacker Manti Te’o.  Peteski Productions Inc., which owns the copyright to the
show, filed a complaint May 6 in federal court in Texarkana,
Texas, claiming  Deadspin  copied and used two episodes of the
program in which host Phil McGraw conducted an exclusive
interview with Ronaiah Tuiasosopo, who said he created a
fictitious girlfriend for Te’o.  The “Dr. Phil Show” coverage consisted of two segments,
with the first on Jan. 31 promising that Tuiasosopo might
recreate the phone voice he used in the hoax in the second on
Feb. 1, according to the complaint.  Deadspin posted the video of the second show before it had
aired to more than 98 percent of its audience, Texas-based
Peteski said in its complaint. As a result, ratings for that
episode of the Dr. Phil Show “declined substantially.”  Gawker “received substantial benefits from its
infringement,” while the production company got nothing,
Peteski said. Peteski is seeking money damages, including
punitive damages.  Gawker, based in New York, didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment on the suit.  Te’o, a candidate for the Heisman Trophy, was drafted last
month by the  San Diego Chargers  of the  National Football League .  The case is Peteski Productions Inc. v. Gawker Media LLC,
5:13-cv-00046, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Texarkana).  Dotcom Accused of Crimes Nonexistent Under U.S. Law, Lawyers Say  The U.S. is accusing Kim Dotcom, the founder of the cloud-
storage service Megaupload.com, of crimes that don’t exist under
American law, his lawyers said.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in January last year in Virginia
on charges of racketeering,  money laundering , copyright
infringement and  wire fraud . The Internet entrepreneur is
scheduled in August to face an extradition hearing to the U.S.
from  New Zealand , where he is a resident.  “The United States has charged Kim Dotcom with criminal
liability for the acts of his Megaupload cloud storage users, a
form of secondary copyright infringement,” according to a
statement from Dotcom’s attorneys. “But no criminal statute for
secondary copyright infringement exists.”  The statement and a white paper from Dotcom’s lawyers
Robert Amsterdam and Ira Rothken were released to coincide with
a meeting yesterday in Auckland of  attorneys general  from the
U.S., Canada, Australia, England and New Zealand.  Eric Holder, the U.S. attorney general, and his
counterparts are also scheduled to meet with the Strategic
Alliance Group. The group comprises the five countries’ federal
policing agencies: the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Australian Federal Police, the U.K. Serious Organised Crime
Agency, the  New Zealand Police  and the  Royal Canadian Mounted
Police .  The attorneys general and agencies will discuss the
Megaupload case, according to Michael Gillies Smith, a spokesman
for Dotcom.  The U.S. accused Dotcom of running the website to profit
from piracy and is fighting Megaupload’s attempt to have the
Virginia case thrown out.  Dotcom and Megaupload were indicted in Virginia because
they leased servers in the state. MacBride has said that was
enough to go ahead with a seizure of Megaupload’s servers and
Dotcom’s assets.  The U.S. attack on Megaupload and Dotcom is largely
influenced by the  Motion Picture Association  of America, which
is headed by former U.S. Senator  Chris Dodd  and is a major
campaign contributor to the Democratic party, Amsterdam and
Rothken wrote in their report.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928.  High Court  of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-cr-00003, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Johnson Controls Argues Contract Data Is Protected Trade Secret  Johnson Controls Inc.  asked  Minnesota’s Supreme Court to
overturn a lower court finding that the company was subject to
state public disclosure laws because of its work overseeing a
school construction project.  Timberjay Newspapers  sought details of a contract between
Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls and a subcontractor. The
Minnesota Court of Appeals  said  in October that the company was
performing a government function and subject to the mandated-
disclosure law. Johnson Controls, which claims the information
is a protected trade secret, appealed to the state high court.  Arguments in the case were heard by the justices May 6 at
 Roseville High School  with 600 students in attendance.  The newspaper was represented by Mark A. Afinson of
Minneapolis. Johnson Controls’ counsel was Todd A. Wind of
Fredrikson & Byron PA, also of Minneapolis.  Wind argued that the lower court erred and characterized
its ruling as based on a “presumption that data is open to the
world.”  Afinson said the appeals court’s decision was “not some
new departure in Minnesota law” and was “appropriately
premised” on a court ruling from 10 years earlier.  The case is Helmberger v.  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , A12-0327,
State of Minnesota Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  