-- U.S. Stocks Gain With Commodities as Dollar Index Falls
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-08T21:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/asian-stocks-advance-with-yen-before-china-trade-data-oil-falls.html
Stocks rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to a record for a fifth day, amid better-than-projected earnings forecasts. European shares and metals gained
as China’s trade and German industrial output beat estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to
1,632.69 as of 4 p.m. in  New York  while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index climbed 0.6 percent to an almost five-year high and
emerging market equities erased their loss for the year. Copper,
lead, natural gas and gold rose at least 1.4 percent to lead
commodities higher while the  Dollar Index  lost 0.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields fell one basis point to 1.77 percent after
surging 15 basis points in three days. The  New Zealand dollar  
weakened against all 16 major peers after the Reserve Bank said 
it sold the so-called kiwi to protect the economy.  Whole Foods Market Inc. and Electronic Arts Inc. surged
more than 10 percent to lead gains in the  S&P 500  after earnings
projections exceeded analyst estimates. China’s export and
import growth unexpectedly accelerated in April and German
 industrial production  increased for a second month in March,
reports showed today.  “We’re transitioning out of earnings season and into a
phase that’ll be more focused on macroeconomics,” David Molnar,
a San Diego-based managing director at HighTower Advisors, said
in a phone interview. His firm manages
about $25 billion. “The market is being driven by a wall of
liquidity from central banks as well as the underlying
expectation that the economy will accelerate in the second half
of the year.”  Market Leaders  Technology, commodity and telephone shares rose more than
0.7 percent to  lead gains  in nine of the 10 main industry groups
in the S&P 500. UnitedHealth Group Inc., Alcoa Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. climbed more than 2.6 percent for the biggest gains
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which advanced 48.92 points
to 15,105.12. Symantec Corp. lost 2.4 percent after it said
quarterly sales and revenue will miss analyst estimates.  News Corp. (NWS)  and Monster Beverage Corp. were among five S&P
500 companies  reporting earnings  today. About 72 percent of
companies that have released results since the start of the
earnings season have exceeded profit projections, while 52
percent have missed sales estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  News Corp. climbed 2.4 percent in  extended trading 
following the close of exchanges after reporting profit that
beat estimates amid higher licensing fees for television shows
such as “ American Idol .” Monster Beverage lost 5.9 percent
after sales trailed analyst projections.  The S&P 500 has risen 14 percent this year and is up 141
percent from its bear-market low in 2009 as earnings growth and
stimulus measures from the  Federal Reserve  fueled the rally.  ‘Historically High’  Investors are set to “enjoy historically high excess
returns” in the S&P 500 until 2018, according to Federal
 Reserve Bank  of New York economists Fernando Duarte and Carlo
Rosa. The main reason for the high premium is low Treasury
yields at all time horizons, the economists said.  Stanley Druckenmiller , the billionaire who shut down his
hedge fund in 2010 after averaging annual returns of 30 percent
since 1986, said financial markets will continue their rally for
now. He also said in a presentation at the Sohn Investment
Conference in New York that investors should bet against the
Australian dollar. The Aussie dollar slipped for a third day,
weakening 0.2 percent to $1.0172.  U.S. stocks could end the year up 25 percent to 30 percent,
according to Michael Novogratz, head of liquid markets at
Fortress Investment Group LLC.  “There is nothing on the horizon that gets me scared,” he
said in an interview today with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg
Television.“Things are healing in the U.S.”  Yen Prediction  Novogratz said he expects the Japanese yen to continue to
weaken against the dollar, adding that it could reach 120 per
dollar by the end of the year. The yen, which was trading at
98.88 today in New York, has weakened more than 20 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past six months amid
expectations of expanded monetary easing by the  Bank of Japan .  About three shares advanced for every one that fell in the
Stoxx 600.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services
company, added 3.1 percent and Deutsche Telekom AG, Germany’s
largest phone company, climbed 4.7 percent. Standard Chartered
Plc slid 4.4 percent after the bank said operating profit in the
first quarter declined “slightly.”  Bonds rose throughout Europe, with Italian 10-year yields
down three basis points at 3.84 percent and Portugal’s rate
decreasing nine basis points to 5.43 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained for a fourth day,
adding 0.8 percent to erase its 2013 loss. Benchmark gauges in
 Taiwan ,  Turkey  and  South Africa  climbed more than 1 percent.  Turkey Rally  Turkish banks lifted the nation’s benchmark stock index to
a record as investors speculated S&P will raise the nation to
investment grade and as Kurdish militants started withdrawing
from the country today.  Turkey’s banking index advanced 2.6 percent to the highest
level since at least May 2001, driving the Borsa Istanbul gauge
of 100 largest stocks up 1.6 percent to 90,852.21 at the close
in Istanbul. Financial stocks have a 57 percent weighting in the
benchmark measure, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
rose 1.5 percent and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5
percent  China Data  Chinese exports surged 14.7 percent in April and imports
advanced 16.8 percent last month, while the  trade surplus  was a
higher-than-projected $18.2 billion, data from the General
Administration of Customs showed.  Export growth accelerated even as shipments to the U.S. and
Europe fell, spurring Bank of America Corp. and Mizuho
Securities Co. analysts to say the figures were inflated by fake
reports.  “The Chinese trade data are the first sign in a while that
the economy is doing better, and they are importing and
exporting more commodities,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director
for Asian commodities trading at Newedge Group SA in  London ,
said by e-mail today. “The Chinese economic figures have not
been satisfactory for most of this year, so any change will have
a positive reaction in commodities including metals prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  