-- AT&T Selling Bonds in Pounds as Swap Cost Holds at Two-Month Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-08T14:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/at-t-selling-bonds-in-pounds-as-swap-cost-holds-at-two-month-low.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is selling its first bonds
in pounds in a year as the cost to exchange the U.K. currency
for dollars holds at the lowest in two months.  The largest U.S. telephone company is raising 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) from 30-year notes that will yield 118
basis points more than similar-maturity gilts, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The cost for companies to
convert pound interest payments into dollars using the 30-year
cross-currency basis swap is 15 basis points below three-month
sterling Libor, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AT&T exchanged all its foreign currency debt into dollars
using cross-currency swaps as of the end of 2012, the Dallas-based company said in its annual report on Feb. 22. The average
yield investors demand to hold company bonds in pounds is 3.4
percent, seven basis points above a record-low reached on May 2,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The perennial demand for long-dated assets shown by U.K.
funds occasionally allows large U.S corporates such as AT&T to
raise funds more cheaply in sterling and swap back to dollars,”
said Chris Clark, a London-based interest-rate strategist at
ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. “Although
pound-dollar basis prices still indicate a cost to U.S. issuers
executing this strategy, they have tightened in significantly
over the past month and such a deal could now make sense.”  AT&T’s bonds were initially marketed to yield 120 to 125
basis points more than gilts, according to a person familiar
with the deal.  Sarah Lubman, an external spokeswoman for AT&T based in New
York, declined to comment on the sale.  The company last sold bonds in pounds in May last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It sold 1.25 billion
euros ($1.6 billion) of 10-year securities in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  