-- Aussie Weakens Toward Two-Month Low Before China Trade Report
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-05-08T00:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/aussie-weakens-toward-two-month-low-before-china-trade-report.html
The Australian dollar fell toward its
weakest level in two months before a report forecast to show
import and export growth slowed in China, the South Pacific
nation’s largest trading partner.  The so-called Aussie slid versus the yen ahead of jobs data
tomorrow projected to show  Australia ’s  unemployment rate 
remained at its highest in more than three years. The Reserve
Bank of Australia cut its benchmark interest rate to a record
low yesterday. New Zealand’s dollar also weakened versus  Japan ’s
currency after central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the
kiwi was “perhaps significantly overvalued.”  “The pressure is certainly on the Aussie after yesterday’s
rate cut, not very inspiring domestic data and the potential for
weaker Chinese data,” said Derek Mumford, a director at
Rochford Capital, a currency risk-management company in Sydney.
“Bounces will be limited to about $1.0270.”  The Australian dollar slipped 0.1 percent to $1.0177 as of
10:02 a.m. in Sydney after yesterday touching $1.0155, the least
since March 4. It fell 0.3 percent to 100.58 yen.  New Zealand’s currency traded unchanged at 84.57 U.S. cents
and weakened 0.2 percent to 83.58 yen.  China  will probably report that  exports  rose 9.2 percent in
April from a year ago, after gaining 10 percent in the previous
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Imports increased 13 percent after a 14.1
percent gain in March, the poll shows.  Australia’s central bank lowered the benchmark rate to 2.75
percent and said it had decided to use some of the scope it has
to reduce borrowing costs.  New Zealand’s central bank today said the nation’s largest
banks will be required to hold more capital against risky home
lending because rising property prices may be “problematic”
for the financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  