-- Australia Cut Adds to Bets Marcus to Follow: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-08T11:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/australia-cut-adds-to-bets-marcus-to-follow-south-africa-credit.html
Slowing inflation and the rand’s
recovery this quarter have traders giving South African  Reserve
Bank  Governor Gill Marcus better-than-even odds of emulating her
peers in  Europe  and  Australia  in cutting interest rates.  Forward-rate agreements starting next February have dropped
29 basis points in the past month to 4.83 percent yesterday, or
30 basis points below the Johannesburg interbank agreed  rate .
The contracts are pricing in a 60 percent chance of a 50 basis-
point rate cut in nine months, according to  Standard Bank  Group
Ltd. Similar contracts in  Turkey  fell 12 basis points in the
period, while those for the  Czech Republic  rose 27 basis points.  Rising unemployment and a slump in mining and manufacturing
are putting pressure on Marcus to bolster an economy struggling
to recover lower commodity prices, waning demand for exports
from Europe and labor unrest. The  Reserve Bank of Australia  cut
its benchmark interest rate yesterday to a record, while
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said two days ago
that further rate cuts are possible after reducing them to an
all-time low last week.  “Rate cuts in key economies beyond our borders further
strengthen the case for the Reserve Bank to ease policy,” Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard Bank, South Africa’s biggest
lender, said by phone from Johannesburg yesterday. “Our base
case remains for a 50 basis-point cut by the first quarter of
2014, but the risks are increasing that such a move could occur
earlier.”  Rand Risk  The yield on one-year  interest rate swaps , used to lock in
borrowing costs during the period, fell 20 basis points over the
past month to 4.94 percent yesterday. That’s one basis point off
the lowest level in almost six months reached on May 5.  Marcus has left  South Africa ’s benchmark  repo rate 
unchanged at 5 percent since a surprise cut of 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, in July. The rand’s weakness and higher
food and oil costs remain risks to consumer prices, and will
probably push inflation above the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range temporarily, Marcus said April 19.  Since then, the rand has gained 1.7 percent, paring its
decline this year to 6.6 percent. A stronger rand may help ease
inflation by reducing the cost of imports, including crude oil.
The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 9.0688 per dollar at 1:45
p.m. in Johannesburg.  Commodity Slump  The yield difference between 10-year inflation-linked bonds
and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, an indication of
investors’ expectations for average inflation over the period,
has dropped 52 basis points to 5.55 percentage points since
March 20, the date of the MPC’s last meeting. Inflation
unexpectedly remained unchanged at 5.9 percent in March.  Commodities, led by gold and platinum, have declined 7
percent since reaching a four-month high in February, according
to the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index. (SPGSCI)  The country is the world’s
biggest platinum producer and metals make up more than half of
its exports.  Lower interest rates may reduce the attraction of South
African bonds, slowing  capital inflows  the nation needs to plug
a current-account deficit currently at 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product, close to the widest in four years. Foreign
investors owned 38 percent of South African rand bonds at the
end of April, according to Standard Bank, compared with 29
percent in 2011. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last week
he’s concerned about the effect it will have on the economy if
the money leave when sentiment changes.  Deter Inflows  “This speaks to a difficult decision for the Reserve
Bank,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “Will a cut, in fact, spur growth, or will it deter
foreign flows we desperately need?”  Yields on benchmark bonds due December 2026 rose four basis
points to 6.78 percent today. The yield fell to a record 6.64
percent on May 2.  Unemployment climbed to 25.2 percent in the first quarter
from 24.9 percent, a government report showed this week. Mining
output growth probably slowed to 4 percent in March from 7
percent, a separate report may show tomorrow. Mining and
manufacturing make up about 20 percent of the economy, which is
forecast to expand 2.6 percent this year after growing 2.5
percent in 2012, Gordhan said in February.  Australia’s central bank reduced its rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 2.75 percent, saying the Aussie’s record
strength “is unusual given the decline in export prices and
 interest rates .” Draghi said in a speech in  Rome  the ECB is
“ready to act again” after reducing the benchmark by a quarter
point to 0.5 percent on May 2.  “The higher  unemployment rate  will feature in the May MPC
statement and will be part of the reason the Reserve Bank will
ensure that the policy rate remains low for long,” Carmen Nel,
a Cape Town-based analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “It is clear that easing pressure is
mounting following the Reserve Bank of Australia’s rate cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  