-- Babson Hires Michael Henderlong as Head of Capital Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-05-08T15:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/babson-hires-michael-henderlong-as-head-of-capital-markets.html
Babson Capital Management LLC, a debt
manager with $180.5 billion in assets, hired Michael Henderlong
to lead its  capital markets  business.  Henderlong, who started in April, reports jointly to Cliff
Noreen, president, and Russ Morrison, head of global fixed
income, according to an e-mailed statement from Babson Capital.
He will focus on expanding the firm’s relationships with new and
existing counterparties, according to the statement.  Babson, which has offices in New York,  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina  and Springfield,  Massachusetts , is a unit of
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Babson’s fixed-income
group  oversaw  $141.5 billion as of Dec. 31, investing in high-yield, mezzanine and investment-grade debt, and structured
credit, according to its website.  On May 3, the firm raised a $490.8 million collateralized
loan obligation with Bank of America Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was the eighth largest U.S. CLO
manager by assets at the end of last year, according to a Feb.
28  Standard & Poor’s  report. CLOs are a type of collateralized
debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice
them into securities of varying risk and return.  Henderlong, a former head of new business development for
leveraged and distressed loans at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , left the bank
in October. He joined Morgan Stanley from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in 2002, according to records from the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. While at Morgan Stanley, he served on the
board of directors of the Loan Syndications and Trading
Association, the New York-based loan trade organization.  Henderlong declined to comment.  There have been $381.2 billion of leveraged loans raised in
the U.S. this year, an increase from $223.2 billion during the
same time period in 2012, according to Bloomberg data. There
have been $31.6 billion of CLOs issued in the U.S. this year,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc data.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below BBB-by S&P and less than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  