-- BAE Says EADS Deal Was ‘Window of Opportunity’ That’s Now Closed
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r
-- 2013-05-08T14:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/bae-says-eads-deal-was-window-of-opportunity-that-s-now-closed.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  Chairman Dick Olver
said the attempted merger with European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. last year came at a moment that won’t return anytime
soon, as the company resumes its focus on bolt-on purchases.  “I don’t think you could say that it’s an evolving
process,” Olver said in an interview at the annual general
meeting in Farnborough south of  London  today. “There was a
window of opportunity and that window is closed, for now at
least.”  The two companies unveiled a plan to combine in September,
in what would have created a European counterweight to  Boeing
Co. (BA)  with a balanced focus on civil aerospace and defense. The
deal collapsed four weeks later, mainly because the German
government opposed the combination out of concern the country’s
interests wouldn’t be adequately represented in the new group.  Olver said “pricing” would make it much harder to pull
off the same deal again now. Under the previous plan, EADS would
have held 60 percent of the enlarged entity, and BAE the rest.
EADS shares have gained more than 50 percent since talks ended
in October, while BAE is up about 17 percent.  While EADS Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  used the
failed merger to push ahead with an overhaul of the shareholder
structure, BAE has remained largely untouched by the breakdown.
Olver and CEO Ian King told shareholders today the earnings are
in line with their expectations, and left unchanged a full-year
guidance of higher earnings.  Saudi Talks  BAE is continuing the search for a new chairman, with
Olver, set to retire a year from now. A replacement will be
named this year, the company has said. Olver said the company
will continue with its acquisition strategy, which remains
unaffected by the cuts to the U.S. defense budget.  “It would be wrong to say that we need any sort of Tier 1
deal in any part of our business,” Olver said. “We’ve been
concentrating on bolt-ons, especially in cyber.”  BAE remains in talks with  Saudi Arabia  over price
escalation terms for Typhoon planes, built in conjunction with
EADS and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , as it restarts deliveries having
already handed over 24 of the jets. King said he’s not pressed
for time and would rather ensure the accord has the right fit.  “It’s getting the right deal rather than being focused on
timing,” he said in an interview at the shareholder meet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  