-- Bangladesh Orders Factory Closings as Collapse Toll Hits 804
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-05-08T17:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/bangladesh-garment-factory-building-collapse-toll-reaches-782.html
Bangladesh  ordered 18 garment makers
in two cities to close factories as the death toll from the
collapse of a building last month rose to 804.  Two factories in Chittagong and 16 in Dhaka were ordered to
shut operations, and the government will close any plant that’s
found to be unsafe during inspections, Abdul Latif Siddique,
minister for textiles, told reporters today.  Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association 
is using an emergency fund to start paying salaries to survivors
and victims’ families of the April 24 collapse of a building
that housed clothing factories, said Atiqul Islam, president of
the group. About 700 workers had been paid last night after
hundreds blocked a highway demanding compensation.  Garment factories in Bangladesh face increased scrutiny
after the collapse of the building and a November fire that
claimed 112 lives. The South Asian government, workers,
employers and the International Labour Organization agreed to a
plan to improve workers’ rights and safety. The 27-nation
European Union is considering action under its trade rules to
encourage changes in supply-chain operations.  The army’s attempt to recover more bodies from the rubble
at Rana Plaza will continue for at least another week, Mir
Rabbi, an army spokesman, said by phone. The death toll is now
804, police inspector Mohammad Asaduzzaman said by phone from
Savar, where the building collapsed.  Murder Complaint  The wife of a male garment worker killed in the disaster
filed a murder complaint on May 5 against Sohel Rana, owner of
the building. Senior Judicial Magistrate Wasim Sheikh ordered an
investigation into the complaint.  Rana and executives of four apparel makers housed in the
structure in Savar, 24 kilometers (15 miles) northwest of Dhaka,
have been arrested and a court ordered their assets to be
seized. Rana’s wife and father are also in police custody.  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) 
and labor activists have been considering an agreement to
improve factory safety in Bangladesh for at least two years.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest entertainment company,
removed Bangladesh in March from a list of countries where
partners can produce clothing and merchandise, according to a
letter to licensees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  