-- Bank Credit Risk, CFPB Case, Bitcoins: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-08T13:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/bank-credit-risk-cfpb-case-bitcoins-compliance.html
Bankers advising the  Federal Reserve 
Board warned in February of potential harm to U.S. financial
institutions from rising credit risk even as they endorsed the
central bank’s record stimulus.  “The margin pressures that the low-rate environment has
put on financial institutions, coupled with dramatically
increased compliance and other infrastructure costs, have caused
many to seek higher returns by accepting greater  interest-rate 
or credit risk,” the bankers said on Feb. 8, following a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Jan. 29-30.  “Believing the economy to be improving but still
vulnerable, and recognizing the high quality of the Federal
Reserve’s information-gathering and analytical resources,” the
panel “continues to support the FOMC’s current accommodative
 monetary policy ,” the Federal Advisory Council said.  The minutes of the council’s quarterly meetings, obtained
by  Bloomberg News  in a Freedom of Information Act request, trace
how the 12 bankers’ views evolved from opposition to the Fed’s
announcement of a third round of bond buying in September to
support for central-bank efforts in February to boost an
economic expansion beset by a “drag” from fiscal tightening.  Policy makers are debating how long to press on with
unprecedented accommodation, including $85 billion in monthly
bond buying aimed at spurring economic growth and reducing
7.5 percent unemployment. The purchases have pushed the central
bank’s total assets to $3.32 trillion.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bitcoin Rules May Be Needed; Ban Not Necessary, Chilton Says  Rules may be needed to regulate the market for online only
currency, or so-called  bitcoins , Commodity Futures Trading
Commissioner Bart Chilton told Bloomberg Television.  The market for bitcoins lends itself to potentially
“nefarious” activities and deserves a “thorough” look by
U.S. financial regulators, Chilton said.  He described the market as “volatile as all get-out.”  “I haven’t said we should ban it; I’m thinking that maybe
there’s a federal interest in regulating it if it isn’t serving
the functions that you want a future or a swap or an option to
serve,” he said.  While Chilton called bitcoins a “shadow currency” and
“cryptocurrency,” he said he was “encouraged” by Treasury’s
involvement on issue.  Chilton said he’s not 100 percent certain rules are needed
but the possibility of regulations must be considered.  China’s Life Insurers Face Cash Flow Pressure on Surrenders  Cash flows at China’s life insurers will be squeezed this
year by customers canceling contracts out of frustration with
low returns and an increase in maturing policies, according to
BoCom International Holdings Co. and Capital Securities Corp.  In response, the Chinese regulator may take steps to make
policy holders more tempted to keep their policies.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) ’s surrenders -- cash repayments
policyholders receive when they choose to end the contracts
before maturity -- more than doubled to 20.1 billion  yuan 
($3.3 billion) in the first quarter, the nation’s biggest
insurer said last month.  Chinese banks are luring savers who have endured a 20
percent decline in the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  in the past two
years with wealth-management products offering higher returns
than deposits. Insurers may accelerate sales through banks of
less profitable, short-term policies to keep cash coming in,
according to BoCom International.  Insurers need adequate cash inflows to cover normal outlays
including policyholders’ benefits, operating expenses and
dividends to shareholders, and to protect themselves from
liquidity shocks such as early withdrawals by contract holders
and defaults by debtors. Insufficient cash holdings may force
insurers to liquidate parts of investment portfolios at
undesirable prices and incur losses.  Life-insurance premiums rose 4 percent to 996 billion yuan
in 2012 after a 9 percent slump in 2011, according to the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission. That compares with average
growth of 30 percent a year in the previous three decades.  The CIRC, as the regulator is known, may scrap the
2.5 percent maximum rate on fixed-return policies in a trial
starting as early as this month to help insurers make their
products more attractive, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month. The changes may prompt premature redemptions to
increase by less than 50 percent by value from the current
level, the person said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Finra to Require Factor for Each Transaction in ABS  The  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  will begin
requiring firms July 22 to report the factor, or funding, for
each transaction in an asset-backed security, the agency said in
e-mailed statement.  An exception will apply for an ABS delivered at a time to
be announced, or TBA, in “limited instances when firms effect
such transactions as agent and charge a commission.”  Beginning July 22, the Finra Trace system will reject
transactions where the factor is required but not included in
the transaction report to Finra. Firms can test modifications to
support factor reporting requirements from June 24 through July
19, according to the statement.  Courts  SEC Sues Four People Over Bribes for Venezuelan Bond Trades  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued four
people with ties to brokerage Direct Access Partners LLC over
claims they paid millions of dollars in bribes to a Venezuelan
finance official to secure the bond-trading business of a state-
owned bank.  A DAP unit generated more than $66 million for the New York
brokerage from 2009 through at least June 2010 in transaction
fees on riskless principal trades in Venezuelan sovereign or
state-sponsored bonds for Banco de Desarrollo Economico y Social
de Venezuela, the SEC said in a complaint filed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court. A portion of that revenue was paid to
the Venezuelan official, the SEC said.  Tomas Alberto Clarke Bethancourt, an executive vice
president at DAP, was responsible for executing the fraudulent
trades, according to the SEC. Jose Alejandro Hurtado also
participated, the SEC said.  The SEC also sued Iuri Rodolfo Bethancourt over his role in
funneling bribes to the Venezuelan official, who wasn’t sued by
the SEC, and Haydee Leticia Pabon, who received about $8 million
in sham finders’ fees, according to the complaint.  Phone calls to Henry Bell, an attorney for Clarke, and
Frank Rubino, a lawyer representing Hurtado, weren’t immediately
returned. Bethancourt and Pabon have no known defense counsel,
the SEC said.  A press official for the bank, who declined to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment. An e-
mail sent to the bank today wasn’t immediately returned.  An official in Venezuela’s finance ministry, who declined
to be identified because of ministry policy, also declined to
comment.  U.S. prosecutors filed parallel criminal charges yesterday
against Clarke, Hurtado and the Venezuelan official.  Apple’s Customer Data-Privacy Rules Struck Down by German Court  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , already facing a U.S. privacy lawsuit over its
information-sharing practices, was told by a German court to
change its rules for handling customer data.  A Berlin court struck down eight of 15 provisions in
Apple’s general data-use terms because they deviate too much
from German laws, a consumer group said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. The court said Apple can’t ask for “global
consent” to use customer data or use information on the
locations of customers.  Technology companies face increased pressure from
regulators over data protection and consumer rights.  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
agreed last year to pay $22.5 million to settle U.S. Federal
Trade Commission allegations it violated people’s privacy rights
by breaching Apple’s Safari Internet browser.  The German press office of Cupertino, California-based
Apple declined to comment. The ruling, which only applies to
 Germany , can be appealed.  Apple had already signed a binding declaration that it
wouldn’t use seven of the 15 clauses that consumer group VZBV
had objected to before the German suit was filed, the group
said. The remaining eight provisions were invalidated by
yesterday’s ruling, VZBV said. German law allows recognized
consumer groups to sue companies over illegal terms and
conditions.  Debt-Settlement Firm Charged in First CFPB Criminal Referral  A debt-settlement company was accused by the U.S. of
defrauding more than 1,200 people struggling with credit-card
debt, in the first criminal referral from the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office yesterday
announced the unsealing of an indictment against  Mission
Settlement Agency , its manager, Michael Levitis, and three
employees. Prosecutors said the defendants “systematically
exploited and defrauded” people across the country.  The case against Mission is the first criminal referral
from the CFPB, according to the U.S. attorney’s office. Mission
and its employees lied about its fees, taking thousands of
dollars from funds that its customers had set aside because they
believed the money would be used to pay creditors, according to
the indictment. For the majority of customers, Mission did
little or no work and failed to reduce debt, prosecutors said.  Levitis spent money from Mission on the expenses of a
nightclub he controlled, lease payments for two Mercedes-Benz
cars and credit-card bills for his mother, according to the
indictment.  Jeffrey Lichtman, a lawyer for Levitis, denied the
allegations and said his client would fight the charges. Levitis
and three other defendants entered not-guilty pleas through
their lawyers. A U.S. magistrate ordered them released on bail.  The case is U.S. v. Mission Settlement Agency, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  12 Banks Sued by Sheet-Metal Union Over Credit-Swap ‘Fix’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and 10 other banks
have restrained market competition for credit default swaps in
violation of U.S. antitrust law, an Ohio union pension plan
contends in a federal complaint filed May 3 in  Chicago .  Sheet Metal Workers Local No. 33 Cleveland District Pension
Plan , based in Parma, Ohio, seeks damages for what it says are
“substantial injuries” it and people and entities on the “buy
side” sustained in buying or selling CDS contracts to the
“sell side” dealer-defendants between 2008 and 2011.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, has filed an
application at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
become a swap data repository.  Other banks named as defendants in the case include  Bank of
America Corp.  and Deutsche Bank AG.  The union pension plan seeks a jury trial and class-action,
or group, status on behalf of other dissatisfied swaps investors
“to recover damages for the substantial injuries” sustained,
and prevent restraint of competition in the swaps market by
“the proverbial too-big-to-fail banks,” according to court
papers.  Spokesmen for New York-based Goldman Sachs and Citigroup,
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is Sheet Metal Workers Local No. 33 Cleveland
District Pension Plan v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-03357,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  Special Section: White on  Capitol Hill   White Says SEC Settlements Without Guilt Admissions Under Review  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing
its practice of settling cases without requiring defendants to
admit guilt, the agency’s chairman said yesterday in
congressional testimony.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, a former federal prosecutor,
told a House Appropriations subcommittee that the policy has
benefited investors while saving SEC resources. The settlements
leave no question “about what the conduct was,” White said.  White’s comment provides an early window into whether
she’ll change a practice that has been criticized by lawmakers,
consumer groups and jurists including U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff. The SEC has defended “no admit, no deny” settlements
for the same reasons that White outlined.  “It is a very good end in many cases,” she told
lawmakers. “It saves resources and you do not incur the
litigation risk and you get lots of money to investors a lot
quicker.”  For more, click here.  Sequestration was also discussed during the hearing.
Across-the-board budget cuts have forced the SEC to delay hiring
people needed to carry out oversight of security-based swaps
market, White told the subcommittee.  The SEC is deferring hiring and suspending “critical IT
initiatives that would help our examination and enforcement
functions,” she said.  “It is quite an impediment to the agency,” White said,
referring to the sequestration measures.  For the video of her testimony, click here.  Interviews  Alan Blinder Says Leverage Limit Crucial to Financial System  Limiting leverage is “a crucial part” of guarding against
future financial meltdowns, said  Alan Blinder , former Federal
Reserve vice chairman and current Princeton University economics
professor.  “One of the things that made this Rube Goldberg
contraption so lethal when it collapsed was the incredible
amount of leverage,” Blinder said, speaking on  Bloomberg Radio 
with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “We’re pretty sure there’s a
lot less leverage in the system now.”  Blinder’s 2013 book, “ After the Music Stopped : The
Financial Crisis, the Response and the Work Ahead,” discussed
how the U.S. financial system started unraveling in 2007. He
criticized the Obama administration for what he depicted as an
inadequate job explaining the crisis to U.S. voters, while he
said stimulus helped to prop up the American economy.  Having a limit on leverage “is part of the solution,” to
prevent future crises, Blinder said yesterday, and he said it’s
already being examined as a safeguard.  Financial instruments that were too complex for buyers to
understand also contributed to the crisis, he said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Brazil’s Azevedo Defeats Mexican to Succeed Lamy as Head of WTO  Brazil’s Roberto Azevedo won the final round in the
campaign to become the next director-general of the  World Trade
Organization , putting him in line to be the first Latin American
to hold the position.  Azevedo, 55, now Brazil’s ambassador to the Geneva-based
WTO, won election over Mexican Herminio Blanco, a former trade
minister, according to a statement published on the website of
Brazil’s government news agency, Agencia Brasil. The WTO, which
has 159 member nations, will announce the appointment today.  Azevedo would succeed  Pascal Lamy , the Frenchman who has
served as director-general since 2005, on Sept. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  