-- Barrick Agrees to Amend Dominican Republic Mine Contract
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-08T23:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/barrick-agrees-to-amend-dominican-republic-mine-contract-1-.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
biggest producer by sales, agreed in principle with the
Dominican Republic on changes to the lease for its Pueblo Viejo
mine that would give more revenue to the government.  The economic benefit of the proposed changes over the
mine’s life would be about $1.5 billion using a gold price of
$1,600 an ounce and a 5 percent net-present-value discount rate,
Toronto-based Barrick said today in a statement.  The government had been seeking increased benefits from
Barrick, which owns 60 percent of the mine and is the operator,
and Vancouver-based  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , which holds the other 40
percent. President Danilo Medina said Feb. 27 the Pueblo Viejo
contract was “unacceptable” and must be revised.  Under the original agreement, the largest tax stream, the
so-called net-profits tax, would only start after the owners had
recovered their full  capital investment  and a 10 percent return,
which meant revenue to the government was lower in the initial
years of operation,  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, said today
in a telephone interview.  “What this agreement does is bring forward and increase
tax payments starting this year,” Lloyd said. The actual
details of many of the provisions still need to be negotiated
between the parties, he said.  Even Split  The expected cash flows from the mine would be split about
equally between the mine’s owners and the government from 2013
to 2016, based on the proposed amendments, Barrick said. Based
on a gold price of $1,600 an ounce, that would result in about
$2.2 billion of  tax revenue  to the government, it said.  Pueblo Viejo started output in August last year and
achieved so-called commercial production in January. The
project, which cost $3.7 billion to build, has a mine life of at
least 25 years, Barrick said Jan. 15.  Once negotiated, the definitive agreement must be approved
by the Barrick and Goldcorp boards, the project lenders and the
 Dominican Republic  Congress, Barrick said in today’s statement.  The parties will work as quickly as possible to submit
contract modifications for legislative review, Presidential
Minister Gustavo Montalvo said today.  “Both parties understand that this agreement will
guarantee a fair distribution of benefits,” Montalvo said. “We
understand that this agreement respects both the aspirations of
the Dominican people while respecting the rules of the game for
the development of exploitation activities at Pueblo Viejo.”  Gold futures for June delivery advanced 1.7 percent to
settle at $1,473.70 an ounce on the Comex in  New York , the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since April 25. On April
16, the price touched $1,321.50, the lowest since Jan. 28, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  