-- More Than 30 People Arrested Over Brussels Diamond Heist
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m   a n d   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 2013-05-08T15:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/belgium-says-31-people-arrested-over-50-million-diamond-theft.html
More than 30 people were arrested in
coordinated raids across three countries in connection with the
February theft of $50 million in diamonds at Brussels Airport.  Belgian police detained 24 people this morning in raids at
about 40 homes, mostly in Brussels, Anja Bijnens, a spokeswoman
for the Brussels prosecutor’s office, told reporters today in
the Belgian capital. Swiss police arrested eight people
yesterday, six of whom were later released, according to the
Geneva prosecutor’s office. Another person was detained in
France yesterday.  Police seized 100,000 Swiss francs ($107,000) in cash and a
“large quantity” of diamonds in  Switzerland , said Vincent
Derouand, a spokesman for the Geneva prosecutor’s office. A
“large amount” of money was found in the raids in  Belgium ,
which involved 250 police officers, Bijnens said.  In the Feb. 18 theft, armed gunmen took at least 120
packets of diamonds at Brussels Airport as they were being
loaded onto a plane bound for Zurich. The packets contained
rough and polished stones valued at $50 million, according to
Antwerp World Diamond Centre.  The eight masked men with machine guns and wearing police
clothing breached the airport perimeter in two black vehicles
with flashing blue lights and drove up to a Helvetic Air plane
operated by Swiss International Air Lines Ltd. They stole the
gems after they had been transferred from a Brink’s Co. security
van into the cargo hold.  ‘Well Planned’  “It was very well organized, very swift, efficient and
well planned,” Jan Van der Cruysse, a spokesman for the
airport, said at the time. The thieves stopped at the plane for
just three minutes and the whole operation took just over 10
minutes, he said.  The pilot, co-pilot and security agents were held at 
gunpoint during the theft. No shots were fired and no one was
injured. The aircraft had 29 passengers on board.  Two out of the eight people arrested in Geneva yesterday
are still in police custody and have been charged with handling
stolen goods and assisting offenders, Derouand said. One is a
businessman and the other is a lawyer working in Geneva, he
said, declining to give further details.  Geneva prosecutors and police started investigating after
an organized crime member was identified in the city two months
ago, Derouand said. That person was arrested in  France 
yesterday, he said. The Belgian authorities have requested the
extradition of the French national, Bijnens said.  Trading Hub  Brussels airport is 42 kilometers from Antwerp, Belgium’s
second-largest city and the biggest trading hub for rough
diamonds, handling four-fifths of the world’s trade.  “The breakthrough in the investigation is very good
news,” Ari Epstein, chief executive officer of Antwerp World
Diamond Centre, said in a statement. “The developments the
Belgian authorities communicated this morning are very important
and hopeful for the ongoing investigation.”  While Luxembourg also participated in the operation, there
were no arrests in that country, Bijnens said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net ;
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  