-- Belka Follows Draghi as Yields Signal Deeper Cuts: Poland Credit
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-05-09T08:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/belka-follows-draghi-as-yields-signal-deeper-cuts-poland-credit.html
The Polish central bank’s unexpected
cut in  interest rates  is prompting investors to anticipate more
reductions, brushing aside Governor Marek Belka’s efforts to
temper speculation for further easing.  The yield on five-year government notes tumbled 6 basis
points today, after falling 14 basis points yesterday, to a
record-low 2.61 percent as of 10:09 a.m. in Warsaw. That
narrowed the premium over similar German debt to 226 basis
points, the least since September 2008. Three-month forward-rate
agreements, derivatives used to bet on interest rate levels in
August, fell 18 basis points in the last two days.  Belka said policy makers are in a “wait-and-see” mode
after lowering the main rate by a quarter-point to a record 3
percent. As the inflation rate fell to an almost seven-year low
in March and the  economy  is growing at the slowest pace since
2009, the difference between  Poland ’s benchmark and that of the
euro region, its main trading partner, widened last week as the
European Central Bank cut borrowing costs to an all-time low.  “Belka said it is not the beginning of a new cycle, but
the market clearly did not believe him,” Pawel Radwanski, a
fixed-income analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank (RBI)  Polska in Warsaw, said
by phone yesterday. “A further cut is most likely.”  No Beginning  Yesterday’s quarter-point reduction was predicted by 11 of
38 economists in a Bloomberg survey, where 25 said rates would
remain unchanged and two forecast a cut to 2.75 percent. While
Belka signaled yesterday that the benign inflation outlook made
it possible to lower borrowing costs, he said that the scope for
further easing is limited.  “We concluded that consumer-price growth and high-frequency data show that the inflation rate could stay on a very
low level,” he said at his post-meeting news conference. “That
created scope for cutting rates and we decided to use it. Don’t
treat this as the beginning of a new cycle of monetary easing.”  Policy makers reduced borrowing costs by a total of 150
basis points between November and March, when they indicated
that the easing had run its course. “Ambiguous” signs of a
recovery prompted them to pause last month, minutes of the
meeting showed.  Since then, evidence has built that the economy hasn’t
turned the corner and the  inflation  rate in March dropped to 1
percent, the lowest since June 2006, as  consumer confidence 
ebbed and the government pressed ahead with efforts to narrow
the budget deficit.  ‘Certain Adjustment’  Yesterday’s rate move “should be treated as a certain
adjustment of what we announced two months ago and implemented
last month,” Belka said.  The recession in the 17-nation euro area, which buys 52
percent of Polish exports, is preventing Polish growth from
picking up pace. The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 46.9 in April, the weakest reading since
July 2009,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said this month.  The European Commission last week cut its 2013 growth
forecast for Poland to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent, predicting
the slowest expansion in 12 years.  While bond and derivative traders are betting on the
benchmark rate going to records, some economists see limited
scope for further cuts because of an impending global recovery.  “It’s very difficult to see them cutting much more, in
particular Belka, who’s reaching the edge of his comfort zone on
real rates,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International in  London  who forecast rate would be left
unchanged yesterday, said by phone yesterday. “It’s possible to
squeeze out one more, but the main thing is growth will probably
start turning around by July.”  ECB Effect  The European Central Bank’s rate cut helped tip the balance
in favor of easing this month, according to economists including
Piotr Bujak of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Warsaw, who was among the
minority that predicted yesterday’s move correctly.  The ECB last week cut interest rates for the first time
since July and President Mario Draghi said the slowdown “has
spread to parts of the euro area where so far the transmission
of monetary policy has never been questioned.”  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch revised its Polish rate
forecasts and now expects the central bank to bring rates to 1.5
percent in the second half of the year, economist  Raffaella Tenconi  wrote in an e-mailed note before yesterday’s decision.
The bank previously predicted rates will reach 2.5 percent by
January 2014.  ‘Growing Evidence’  There’s “growing evidence of a persistently weakening euro
zone, including  Germany , and tighter fiscal constraints” in
Poland, according to Tenconi, one of the two analysts who
predicted a half-point cut for yesterday. She said yesterday’s
rate cut doesn’t change her interest-rate forecast.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Polish
 dollar-denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 117 basis points
today, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan. The extra
yield on 10-year zloty yields over German bunds was unchanged at
183, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.1263 per euro
today. It has gained 0.9 percent in the past six months, the
best performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Mexican peso and Israeli shekel.  ‘Lesson Learnt’  The cost of Polish  credit-default swaps  rose one basis
point to 78, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps, which
decline as perceptions of creditworthiness improve and rise as
they worsen, cost 96 basis points less than the Markit iTraxx
SovX CEEMEA Index of countries in central and eastern  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa . The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower renege.  “I got it wrong today by the way as I thought that the NBP
would be its prudent self at today’s meeting,”  Benoit Anne ,
head of emerging-market strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
London, said in an e-mail. “But as it turns out, the NBP has
lately been a Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hide story, and somewhat
difficult to read. Lesson learnt the hard way here: the NBP is
no longer the most conservative central bank in EM.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  