-- Berkshire Agrees to Limit DaVita Stake After Weighing Increase
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-08T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/berkshire-agrees-to-limit-davita-stake-after-weighing-increase.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , the largest investor in  DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. (DVA) ,
agreed not to acquire more than 25 percent of the dialysis
provider after raising the possibility of increasing its stake.  The so-called standstill agreement was disclosed yesterday
in a regulatory filing by Denver-based DaVita. Berkshire
approached the dialysis company about increasing the holding,
Kim Rivera, DaVita’s chief legal officer, said yesterday on a
conference call in response to a question about what prompted
the deal.  Berkshire held almost 15 million DaVita shares, a stake of
about 14 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg based
on a March filing. Standstill agreements are typically arranged
by companies seeking to prevent an unsolicited takeover. The
Berkshire-DaVita accord may limit speculation about a buyout
from inflating the stock price, said Michael A. Mazzeo, an
associate professor of finance at  Michigan State University .  “Berkshire’s just not known for making hostile
takeovers,” he said in a phone interview. “They make friendly
ones. And so, this might be a way of simply beginning that
dialogue.”  Berkshire’s DaVita holding is valued at more than $1.7
billion based on the closing price of $117.56 yesterday.
Berkshire’s initial holding was acquired at about $74 a share in
2011, according to data filed with insurance regulators. DaVita
climbed 3.3 percent to $121.41 in extended trading yesterday
after the agreement was disclosed.  Stock Picker  The accord was signed by DaVita President Javier Rodriguez
and Ted Weschler, the 51-year-old stock picker Buffett hired to
help oversee investments. DaVita was among the largest holdings
at Weschler’s hedge fund before he joined Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire.  The agreement applies when Berkshire’s stake is 15 percent
or more. Buffett’s company will refrain from proposing “any
business combination, merger, tender offer, exchange offer or
similar transaction” without consent from DaVita, according to
a document included in the filing.  “Berkshire recently approached us about the option of
increasing their holdings,” Rivera said on the call, which was
scheduled to discuss DaVita’s quarterly results. “We found them
to be a supportive investor with a long-term view.”  The companies reached an agreement “that reflects the fact
that they’re a passive investor and this is a friendly
relationship,” Rivera said.  Voting Power  The agreement limits the voting power of any Berkshire
shares beyond the 15 percent threshold if both Buffett and
Weschler are no longer with the company, said  Erik Gordon , a law
and business professor at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann
Arbor . New Berkshire managers who may have different investment
philosophies would be thwarted from making a hostile bid for
DaVita, he said.  “The point of this agreement is, ‘Hey, if you’re going to
take us over, it’s got to be a friendly, negotiated deal that
you do with the board,’” Gordon said.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant. Skip Thurman, a spokesman for DaVita, declined to
comment beyond what DaVita said in the filing and on the call.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News , has served on DaVita’s board of directors
since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  