-- Berlusconi Mediaset Tax-Fraud Conviction Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-05-08T18:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/berlusconi-mediaset-tax-fraud-conviction-upheld-by-milan-court.html
A Milan appeals court today upheld the
conviction of former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi
for tax fraud in a film-rights case involving his  Mediaset SpA (MS) 
television company.  An audio of the judge’s ruling was transmitted by SkyTG24.
The verdict carried a four-year prison sentence when Berlusconi
was convicted by the lower court in October.  Berlusconi won’t face imprisonment unless the conviction is
upheld on a final appeal, which must be completed before the
statute of limitations expires. That deadline is in July of next
year, Corriere della Sera reported. Niccolo Ghedini,
Berlusconi’s lawyer, said the appeals court ruling was a
foregone conclusion.  “We expected it,” Ghedini, also a senator from
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, said in remarks broadcast
by Sky. “It was totally useless giving our contribution to an
appeals court that, in our opinion, had already decided what the
solution was on the first day.”  Today’s ruling comes as the three-time premier and People
of Liberty, or PDL, play a key role in supporting the new
government led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Berlusconi’s
party is the second-biggest force in the governing coalition
behind Letta’s Democratic Party. Peter Ceretti, an analyst with
Eurasia Group in New York, said the appeals court result could
cause tension among the partners in government.  ‘Political Weight’  “I think the ruling will have some political weight,”
Ceretti said. “Berlusconi has been fairly productive so far,
although now we may see some noise and perhaps a harder line
with the other coalition parties.”  Berlusconi has accused prosecutors of trying to destroy him
politically and has said he’s spent more than 400 million euros
($527 million) on his legal defense in more than a dozen
corruption trials since he entered politics in 1994. Berlusconi
is also standing trial in Milan on unrelated charges of paying
for sex with a minor and abusing the power of his office. He has
denied the allegations in all cases against him.  Shares in Mediaset, which owns TV networks in  Italy  and
Spain and news websites, rose 0.5 percent to 2.14 euros before
the ruling was announced. That compares with a two-month low of
1.46 euros on March 4 when Mediaset reported its first full-year
loss.  The charges in the Mediaset case stem from before
Berlusconi entered politics, when he was still actively managing
the company, which he founded.  Judges earlier today rejected a request from lawyers of the
media tycoon-turned-politician to delay the trial. On May 6
Italy’s highest court in Rome rejected a separate request to
move the trial to Brescia from Milan, both in the northern
region of Lombardy. The court rejected the lawyers’ claim that
the Milan court was biased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Henry at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  