-- MBIA Said to Pay $350 Million to Settle SocGen Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-08T22:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mbia-said-to-pay-350-million-to-settle-socgen-lawsuit-1-.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI) , the bond insurer that
reached a $1.7 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp. 
this week, will pay $350 million to  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to
resolve litigation, a person familiar with the matter said.  The agreement settles claims over the insurer’s 2009
restructuring, which Societe Generale and other banks had sought
to reverse, saying it exposed them to losses by transferring
assets. Societe Generale is the last bank to settle with MBIA in
the case following the accord with Bank of America, and the
agreement will end the litigation against the insurer.  MBIA won state regulatory approval in 2009 to move the
company’s guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of its
MBIA Insurance unit, which backed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic mortgage debt. More than a dozen financial institutions
then sued claiming they were harmed as holders of financial
guarantee policies.  Banks filed complaints against MBIA and the state insurance
department. A New York state judge in March dismissed a lawsuit
by Bank of America and Societe Generale seeking to reverse the
state’s approval of the restructuring.  Regulatory Filing  MBIA announced the Societe Generale settlement in a
regulatory filing today without the disclosing the amount.  “As a result of this agreement and the Bank of America
settlement announced on May 6, 2013, all litigation brought
originally by the group of 18 domestic and international
financial institutions, relating to transformation, has been
resolved,” MBIA said.  Jim Galvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Societe Generale,
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the settlement.
Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
declined to comment.  “Today is a good day for SocGen and truly a new day for
MBIA,”  Benjamin Lawsky , the superintendent of New York’s
insurance regulator, the Department of Financial Services, said
in a statement. “This fair resolution will hopefully help
strengthen the municipal bond market, which is critical to our
nation’s infrastructure and economic recovery.”  Investment Grade  The new bond insurance unit created by MBIA in the 2009
split, which was intended to jumpstart the company’s municipal
debt guarantee business, was raised to investment grade by
Standard & Poor’s today after being cut to junk in February.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.’s financial-strength rating was lifted three steps to BBB from BB, and the
ratings company said it may upgrade the unit again to A pending
the resolution of the lawsuit over the split.  The MBIA parent, now rated B-, also was placed on watch for
a ratings upgrade by S&P. MBIA rose 7.6 percent to close at
$15.48 in New York trading after rising as much as 9.5 percent.  The settlement comes after MBIA and Bank of America reached
a settlement that will pay MBIA the equivalent of $1.7 billion
and give the bank a 5 percent stake in the bond insurer. The
settlement also provides MBIA with a $500 million revolving
credit line from Bank of America.  MBIA won’t draw on the loan to pay Societe General, said
the person. MBIA Insurance will pay $200 million while $150
million will come from MBIA’s U.K. subsidiary, according to the
person.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, and
ABN Amro v. MBIA, 601475-2009, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 