-- Biden Said to Suggest Keystone Opposition in Impromptu Chat
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-08T16:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/biden-said-to-suggest-keystone-opposition-in-impromptu-chat-1-.html
A Sierra Club volunteer in South
Carolina said Vice President Joe Biden appeared to indicate his
opposition to  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP)  Keystone XL in a brief
conversation with her last week.  Elaine Cooper, an environmental activist with the state’s
Sierra Club chapter, said in a blog post that she asked Biden if
the administration was serious about addressing climate change
and if President  Barack Obama  would reject the pipeline, which
would carry diluted bitumen from Alberta to refineries in the
U.S. Gulf Coast.  “He looked at the Sierra Club hat on my head, and he said
’yes, I do – I share your views – but I am in the minority,’ and
he smiled,” Cooper wrote in the blog posted on the Sierra
Club’s website.  Cooper said she talked briefly to Biden at a May 3 fish fry
sponsored by Representative James Clyburn, a South Carolina
Democrat, in Columbia, the state capital. The conversation took
place as Biden was shaking hands with supporters along a rope
line.  The exchange was previously reported by website BuzzFeed.  Erich Pica, president of the Washington-based environmental
group Friends of the Earth, said in a written statement, “Vice
President Biden is to be commended for his blunt talk.”  Michael Brune, executive director of the San Francisco-based environmental group, also issued a statement and said that
Biden’s comments were encouraging.  Oil Sands  Critics say Keystone will exacerbate climate change by
promoting development of the  Alberta  oil sands, which releases
more greenhouse gases than production of more conventional crude
oil.  Biden’s office referred to a March 2012 interview in which
Biden said the decision “will be made in an environmentally
sound basis” after a process is completed.  “The vice president has made his views known on this issue
and his views haven’t changed,” according to a statement from
his office.  A State Department draft environmental analysis said the
climate risks were minimal because the development in Alberta
would happen with or without Keystone.  Supporters of Keystone say it will create thousands of
construction jobs and improve U.S. energy security. The State
Department has jurisdiction over the pipeline because it crosses
an international border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  