-- BlackRock’s Hambro Seeks Talks With Rio on $5 Billion Expansion
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-08T11:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/blackrock-s-hambro-seeks-talks-with-rio-on-5-billion-expansion.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  Evy Hambro , who
manages the $10 billion World Mining Fund, says he will seek
talks with  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  management on a planned  iron-ore 
expansion that some analysts say will result in lower prices.  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  has made recent comments
about increasing returns to shareholders, reducing costs,
managing the balance sheet and maintaining a single A  credit
rating , and “those kind of things sit with canceling or
deferring that growth decision,” Hambro said in an interview
today with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  The world’s second-biggest mining company will probably
pursue proposals for additional output in  Australia , CEO Walsh
said this week, according to two people present at a meeting
with investors and analysts. Iron ore is set for its first
surplus in at least a decade as output expands and Chinese
mills, the biggest buyers, boost production at the slowest pace
in five years.  A deferral would help keep the iron-ore market stable until
2018, underpinning prices, according to a Citigroup Global
Markets Ltd. report last week.  “ Rio (RIO)  Tinto are not stupid, they are obviously very well
aware of this and they’ve obviously stress-tested this
investment decision significantly,” Hambro said. “But we are
looking forward to exploring a little bit further with them at
the mid-year point, when we catch up with them after their
results, exactly the dynamics behind that investment.”  Markets Surprised  The board is expected to approve in the fourth quarter an
increase in annual mine production to 360 million metric tons
from 290 million tons, unless there are significant changes to
the global demand-supply situation, Walsh told the gathering,
the people said. Rio has already approved $5.9 billion of
spending on port and rail as part of that expansion.  “When the comments were made earlier this week with
regards to taking forward that  investment decision  to the board
by the end of the year, which is still the existing timeframe, I
think the markets were a little bit surprised by that,” Hambro
said. “The market had been looking for some kind of leadership
from Rio with regards to that investment.”  Rio is the largest holding in BlackRock’s World Mining
Fund, representing 9.7 percent of the fund at March 28, valued
at $930 million, Bloomberg data shows. BlackRock, the world’s
largest asset manager, is the second-biggest shareholder of
Rio’s London-listed stock with 9.1 percent, the data shows.  Profitable Unit  Rio gained 0.1 percent to 3,103 pence at 12:06 p.m. in
London trading. A spokesman for Rio in the city declined to
comment.  The steelmaking ingredient was Rio’s most  profitable unit 
last year, providing 78 percent of earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Walsh did say shareholder feedback on whether or not to
go ahead with the project is mixed, based on the potential
impact on prices,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Lyndon Fagan  said in a May 6 report. The CEO told the meeting that the
additional supply of 70 million tons was unlikely to result in a
$20-a-ton price decline, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  