-- Blue Jays’ Happ Leaves Hospital One Day After Being Hit in Head
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-08T17:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/blue-jays-happ-set-to-leave-hospital-after-being-struck-in-head.html
J.A. Happ of the  Toronto Blue Jays  was
released from a  Florida  hospital and said he’s looking forward
to pitching again, one day after being hit in the side of the
head by a line drive.  “I’m in good spirits,” Happ said in a statement through
the Major League Baseball team. “I definitely appreciate the
support of the baseball community. It’s been overwhelming the
messages and kind words I’ve been getting. I just want to thank
everyone for that, and I look forward to getting back out there
soon.”  The  Blue Jays  said earlier today that Happ was “responsive
and doing well” after he was cut and bruised on his left ear
when struck by the ball off the bat of Desmond Jennings of the
 Tampa Bay Rays . Happ, 30, collapsed face down on the pitcher’s
mound after the ball ricocheted off his head, though he didn’t
lose consciousness.  After having his head and neck stabilized, Happ was taken
from the field on a stretcher to undergo medical tests last
night at Bayfront Medical Center in  St. Petersburg , Florida.  Happ, who also had a bandage over the area of his left eye
and ear, lifted a hand to give a wave to the crowd at Tropicana
Field as he was taken off. He was discharged from the hospital
today after additional testing.  “I could barely watch it,” Blue Jays pitcher R.A. Dickey
told reporters in the clubhouse last night. “It paralyzes you a
little bit. That is the position on the field closest to the
batter. When you hear the sound off the bat and it sounds like
it hits another bat, it’s really scary.”  Oakland Athletics pitcher Brandon McCarthy was hit in the
head by a line drive last September, causing a skull fracture
that required surgery and a six-day hospital stay. He now
pitches for the  Arizona  Diamondbacks.  Happ, who has a 2-2 record with a 4.91 earned-run average
this season, allowed four runs on five hits in 1 1/3 innings
against the Rays. The Blue Jays scored five runs over the final
three innings for a 6-4 win.  “Those next couple innings after that happened, we were
really demoralized in the clubhouse,” Blue Jays designated
hitter Adam Lind said. “It was a tough situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  