-- BOE’s King Will Keep Up Stimulus Push, Ex-MPC Member Bell Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-08T14:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/boe-s-king-will-keep-up-stimulus-push-ex-mpc-member-bell-says.html
Bank of England Governor Mervyn King
will vote for at least 25 billion pounds ($39 billion) of
quantitative easing tomorrow as officials assess new growth and
inflation forecasts, said former U.K. policy maker Marian Bell.  “I doubt very much we will see the governor retracting on
what we saw last month,” Bell said in an interview in  London 
today. “If anything he might go further. It’s the case you get
more changes in an Inflation Report month so there’s always a
potential for a big shift. I wouldn’t be surprised if we saw
some quite significant stuff.”  King, who will retire at the end of June, has been defeated
for the past three months in a push to increase the target for
 bond purchases . All but one of 44 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey  forecast the Monetary Policy Committee will leave its
stimulus program at 375 billion pounds tomorrow at a meeting at
which officials will have new projections.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has
appointed Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney to succeed King.
In advance of the handover, Osborne revamped the BOE’s remit in
March and asked the MPC to review the merits of giving forward
guidance on policy.  “This is the first Inflation Report since the remit change
and the only one before Carney starts, so any changes in the
analysis, maybe beginning to think about intermediate targets,
and so on I think we’ll see this month,” Bell, a former adviser
to the U.K. Treasury, said on the sidelines of the Fathom
Consulting’s Monetary Policy Forum today.  Minutes of the meeting will be published on May 22. In
April, King and two other MPC members wanted to increase QE and
were outvoted by a majority on the nine-member panel.  “I think the integrity of his view will be more important
than whether or not he moves the whole committee,” Bell said.
Still, there is a possibility he convinces an MPC majority to
vote for more stimulus, making Carney look “less of a new broom
when he comes in,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  