-- BofA Must Show Steady Profit Before Raising Payout, CEO Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-05-08T18:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/bofa-must-show-recurring-profit-before-raising-payout-ceo-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  needs to show a
steady stream of profit before satisfying demands for a higher
dividend, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said.  “The No. 1 issue is to get the recurring earnings stream
back where it should be,” and then address the mix of dividends
and stock buybacks, Moynihan said today at the annual
shareholders meeting in  Charlotte , North Carolina, where the
company is based.  Bank of America, swamped by costs tied to defective
mortgages, has posted only four  quarterly profit  increases since
Moynihan became CEO in 2010. Investors pressed him today on when
the dividend would be increased from its current 1 cent per
quarter. The payout was reduced to that amount during the
financial crisis when the bank obtained a $45 billion U.S.
bailout, which has been repaid.  “They’ve probably got 20 cents per quarter in earnings
that’s recurring right now, and that’s not enough,” said Nancy
Bush, an analyst at SNL Financial LC, a bank research firm in
Charlottesville, Virginia. “He has to get to a point where
interest rates normalize and you get more certainty with
mortgages before he declares a significant dividend.”  Payout Priority  Moynihan has made restoring shareholder  payouts  a priority
during his tenure. He came under fire in 2011 after fanning
investor expectations for a “modest” dividend increase, only
to have the Federal Reserve reject his capital plan. This year,
he won Fed support to buy back as much as $5 billion in stock.  “Right now, the best course for the company is to buy back
the stock,” Moynihan told an investor today who implored him to
increase the dividend.  Bad mortgages and related legal costs were the main drags
on first-quarter results, and Moynihan said his job was to get
those “down to zero.” He heard objections from  shareholders 
about the bank’s policy on climate change and loans to coal
companies because of pollution and environmental damage, and
fielded pleas to help distressed borrowers keep their homes. One
speaker said the bank is still pursuing foreclosures while loan
modifications are in progress.  “With interminable delays in processing loan
modifications, dual-tracking, and generally giving homeowners
the runaround, the experience they’ve had is Kafkaesque,” said
Josh Zinner, co-director of New York-based Neighborhood Economic
Development Advocacy Project. “Unfortunately, many of the
abuses seem to be concentrated in communities of color.”  Onstage, Moynihan was flanked by a pair of large screens
displaying a countdown of how much time -- two minutes -- that
most investors had to speak. Similar to last year,  employees  and
investors both wore badges identifying them as shareholders,
though the badges were of different colors.  Stock Reacts  Bank of America is the second-largest U.S. lender by assets
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. The stock  rose  11 percent this year
through yesterday to $12.90, on top of its 109 percent advance
in 2012, when Bank of America led the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. The shares added 12 cents to $13.02 as of 2:16 p.m. in
New York.  The company’s traders posted gains every business day
during the first quarter, generating more than $25 million of
revenue on 97 percent of trading days while reducing the amount
of risk taken, or value-at-risk, according to a quarterly
regulatory filing.  “If you look at our VAR, and our risk-taking, we’re
keeping it balanced relative to the rest of the company,”
Moynihan, 53, said in an April 17 conference call. “We may not
roar as much as some people might, because this is one of the
many businesses we have and we drive it for the benefit of the
investing customers and also the issuing customers.”  While Bank of America avoided losses, its trading revenue
slumped 20 percent, a drop surpassed only by Morgan Stanley
among the five largest Wall Street banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  