-- Borg Joins Wheeler in Escalating Response to Currency Gains
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n ,   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-08T14:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/borg-warns-krona-strength-becoming-issue-riksbank-must-consider.html
Sweden’s government abandoned its
hands-off stance on the krona and New Zealand announced it sold
the kiwi, joining a growing band of countries to escalate their
response to strengthening currencies.  The New Zealand dollar fell to a five-week low after
 Reserve Bank  Governor Graeme Wheeler said the central bank sold
the kiwi and can do so again to protect growth. In Sweden,
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said the krona’s appreciation
warrants central-bank consideration. The won’s advance prompted
Kim Seong Wook, a director in  South Korea ’s finance ministry, to
say the government will closely monitor any “unnecessary
movement” that increases  exchange-rate  volatility.  “The krona could become an issue, particularly from the
central bank perspective; there are some good arguments for them
to consider how to look at the krona,” Borg said yesterday in
an interview in Abuja,  Nigeria . “It should be based on
fundamentals and obviously priced on the market, but there are
also some risks you’ll see too much of an appreciation. That’s
obviously one of the worries we have.”  Sweden, which exports half its economic output, is
reversing course after earlier this year vowing not to interfere
with the exchange rate. Borg joins policy makers from  Japan  to
 Switzerland  to  Israel , all struggling to contain appreciations
that have hurt their exports. In  Turkey , the central bank’s
gauge for measuring lira strength signals a rate cut is needed
to adjust the exchange rate.  More Countries  “More and more countries will end up adopting monetary
policies where their currencies become part of their monetary
policy,”  Paul Lambert , head of currency and fixed income at
Insight Investment Management Ltd., said today at a Euromoney
conference in  London . “In that world, it will become
increasingly difficult to hang together the kind of collegiate
economic environment that we’ve grown used to.”  The krona has gained 4.4 percent against the euro in the
past year and traded little changed at 8.5428 per euro at 3:09
p.m. London time today. The so-called kiwi dollar slid 0.8
percent to 83.88 U.S. cents and fell to as low as 83.60 U.S.
cents, the weakest level since April 1.  In Japan, the yen sank 20 percent against the dollar in the
past six months, the most among major currencies, betting that
expanded easing by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pick to run the
central bank would debase the currency.  At his first policy meeting on April 4,  Bank of Japan 
Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  pledged to double monthly bond
purchases to about 7 trillion yen ($70.9 billion) in an effort
to stoke inflation and revive the economy.  Switzerland already caps the level of its franc against the
euro at 1.20.  ‘Aggressive Comments’  The Australian dollar matched its weakest level in two
months today after the Reserve Bank lowered its benchmark
interest rate yesterday. Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced the
overnight cash-rate target by 25 basis points to 2.75 percent,
saying in a statement that the Aussie’s record strength “is
unusual given the decline in export prices and interest rates.”  “Central banks who haven’t had a need to cut rates are
seeing that their currencies have appreciated and they are
having to lean against this strengthening pressure,” Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said
today by phone.  “ New Zealand  is where we’ve had the most aggressive
comments and action. It is causing some long kiwi positions to
be taken out,” he said. A long position is a bet the price of
an asset will rise.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  publishes monthly figures
for its net currency sales that may or may not involve direct
intervention, which show it sold NZ$2 million in March, and
NZ$199 million in December. It had an intervention capacity of
NZ$8.7 billion at March 31, the data show.  Developed Markets  The Swedish krona’s 6.8 percent appreciation over the past
12 months is the best performance in a basket of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period, after the
New Zealand dollar’s 7.6 percent gain.  Wheeler’s announcement today marked the first time that New
Zealand’s central bank confirmed a currency intervention since
June 2007, when it sold New Zealand dollars.  The krona has soared about 28 percent against the euro
since the end of 2008, sparking calls from Swedish exporters to
stem its ascent. Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves acknowledged
last month the strong krona has undermined the bank’s efforts to
achieve its inflation target.  In neighboring  Norway , the krone jumped at least 0.8
percent against all of its 16 major peers today after the
central bank kept its benchmark deposit rate at 1.5 percent
today, matching the median estimate in a  Bloomberg survey  of
economists, even as credit growth and property prices continued
to rise from records. Governor Oeystein Olsen has warned he’s
ready to cut rates should krone strength persist.  Forecasts Cut  Poland’s zloty was little changed versus the euro after the
central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low.
The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,086.55 per dollar.  Borg last month cut his forecasts for Sweden, citing the
krona’s impact on exports and unemployment. The Riksbank on
April 17 said it needs to delay monetary tightening plans until
the second half of 2014 as it forecast price growth won’t reach
its 2 percent target until 2015. Borg estimates Swedish
unemployment will reach 8.4 percent in 2014, the highest rate in
Scandinavia.  “There is a rebalancing of the Swedish economy,” Borg
said. “We had a very weak currency for quite some time, but
obviously we don’t want to see an excessive appreciation of the
currency, so this is an issue that we’ll have to follow very
carefully. I mean, we still want to keep our industry quite
competitive.”  Sweden ’s National Institute of Economic Research in March
predicted the krona will  reach 8.44  against the euro this year
and at 8.41 in 2014. HSBC Holdings Plc last month estimated it
will reach 8.10 per euro by the end of the year.  “I think we have a very high degree of market credibility
with an AAA rating,” Borg said. “If anything, we’re actually
seeing a little bit too much confidence in the krona.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  