-- Boston Bombing Suspect’s Widow Hires Defense Lawyer
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/boston-bombing-suspect-s-widow-hires-criminal-defense-lawyer.html
A criminal defense lawyer hired by the
widow of Boston Marathon bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev has
represented clients facing terrorism charges, including a man
convicted in the bombing of the U.S. embassy in Kenya.  Joshua L. Dratel , based in  New York , has been added to the
group of attorneys hired by Katherine Russell, according to an
e-mail from Amato A. DeLuca, a lawyer in Providence,  Rhode
Island , who is also representing her.  “Katie plans to continue to meet with investigators, part
of a series of meetings over many hours where she has answered
questions,” DeLuca said yesterday.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, who was killed in a Watertown,
 Massachusetts , shootout with police on April 19, and his younger
brother, Dzhokhar, 19, are accused of carrying out the April 15
bombing close to the downtown Boston finish line of the 26.2
mile race.  The younger Tsarnaev, who was arrested on April 19, is
charged with using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction in the dual bombing that killed three people and
hurt more than 200. He is in federal custody.  Russell, 24, had lived with Tamerlan Tsarnaev in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. She hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Her new counsel is a partner in the Manhattan law firm of
Dratel and Mysliwiec PC, which has offices at 2  Wall Street ,
according to its  website .  Past President  Dratel has 25 years of practice experience and is a past
president of the New York State Association of Criminal Defense
Lawyers, according to his firm biography.  He previously represented a Brooklyn man, Betim Kaziu, whom
a federal court jury in June 2011 found guilty of conspiracy to
commit murder overseas and of supporting terrorism.  U.S. prosecutors said Kaziu had taken al-Qaeda leader  Osama Bin Laden ’s words and rebroadcast them as his own and
disseminated messages from Anwar al-Awlaki on his MySpace page.  Bin Laden was killed in a U.S. raid on his Pakistani
hideout in May 2011. Al-Awlaki, a U.S. citizen, was killed in a
drone strike in Yemen in September of that year.  Dratel said after the verdict against Kaziu that his client
should be protected by U.S. law guaranteeing freedom of speech
and religion.  He did nothing amounting to conspiracy, didn’t own a gun
and wasn’t trained to fight, the lawyer said. Kaziu has appealed
his conviction.  Embassy Bombing  Dratel also represents one of three men convicted for their
roles in the 1998 bombing by al-Qaeda of the U.S. Embassy in
Nairobi,  Kenya .  Russell, an artist, dancer and college drop-out from
suburban Rhode Island, converted to Islam to marry Tamerlan
Tsarnaev three years ago.  Russell lived with Tsarnaev and their 2-year-old daughter
in a Cambridge, Massachusetts, apartment, until her husband
became a suspect in the bombing. Since then, she has been living
with her parents in their corner-lot, two-story beige home in
wooded North Kingstown, Rhode Island.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who was injured and captured hours after
his brother’s death, told interrogators that the pressure-cooker
bombs used in the attack were assembled at the his brother’s
apartment, according to a U.S. official who was briefed on the
questioning and asked not to be identified.  DNA Sample  Agents from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation visited
Russell’s parents’ home on April 29 and took a DNA sample from
her, according to the U.S. officials briefed on the probe.  Russell hadn’t granted public interviews after the attack,
and her family issued statements through their lawyer expressing
condolences for the bombing victims and Russell’s sadness at
Tamerlan’s death. A swarm of media cars and trucks had been
stationed outside Russell’s parents’ home for days, along with
black sedans and police cars.  DeLuca has said Russell knew nothing about the attack
before it took place and “was as shocked as anybody” when it
happened.  In the past few years, Russell had adopted conservative
religious dress, neighbor Dave Mather, in North Kingstown, said
last month. She visited her parents often, waving and smiling
whenever she spotted neighbors from the cul-de-sac, he said.  Tsarnaev graduated from North Kingstown High School in 2007
and landed in trouble that summer. Warwick police arrested her
on July 26 on a misdemeanor shoplifting charge. The case was
dismissed Aug. 20, according to records maintained by Rhode
Island’s Third District Court in Kent County.  Backpack, Fireworks  Three college friends of the younger bombing suspect were
charged with hindering the probe into the attack. Dias
Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, both of  Kazakhstan , are
accused of throwing away a backpack holding fireworks they found
in Tsarnaev’s dormitory room after the FBI released images of
the brothers identifying them as suspects. Robel Phillipos, a
U.S. citizen, is accused of lying to investigators about the
visit to the dorm.  Russell was born in  Texas  on Feb. 6, 1989, according to her
marriage certificate dated June 21, 2010. She’s the eldest of
three daughters of Warren Russell, an emergency medicine
physician, and Judith, a registered nurse.  The troubled ethnic Chechen immigrant family into which she
married at 21 bore little resemblance to her own. Her existence
went from a childhood in a leafy suburb to one in which she
shared a cramped apartment with Tamerlan, their daughter, and
Tamerlan’s parents until their return to  Russia .  Former Boxer  Russell went to  Suffolk University  in Boston to study
communications, and she met Tsarnaev, a former boxer who in 2009
had been charged with assaulting a live-in girlfriend.  National Public Radio  interviewed three college roommates
of Russell who described Tsarnaev as controlling, manipulative
and angry. The women, whom NPR didn’t name, said he called her
names such as “slut” and “prostitute” and demanded that she
convert to Islam, NPR said.  The two married at a mosque in the Dorchester neighborhood.
She adopted Islam, dropped out of college and bore Tamerlan’s
child, a daughter who’s now 2 1/2.  She cut off contact with her college friends after the
marriage, according to the NPR report.  She received food stamps and welfare benefits from
September 2011 to November 2012, according to a letter from the
Massachusetts Department of Transitional Assistance.  DeLuca said she worked as many as 80 hours a week as a home
health-care aide, seldom seeing her husband as he cared for
their daughter at home.  The Tsarnaev case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts ( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  