-- Brazil April Consumer Prices Rise More Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-05-08T12:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/brazil-april-consumer-prices-rise-more-than-economists-forecast.html
Brazilian consumer  prices (BZPIIPCM)  rose more
than economists forecast, as the central bank raises rates to
tame prices in the world’s second-biggest emerging market.  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index climbed 0.55
percent in the month, the national statistics agency said today
in Rio de Janeiro. The number was higher than all but one
 estimate  from 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
forecast was for a 0.48 percent increase. Annual  inflation 
slowed to 6.49 percent, inside the central bank’s target range
after breaching it in March. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast 6.42 percent.  Price pressures led the central bank last month to raise
record low  borrowing costs  that have been a foundation of
President Dilma Rousseff’s bid to revive the economy. Brazil’s
gross domestic product last year grew the slowest among the
BRICS group that includes  China ,  India , Russia and  South Africa .
The government has also cut taxes on  consumer goods  and industry
and lowered electricity rates to spur growth while stemming
price increases.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.18 percent at 9:20 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0051 per  U.S. dollar .  Monthly food prices rose 0.96 percent in April, down from
1.14 percent in March. Wholesale agriculture prices, as measured
by the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-M index, fell 1.82
percent in April, the largest of four consecutive declines.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee, known as the
Copom, raised the benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 7.50
percent in April. Policy makers may have to consider stepping up
the pace of rate increases to tame prices, Carlos Hamilton, the
bank’s economic policy director, said April 25, after inflation
reached 6.59 percent in March . Swap rates jumped after his
comments. The bank’s committee holds its next meeting May 28-29.  The government targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Annualized price increases have run
faster than the midpoint of the target range since September
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  