-- Britain Proposes Incentives for Low-Carbon Investment
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-08T10:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/britain-proposes-incentives-for-low-carbon-investment.html
The U.K. government outlined plans to
encourage 110 billion pounds ($170 billion) of investment in the
electricity sector needed to replace aging power stations and
upgrade the power grid by 2020.  Queen Elizabeth II, opening the new legislative session in
Parliament in  London  today, announced measures to guarantee
power prices for renewable generators and nuclear plants through
so-called contracts for difference. The new Energy Bill will
also create a “capacity market,” ensuring the security of
electricity supply by paying producers for backup supplies when
wind, solar and marine power fall short.  “My government will continue with legislation to update
energy infrastructure,” the monarch told lawmakers in the upper
House of Lords, speaking on behalf of Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition.  The bill also contains investment contracts in low-carbon
power supply to enable early investment in advance of the
contracts for difference coming into force in 2014.  It includes measures to enable consumers to secure the best
energy tariff and force suppliers to provide clearer and simpler
information on bills. The legislation also seeks to incentivize
reductions in electricity usage from business and households and
includes the power to set a target range for the decarbonization
of the power sector.  In a separate Water Bill, the government aims to make water
supplies more resilient by encouraging development of new
sources and making it easier for companies to sell water to each
other.  The legislation seeks to increase choice for business
customers and encourage new companies to enter the industry. It
will consolidate the water treatment licensing regime to reduce
bureaucracy and encourage uptake of sustainable drainage
systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  