-- Buffett’s ‘Mr. Rational’ Approach Seen Aiding Female Advancement
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-08T16:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/buffett-s-mr-rational-approach-seen-aiding-female-advancement.html
Warren Buffett’s analytical approach,
which he’s applied to picking stocks and buying businesses, also
benefits female leaders at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said one
of the top-ranking women executives at the company.  “He’s said, ‘Well, why would anyone want to exclude 50
percent of the population,’” Cathy Baron Tamraz, chief
executive officer of Berkshire’s Business Wire unit, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  that aired
today. “I mean, Mr. Rational, right? He just makes so much
sense.”  Buffett, 82, highlighted the need to draw on women for
leadership roles at events surrounding Berkshire’s May 4 annual
meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska , where the company is based. The
billionaire chairman and CEO of Berkshire discussed women in top
roles at an event at the University of Nebraska Omaha and wrote
an essay titled “ Warren Buffett  is bullish... on women” on
Fortune magazine’s  website .  “For most of our history, women, whatever their abilities,
have been relegated to the sidelines,” Buffett wrote. “Only in
recent years have we begun to correct that.”  Berkshire was among the lowest-rated companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 100 Index on diversity, according to a March
report by Calvert Investments Inc. Buffett has said he doesn’t
dictate policies to executives of Berkshire’s managed companies
on topics such as diversity and flexible work hours.  Slow Change  “Change comes slowly,” Tamraz said. “He didn’t buy these
other businesses because there were men running them. He bought
these certain businesses, and that’s who’s in charge, and he
always is looking for the best person for the job.”  At the May 4 meeting, Berkshire added Meryl Witmer, a
general partner at Eagle Capital, to the board of directors.
She’s the third woman on the 13-person panel.  “If it was a toss-up, I wanted to give it to a woman,”
Buffett said at the university of adding a female director. “I
like the idea of women of talent becoming recognized.”  Women held just 16.6 percent of board seats and 14.3
percent of executive-officer posts at Fortune 500 companies in
2012, according to a  report  from Catalyst, a nonprofit group
that seeks to expand opportunities for women. Of the more than
70 heads of Berkshire’s business units, five are women.  Mary Rhinehart, who was named CEO of Berkshire’s Johns
Manville building-products unit in November, told Liu that two
of the first calls of congratulations she received were from
Tamraz and Susan Jacques, who heads the Borsheims jewelry
retailer for Berkshire. She also praised Buffett.  “Warren is very progressive,” Rhinehart said. “He’s
going to select the best individual for the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  