-- CA Technologies Shares Fall After Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-08T20:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ca-technologies-tumbles-after-annual-forecast-misses-estimates.html
CA Technologies Inc. (CA) , the maker of
software for  mainframe computers , fell the most in six months
after the company’s annual forecast missed estimates and it
announced plans to cut 1,200 jobs.  Fiscal 2014 earnings will be $2.35 to $2.43 a share,
excluding some items, the Islandia, New York-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts had estimated $2.54 on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales will be
$4.43 billion to $4.52 billion in the period, which ends next
March, compared with an analyst projection of $4.65 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Gregoire, who took the helm in
January, is paring staff, making acquisitions and refocusing on
growth areas. Revenue shrank 4 percent last year at the company,
which is seeing its traditional market of mainframe software
decline. The latest guidance suggests that Gregoire’s comeback
plan will take longer than expected, said Matthew Hedberg, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis .  “People were expecting a quicker turnaround, but this
makes it clear that it’s going to be a longer cycle,” he said.
“It pushed out some people’s expectations for return to
growth.”  CA shares  fell 2.4 percent to $27.11 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day decline since November. The stock has
climbed 23 percent this year.  Industry Shift  Gregoire, who joined the East Coast company after a career
in Silicon Valley, is coping with an industry shift toward
delivering software as a service, or SaaS.  “We know we can do better to drive new sales and revenue
performance,” Gregoire said in yesterday’s statement. “When I
look at the significant assets at CA Technologies, I believe
there is an opportunity for us to improve our performance by
stronger focus on product innovation, leveraging customer
relationships and better execution in new customer adoption.”  The job cuts announced yesterday will result in one-time
expenses of $150 million, CA said. As part of the changes,
development sites will be consolidated into central hubs.  “He’s doing what he knows, which is growth and SaaS,”
RBC’s Hedberg said. “That’s a different culture than what CA
has traditionally been. This is the first wave of changes, but
some people are skeptical as we’ve seen this story before with
CA, and it doesn’t necessarily change things. It’s more of a
‘show me’ story right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  