-- California Surplus Should Be Set Aside, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/california-surplus-should-be-set-aside-lawmaker-says.html
California  should funnel surplus
revenue from  capital-gains  taxes into a  reserve fund  to avert
cuts when the economy sags, Assembly Speaker John Perez said.  The Los Angeles Democrat, speaking yesterday on KXJZ-FM in
Sacramento, said he wants a referendum on setting aside excess
funds when revenue from capital gains exceeds 6.5 percent of
projections. Once the reserve tops 10 percent of general-fund
spending, which pays for most basic services -- about $97.6
billion in this fiscal year -- the excess could be spent on one-time needs, such as reducing debt, he said.  Income- tax revenue  covered 61 percent of general-fund
spending last year. In January, Governor  Jerry Brown , a
Democrat, said he expects an $850 million  budget surplus  by the
conclusion of fiscal 2014, reversing years of deficits that
cumulatively exceeded $100 billion since 2007. So far this year,
tax collections have topped Brown’s projections by  $4.5 billion .  “We need reserves for fire, we need reserves for
contingencies,” Brown told reporters May 7. “We also need to
pay down debt, which is a form of reserve. It frees up money.”  Perez’s rainy-day fund proposal would replace one already
on the ballot next year. That plan, favored by Republicans and
opposed by public-employee unions, would fill the reserve
whenever all tax revenue exceeds 3 percent of general-fund
spending. Democrats, who control both chambers of the
legislature, can alter the ballot measure by a two-thirds vote.  Brown persuaded Californians in November to impose the
highest statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and to
boost levies on annual income starting at $250,000 -- reaching
13.3 percent on those making $1 million or more, the nation’s
highest rate.  Brown is scheduled to update his budget proposal May 14 to
reflect the latest revenue figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  