-- California Guard Firefighting Aircraft Threatened by Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-05-08T02:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/california-guard-firefighting-aircraft-threatened-by-cuts.html
The  California National Guard ’s
ability to supply planes and helicopters to fight wildfires in a
season already above normal may be jeopardized by automatic
 federal budget  cuts, according to the two-star general who
commands the force.  The Pentagon has told the largest National Guard force in
the U.S. to prepare for a 20 percent furlough of its 2,000 full-time technicians, most of whom work on aircraft, to meet
mandatory spending cuts known as sequestration, Major General
David Baldwin said in an interview. The guard aircraft
supplement the state’s full-time aerial firefighting wing.  “It reduces our availability time by 20 percent, which
during the fire season can be decisive,” Baldwin said in an
interview. “If those furloughs go through, it will have a
direct and immediate impact.”  California’s  driest first quarter on record  has led to
1,100 wildfires already this year, 500 more than average,
according to Cal Fire, as the state Forestry and Fire Protection
Department is known. A fast-moving fire in Ventura County last
week charred an area the size of San Francisco, forced the
evacuation of a college with 4,900 students and threatened 4,000
homes northwest of Los Angeles.  The Pentagon is reviewing plans to put most civilian
workers on unpaid leave for one day a week, the equivalent of  a
20 percent pay cut. Furloughs will mean fewer hours to maintain
10 Black Hawk helicopters that each carry 660 gallons (2,500
liters) of water, and two C-130 cargo planes equipped to drop
3,000 gallons of water or fire retardant in a single pass.  Longer Repairs  “If an aircraft has a fault or something breaks, it takes
longer for fixing it, which means it takes longer to get it
ready when the first responders call us,” said Baldwin, who was
appointed adjutant general by Governor Jerry Brown in 2011.  The guard is called on when Cal Fire’s own fleet of spotter
planes, helicopters and tankers aren’t enough to stop the spread
of a blaze, such as the Ventura County fire.  “If we are activating the guard, that means things are hot
and heavy,” said Janet Upton, a Cal Fire spokeswoman. “We rely
heavily on our partnership with the guard during those times. We
would not want to see any impact to their ability to respond.”  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, in a May 3 letter to U.S.
Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican who serves
on the House Budget Committee, said he’s reviewing options that
may avert furloughs.  Pentagon Furloughs  “We are examining every option for responsible cuts in
order to minimize or possibly eliminate the necessity of
furloughs,” Hagel said in the letter. “However, furloughs may
be necessary during sequester to assure that the funding for our
warfighters and readiness meet mission requirements.”  In addition to the water-dropping aircraft, the California
guard has two UH-72 Lakota observation helicopters used to help
map wildfires. Both will be grounded in August because the
civilian maintenance contract will be cut under sequestration,
Baldwin said.  Wind-swept fires across the state following similarly dry
winter months in 2008 burned more than 1.2 million acres and
killed 13 firefighters, according to Cal Fire. In 2007,
firestorms swept through Southern California, destroying 1,500
homes, displacing almost 1 million residents and killing 17.  The U.S. Forest Service, which also has been told to cut
its budget, said it expects this year’s fire season to match or
possibly exceed the 9.3 million acres that burned nationwide
last year.  Firefighter Cuts  The potential cutback in aerial resources is not the only
drop in spending on fires. Brown signed a budget in 2011 that
reduced the crew assigned to Cal Fire’s engines to three from
four to save money and help erase what was then a $10 billion
deficit. The crew size had been increased after 14 massive
firestorms scorched more than 750,000 acres, destroyed 1,700
homes and killed 24 people in 2003.  “Given the severity, we are going to have a lot more need
for fire engines, so we have to deploy as efficiently as
possible,” Brown said yesterday when asked if staffing levels
might be increased. “We made cuts because we didn’t have the
money and I’m not going back to that era of make-believe. I’m
going to hold the line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  