-- Canadian Dollar Weakens Against Peers as Housing Slows
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-08T18:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/canadian-dollar-weakens-against-peers-as-housing-slows.html
The Canadian dollar reached a 12-week
high versus its U.S. counterpart as a surge in metal prices
boosted commodities and renewed confidence in global growth.  The currency flirted with parity against the greenback
after economic data from China and  Germany  suggested  export 
demand was recovering. The Canadian currency had weakened
earlier in the day following a report that showed new  home
construction  slowed in April.  “Base metals have been on a run in the past few days; you
get a move like that, it’s going to grab some attention,”  David Watt , chief economist at HSBC Bank  Canada  in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “You add it all up, and it builds momentum
and overshadows the weaker housing data.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.1 percent to
C$1.0028 per U.S. dollar at 2:10 p.m. in Toronto. The currency,
which last traded at parity in February, strengthened to as much
as C$1.0018. One loonie buys 99.72 U.S. cents.  The  Bank of Canada  sold C$3.4 billion ($3.39 billion) of
1.25 percent bonds maturing in September 2018 at an average
yield of 1.325 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.70.  The current five-year benchmark bond due March 2018 yields
1.27 percent, or 53 basis points more than  comparable  maturity
 U.S. Treasury  notes.  Metals Rally  Canada’s central bank is alone among Group of Seven nations
with a tightening bias, meaning the next move on rates will
likely be higher. The Bank of Canada has kept its benchmark
overnight rate at 1 percent for almost three years.  Chinese  export  growth unexpectedly accelerated in April
even as shipments to the U.S. and  Europe  fell. German industrial
production also rose more than forecast, increasing for a second
month in March in a further sign that Europe’s largest economy
is returning to growth.  Copper, nickel and gold advanced more than 1 percent to
help lead commodities higher.  Housing starts declined to 174,900 at a seasonally adjusted
annual pace in April, Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp. said on its website today. Economists forecast a reading
of 175,000 according to the median of 25 responses to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 1.1
percent to $96.67 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of U.S. stocks rose 0.3 percent.  The loonie has gained 1.4 percent in the last month against
nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 2.6
percent while the  U.S. dollar  has lost 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  