-- Carbon Rout Roiling Australia as Polluters Win: Energy Markets
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-08T16:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/carbon-rout-roiling-australia-as-polluters-win-energy-markets.html
The unprecedented collapse in European
carbon prices is shattering Australia’s budget assumptions just
as corporate resistance to the market weakens in the developed
world’s biggest per capita polluter.  The cost of permits on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, fast becoming the benchmark price for Australia as the
nation prepares for market-based trading in 2015, fell to a
record 2.75 euros ($3.60) a metric ton last month. That’s about
12 percent of the $A29 ($29.50) Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
government was counting on, meaning tax cuts will be deferred
and the budget will have to be revised before it’s delivered on
May 14, Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said today.  The drop in prices is strengthening the hand of  Tony Abbott , a carbon-market opponent who is standing against Gillard
in the Sept. 14 election, at a time when governments from
 California  to  China  are pressing ahead with emissions-trading
systems. It’s also making it less expensive for emitters to
comply with caps imposed to reduce greenhouse gases linked to
climate change.  “Abbott is going to jump all over anything that can be
used against carbon trading,” said  John Davis , a London-based
trader at CF Partners LLP who sells EU permits to Australian
emitters. “The plunge in EU prices and the implications for
Australia will be very well exploited by Abbott and his team.”  Australia agreed in August 2012 to link its carbon market
with the EU system, the world’s largest  emissions-trading 
program. California, which has proposed using as much as $500
million a year in revenue from carbon auctions to build high-speed rail projects, announced plans last month to link with
 Quebec  when its market starts next year.  Carbon Auctions  Gillard, trailing Abbott by 5 points in the latest poll,
isn’t giving up on charging more than 300 of the nation’s
largest emitters for greenhouse gases linked to climate change.
Her Labor government is proceeding with plans to auction permits
in 2014 and set pollution caps through 2020.  Courting support from the Green party to discourage the
mining and consumption of high-emitting coal, Gillard’s Clean
Energy Act introduced a fixed price of A$23 for permits in July
2012. Australia is the world’s second-biggest exporter of
thermal coal and discharges more  greenhouse gases  per person
than any developed nation, Combet said, citing figures from the
World Resources Institute and  International Energy Agency .  The fixed price is set to rise 5 percent a year through
2015 and then shift to cap and trade linked to the EU market.
Australia’s latest fiscal outlook assumed a market price of A$29
by 2015, translating to revenue of A$9.4 billion, including the
value of permits given to certain businesses.  EU Oversupply  Budget revisions are inevitable, Combet warned for the
first time on April 17, a day after the EU parliament voted in
Strasbourg,  France , to reject a measure to delay the sale of
about 900 million permits to boost prices. The EU is facing a
glut of allowances because the recession has cut emissions to
levels below those forecast when the limits were locked in.  “The European system to which the government has tied
Australia’s electricity prices is now deeply unstable.”  Greg Hunt , climate leader for Abbott’s coalition, said in an April 18
speech. Australia has “spent the revenue before it came in the
door,” he said in later e-mailed comments.  Allowances for December fell 35 percent on ICE, the most on
record, to close at 2.75 euros a ton on the day of the EU vote,
compared with 31 euros in 2006. Prices rebounded 22 percent on
May 3 after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said intervention in
the market shouldn’t be ruled out. They closed at 3.49 euros in
London today.  ‘Large Discrepancy’  Australia’s carbon permits are set to track the EU price
and sell for about A$14 when trading starts in 2015, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. It forecasts the possibility of
a “large discrepancy” between the government’s fixed rate, set
to rise to A$24.15 next year, and the initial auction price.  “The design of the auction mechanism, in combination with
the EU oversupply and Abbott’s threat of repeal, may cause the
first forward auctions to clear at just $A2 to $A4 a ton,” said
Hugh Bromley, a Sydney-based analyst at New Energy Finance.  Lower carbon prices are forecast to reduce Australia’s
payouts as well as revenue, Combet said, declining to give
specific revisions before the budget is presented. About half of
the nation’s proceeds from selling carbon permits are earmarked
to help offset higher residential electricity costs, while about
40 percent is intended to finance free permits for companies
facing global competition. Nine out of 10 households in
Australia claim such support, according to the government.  Deferred Perks  The government had promised additional tax cuts of A$1.59 a
week starting in 2015 to those earning as much as A$80,000 a
year to offset the costs of carbon pricing. While those tax cuts
will be deferred until carbon prices exceed A$25.40, other
household-assistance programs won’t be eliminated, Combet told
reporters in Sydney today.  “All household assistance that has been delivered as part
of the Clean Energy Future package is staying, even if there’s a
lower carbon price,” he said.  While the lower prices are upending Gillard’s budget, they
are also making it cheaper for Australia’s emitters to comply
with pollution limits. The nation should scrap fixed prices and
move immediately to a market-based system, the Australian
Industry Group, which represents about 60,000 of the country’s
businesses, said in a March 7 statement.  “Australian businesses could be taking advantage of these
low international prices through emissions trading,” the group
said in the statement.  Support for Trading  The Energy Supply Association of Australia, which
represents electricity producers such as Delta Electricity,  AGL
Energy Ltd. (AGK) ,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  Australian Energy and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) 
backed carbon trading before global prices plunged.  “Our position has always been that we support lowest-cost
emissions abatement, likely through a well-designed, market-based emissions-trading system,” Rebecca Harrison, the group’s
Melbourne-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The prospect of a  budget deficit  is adding to evidence that
Gillard should scrap the climate law, according to Abbott, who
pledged a “blood oath” to dismantle what he calls a “toxic
tax” on carbon and electricity. Abbott’s coalition plans to axe
the Climate Change Authority, which announced last month it will
re-examine Australia’s target of reducing 2020 emissions by 5
percent from 2000 levels.  The review will recommend emission caps from 2015 through
2020. A draft report is scheduled for October, regardless of the
election results in September, said Anthea Harris, chief
executive officer for the authority.  No Choice  “We are definitely proceeding, regardless of the
election,” she said in an interview from  Melbourne . “We don’t
have a choice.”  Abbott’s coalition supports Australia’s 5 percent reduction
target by 2020. Its so-called Direct Action Plan would commit as
much as A$750 million to subsidize companies’ spending to
achieve that goal.  “It’s a market-based system to achieve the lowest cost to
reach the target without subjecting Australia to the volatility
of the European scheme,” Hunt said. “The key issue remains
that it would leave Australia linked to a system which takes
control of electricity prices out of the hands of Australia.”  Australia needs to scrap carbon trading before it does more
damage to the budget, according to Abbott. The “conservative
figure” for savings from abolishing the business subsidies
associated with Gillard’s “carbon tax” is $20 billion over
four years, Hunt said April 18.  The opposition’s economic case is losing traction, said
Daniel Rossetto, managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd., an
adviser to companies on carbon markets.  Weaker Argument  “Abbott’s arguments are weakened by what we are seeing
today,” Rossetto said in an interview from London. “At a point
where economies are most vulnerable, the carbon price is also at
its lowest.”  Abbott would be “arguing against himself” if he maintains
that low carbon prices show the market doesn’t work, Anthony Hobley, head of  climate change  at Norton Rose LLP in London and
president of the Climate Markets & Investment Association, said
in an interview last month.  “A plunge in the carbon price as Europe’s economy shrinks
makes it more difficult to argue against the Australian carbon
pricing mechanism on cost grounds alone,” Hobley said. “The
lower price removes one of his key arguments to justify the
effort to remove the whole thing.”  Abbott may be leaving himself “wiggle room” to eventually
accept a cap-and-trade compromise, according to Davis.  “We agree on the science of climate change, we agree on
the targets to reduce emissions and we agree on using markets as
the best mechanism,” Hunt said. “But we disagree fundamentally
on the carbon tax.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  