-- Cathay May Add Japan Charter Flights as Yen Spurs Demand
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-05-08T08:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/cathay-may-add-charter-flights-to-japan-as-weak-yen-spurs-demand.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Asia’s
biggest international carrier, is considering adding charter
flights from Hong Kong to Japan as the weakening yen spurs
 travel demand .  Cathay may offer the flights to so-called second-tier
cities in Japan during summer to capitalize on “very good”
demand from people in Hong Kong, Chief Operating Officer Ivan Chu said today. The carrier has seen double-digit growth in
demand on routes to Japan from Hong Kong and Southeast Asia this
year, he said, without giving figures or identifying the
Japanese cities.  “Japan market is the bright spot of our business this
year,” Chu told reporters in Hong Kong, where Cathay is based.
“The depreciation of the yen has helped.”  The yen has declined about 12 percent against the dollar in
2013, making Japan a cheaper destination for foreign visitors.
The number of Hong Kong tourists to Japan surged 62 percent from
a year earlier to 59,400 in March, according to the  Japan
National Tourism Organization . Visitor numbers from  Thailand ,
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines  jumped at least 70 percent.  Cathay rose 2.9 percent to close at HK$14.36 in Hong Kong.
The stock has gained 1 percent this year, compared with a 2.6
percent advance for the  Hang Seng Index .  The carrier is “cautiously optimistic” about the
 passenger business  this year and is adding flights to long-haul
destinations in North America, Chu said. Cathay halted expansion
for long-haul flights and pared Middle East services in 2012
amid a global economic slowdown.  Territorial Dispute  Travel demand from China to Japan remains lackluster, Chu
said. A dispute between the two countries over ownership of
uninhabited islands intensified last year and damped demand for
Japanese services and goods in China.  Spring Airlines Co., China’s biggest carrier outside
government control, currently fills just half its seats on
flights between the two nations because tensions remain, said
Zhang Wu’an, a spokesman at the Shanghai-based company.  “There’s no improvement on this route,” Zhang said by
phone today. “Chinese consumers don’t favor Japan even though
the yen is weakening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  