-- McDonald’s April Store Sales Drop 0.6% on Asia Slowdown
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-05-08T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mcdonald-s-april-store-sales-drop-0-6-on-asia-slowdown.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
fell 0.6 percent last month as growth slowed in its Asia-Pacific
region.  Analysts estimated a 0.5 percent drop, the average of 11
estimates from Consensus Metrix. Sales at stores in the
company’s Asia-Pacific,  Middle East  and Africa unit fell 2.9
percent, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected a 1.4 percent decline.  Restaurant chains have been facing increasing consumer
scrutiny in  China  following an outbreak of bird flu and also
after a former poultry supplier to  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  was
investigated for selling chicken with excessive levels of
antibiotics. McDonald’s has sought to compete with Yum’s KFC and
Pizza Hut chains in China by adding stores and new menu items.  In Asia, April’s sales decline was due to the avian flu in
China and “softer results” in Japan and Australia, McDonald’s
said in the statement.  McDonald’s fell 1.3 percent to $100.95 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have advanced 14 percent this year through
yesterday, matching the gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Restaurants Index.  The Big Mac seller is facing a “persistently challenging
macro environment” as it begins the second quarter, Chief
Executive Officer  Don Thompson  said in the statement.  U.S., Europe  Sales increased 0.7 percent in the U.S. and fell 2.4
percent in  Europe  last month. Analysts projected drops of about
0.1 percent and 1 percent, respectively, according to Consensus
Metrix, a researcher owned by Kaul Advisory Group in Wayne, New
Jersey.  McDonald’s surprise gain in the U.S., a turnaround from the
prior month, was fueled by the introduction of chicken McWraps,
value items and breakfast, the company said in the statement.
March comparable-store sales declined 1.2 percent at McDonald’s
domestic restaurants.  The chain, with about 14,100 U.S. locations, has been
rolling out new menu items, including the McWraps and also egg-white sandwiches to lure customers from competitors. This year,
 Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  has introduced veggie and turkey
burgers, while Wendy’s Co. is selling grilled-chicken flatbread
sandwiches.  Avian Flu  McDonald’s April sales were hurt by sensitivity around the
chicken industry in China. Yum, which has more than 5,400
restaurants in China, said its first-quarter same-store sales
tumbled 20 percent after a former poultry supplier was
investigated for selling chicken with too much antibiotics. More
recently, China is facing a deadly outbreak of avian flu, which
is also negatively affecting KFC sales.  Same-store sales at McDonald’s locations in Japan dropped
3.7 percent in April, the 13th straight monthly decline.
Comparable, or same-store, sales are an indicator of a company’s
growth because they include only older restaurants.  McDonald’s has about 34,500 restaurants worldwide, of which
81 percent are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  