-- CFTC Said to Weigh Lower Price-Quote in Dodd-Frank Swap Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-05-08T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/cftc-said-to-weigh-lower-price-quote-in-dodd-frank-swap-rule.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is considering reducing the number of price quotes a
buyer must request before trading swaps under final Dodd-Frank
Act regulations intended to boost transparency, according to
three people briefed on the matter.  The five-member CFTC, led by Chairman  Gary Gensler , is
looking at cutting the number of quotes considered sufficient
for  interest rate , credit and other trades through so-called
swap-execution facilities, according to the people who requested
anonymity because the rule is still under consideration. The
final rules may let buyers request two quotes in the first year
and then require three starting in the following year, according
to one of the people.  Commissioners are weighing a change after talks faltered
late last year over a plan to require five quotes.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and other swap dealers have
lobbied against the five-quote requirement, telling regulators
that it is unnecessary and will increase trading costs and
reduce liquidity on facilities using request-for-quote systems.  “Requiring portfolio managers to widely broadcast their
trading position could negatively impact the prevailing price of
their trades, making it more expensive and difficult to hedge
their clients’ risk,” Tim Cameron, managing director and head
of the asset management group at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, said yesterday in a statement.  Quote Debate  The number of quotes required has been a central debate in
discussions over implementation of Dodd-Frank requirements to
have most swaps transacted on electronic or other platforms. The
regulatory overhaul was enacted in 2010 after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel a credit crisis that led to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a U.S. rescue of
New York-based insurer American International Group Inc.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Five Wall Street banks dominate the U.S. swaps business
with JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlling 95 percent of cash
and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding companies as of
Dec. 31,  according  to the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  The financial firms that dominate swap dealing generate
more than $30 billion in annual profit, according to an estimate
from consulting firm  Oliver Wyman , a unit of Marsh & McLennan
Cos.  Reach Consensus  A vote on the rules has been delayed since late last year
as commissioners struggle to reach consensus. The rule could
still change before a final vote.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , has filed suit
against the CFTC challenging one of the agency’s rules that
impacts its planned Sef. Tradeweb LLC,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and  GFI Group
Inc. (GFIG)  have also said they plan to register as Sefs.  Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition including the
AFL-CIO labor federation as well as other unions and consumer
groups, has opposed changes to the quote requirement.  “Reducing Sef requirements so that they could be fulfilled
by an essentially bilateral transaction, which could involve
just one or two RFQ counterparties, would nullify most of the
intended benefits of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions on
derivatives market execution,” the coalition said in a Feb. 27
 letter  to the CFTC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  