-- Chesapeake Wins Early Bond Call Over Hedge Funds and BNY
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-05-08T16:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/chesapeake-to-save-100-million-on-judge-ruling-over-bny.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  won a bid to
carry out an early call of $1.3 billion in bonds at par after a
judge rejected arguments by the notes’ trustee,  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. , and investors including River Birch Capital LLC.  Chesapeake met a March 15 deadline in the notes’ indenture
contract for redeeming the bonds six years early at 100 cents on
the dollar, U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer ruled today in
 Manhattan . Chesapeake has said a plan to refinance the debt will
save about $100 million by tapping lower  interest rates .  The 6.775 percent notes due in March 2019 dropped 7.2 cents
to 100.8 cents on the dollar as of 10:27 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chesapeake, the second-biggest producer of natural gas in
the U.S., sued BNY Mellon in March after the bank challenged its
bid to redeem the notes. The energy company argued the March 15
deadline in the indenture was for sending a notice of early
redemption to investors. The bank argued the date was for such a
call to be executed, and that notice should have been sent at
least a month earlier.  “BNY Mellon’s construction” of the deadline language “is
veritably riddled with canonical and logical problems, and
brings various provisions of the indenture into irreconcilable
conflict with each other,” Engelmayer said in the ruling.  BNY
Mellon ’s interpretation is “tortured and incoherent.”  Company Pleased  Chesapeake Chief Financial Officer Nick Dell’Osso, who
testified at a three-day trial last month, said in a statement
today that the company is “pleased” with the ruling.  Bank of New York Mellon’s spokesman, Kevin Heine, declined
to comment on the judgment when reached by phone and said the
bank would “continue to represent the interests of the
bondholders in our role as trustee.”  Bank of New York Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption would meet the deadline. The
New York-based trustee changed its position after River Birch
argued Chesapeake had started the process too late, Chesapeake
said in court papers.  Chesapeake issued the notes in February 2012 to access
short-term financing after an unusually warm winter caused a
“significant” drop in natural-gas prices, according to the
ruling. Bank of America Merrill Lynch proposed the gas company
try a debt offering with an “unusual feature” allowing it to
call the bonds early in their lifetime, after planned asset
sales that were already under way, it said.  River Birch  About a year later, on Feb. 15, River Birch bought some of
notes after it believed Chesapeake had missed the window to
redeem the notes at par, James Seery Jr., a lawyer at the hedge
fund, said in a March 12 court filing. As of March, the hedge
fund held $16.7 million of the securities.  Though River Birch wasn’t sued along with Bank of New York
Mellon, it joined a group of investors holding a total of about
$250 million in the bonds to formally intervene in the lawsuit,
so it could make arguments in court. The group dropped out of
the case before the trial.  Steve Kurz, a spokesman for River Birch, declined to
comment on today’s ruling when reached by phone.  Other investors that intervened in support of Bank of New
York Mellon’s view included Archer Capital Management LP, Ares
Management LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital
LP, Cetus Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative
Capital LP, Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, River Birch Capital
LLC and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  Deadline Language  Chesapeake had several ways it could have improved the
language of the early-call provision in the indenture contract
and avoided market confusion, Engelmayer said. It could have
replaced the phrase “may redeem” with “may commence the
redemption process,” the judge said.  “This regrettable circumstance was of course readily
preventable,” Engelmayer said. “Chesapeake’s failure to
draft” the indenture language “optimally or with perfect
clarity does not make its construction unreasonable. A
provision, even if clumsily drafted, may still be subject to a
single reasonable interpretation.”  BNY Mellon had “persuasively shown” that Chesapeake’s use
of the word “redeem” in the indenture was uncommon in the
industry, Engelmayer said.  “It ordinarily and customarily refers to the act of paying
a noteholder in exchange for his or her note,” Engelmayer said.
“It does not ordinarily or customarily refer to the act of
giving notice of a redemption or to the overall redemption
process.”  Earlier Evidence  Under questioning from Engelmayer on April 30, Chesapeake’s
lawyer, Richard Ziegler, said there was no “rational, economic
benefit” for Chesapeake, which issued the notes in February
2012, to define the deadline the way BNY Mellon had.  Engelmayer had said in court hearings that Chesapeake’s
employees’ confusion over the deadline would weigh on his
decision. Elliot Chambers, Chesapeake’s assistant treasurer and
vice president of finance, wrote as recently as Jan. 9 that the
company would need to complete the early call by March 15 to do
so at par, according to internal e-mails submitted in the case.
He was called by the bank to testify at the trial, where he said
his earlier views on the deadline were mistaken.  Bank of New York Mellon suffered a setback earlier in the
lawsuit when Engelmayer rejected the trustee’s argument that if
Chesapeake lost the case, it should be forced to carry out the
early redemption anyway, and pay all of the interest due over
the life of the loans, or about $400 million. Engelmayer
referred to the demand as “trickery” during a March 12
hearing, and BNY Mellon later dropped the demand.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  