-- Chilean Swap Rates Fall as Consumer Prices Drop: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-05-08T20:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/chilean-swap-rates-fall-as-consumer-prices-drop-santiago-mover.html
Chile ’s swap rates and traders’
projections for inflation plunged after the consumer price index
fell more than analysts forecast and the statistics agency
offered no timetable for changing its methodology.  The two-year swap rate fell 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 4.60 percent, the lowest since August. The
break-even rate, a gauge of market inflation expectations
derived from the difference between fixed-rate and index-linked
swaps, dropped 27 basis points to 2.32 percentage points. Yields
on inflation-linked bonds and swaps rose as investors dumped
indexed assets.  Annual inflation slowed to a three-year low of 1 percent.
Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said today in Santiago
that the inflation rate is showing a downward trend even when
items questioned by economists are left out. Traders in the
 swaps market  projected today two 25 basis point reductions in
the central bank policy rate, which has been on hold at 5
percent since February 2012.  “It was brutal,” Rodrigo Blazquez, a trader at Deutsche
Bank AG in Santiago, said in a telephone interview. “The market
is pricing in two rate cuts. The central bank’s language is a
little more dovish, so two cuts are doable, especially after
today’s inflation.”  The statistics agency reported today that consumer prices
fell 0.5 percent in April from the prior month, a drop bigger
than the 0.1 percent decrease that economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast.  Juan Eduardo Coeymans, the statistics agency’s new
director, said yesterday that it may take the agency until next
year to come up with a new methodology for determining the rate
of inflation after his predecessor, Francisco Labbe, quit as
analysts questioned the way the  consumer price index  was
compiled.  Vergara’s View  Vergara said today that the statistics agency’s data
concern had not and would not affect monetary policy and that
policy makers expected the slowdown in annual inflation to be
transitory. Inflation expectations are anchored around the
central bank’s 3 percent target, he said.  “There is no certainty about when there’ll be a revised
measurement,” Patricio Aliaga, a proprietary trader at the
Chilean unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a telephone
interview. “It will be a long time, and the market is reacting
to that. Inflation-linked bonds lose value and yields are
rising. In this disorder, people don’t want to hold positions.
Inflation is dark and dirty and the market is punishing it.”  The yield on  five-year  inflation-linked bonds rose nine
basis points, the most since January, to 2.47 percent. The  yield 
on five-year fixed-rate bonds dropped six basis points to 5.16
percent.  Today’s figures mean the value of assets denominated in
unidades de fomento, Chile’s inflation-linked accounting unit,
will erode throughout the month.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent today to 471.16 per  U.S.
dollar . Vergara said the central bank doesn’t rule out
intervention even as it recognizes that intervening to weaken
the currency would have costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  