-- China Refuses to Confirm Okinawa Island Belongs to Japanese
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T09:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/china-scholars-say-okinawa-s-ownership-may-be-in-question-1-.html
China  refused to confirm that Okinawa
belongs to Japan after two Chinese scholars suggested re-examining the ownership of the archipelago that includes the
island, adding to tensions over a separate territorial dispute.  Agreements between allied forces during World War II mean
the ownership of the Ryukyu Islands may be in question, the
researchers said in a commentary in the People’s Daily, the
Communist Party’s main newspaper. Asked if China considers
Okinawa part of Japan, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying
said scholars have long studied the history of the Ryukyus and
Okinawa.  “It may be time to revisit the unresolved historical issue
of the Ryukyu Islands,” Zhang Haipeng and Li Guoqiang of the
China Academy of Social Sciences  wrote in the commentary.  A move to reconsider ownership of the Ryukyus would add to
strains as China and  Japan  assert their claims over a group of
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea. The Japanese
government’s decision last year to purchase those islands,
called Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, sparked
protests across China and harmed a $340 billion annual trade
relationship that has yet to recover.  Tensions were compounded last month after Japanese
lawmakers visited a Tokyo shrine where war criminals are honored
along with other war dead and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
vowed to protect the East China Sea islands by force. The Ryukyu
Islands are home to about 1.5 million people.  Upping Ante  “The fact that this view is carried by the People’s Daily
signals that Beijing may be upping the ante,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam,
an adjunct professor of history at the Chinese University of
Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mail. “This is psychological warfare
and a classic Chinese negotiation tactic -- trying to intimidate
the opponent by raising the stakes.”  Okinawa, the largest island in the Ryukyu chain, hosts U.S.
military installations including Marine Corps Air Station
Futenma. The scholars’ comments came in an article about China’s
claim to the Diaoyu Islands.  In comments to the Japanese parliament today, Abe said
leaders must have a cautious discussion about whether it’s right
that Japan, whose army is limited to defensive action, should
always have to ask the U.S. to “attack someone who is
threatening to attack us,” as it does now. He said Japan should
debate whether it should create a force like the U.S. Marines.  Unquestionably Japan’s  The Ryukyus unquestionably belong to Japan, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters today in  Tokyo . The
northernmost part of the archipelago sits 30 kilometers (18.6
miles) from Japan’s Kyushu Island.  Speaking at a briefing in Beijing today, Hua said scholars
have “long paid attention to the history of the Ryukyus and
Okinawa.” Asked a second time whether China considers Okinawa
part of Japan, she repeated the statement.  China’s imports from Japan plunged  14 percent  in the month
following the September protests over the East China Sea
islands, according to Chinese customs figures.  The People’s Daily article referred to the 1895  Treaty of
Shimonoseki , signed after China was defeated by Japan in a war.
The agreement ceded  Taiwan  and parts of the Liaodong peninsula
to Japan, and China paid a fine and renounced  Korea ’s tributary
status to China. The scholars argued that the treaty was
nullified with Japan’s defeat in World War II, and that this
called into question Japan’s claim to the Ryukyus.  Global Times  It isn’t the first time Chinese commentators have
questioned Japan’s claim over the Ryukyus. Last July, an article
in the Global Times, a newspaper owned by the People’s Daily,
 noted  their former tribute status in China’s imperial period. In
the nineteenth century, the Ryukyu Kingdom paid tribute to China
and Japan before being annexed by Japan in 1879.  The scholars writing today aren’t necessarily saying that
the Ryukyus belong to China, according to Taylor Fravel, a
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who
studies China’s territorial claims. They are raising the
possibility that Japan’s ownership could be disputed because the
tribute history, he said.  “These are perhaps the most serious scholars to date to
make this insinuation,” Fravel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  