-- China Merchants Bank Names Tian Party Secretary as Ma Retires
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T11:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/china-merchants-bank-names-tian-party-secretary-as-ma-retires.html
China Merchants Bank Co. (3968)  party
secretary Ma Weihua resigned after nearly 15 years in charge of
the nation’s sixth-largest lender, as management changes in the
financial industry follow a once-a-decade leadership transition.  Tian Huiyu, former head of  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ’s
Beijing branch, replaced the 63-year-old Ma, Shenzhen-based
Merchants Bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Ma led the bank to become China’s second-largest credit-
card issuer and boosted  profit  by an average 26 percent over the
past five years. His departure comes as competitors such as
 China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)  are catching up in earnings growth
and accelerating expansion in retail banking.  Shares of Merchants Bank gained 0.6 percent to HK$16.88
today in  Hong Kong , narrowing this year’s decline to 1.3
percent.  The change follows a leadership shift that culminated in
March with Xi Jinping becoming the nation’s president and Li
Keqiang premier. New leaders have been appointed for Bank of
China Ltd., China Development Bank Corp. and the securities
regulator.  Unlike at larger Chinese banks, China Merchants Chairman Fu Yuning oversees a broader financial group, leaving more
responsibility for day-to-day operations to the president. China
Merchants Group, a state-owned  investment company  whose other
assets include ports and insurance operations, is the bank’s
largest shareholder, with a stake of about 18 percent.  Tian joined Beijing-based Construction Bank, China’s
second-largest lender, in 2006, according to  the bank’s website .
He worked as a secretary to  Wang Qishan , the  21st Century
Business Herald  said. Wang is now a member of the Communist
Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, the nation’s top decision-
making body. Tian also held posts at Bank of Shanghai Co. and
China Cinda Asset Management Corp., and has a master of public
administration degree from  Columbia University .  Before joining Merchants Bank, Ma worked for the central
bank and the nation’s foreign exchange regulator. Prior to that,
he worked at government departments in Liaoning and Anhui
provinces, according to his  biography  on Merchants Bank’s
website. He holds a doctorate in economics from Southwest
Finance and Economics University.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  