-- China’s Life Insurers Face Cash Flow Pressure as Surrenders Jump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T02:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/china-s-life-insurers-face-cash-flow-pressure-as-surrenders-jump.html
Cash flows at China’s life insurers
will be squeezed this year by customers canceling contracts out
of frustration with low returns and an increase in maturing
policies, according to BoCom International Holdings Co. and
 Capital Securities Corp. (6005)   China Life Insurance Co.’s surrenders -- cash repayments
policyholders receive when they choose to end the contracts
before maturity -- more than doubled to 20.1 billion yuan ($3.3
billion) in the first quarter, the nation’s biggest insurer said
last month. Redemptions jumped 62 percent at  China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co. (2601)  and 55 percent at New  China Life Insurance
Co. (2628)  in the quarter, the insurers said.  Chinese banks are luring savers who have endured a 20
percent decline in the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  in the past two
years with wealth-management products offering higher returns
than deposits. Insurers may accelerate sales through banks of
less profitable, short-term policies to keep cash coming in,
according to BoCom International.  “Cash-flow pressures are tremendous this year,” said Li
Wenbing, BoCom International’s Beijing-based analyst. “That’s
especially so for China Life and Pacific Insurance,” which have
the most policies maturing this year.  Insurers need adequate cash inflows to cover normal outlays
including policyholders’ benefits, operating expenses, dividends
to shareholders, and protect themselves from liquidity shocks
such as early withdrawals by contract holders and defaults by
debtors. Insufficient cash holdings may force insurers to
liquidate parts of investment portfolios at undesirable prices
and incur losses.  Maturing Policies  Policyholders’ search for more attractive returns is
coinciding with a surge in maturing policies at insurers. That
is partly a result of long-term contracts sold years ago and a
peak in bank-counter sales of five-year policies, according to
Capital Securities.  China Life has about 132 billion  yuan  of maturing policies
this year, an increase of 93 percent from 2012, Li estimated.
Claims in the first quarter jumped 41 percent from a year
earlier to 43.9 billion yuan due to “intensive” payment for
maturity benefits, equivalent to 40 percent of premiums earned
over the period, the Beijing-based company said in a filing to
the Hong Kong stock exchange April 25.  E-mails sent to China Life and New China Life’s Beijing-
based press offices seeking comments were not returned. Phone
calls to Pacific Insurance’s Shanghai-based media department
went unanswered. New China Life is the third-biggest life
insurance company, while Pacific Insurance is the fourth.  Regulatory Changes  Life-insurance premiums rose 4 percent to 996 billion yuan
in 2012 after a 9 percent slump in 2011, according to the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission. That compares with average
growth of 30 percent a year in the previous three decades.  The CIRC, as the regulator is known, may scrap the 2.5
percent maximum rate on fixed-return policies in a trial
starting as early as this month to help insurers make their
products more attractive, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month. The changes may prompt premature redemptions to
increase by less than 50 percent by value from the current level,
the person said.  Banks’ wealth-management products, which invest in riskier
assets, rose to 7.1 trillion yuan as of Dec. 31 and attracted
“a very big part” of insurers’ bank-counter sales, Guotai
Junan Securities Co. analysts led by Peng Yulong wrote in a
March 27 report. Such insurance policies typically yield 3.5
percent to 4 percent, they wrote, compared with the 4.75 percent
benchmark rate on the most comparable five-year bank deposits.  ‘Poor’ Environment  “The environment for the industry remains poor and we’re
not seeing any obvious improvement yet this year,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based analyst at Capital Securities,
referring to the jump in surrenders. “It could take as long as
half a year for consumers to change their perceptions about
insurance products.”  China Life’s new business value, which gauges profitability
of new policies sold, may have dropped in the first quarter
after a 3.1 percent increase last year, BoCom International’s Li
said. Lower-margin policies sold through banks accounted for 73
percent of new business at the insurer last year and almost half
at Pacific Insurance.  That compared with less than 20 percent at Ping An
Insurance Group Co., the second-largest life insurer, whose
surrenders rose 38 percent to 1.7 billion yuan in the first
quarter, Li said.  ‘Relatively Small’  Ping An faces “relatively small” pressure from maturity
payments and surrenders this year, as most of its policies were
sold by individual agents rather than banks and the contracts
mostly have maturities longer than 10 years, the company said in
an e-mailed statement.  Surrender value for the industry was 119.8 billion yuan
last year, or 2.76 percent of premiums, below a 5 percent level
identified by the agency potentially triggering liquidity risks,
the regulator said. China Life’s annualized surrender ratio was
5.4 percent in the first quarter, compared to 2.7 percent last
year, according to the Guotai Junan analysts.  “The surrender situation is severe,” Guosen Securities Co.
analysts Shao Ziqin and Tong Chengdun wrote in an April 26
report. “The persistent shrinkage is aggravating pressures on
the company’s cash flow and costs.”  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Tomoko Yamazaki, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  