-- China Export Gains Spur Renewed Skepticism of Figures
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T09:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/china-export-gains-top-forecasts-as-imports-exceed-estimates.html
China ’s  export  growth unexpectedly
accelerated in April even as shipments to the U.S. and  Europe 
fell, spurring Bank of America Corp. and Mizuho Securities Co.
analysts to say the figures were inflated by fake reports.  The 14.7 percent increase, reported by the General
Administration of Customs in Beijing today, was led by a 57.2
percent jump in shipments to  Hong Kong  that highlighted
suspicions of false transactions used to mask capital flows into
China. A customs spokesman said last month that the agency would
investigate the “extraordinary” gain in trade with Hong Kong.  The report deepens skepticism on the reliability of trade
data from the world’s largest exporting nation, with Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc saying export gains may be overstated by 9
percentage points. Regulators announced a crackdown this week on
companies using trade reports to disguise speculative money
inflows chasing a yuan that’s already exceeded last year’s gains
against the dollar.  “Exports actually haven’t done all that well,”  Louis Kuijs , the RBS chief China economist who previously worked for
the  World Bank , said on Bloomberg Television from Hong Kong.
That reflects a “pretty weak global picture, weak demand for
Chinese exports” and the impact from yuan appreciation on
China’s shipments, he said.  Today’s report showed a 0.1 percent drop in U.S. shipments
and 6.4 percent decline in exports to the European Union.
Previous figures showed China’s shipments to Hong Kong rose 92.9
percent in March, while Hong Kong said imports from China rose
13.8 percent.  Port Strike  A 40-day strike by port workers at Hong Kong’s container
terminal ended this week after spurring shipping lines to divert
vessels to nearby ports, including Shenzhen’s.  Economists from Bank of America Corp.,  Societe Generale  SA
and Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd. joined Kuijs in
questioning today’s export numbers, building on skepticism over
previous data this year. Nomura Holdings Inc. estimated growth
was actually around 2 percent last month.  “We advise caution in interpreting these figures,” said
Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale in Hong Kong. The
report on April trade was again at odds with the “unambiguous
disappointment” in figures from  South Korea  and  Taiwan , she
said.  South Korea said May 1 that exports rose 0.4 percent in
April from a year earlier while Taiwan said yesterday that its
shipments abroad fell 1.9 percent.  China’s customs administration didn’t respond to faxed
questions today on skepticism over the April data and the status
of its investigation into reports of inflated figures.  Holiday Timing  Capital Economics Ltd. said the chief reason for the pickup
was the presence of two additional working days in April, due to
the timing of a holiday this year and last year.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5 percent at the close,
while the  yuan  strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar.  The median estimate of 39 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  was for export growth of 9.2 percent, with projections
ranging from 5.1 percent to 15.8 percent.  Import  gains  of 16.8 percent exceeded the median analyst
forecast of 13 percent and March’s 14.1 percent increase, which
may ease concern that domestic demand is slowing after the
world’s second-largest economy unexpectedly  decelerated  last
quarter. Bank of America said the data on inbound shipments are
more accurate than exports and “send encouraging signs” about
demand within China.  The trade surplus of $18.2 billion was higher than
projected and follows a March deficit of about $880 million.  More Scrutiny  China’s currency regulator said this week that it will
increase scrutiny of cross-border capital flows by importers and
exporters to prevent speculative funds from entering the country
disguised as payments for trade.  That crackdown “may help China’s trade growth return to
its true level,” ANZ said in a note today.  Recipients of the regulator’s warnings have 10 days to
explain the need for their transactions and those who fail to
comply or are unable to provide satisfactory proof will then be
placed on the agency’s so-called B list, which means their
activities will be closely monitored for at least three months.  Inflation  figures  are due tomorrow from the National Bureau
of Statistics, which on May 13 will release numbers on retail
sales, industrial production and fixed-asset investment. The
People’s Bank of China is also set to report on lending and
money-supply growth.  PMI Survey  An official survey of 3,000 manufacturers, known as the
 Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP) , showed May 1 that  new export orders 
contracted in April for the third time in four months. A
widening discrepancy between China’s data on exports to Hong
Kong and the city’s figures on imports from China raises
questions about mainland numbers, according to researchers
including IHS Inc.  Bank of America said in a note today that “actual external
demand should be much weaker than the headline export figure
would suggest,” while ANZ said the figures indicate that
capital flows embedded in trade remain “unchecked.” ANZ in a
note yesterday fingered “round-tripping” and over-invoicing of
trade between Hong Kong and Shenzhen, just across the border, as
a main force behind China’s export growth.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the nation’s biggest shipping
company, on April 26 reported a loss of 1.99 billion yuan for
the first quarter of 2013, as dry-bulk shipping volumes rose
less than 1 percent.  The customs agency last month acknowledged concerns that
the data may be overstated at a press briefing while standing by
its figures and saying the differences with Hong Kong’s numbers
stem from different statistical methods.  Deeper Probes  The administration will “work with relevant departments to
conduct deeper and more detailed investigations and research so
that we can be completely clear about various reasons behind the
extraordinary trade growth with Hong Kong,” Zheng Yuesheng, a
spokesman, said at the briefing in Beijing.  Elsewhere,  Germany  will report March industrial output data
today, while U.S. mortgage application figures are released.
Poland will set  interest rates . New Zealand’s central bank today
announced requirements for banks to hold increased capital to
guard against risks in home lending.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from Zeb Eckert in Hong Kong and
Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  