-- China Home Sales Growth to Slow on Property Curbs, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T05:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/china-home-sales-growth-to-slow-on-property-curbs-moody-s-says.html
China ’s property sales and prices
growth will slow, while the market’s outlook is stable after the
government issued property curbs, said Moody’s Investors Service.  Sales growth will decelerate to about 10 percent over the
next 12 months from last year amid reinforcement of home-purchase restrictions, Hong Kong-based analysts led by Franco
Leung wrote in a report today. Urbanization and favorable
mortgage financing for first-time homebuyers will support demand
and sales volume, according to the report.  Thirty-five city governments issued details of property
measures by an April 1 deadline. Former Premier Wen Jiabao in
March ordered the central bank to raise down-payment
requirements for second mortgages in cities with excessive cost
gains and told local governments with the biggest price
pressures to tighten home-purchase limits and set price-control
targets.  “Developers are not under high pressure to dispose of
their inventories,” Leung told reporters in Hong Kong today.
“The roll out of the projects will be gradual and will not be
in a rush.”  Developers focused on the mass market, including state-owned  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  and the country’s
biggest developer  China Vanke Co. (000002) , will enjoy the strongest
level of sales, it said.  China’s home prices jumped 5.3 percent from a year earlier
last month, the biggest gain since housing costs ended eight
months of declines in December, according to  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  Sales of major developers last month declined 17 percent
from March, according to Jefferies Group Inc. Developers
including China Overseas Land and  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  are
on track to achieve their full-year sales targets, Christie Ju,
a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Jefferies, wrote in a note
to clients yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  