-- Chinese Women Aren’t Taking Buffett’s Advice on Gold
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-08T22:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/chinese-women-aren-t-taking-buffett-s-advice-on-gold.html
On Sunday afternoon, a microblogger in
Beijing logged into Sina Weibo,  China ’s leading social media
platform, to gossip about the “ auntie ” next door. It’s a broad
term of respect for an older woman, and his followers understood
precisely what he meant when he  tweeted , “The auntie next door
used all of her retirement savings to buy gold. When asked what
she’d do if prices keep dropping, she replied that if everyone
kept buying gold, the price wouldn’t drop...”  This might strike a conservative investor as reckless. But
in China, where gold has long been a national obsession, a mid- April record crash in global gold prices  has been seen as an
unprecedented  buying opportunity . According to  reports  in China,
Chinese have  purchased 300 tons  of gold worth  more than $16
billion  since the crash.  Photos  of crowds  packing jewelry shops and  emptying their
shelves  are now  regular features  in the news media. On Monday, a
police officer in Shanxi province  tweeted , in regard to his
actual aunt: “My aunt’s family has a gold store, and my
colleague who’s in the market for some gold for his mother asked
if I could get him a cheap price. I asked, and my aunt said
first come and take a look to see if anything catches your eye.
But at the moment the display cases are empty, and they are
unable to get new inventory. All I can say is that the power of
the Chinese is frightening.”  China’s voracious  appetite for gold  is long-standing. At
Chinese jewelry stores, the spot price for gold is always
prominently displayed. Calculators and scales are never out of a
customer’s reach. Gold jewelry is desirable, but so are gold
bars, and any jewelry store that considers itself full-service
will stock ingots of various weights. (In April, an investor in
 Guangzhou  bought  44 pounds of the bars , according to a local
newspaper.) Special commemorative bars in various weights and
designs were issued for the 2008  Beijing Olympics  and the  2010
World Expo  in Shanghai.  The current rush is unusual in two ways. The first is its
epic scale. The second is that, according to both traditional
and social media, aunties are doing most of the buying.  Who are these aunties? In the imaginations of many, they
are the fierce, middle-aged housewives who walk through wet
markets and supermarkets confidently, and pragmatically,
negotiating bargains. When it comes to gold, as China Economic
Weekly  noted wryly  on Monday: “They buy it like cabbage.”  There’s more than a hint of sexism in such
characterizations and little actual data -- beyond photos of
middle-aged women buying jewelry. Nonetheless, news media
sources -- especially state-owned ones -- are willing to repeat
unflattering stereotypes explaining why these Chinese women are
so interested in gold. (The U.S.-based news media also  can’t
seem  to help themselves.)  On Sunday, Shanghai-based Liberation Daily, a newspaper
owned by the  Shanghai  Communist Party, not only joined  other
news outlets  in comparing the gold-shopping habits of aunties to
grocery shopping but also  suggested : “Their knowledge of banking
and finance is close to zero, so their investments change with
the winds. They’re also based on feelings, as well as the advice
of close friends.”  Social media tends to take a less critical, and more
personal, view of the aunties. Depictions involving  mother-daughter interactions , in particular, are very common. On
Saturday, Zhongxiao Fang Fang Fang, the handle for a
microblogger in Shenzhen,  tweeted : “Yesterday my mother called
me to say the price of gold has fallen, and to ask me to go to
 Hong Kong  to buy gold. I said I didn’t want any. She very calmly
said it would be good to prepare a dowry so I can get married!”  It’s an adorable anecdote, but can it -- and numerous
stories like it -- really account for China’s renewed gold
appetite? Is the gold frenzy really just a matter of bargain-hunting by aunties (and perhaps others)? On Monday, in an effort
to explain the country’s peculiar passion for gold, the Beijing
Daily newspaper published  a feature  comparing the Chinese hunger
for gold with  Warren Buffett ’s  aversion to it  and other
investments that don’t generate returns:  “Perhaps the majority of Americans cannot comprehend the
unusual feelings Chinese people have toward gold and silver.
They’ve never considered that rather than being afraid to invest
in gold, the Chinese are more afraid that they won’t possess
gold. Maybe what Chinese aunties care about is not the price of
gold tomorrow, their desire is perhaps nothing more than to buy
gold, to delight in gold, to hold it. Chinese aunties’ gold
investment strategies are simple and unsophisticated, they just
‘buy what they want.’”  Still, even though China’s gold buyers have shown what
might appear as a short-sighted passion for what some consider a
low-return investment, they’re not necessarily acting
irrationally.  Some news outlets  have taken pains to point out
that a precious metal might not be such a bad savings plan if
you live and invest in China. On Monday, Zhu Ning, a professor
at the Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, offered a
sympathetic and detailed defense of the aunties presented in a
widely-cited  blog post :  “Why are Chinese aunties so frenzied in their quest for
gold? The primary reason is the limited options for domestic
investments. The country strictly controls real-estate
purchases; money could be saved in the bank but interest rates
are low, and taking into account inflation, there are hardly any
profits, but mostly losses; it’s been only a few years since the
stock market slump, with investors losing much of their wealth.
So, after gold prices fell, many people thought of gold as a
last straw investment and now eagerly anticipate a future rise
in value. They only want an investment outlet.”  Zhu’s point likely stands, regardless of whether it was
aunties or a more diversified group purchasing the large volumes
of gold that have flowed out of Chinese jewelry stores over the
past month.  But on China’s microblogs, if not in its newspapers, there
remains a stubborn Chinese confidence that the gold price is now
in the hands of the aunties. “It’s almost Mother’s Day,”  tweeted 
a Wenzhou-based microblogger on Saturday. “My mother bluntly
told me to buy her gold.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 