-- Citigroup Cuts Deutsche Bank Currency Lead on Asia Trade
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-05-09T16:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/citigroup-cuts-deutsche-bank-currencies-lead-as-asia-trade-jumps.html
Citigroup Inc. cut  Deutsche Bank (DB)  AG’s
lead as the biggest currency trader in a  Euromoney Institutional
Investor Plc (ERM)  poll, boosted by its larger share of emerging-market transactions.  Citigroup came second in the annual rankings with a 14.90
percent market share, trailing that of Deutsche Bank by 0.28
percentage point, the second-slimmest margin since the poll
began in 1976,  Euromoney said  in an e-mailed statement. The New
York-based lender had a 15.64 percent share of emerging-market
foreign exchange, versus Deutsche Bank’s 13.46 percent. The top
nine held their overall positions from last year and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch took Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s 10th spot.  The Asia-Pacific region accounted for 26 percent of
 currency markets  last year, the survey showed, up from 21
percent in 2012, as Japanese policies that debased the yen
ignited trading interest and investors sought higher-yielding
assets. The share for  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa fell to
44 percent from 49 percent.  “ Asia  is a hot growth center, no question about that, but
we saw volume and market-share gains across the world,” said
Jeff Feig, global head of Group-of-10 foreign exchange at
 Citigroup (C)  in  New York . “Our volumes were up significantly in a
market where volumes were flat-to-down. Our goal is definitely
to be widely recognized as the top foreign-exchange provider.”  Barclays, UBS  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was the  third-largest  trader, with a 10.24
percent overall share, and Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  was fourth with
10.11 percent, according to the survey.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  held
its place in the top five for a second year at 6.93 percent.  The poll is drawn from a survey of traders in the foreign-exchange markets and was based on 16,298 responses, representing
$225 trillion of turnover, Euromoney said. Volumes covered by
the survey declined 3 percent from last year on a like-for-like
basis, Euromoney said. Electronic trading accounted for 45
percent of flows, up from 38 percent in 2012, it said.  “We’re obviously putting in a huge effort in Asia,” said
Kevin Rodgers, global head of foreign exchange at Deutsche Bank
in  London . “We’re keeping the technological engines brand new
and sparkling. Our target areas for growth are mainly in the
corporate and real-money sectors” as well as electronic
trading, he said.  Sinking Yen  Deutsche Bank’s market share climbed from 14.57 percent
last year and the top five banks grew their combined share,
accounting for 57 percent of trading from 55 percent in 2012.  The yen sank almost 20 percent against the dollar in the
past six months, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for
expanded monetary easing and  Bank of Japan  Governor  Haruhiko
Kuroda  pledged to double monthly bond purchases. It weakened 0.3
percent to 99.34 yen per dollar at 12:32 p.m. New York time.  The Japanese currency has been “probably the biggest
single growth factor in the foreign-exchange market both in
terms of options and the cash product,” according to
Citigroup’s Feig.  Currency volumes jumped at the start of this year after a
drop in the fourth quarter. Traders had the best month in almost
three years in January, according to a Deutsche Bank index of
currency returns as a weakening yen and resurgent euro boosted
volatility in foreign-exchange markets from a five-year low.  ‘Proactive Steps’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Group of Seven FX Volatility Index,
a measure of currency fluctuations, has climbed to 8.9 percent
from 7.06 percent on Dec. 18, the least since 2007.  New Zealand 
announced it sold the kiwi yesterday, joining a growing band of
countries from  South Korea  to  Israel  in escalating its response
to a strengthening currency.  “Volumes have increased because of the proactive steps
taken on the monetary-policy side by central banks across the
globe,” said Adrian McGowan, head of foreign-exchange trading
for Europe at Barclays in London. “Yen crosses have seen the
biggest increase and we’ve also seen a very large increase in
euro trading,” said McGowan, who also heads foreign-exchange
forwards and options at the bank.  A survey by Greenwich Associates published in March also
showed Deutsche Bank had the biggest share of the global
foreign-exchange market as of November. The Frankfurt-based bank
had a 10.7 percent share of the foreign-exchange market,
according to a survey conducted between September and November.  Sustainable Revenue  HSBC narrowed the gap with fourth-placed UBS as its market
share rose from 6.72 percent last year. Each of the top-four
banks in the survey command more than 10 percent of traded
volumes, according to Euromoney.  “We are keen to progress and reduce the gap but at our own
pace,” said Frederic Boillereau, global head of foreign
exchange and commodities in London. “It’s a balance between the
market share and the quality but more than anything it’s the
sustainability of our revenue.”  The survey was the first for which Euromoney collected
emerging-markets data. That represented 9 percent of all client
transactions, it said.  Nomura Holdings Inc. was ranked top for Group-of-10
currencies research by “leveraged funds” and “real-money”
investors, Euromoney said today. Deutsche Bank came first for
emerging-markets research and  State Street Corp. (STT)  topped polls of
quantitative and flow research among the same investor groups.  Following is a table of Euromoney’s rankings for foreign-exchange market share (all products).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 