-- Coca-Cola Expands Calorie Labels and Emphasizes No-Cals
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/coca-cola-to-show-calorie-counts-while-ceasing-ads-for-under-12s.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  will expand calorie
labeling to the front of all packages and reiterated its pledge
not to advertise to children under 12 anywhere as the world’s
largest soft-drink maker fights criticism that it is
contributing to obesity.  The plan, which includes expanding physical activity
programs, will apply to the more than 200 countries where it
operates, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said yesterday in a statement.
The company also will emphasize low- and no-calorie drinks in
 emerging markets . Coca-Cola didn’t set deadlines or targets for
the initiatives.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has been working to
counter the perception that the soft-drink maker contributes to
America’s obesity epidemic. Coca-Cola earlier this year
introduced advertisements highlighting the company’s low- and
zero-calorie products and suggesting people pay attention to how
many calories they consume in order to manage their weight.  “People in these countries are going to be aware of these
health issues so Coke wants to be prepared,”  Jack Russo , an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “The regulators and governments are
going to get more involved with this entire issue.”  Ad Spending  On a conference call yesterday, Kent declined to discuss
costs for the initiatives or say how they will affect spending
for marketing and advertising. No- and low-calorie drinks are
currently offered in most markets, he said.  “This is not just about making them available but also
merchandising them and also ensuring that there is sufficient
point of sale material around them,” Kent said.  Coca-Cola first pledged not to advertise to children under
age 12 globally in 2007.  In 2009, the company said it would offer calorie counts on
the front of packages in every country where it operates, with
some exceptions. Yesterday’s pledge expands that to all
packages. The timetable is uncertain because returnable bottles
that are refilled and reused in many emerging countries will
take time to replace, said  Kent Landers , a spokesman.  “This is the issuance of an invitation for partners to
come and join us,” Kent said. “We know we can’t do this
alone.”  Calorie Count  About 41 percent of products that carry a Coca-Cola
trademark in the U.S., including  Diet Coke  and Coke Zero, are
low- or no-calorie, Kent said. That compares with about 30
percent during the late 1990’s, he said. In China’s coastal
areas, the percentage is in the single-digits, while higher in
big cities, he said. As of last year, almost half of  PepsiCo
Inc.’s (PEP)  U.S. beverage sales volume was comprised of low- and no-calorie drinks, sports drinks and juices, according to the
Purchase, New York-based company.  Coca-Cola’s “objective is to deflect criticism of sugary
drinks and to forestall any meaningful government action to
reduce soda consumption,” said Jeff Cronin, a spokesman for
Washington-based Center for Science in the Public Interest,
which published its “Liquid Candy” report in 1998 blaming
sugary soda for helping make kids obese. “This is a campaign to
sell more Coca-Cola and not a campaign to combat obesity.”  Cronin said he sees little new in yesterday’s announcement
and took issue with the company’s efforts to defeat soft drink
taxes and size limits.  Activity Programs  Coca-Cola now supports physical activity programs in about
100 countries and will add programs in the rest of its
countries, Landers said.  “We want to create awareness for more regular exercise,”
Kent said. “We know it is more fun to consume calories than to
spend calories. We want to make spending calories more fun.”  PepsiCo has responded to the critics, as well. The company
embarked on a global voluntary commitment in 2007 to limit
advertising aimed at children under age 12 to products that meet
specific nutrition criteria. The effort has been focused on the
U.S. and select markets, such as  India ,  China ,  Mexico  and the
European Union. The company says it has used an independent
third-party to monitor its progress.  PepsiCo’s Gatorade brand provides active sports
opportunities to more than 500,000 children by way of summer
camps at universities. The company also works with YMCAs to
encourage healthy lifestyles. Jeff Dahncke, a PepsiCo spokesman,
declined to comment on Coke’s announcement.  Obesity Rates  Coca-Cola  fell  0.6 percent to $42.46 at the close in  New
York  yesterday. The shares have gained 17 percent this year,
compared with a 22 percent advance for PepsiCo and a 14 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Almost 36 percent of adults and about 17 percent of
children are obese in the U.S., according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. Obesity is measured
by using weight and height to calculate a number called body
mass index, according to the CDC. An adult who is 5 feet, 9
inches tall and weighs 203 pounds or more is considered obese.  Earlier this year,  New York City  challenged a ruling
throwing out Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg ’s proposal to restrict
sales of large-size soda drinks, calling the plan “contrary to
law.”  The city’s Board of Health last year approved the plan to
cap the size of sugary soft drinks sold in restaurants, movie
theaters, stadiums and arenas at 16 ounces (473 milliliters) a
cup. In October, groups representing beverage makers,
restaurants and theaters asked the court to end the regulation,
citing “unprecedented interference.”  Between 2009 and 2011, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and the  American
Beverage Association  spent as much as $70 million on lobbying
and issuing ads, according to the Center for Science in the
Public Interest, a proponent of soda taxes. The money helped
defeat efforts to enact such levies in 30 states.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
 Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  