-- Colorado Lawmakers Approve Bills Regulating Retail Pot Sales
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-05-08T20:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/colorado-lawmakers-approve-bills-regulating-retail-pot-sales.html
After five months of hearings to iron
out hundreds of details,  Colorado  became the first U.S. state to
pass legislation regulating the retail sale of marijuana and
proposing to  tax  the new industry as much as 25 percent.  Lawmakers approved bills dictating how the manufacture,
sale, distribution, dispensing and testing of retail products
may occur; setting a limit on driving while under the influence;
and sending an initiative to the ballot this fall that would set
up to a 15 percent excise tax on wholesale sales and a 10
percent sales tax on retail purchases. With state and local
sales levies, total tax could approach 36 percent.  “We need to make sure that the implementation of Amendment
64 does not take away from K-12 education,” said state Senator
Cheri Jahn, a Democrat from Wheat Ridge. “This has to be a
self-sustaining program. We don’t want too much tax, but we want
just enough.”  Underlining the complexity of the task facing the state’s
General Assembly in regulating what remains an illegal activity
under federal law, lawmakers amended an  omnibus  marijuana
measure more than 130 times -- making changes up to the last
minute before the final vote.  The Colorado House passed the bills on a party-line vote,
with 37 Democrats in favor and 28 Republicans opposed. The bills
now make their way to Governor John Hickenlooper, a first-term
Democrat, who supports them, said  Eric Brown , a spokesman. The
omnibus marijuana bill debated today reflects many of the 58
recommendations made by a 24-member  task force  convened by
Hickenlooper in December.  Task Force  The task force included state officials, legislators,
medical marijuana representatives and residents. A 10-member
legislative committee that crafted most of the legislation used
the group’s 165-page  report  as a guide.  Among the measures is a resolution calling on the federal
government to “provide guidance in implementing this law.” The
U.S.  Justice Department  is still reviewing the constitutional
amendment that called for recreational pot sales in Colorado,
known as  Amendment 64 , as well as a similar initiative passed in
Washington state in November, Allison Price, a department
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Coloradans voted in November to legalize possession of up
to an ounce (28 grams) of marijuana by adults 21 or older and
approved its sale in retail stores.  The change gave the state’s Revenue Department until July 1
to draft rules for recreational pot cultivation, distribution
and sales. Officials must start accepting applications for
retail marijuana stores by Oct. 1 and begin issuing licenses for
them by Jan. 1, the date when they may begin operating.  New Taxes  The new excise and sales taxes approved by lawmakers today
must also be approved by Colorado voters in November. If voters
don’t approve additional levies, state regulators will be forced
to use general fund money to pay for staff necessary to enforce
rules.  The department charged with regulating the state’s current
medical marijuana industry testified in committee last month
that it doesn’t have sufficient resources to meet the demands of
overseeing the existing 1,400 businesses. About 144,000 patients
patronize about 500 dispensaries in the state.  A  forecast  on the fiscal impact of Amendment 64 released
April 24 by the Colorado Futures Center, a nonpartisan research
organization at Fort Collins-based  Colorado State University ,
predicted that 642,772 Coloradans will use legal marijuana next
year -- or about 13 percent of state residents.  Retail Sales  Lawmakers are so concerned about how much it will cost to
oversee the new industry that on May 6 they introduced a
resolution proposed for the November ballot that would have tied
passage of taxes to retail sales. The measure would have asked
voters two questions: Should new taxes be allowed and should
retail sales be suspended if the levies aren’t approved?  Over the objections of industry representatives, who rushed
to testify at a hastily called committee hearing, senators sent
the measure to the floor before it was available for anyone to
read. They later killed it before it came up for debate, saying
they made their point: If the industry opposes the tax measure,
causing it to fail, they will bring back a bill to halt retail
sales next session.  “This resolution is an attempt to get the industry’s
attention,” Senate President John Morse, a Democrat from
 Colorado Springs , said on the Senate floor on May 6. “If a tax
measure is unsuccessful, the taxpayers can be left holding the
bag and I can assure you that the members will take up this
measure again.”  Growing Product  Among the most-controversial issues in the five-month-long
debate on how to regulate retail pot sales was whether these
shops should be required to grow most of their product, which
would mimic the structure of the state’s existing medical-marijuana industry. Under the omnibus bill, stores will be
required to do so until September 2014.  Businesses won’t be allowed to sell their products online.
Medical marijuana firms will be given preference for the first
round of licenses for retail shops.  Another contentious matter, which failed to make it into
law six times in the past three years, is a bill that sets a
limit of 5 nanograms of THC -- the psychoactive chemical in
marijuana -- drivers can retain in their blood that would allow
juries to consider whether they were too high to drive.  The measure requires police to have probable cause to pull
over a driver and doesn’t change anything about how they stop or
question motorists. Drivers would be required to give consent to
have their blood drawn, although their licenses could be revoked
if they refuse.  Medical marijuana industry lobbyists and patients fought
the measure, saying science doesn’t exist to support the limit
and adding they retain 5 nanograms of THC in their blood on a
routine basis.  Driving Limit  Lawmakers persisted, introducing a second bill with an
under-the-influence driving limit this session at the urging of
Hickenlooper and law enforcement officials after a first measure
died in committee.  “Fatalities by drivers with positive cannabis in 2006 were
33; in 2011 it was 59 -- almost a 50 percent increase,” said
state Senator Steve King, a Grand Junction Republican who
sponsored the measure. “People are dying on our highways from
people driving high and it is going up and it is going up
significantly.”  Dozens of new regulatory questions emerged even over the
last three days of the session, with legislators agreeing that
retailers may not put pot in trademarked products, that it may
not be sold from anything with wheels, and that collectives
where residents pool pot plants and sell them would be outlawed.  Senators applauded after voting on the omnibus marijuana
measure, with several co-sponsors wearily embracing one another.  “I think we’ve all heard just about all we want to hear on
retail marijuana,” said Jahn, who sat on Hickenlooper’s  task
force  and sponsored the taxation and omnibus bills in the
Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  