-- Columbus Set to Redeem Up to $476 Million of Build America Bonds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-08T19:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/columbus-set-to-redeem-up-to-476-million-of-build-america-bonds.html
Ohio ’s capital city is set to buy back
at par as much as $476 million of Build America Bonds it sold in
2009 and 2010 as sequestration will cut the federal subsidies on
the debt’s interest costs.  Columbus, with 797,000 residents, is the state’s largest
metropolis. The city plans to redeem all or a portion of its
Build America Bonds at 100 percent of the principal plus accrued
interest, according to a May 2 filing on the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board website.  It would be the biggest such redemption of Build America
Bonds because of federal sequestration cuts, according to Tom Weyl, director of muni research at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New
York .  States and localities sold about $188 billion of Build
America Bonds in 2009 and 2010. The debt was created as part of
President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus plan. The taxable securities
give issuers a 35 percent federal subsidy on interest payments.  U.S. federal spending cuts of $80.1 billion that started
March 1 to help balance the  federal budget  include reducing
subsidy payments for Build America securities by 8.7 percent,
according to the  Internal Revenue Service .  Redemption Option  More municipalities will consider redeeming Build America
Bonds as bankers, financial advisers and bond counsels “will be
looking for these opportunities,” said Matt Fabian, a managing
director with Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors. “You’ll continue to see this activity.”  Paul Rakosky, director of the department of finance and
management for Columbus, didn’t immediately return an e-mail and
voice message seeking comment.  The Columbus move follows localities such as Monona and
Horicon, both in  Wisconsin , which have also announced plans to
buy back the bonds because of the reduced subsidy.  Columbus has top credit grades from the three major credit-rating firms. Columbus Build America Bonds due July 2023 traded
today with an average yield of 3.95 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Build America Bonds program expired at the end of 2010.
The securities have earned 2.6 percent this year, beating the
broader $3.7 trillion municipal market’s 1.5 percent gain,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  