-- CommonWealth Judge Backs Arbitration in Corvex Board Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-09T00:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/commonwealth-judge-backs-arbitration-in-corvex-board-suit.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s dispute with
shareholders over company bylaws and alleged wrongdoing by its
board must be resolved through arbitration, a  Maryland  judge
ruled.  The judge, handing a defeat today to activist investor
Keith Meister and others seeking to replace the real estate
firm’s trustees, said board has authority to craft bylaws that
require shareholder conflicts to be settled through an
arbitration process.  “It is not for this court to question the intent of the
Maryland legislature in its decision to enact REIT law
provisions that permit such action by REIT trustees,” Baltimore
City Circuit Judge Audrey J.S. Carrion wrote, rejecting the
plaintiffs’ bid halt the arbitration.  Corvex Management LP, headed Meister, and Related Cos., led
by chief executive officer Jeff Blau, sued CommonWealth in
February. They claimed that an overlap in board membership and
the ownership of an external management firm, REIT Management &
Research LLC, led to conflicts of interest that wasted corporate
assets.  An amended complaint also challenged changes to the
company’s bylaws that limited the number of shareholders who
could participate in board removal efforts.  Share Sale  Corvex and Related filed the suit on Feb. 27 in a failed
bid to stop a sale of new shares they claimed would dilute their
holdings. The board rejected an offer of $27 a share for the
company by Corvex and Related, who together controlled 9.8
percent of Commonwealth. CommonWealth’s sale of 30 million
shares settled on March 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The offering priced on Feb. 27 at $19 a share.  The real estate company filed for arbitration, as allowed
by its bylaws, shortly after the investors sued.  Attorneys for Corvex and Related objected to arbitration,
telling Carrion at a hearing last week that the process is
stacked against shareholders.  “While we respectfully disagree with the Court’s decision,
the facts remain the same -- CommonWealth’s bylaw changes and
other actions are illegal, unenforceable and solely designed to
entrench the board and thwart the will of its shareholders,”
 Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Corvex and Related said in an e-mailed statement. “This decision was on only a procedural
issue, and we look forward to a favorable substantive outcome
for all shareholders.”  CommonWealth, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , issued a
statement acknowledging the decision and declining to comment
further.  CommonWealth Victory  The ruling is a victory for CommonWealth president Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company founder, who
are the subjects of the plaintiffs’ conflict of interest
allegations.  The two men sit on CommonWealth’s five-member board of
trustees and are owners of REIT Management and Research,
according to the complaint.  Corvex and Related, both based in  New York , made a consent
solicitation filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on April 10, a step toward seeking shareholder approval to
remove CommonWealth’s board.  The companies have sent out ballots and have gathered
support from shareholders controlling “more than 40 percent”
of the outstanding shares in less than two weeks, Adam
Offenhartz, an attorney for the plaintiffs said at last week’s
hearing. They need 66 percent to replace board members.  Invalid Results  A CommonWealth attorney dismissed the results as invalid.  Rose said Carrion’s ruling won’t halt efforts to remove the
CommonWealth board.  “We are continuing our consent solicitation efforts to
remove all current trustees and provide shareholders a clear
path forward to effect change and realize  shareholder value ,”
she said in her statement.  The companies are “reviewing all of our options”
regarding a possible appeal of Carrion’s decision, Rose said.  The case is Corvex v. CommonWealth REIT, 24C13001111,
Circuit Court of Maryland (Baltimore City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  