-- Copper Volatility Climbs to 18-Month High as Outlook Diverges
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-05-08T15:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/copper-volatility-climbs-to-18-month-high-as-outlook-diverges.html
Copper is the most volatile in 18
months as signs of economic growth in China,  Europe  and the U.S.
counter wagers that prices are going to keep falling.  The average 10-day price moves for copper delivered in
three months on the  London  Metal Exchange jumped to an
annualized 47.027 percent on May 3, the highest since Nov. 3,
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s now at
46.8298 percent. Hedge funds increased bets on lower copper
prices on Comex in New York for the first time in four weeks,
U.S. government data show.  Copper fell 5.9 percent this year as swelling inventories
in warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange heightened
speculation that production was growing faster than demand.
Today, China’s trade and German industrial output beat estimates
after U.S. payrolls expanded last month. French Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovi declared the era of austerity over after his
German counterpart offered flexibility on deficit cutting.  “This stuff at the margin, in the context of a market that
was very short, is enough to make people potentially change
their views from very bearish to neutral,”  Max Layton , an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London, said by phone
today. “The shift from bearish to neutral is contributing to
the volatility on the leg up.”  Copper Outperforms  Copper for delivery in three months jumped 2.2 percent to
$7,426.75 a metric ton at 4:06 p.m. on the LME, after rallying
6.2 percent on May 3 after the U.S. jobs report. Copper
outperformed the  Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index , which
climbed 1.1 percent on May 3 and is up 0.2 percent today.  Chinese exports surged 14.7 percent in April and imports
advanced 16.8 percent last month, data from the General
Administration of Customs showed. German industrial production
increased for a second month.  “The very recent outperformance of copper relative to
other risk assets in our view reflects fundamental support,”
Layton said in a report dated yesterday. Stockpiles of copper
dropped on May 3, after global inventories fell in April, and
Chinese producers are cutting refined production, citing scrap
tightness and possible selling of short positions, he said.  Funds and other large speculators raised their  net-short 
position in Comex copper by 49 percent to 23,368 futures and
options as of April 30, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show.  “The market generally got extremely bearish  China , short
term,” Layton said in the interview. “There was a lack of
scope for people to believe there would be decent global growth
at some point in the near term, and particularly about China.
The data that’s come out in the last couple of days has changed
that view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  