-- Daimler Says It’s in Supply Discussions With Aston Martin
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-08T15:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/daimler-says-it-s-in-supply-discussions-with-aston-martin.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the German manufacturer of
Mercedes-Benz luxury autos, is in early talks with Aston Martin
on supply and technical-cooperation agreements as the U.K.
sports-car maker seeks to reduce spending on developing models.  “While both sides know and respect each other very much,
no decisions have been made,” Silke Walters, a spokeswoman at
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Discussions also involve Aston Martin
owners Investindustrial Advisers SpA and Investment Dar Co.,
Walters said.  Daimler is London-based Investindustrial’s preferred
partner for a supply deal, a person familiar with the matter
said. A final agreement isn’t imminent, the person said, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private. Janette
Green, an  Aston Martin  spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to fixed-line and mobile-phone requests for comment.  Aston Martin, the maker of sports cars featured in  James
Bond movies , is the only global luxury-auto brand that doesn’t
belong to a larger manufacturing group, hampering its efforts to
match competitors’ lower costs for creating models. Backed by
new investor Investindustrial, the Gaydon, England-based
automaker laid out plans in January to invest 500 million pounds
($777 million) over the next four years to compete with
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari and Maserati.  100th Anniversary  Aston Martin, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary
this year, said in January that it was seeking a partner to
develop high-end engines to strengthen its sports-car lineup.
The brand was holding discussions with Daimler and other
manufacturers and was planning on reaching an agreement in the
following two months, Investindustrial Chairman  Andrea Bonomi 
said at the time.  Investindustrial, a European private-equity fund, agreed in
December to acquire a 37.5 percent holding in Aston Martin for
190 million euros ($250 million) in a capital increase. The
fund, which has a track record of turning around high-end
vehicle manufacturers such as Italian motorcycle maker Ducati,
plans to remain an Aston Martin shareholder for at least 10
years, Bonomi said.  Investment Dar, a Kuwaiti sovereign-wealth fund, has been
the main owner of Aston Martin since taking part with a group of
investors in acquisition of the brand from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
2007 for 503 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Maranello, Italy, via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  