-- DaVita Gains as Berkshire Pact Seen as Possible Deal Path
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-08T20:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/davita-gains-as-berkshire-pact-seen-as-possible-deal-path.html
DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. (DVA) 
rallied the most since 2009 after signing an agreement that was
seen as setting a path for  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  to negotiate for a possible takeover.  DaVita jumped 10 percent to $129.37 today in New York. The
Denver-based company said late yesterday that Berkshire, with a
stake of about 14 percent, approached about the possibility of
increasing its holding.  Berkshire agreed, if its stake passes 15 percent, to
refrain from proposing a merger without consent from DaVita,
according to a document signed by both companies yesterday. Such
so-called standstill agreements are typically arranged by
companies to prevent an unsolicited takeover.  “Berkshire’s just not known for making hostile
takeovers,” Michael A. Mazzeo, an associate professor of
finance at  Michigan State University , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They make friendly ones. And so, this might be a
way of simply beginning that dialogue.”  Buffett didn’t return a message left with an assistant
seeking comment. Berkshire’s  holding  was valued at more than
$1.7 billion, based on yesterday’s closing price.  “Berkshire recently approached us about the option of
increasing their holdings,” Kim Rivera, DaVita’s chief legal
officer, said yesterday on a conference call that was scheduled
to discuss DaVita’s  quarterly results . “We found them
to be a supportive investor with a long-term view.”  DaVita said yesterday that adjusted income from continuing
operations was $1.84 a share in the three months ended March 31.
That beat by 4 cents the  average estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The accord was signed by DaVita President Javier Rodriguez
and Ted Weschler, the 51-year-old stock picker that Buffett
hired to help oversee investments. DaVita was among the largest
holdings at Weschler’s hedge fund before he joined  Berkshire.  Peter Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News , has served on DaVita’s board of directors
since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  