-- Delta’s $1 Billion Dividend-Buyback Ends Decade-Long Gap
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-05-08T20:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/delta-returns-1-billion-to-holders-in-dividend-buyback.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  plans to return
$1 billion to investors by repurchasing stock and restarting its
dividend after a decade-long  break  punctuated by bankruptcy and
the biggest acquisition in its history.  About half that amount will be through a buyback program
over the next three years, while the quarterly dividend of 6
cents a share will be payable Sept. 10 to shareholders of record
as of Aug. 9, Atlanta-based Delta said today.  Delta, whose stock rose to the highest price in more than
five years, will be the only full-service U.S. carrier with
either a buyback program or dividend. Since it last gave cash to
investors in 2003, Delta posted six annual losses and went
through bankruptcy, then bought Northwest Airlines Corp. and
slashed its debt by almost half.  “The goal is that as we grow the enterprise, that the
dividend hopefully can grow as well,” President Ed Bastian said
today in a telephone interview. There may be opportunities for
more buybacks, he said.  Delta jumped 3.2 percent to $18.66 at the close in New
York, the highest since December 2007. The shares have gained 57
percent this year, outpacing a 44 percent advance for the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  Debt Target  The world’s second-largest carrier paid its last dividend
in 2003, and hadn’t repurchased stock since 2000.  Investor feedback prompted Delta’s decision to start both a
dividend and a buyback program, Bastian said, with a “fair
number” of shareholders lobbying for each method.  “We felt it important to establish a dividend as a
permanent form of quarterly return that investors could count
on, and which over time we can continue to build on,” Bastian
said. “On the buyback, we feel our stock is undervalued and
wanted to reward shareholders by taking advantage of that.”  Delta also set a new target today for lowering its adjusted
net debt to $7 billion, from $10 billion previously. Four years
ago, Delta’s debt was $17 billion.  The goal will reduce interest expense by almost half, to
$500 million a year, Delta said today in a regulatory filing.
The airline will also make “opportunistic incremental” pension
funding contributions of up to $1 billion.  Southwest, Alaska  Delta’s stronger financial position may yield boosts from
credit ratings companies in coming years, Chief Financial
Officer Paul Jacobson said in a telephone interview.  “We meet with them regularly, and I think they’ve begun to
notice the consistency on cash generation, what we’re doing on
leverage,” Jacobson said. “We believe we’ve put a pretty
compelling case forward.”  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said the dividend and
buyback are negative for Delta’s credit profile while the
balance sheet still has “elevated” debt. Moody’s rates Delta
as B2, five steps below investment grade.  Delta would like to be considered for addition to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Bastian said. Currently,  Southwest (LUV) 
Airlines Co. is the only air carrier included.  Since boosting its global network with the acquisition of
Northwest Airlines in an all-stock deal in 2008, Delta has
focused on reducing debt and lowering other costs by buying used
airplanes such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  717s from Southwest. Last year
Delta purchased a jet-fuel refinery from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to help
control fuel expenses.  Southwest, the world’s largest discount carrier, is the
only other major U.S. airline paying a dividend and it also has
a buyback program.  Competitors such as United Continental Holdings Inc. may
follow in Delta’s footsteps, said Andrew Davis, transportation
equity analyst at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the
mutual fund company that manages $577 billion in assets
including Delta and other U.S. airline stocks.  “Delta is making the first step at the vanguard of this
process of returning cash to shareholders,” Davis said.
“They’re protecting the capital more, and making these things
real businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  