-- Deutsche Telekom Earnings Top Estimates on Germany
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-08T07:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/deutsche-telekom-first-quarter-earnings-top-estimates-on-germany.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s largest
phone company, reported first-quarter profit before some items
that beat analysts’ estimates after slowing a decline in mobile
revenue at home and halting an exodus of U.S. customers.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization adjusted for some items fell 4.3 percent to 4.29
billion euros ($5.6 billion), compared with the 4.24 billion-euro average  estimate  among analysts compiled by Bloomberg. In
the U.S., wireless customers, including pay-as-you-go users,
rose for the first time in 15 quarters, the Bonn-based company
said today.  Deutsche Telekom completed a deal to merge its T-Mobile US
unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc. last week, freeing
management capacity to focus on reviving its business in Europe.
Rivals in  Germany , including Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus unit and
 Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , posted a drop in average
revenue per wireless customer for the quarter as carriers vied
for clients by offering cheaper voice and data packages.  “After the numbers we have seen we were expecting revenue
to be fairly light,” said Paul Marsch, a London-based analyst
at Berenberg Bank who recommends investors hold shares of the
company. “Deutsche Telekom seems to have fared better than its
peers in Germany.”  Spain, Austria  First-quarter revenue slid 4.5 percent to 13.8 billion
euros, Deutsche Telekom said, in line with projections.
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , which competes with Deutsche Telekom in markets
including Germany, the U.K. and the  Czech Republic , today
reported earnings and sales that missed estimates.  Deutsche Telekom shares rose 1.9 percent to 9.30 euros at
9:08 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Telefonica fell 1.9 percent in Madrid.
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  climbed 3.6 percent in Vienna after profit
beat estimates.  The decline in Deutsche Telekom’s German mobile service
revenue slowed to 0.1 percent from 2.2 percent in the previous
quarter, excluding a reduction in mobile termination rates
imposed by the country’s network regulator. The company plans to
return to growth on that basis over the course of the year,
spokesman Andreas Leigers said.  Germany’s former phone monopoly is also preparing to speed
up its fixed-line Internet to fend off cable providers in its
home market while trying to limit the damage from the economic
crisis on its European operations.  ‘Major Issues’  The company confirmed its full-year forecasts, targeting
adjusted Ebitda of 17.4 billion euros plus contribution from
MetroPCS over the remainder of 2013 and free cash flow of about
5 billion euros.  “We have resolved some major issues,” Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  said in the statement. “The biggest of
those were our customer figures in the  United States .”  In the U.S., T-Mobile last month said that the pace of
subscriber defections slowed to 199,000 in the first quarter
from 515,000 in the previous three months.  John Legere, who runs the enlarged U.S. unit, has scrapped
long-term phone contracts and device subsidies in an effort to
turn the operator into a stronger rival to  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless . T-Mobile US sold 500,000 iPhones in the first four
weeks of offering the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  device in the U.S.  Obermann, who is set to be replaced by Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges at the end of the year, in December
announced plans to trim the carrier’s dividend to allow it to
spend almost 30 billion euros on its networks through 2015.  Vectoring Technology  Deutsche Telekom won preliminary approval from Germany’s
network watchdog in April for a plan to accelerate its digital
subscriber line, or DSL, grid using so-called vectoring
technology. On May 2, the company announced a deal with
Telefonica Deutschland that would let the smaller provider use
those lines, helping to spread the rollout’s cost.  The European Commission last week lowered its forecasts for
the euro area, projecting that eight of the 17 economies in the
currency bloc will contract this year. Deutsche Telekom offers
phone and Internet connections in markets stretching from Greece
via  Austria  to the Netherlands.  “It’s not a grand turnaround yet,” said Wolfgang Specht,
an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf who has a sell
recommendation on the operator. “They cannot let their guard
down in Germany as people still keep switching to smaller
packages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  