-- Djibouti to Raise $5.9 Billion From Investors for Infrastructure
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-05-08T16:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/djibouti-to-raise-5-9-billion-from-investors-for-infrastructure.html
Djibouti  is in talks with  India ,
 China , Brazil, Russia and Arab investors to finance
infrastructure projects worth $5.9 billion, the head of the
country’s ports authority said.  The Horn of Africa nation, which is seeking to become a
middle-income nation by 2035, plans to develop rail links,
ports, and oil and gas pipelines, Djiboutian Ports and Free
Zones Authority Chairman Aboubaker Omar Hadi said in an
interview today. Commitments for “close to 57 percent” of the
project costs have already been received from China, India, a
Saudi Arabian fund and other investors, he said in London.  The projects include a doubling of capacity at the Doraleh
container port to 3 million containers a year by 2015, according
to documents distributed by the Djiboutian government at a
conference in  London . That would rank it as the continent’s
biggest such facility, it said.  Djibouti, which hosts about 2,500 U.S. military personnel
at the Camp Lemonnier military base, has a $1.1 billion economy
with fewer than 1 million people. The economy relies on services
related to the country’s strategic location on the  Red Sea , one
of the world’s busiest shipping lanes.  Economic growth in Djibouti averaged 5 percent from 2006 to
2012, compared with 2.5 percent from 2001 and 2005, Ahmed Osman
Ali, governor of Djibouti’s central bank, said at the
conference.  Six Ports  The country plans to create six ports to handle commodity
exports, according to Hadi.  In addition to the expansion of Doraleh, Djibouti plans to
build a facility at Tadjourah, with the first phase being funded
by the Saudi Fund for Development and the  Arab League ’s Kuwait-
based Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development at a cost of
$80 million. A second phase of development will begin in 2015
and cost $90 million, the government said.  Last month, construction began on another port at Ghoubet
that will provide for the export of salt and gypsum deposits
from Lake Assal. The lake is the site of the world’s largest
undeveloped salt reserve, according to Salt Investment SA, a
unit of Washington-based Emerging Capital Partners. Chinese
funding of $64 million has been secured for the port, the
government said.  Talks are under way for $600 million  oil refinery  that will
allow for the import of crude oil from  South Sudan  by pipeline,
the government said. The finished products will be sold in  East
Africa .  South Sudan signed an agreement with  Ethiopia  and Djibouti
to build an oil pipeline that would reduce its dependence on
crude shipments via neighboring Sudan. The two Sudans came to
the brink of war last year amid a dispute over processing and
transport fees.  LNG Terminal  Plans for a $2.6 billion liquefied natural gas terminal in
Djibouti, including a liquefaction plant and a pipeline, will
enable the export of 10 million cubic meters of gas from
Ethiopia to China annually from 2016, the government said.  Brazil and Russia are mainly interested in financing the
oil pipeline from South Sudan, a gas pipeline and rail links
with Ethiopia, Hadi said.  Negotiations have started with the two nations for
“concessional loans” of about $1 billion to be repaid at an
annual interest rate of 3 percent over 25 years, Hadi said.
 Brazil ’s commitment “is not yet finalized,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  