-- Dollar Poised to Rise Past 100 Yen ‘Soon,’ Credit Agricole Says
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-08T06:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/dollar-poised-to-rise-past-100-yen-soon-credit-agricole-says.html
The dollar will rise past 100 yen
“very soon” as Japanese demand for U.S. debt revives,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-largest bank, wrote in a report
yesterday.  The greenback has surged 24 percent against its Japanese
counterpart in the past six months, climbing as high as 99.95
yen in April. The push toward 100 stalled as a decline in
Treasury yields curbed Japanese demand for U.S. securities.
Investors in the Asian nation have sold foreign bonds for six
straight weeks.  Now Treasury yields are rising, which will increase
purchases of U.S. debt, said  Mitul Kotecha , Credit Agricole’s
Hong Kong-based head of global markets research for Asia, who
wrote the report. Japanese life insurance companies may be
planning to reduce their dollar hedges, he said.  “There’s every sense that this repatriation that we’ve
seen in recent weeks is going to give way to a pretty
significant outflow” of funds from  Japan , Kotecha said. “The
trend in the last four years has been for declining hedge
ratios. It would be very surprising, at a time when the yen is
coming under more pressure, to see an increase in the hedge
ratio.”  Credit Agricole expects “a break of 100 to occur very
soon,” his report said.  The dollar will rise to 104 yen by year-end, Kotecha said,
from 98.80 today as of 7:48 a.m. in  London .  JGB Spread  Ten-year Treasuries  yielded  1.18 percentage points more
than their Japanese counterparts, widening from 1.04 percentage
points on May 1. The average over the past 12 months is 0.99
percentage points.  Japan’s nine biggest life insurers hedged 70.8 percent of
their currency holdings as of March 2012, Kotecha said. It was
the lowest level since 2008 and a good sign for the dollar, he
said.  Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. is hedging less than half
of its dollar holdings now, a more bullish position than usual,
said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of the fixed-income department
in  Tokyo .  Nippon Life Insurance Co., the largest life insurer in
Japan, said last month it may include currency hedges when
buying bonds outside the nation.  Japanese investors  sold  a net 3.43 trillion yen ($34.7
billion) of overseas bonds in the six weeks ended April 19,
Ministry of Finance figures showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  