-- Druckenmiller Recommends Betting Against Australian Dollar
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-08T21:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/druckenmiller-recommends-betting-against-australian-dollar-1-.html
Stanley Druckenmiller , who made $1
billion for  George Soros  as his chief strategist by forcing a
devaluation of the British pound in 1992, said investors should
bet against the Australian dollar.  “We think the Australian dollar will come down and will
come down hard,” Druckenmiller said today at the Sohn
Investment Conference in  New York . “It's expensive.”  The Australian and New Zealand dollars have each surged 45
percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the end of 2008, the
biggest advances among over 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its  benchmark interest
rate  to a record May 7, driving down a currency that has damaged
manufacturing and boosted unemployment. Governor  Glenn Stevens  
reduced the overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage 
point to 2.75 percent, saying in a statement that the Aussie’s 
strength “is unusual given the decline in export prices and 
interest rates.”  Australia joins global counterparts in embracing record-low
rates in an economy where inflation is contained, mining
spending is predicted to crest, and credit growth remains
subdued. Stevens is aiming to rebalance growth as mining regions
in the north and west thrive and manufacturers in the south and
east struggle.  The Australian dollar fell for a third day, declining 0.2
percent to $1.0170 at 5 p.m. in New York, after reaching a two-month low the previous day.  Record Rates  Druckenmiller said in August 2010 that he was closing his
hedge fund, Duquesne Capital Management LLC, after being worn
down by the stress of trying to maintain one of the best trading
records in the industry while managing an “enormous amount of
capital.”  The U.S., Europe and Japan have cut rates to a record to
stimulate demand. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has
kept the key U.S.  rate  near zero for more than four years, while
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
are ready to cut again after reducing its  benchmark  to a record
low 0.5 percent last week.  The RBA cash rate’s previous low was 2.89 percent in
January 1960, according to the central bank. Australia, which
hasn’t recorded a current-account surplus since 1975, typically
maintains higher benchmark interest rates than other developed
economies in order to attract capital inflows to offset its
current-account deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  