-- Tea Party Rant II Awaits Next Homeowner Bailout
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-05-08T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tea-party-rant-ii-awaits-next-homeowner-bailout.html
On Feb. 19, 2009, CNBC editor Rick Santelli let loose on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange in response to President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
subsidize underwater mortgages.  Santelli’s  famous rant  gave birth to the  Tea Party . Obama’s
proposal gave way to  numerous initiatives , known by the catchy
acronyms HAMP and HARP (but not HARM), all of which fell short
of the administration’s initial goals.  All is not lost, however. With housing on the mend, the
president is determined to provide more taxpayer relief to
homeowners. Last week, he nominated Representative Melvin Watt,
Democrat of  North Carolina , to head the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , which oversees  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac. The two
government-sponsored enterprises collapsed in 2008 and were
taken over by the federal government.  The FHFA’s current acting director, Edward DeMarco, has
refused to yield to White House pressure on debt forgiveness,
claiming it would cost the companies, and hence taxpayers, too
much. Watt, a member of the House Financial Services Committee,
has publicly supported principal forgiveness. His views are more
in sync with Obama’s.  One is tempted to ask, why now? Housing is having its best
run since the market peaked in 2006. It took two years after the
end of the recession in June 2009 for housing to show some  signs
of life .  Home prices  took one more year to bottom. But now
 delinquencies  and  foreclosures  are falling, the  inventory  of
unsold homes is down, and sales, starts and  prices  are up.
Investors are paying cash for cheap homes, making it harder for
families looking for a home of their own to buy.  Price Rescue  Three-quarters of deeply underwater borrowers -- those with
a loan-to-value ratio of more than 125 percent -- are  current  on
their payments, according to DeMarco. So why create perverse
incentives by rewarding those who are delinquent with principal
writedowns?  Meanwhile, the increase in prices is doing wonders for
homeowners who owe more than their house is worth. In the past
year, for example, the rise in prices pulled  1.7 million
homeowners  out of negative equity, according to CoreLogic, a
residential-real-estate information and data provider based in
 Irvine ,  California . An additional 5 percent increase would give
1.8 million more homeowners positive equity in their homes,
CoreLogic calculates. At the end of the fourth quarter, 10.4
million, or 21.5 percent of all residential properties with a
mortgage, were underwater. Less than half are GSE-held mortgages
and are concentrated in five states.  In the old days, principal forgiveness was a decision
between borrower and lender. Foreclosure is an expensive
process, and banks generally aren’t interested in becoming
property managers. It behooved both parties to come to agreeable
terms on either a mortgage modification or outright debt
forgiveness. Securitization changed all that, with multiple
parties owning tranches of mortgage-backed bonds creating legal
impediments.  Nowadays, Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  own or guarantee more
than half the mortgages outstanding in the U.S. As conservator
of the two companies, DeMarco is cognizant of his legal
responsibilities. As he has said many times, FHFA’s job is “to
preserve and conserve the assets of the Enterprises and in their
current state that translates directly into minimizing taxpayer
losses.”  Last year, the FHFA examined the  economic impact  of
principal forgiveness for underwater borrowers and concluded
that the anticipated benefits didn’t outweigh the costs -- not
to mention the risk that those current on their mortgage
payments would become delinquent in order to qualify.  Moral Hazard  The  Congressional Budget Office  weighed in with its own
 analysis of the options  on principal forgiveness last week,
which it found would result in “small savings” to the
government, “slightly reduce” foreclosure and delinquency
rates, and “slightly boost” economic growth. (Several  articles 
cited the CBO study but selectively omitted the qualifiers.)  Mortgage modification of any kind comes with moral hazard
attached. It rewards those who binged on too much debt to buy
too much house. Principal forgiveness takes it to another level,
especially when it’s imposed by the government, with the
taxpayer footing the bill.  Both supporters and opponents of principal reduction have a
legitimate fairness argument. The pro case goes something like
this: Banks got bailed out based on the idea that helping Wall
Street benefits Main Street. (Main Street is still waiting to
see that benefit.) By the same logic, helping homeowners get out
of debt may speed the economic recovery.  The con argument is as follows: Many underwater homeowners
are trying their best to stay current on their mortgages, in
some cases working two jobs to make ends meet. Why should
delinquent borrowers, whether by choice or necessity, have their
debt reduced? It lessens the incentive for those who are current
to keep paying.  “We have done so many things that are offensive to
taxpayers and citizens and that create moral hazard in so many
ways and in so many places,” said Michael Carliner, an economic
consultant specializing in housing. “This would be just another
one.”  That’s one way to look at it. Another is that the market is
fixing the problem by itself. By the time a new federal program
is approved and implemented, and the kinks are worked out, it
may be unnecessary.  Watt is far from a shoo-in for FHFA director. Some
Republicans have called him  unfit for the job  based on his
opposition to measures that would have strengthened Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac back in 2005. If he is approved by the Senate,
expect the usual hue and cry from those who say debt forgiveness
is promoting bad behavior.  Rick, are you ready to rant?  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 