-- Melco Crown Profit Falls 56 Percent on Project Financing Costs
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-05-08T11:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/melco-crown-profit-falls-56-percent-on-project-financing-costs.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., (MPEL)  the
casino venture between a son of casino mogul  Stanley Ho  and
Australian billionaire  James Packer , reported a 56 percent drop
in first-quarter profit on financing costs related to its new
Macau project.  Net income fell to $53.8 million from $122.1 million a year
earlier for the three months ended March, according to a filing
today. Adjusted Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, rose to $273.5 million from
$242.5 million.  Melco Crown is building the new Studio City casino resort
on Macau’s Cotai strip, the city’s equivalent of the Las Vegas
strip, to compete with bigger rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928) 
and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  who have been adding new
attractions to woo gamblers.  Net interest expense almost doubled to $41.4 million in the
quarter. Net revenue increased about 11 percent to $1.14
billion.  Cotai Bets  City of Dreams, the company’s casino resort on Cotai, runs
an entertainment show that features motorcycle stunts. The
increase in hotel supply and an improved rail connection are
also drawing more mainland Chinese visitors. Ho’s son Lawrence
is chief executive officer of Melco Crown.  Melco is expanding both at home and overseas. In the
Philippines, the company is partnering with  Belle Corp. (BEL)  to
develop and operate a casino resort in Manila which is expected
to cost $1 billion. Belle holds one of four casino licenses in
the Southeast Asian nation.  The country’s annual revenue from gaming may rise to $10
billion in 2017 from more than $2 billion last year once the
Manila casino complex is operating fully, Philippine Amusement &
Gaming Corp. Chairman Cristino Naguiat said on Jan. 15.  Melco’s Studio City casino resort is estimated to cost more
than $2 billion to construct and it’s scheduled to open in
middle of 2015.  Casino revenue in Macau, the only place in China where
casino gambling is legal, is expected to rise to $44.5 billion
this year from $38 billion last year, according to Deutsche Bank
AG estimates.  Melco Crown closed 0.8 percent lower at HK$64 at the close
of  Hong Kong  trading. The stock has climbed 49 percent this
year, outperforming benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 2.6 percent
gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  