-- Telecom Italia to Start Detailed Review of Hutchison Linkup
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-09T13:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/telecom-italia-to-start-in-depth-review-of-hutchison-linkup.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  directors
authorized an “in-depth” review on a possible combination of
its mobile-phone business with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Italian
unit.  A panel led by Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe to
explore a possible linkup with the Hong Kong company’s 3 Italia
“acknowledged that there are no impediments to start a
discussion,” the company said in a statement yesterday. The
panel asked top management to verify “the existence of
realistic negotiation margins” over the value of the two
companies, recommending a conclusion of the analysis by 30 days.  Bernabe is betting on an alliance with Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison to revive a stock that hit a
15-year low last month. Some members of the panel are skeptical
about a deal because of differences in valuation for 3 Italia,
while leading shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is concerned about
potential losses in a transaction, people familiar with the
matter have said.  Reaching an agreement with Hutchison will be “complex”
because of regulatory obstacles that must be overcome, Bernabe
said on a conference call today with analysts. A merger would
combine  Italy ’s biggest wireless carrier with the No. 4, giving
them about 45 percent of the country’s mobile market.  The Milan-based company’s board requested an examination of
the financial results at 3 Italia, said a person briefed on the
matter, asking not to be identified because the deliberations
are private.  Italy’s largest phone company yesterday reported first-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates as revenue in
its home country plunged 10 percent.  Operating Income  Operating income before taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 10 percent to 2.67 billion euros ($3.52
billion). Analysts had projected Ebitda of 2.73 billion euros,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rose 2 percent to 64.9 euro cents in Milan,
giving the company a market value of 11.9 billion euros.  Telecom Italia is 22.4 percent owned by Telco SpA, whose
investors include Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and investment bank  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  The
shareholders have written down the value of their stakes several
times and have considered using Hutchison’s possible entry as a
new shareholder to facilitate their exit, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Complicating the discussion is the valuation of 3 Italia.
While the division has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion
euros, the actual figure could differ widely because of
accumulated losses amounting to as much as 8 billion euros and
the lack of clarity of how much of that can be used to offset
taxes, a person familiar with the matter said.  Leading Shareholder  3 Italia had 2012 revenue of about 1.5 billion euros and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 90 million euros, another person said, adding that the
numbers were restated to meet Italian accounting rules.  Telecom Italia said April 11 that Hutchison wants to become
a  leading shareholder  in the Italian carrier in any deal.  Representatives for Generali, Intesa Sanpaolo and
Mediobanca declined to comment. Telefonica Chief Financial
Officer Angel Vila said yesterday the Spanish company is
“happy” with its position in Telco and is “supportive” of
actions to boost the value of the holding vehicle.  Telco’s partners, which agreed in February 2012 to renew
their shareholding agreement for three years with an exit option
in September 2013 and August 2014, may use the first window in
September to revoke the accord, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  ‘Exploratory Nature’  Generali CEO  Mario Greco , who is reviewing the insurer’s
strategy, has repeatedly said the company should focus on its
core business. Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel has said he wants to
cut the bank’s equity investments as part of a business plan to
be unveiled in June.  Hutchison reiterated yesterday that “contacts between
Telecom Italia and 3 Italia on possible business combinations
are still very preliminary and of an exploratory nature.”  For Hutchison,  Asia ’s biggest investor in European wireless
networks, Telecom Italia’s high net debt -- which reached 28.8
billion euros at the end of March, adjusted for some items -- is
a concern, a person familiar with the matter has said.  The company said yesterday that its debt is sustainable and
any assessment of the possible impact of the integration with 3
Italia and the proposed network spinoff is “premature.”  Telecom Italia  shares  sank as low as 54 cents last month,
the lowest level since August 1997.  Fixed-Line Spinoff  Other panel members evaluating the possible linkup with
Hutchison are Telefonica’s Julio Linares, Elio Cosimo Catania
from Intesa Sanpaolo, Gabriele Galateri from Generali and
independent director  Luigi Zingales .  Italy’s former phone monopoly is divesting assets, cutting
jobs and is reviewing a possible spinoff of its fixed-line
telephone network in Italy, a move that could generate cash to
reinvest in expanding coverage. The company said yesterday that
the review of the possible spinoff will be completed at a
special board meeting scheduled for May 23.  The network may be worth as much as 15 billion euros,
according to Marco Fossati, whose family’s Findim Group SA is
Telecom Italia’s second-largest shareholder.  Corriere della Sera 
reported today that the asset could be valued at 16 billion
euros in a spinoff.  Telecom Italia is considering a sale of an initial 30
percent stake in a new company to state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti, which may invest about 2 billion euros, people
familiar with the matter said last month. Telecom Italia could
also consider an initial public offering of the division in the
future, another person said last month.  Telecom Italia intends to keep a majority stake in the
network company, Bernabe said today.  Telecom Italia’s first-quarter sales dropped 8.1 percent to
6.8 billion euros, with revenue in Italy falling to 4.02 billion
euros from 4.48 billion euros. Net income fell to 364 million
euros in the period from 605 million euros a year earlier. The
company confirmed its 2013 financial targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  