-- Telecom Italia First-Quarter Profit Misses Analysts Estimates
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-08T17:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/telecom-italia-first-quarter-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s largest
phone company, reported first-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates as revenue in its home country plunged 10
percent.  Operating income before taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 10 percent to 2.67 billion euros ($3.52
billion), the Milan-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts had projected Ebitda of 2.73 billion euros, according
to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia directors today authorized an “in-depth”
review of a possible combination of the company’s mobile-phone
business with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Italian unit, according
to the statement. Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is
betting on a linkup with Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Hutchison to revive a stock that hit a 15-year low last month.  A panel led by Bernabe to explore the potential tie-up with
the Hong Kong company “acknowledged that there are no
impediments to start a discussion,” the company said in the
statement today. The panel suggested “to mandate the top
management to verify with the other party the existence of
realistic negotiation margins,” recommending the conclusion of
the analysis within 30 days.  The company also said the review of a possible network
spinoff will be completed at a special board meeting scheduled
for May 23.  Total sales dropped 8.1 percent to 6.8 billion euros as
consumers cut spending on phone services. That was in line with
analysts’ average estimate of 6.81 billion euros. Revenue in
 Italy  fell to 4.02 billion euros from 4.48 billion euros. Net
income fell to 364 million euros in the period from 605 million
euros a year earlier.  Telecom Italia fell 0.6 percent to 63.7 euro cents in Milan
today, giving it a market value of 11.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  