-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Extend Review of Hutchison Linkup
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-08T14:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/telecom-italia-is-said-to-extend-review-over-hutchison-linkup.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  directors
authorized an extension of a review over a combination of
its mobile-phone business with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Italian
unit, according to a person briefed on the matter.  The Milan-based company’s board, which last month appointed
a panel led by Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe to explore
a possible linkup with the Hong Kong company, requested an 
examination of the financial results at Hutchison’s 3 Italia, 
said the person, asking not to be identified because the 
deliberations are private. A Telecom Italia representative 
declined to comment.  Bernabe is betting on a linkup with Hong Kong billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison to revive a stock that hit a 15-year low
last month. Some members of the panel are skeptical about a deal
because of differences in valuation for 3 Italia, while leading
shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is concerned about potential losses in
a transaction, people familiar with the matter have said.  Today, the shares fell as much as 4.7 percent in Milan for
its steepest decline in a month. Telecom Italia, scheduled to
report earnings later today, may say first-quarter revenue
slumped 8 percent to 6.8 billion euros ($8.9 billion) as
consumers cut spending on phone services, according to the
 average  of analysts’ estimates complied by Bloomberg.  The stock traded at 64 cents, or 0.4 percent lower, at 4:55
p.m. in Milan.  Ceding Control  Telecom Italia is 22.4 percent owned by Telco SpA, whose
investors include Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and investment bank  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  The
shareholders have written down the value of their stakes several
times and have considered using Hutchison’s possible entry as
new shareholder to facilitate their exit, people familiar with
the matter have said.  “I don’t think current shareholders want to give ownership
of the company away,” said Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-based
analyst at Banco de Sabadell. “A potential deal with Hutchison
isn’t entirely clear due to regulatory barriers and the terms
that are being discussed.”  Complicating the discussion is the valuation of 3 Italia.
While the division has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion
euros, the actual figure could differ widely because of
accumulated losses amounting to as much as 8 billion euros and
the lack of clarity of how much of that can be used to offset
taxes, a person familiar with the matter said.  Board Authorization  3 Italia had 2012 revenue of about 1.5 billion euros and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 90 million euros, another person said, adding that the
numbers were restated to meet Italian accounting rules.  A merger would combine  Italy ’s biggest wireless carrier
with the No. 4. Telecom Italia said April 11 that Hutchison
wants to become a  leading shareholder  in the Milan-based carrier
in any deal. Bernabe will need approval from Telecom Italia’s
board to carry out due diligence and pursue formal negotiations
with Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  Representatives for Telefonica, Generali, Intesa Sanpaolo
and Mediobanca declined to comment.  Telco’s partners, which agreed in February 2012 to renew
their shareholding agreement for three years with an exit option
in September 2013 and August 2014, may use the first window in
September to revoke the accord, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  ‘Exploratory Nature’  Generali CEO  Mario Greco , who is reviewing the insurer’s
strategy, has repeatedly said the company should focus on its
core business. Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel has said he wants to
cut the bank’s equity investments as part of a business plan to
be unveiled in June.  Hutchison reiterated today that “contacts between Telecom
Italia SpA and 3 Italia SpA on possible business combinations
are still very preliminary and of an exploratory nature.”  For Hutchison,  Asia ’s biggest investor in European wireless
networks, Telecom Italia’s high net debt -- which reached 28.3
billion euros at the end of 2012 adjusted for some items -- is a
concern, a person familiar with the matter has said.  Telecom Italia  shares  sank as low as 54 cents last month,
the lowest level since August 1997. Hutchison closed 0.4 percent
lower at HK$85.35 on the Hong Kong exchange.  Other panel members evaluating the possible linkup with
Hutchison are Telefonica’s Julio Linares, Elio Cosimo Catania
from Intesa Sanpaolo, Gabriele Galateri from Generali and
independent director  Luigi Zingales .  Fixed-Line Spinoff  Italy’s former phone monopoly is divesting assets, cutting
jobs and is reviewing a possible spinoff of its fixed-line
telephone network in Italy, a move that could generate cash to
reinvest in expanding coverage.  The company plans to revisit the project in two weeks, a
person briefed on the matter said after today’s board meeting.  Telecom Italia is considering a sale of an initial 30
percent stake in a new company to state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti, which may invest about 2 billion euros, people
familiar with the matter said last month. Telecom Italia could
also consider an initial public offering of the division in the
future, another person said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  