-- Telefonica Profit Misses Estimates as Spain Sales Plunge
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-05-08T07:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/telefonica-first-quarter-earnings-trail-estimates-on-spain-slump.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest
telephone company, reported first-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates as competition hurt sales throughout Latin
America and Europe, with revenue at home plunging 16 percent.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization fell
10 percent to 4.57 billion euros ($6 billion), the Madrid-based
company  said today . Analysts projected Oibda of 4.75 billion
euros, according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 8.8 percent, also missing projections.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is trying to reverse
falling sales in Spain, where unemployment breached 27 percent,
by offering cheaper packages of voice, broadband and TV. Still,
customers are defecting to smaller rivals including  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo unit, leaving Telefonica to rely on its  Latin America 
units for growth. Sales in that market declined, too, even as
Brazil overtook Spain as Telefonica’s biggest market.  “Results were a bit on the light side, although
expectations have come down in the last few months,” said Guy Peddy, a Macquarie Securities analyst in  London . “Earnings in
Spain and the U.K. were slightly weaker than expected but the
market was fearing that they would be even worse.”  Telefonica  declined  1.3 percent to 11.14 euros at 9:34 a.m.
in  Madrid . The stock has lost more than a third of its value in
the past two years.  Bolivar Impact  Net income climbed 21 percent to 902 million euros as sales
slid to 14.1 billion euros. Revenue fell mainly because of the
impact of the February devaluation of the bolivar in  Venezuela 
and the exclusion of Atento, the call-center unit sold last
year, the company said.  In Latin America, with markets including  Brazil , Colombia
and Chile, Telefonica’s Oibda declined 9.6 percent to 2.31
billion euros as sales fell 3.8 percent. That compares with an
Oibda decline of 6.4 percent to 2.35 billion euros at the phone
carrier’s European division.  Brazil became the company’s biggest market for the first
time, even as sales declined 9.5 percent to 3.26 billion euros.  “The impact of currency devaluations in Latin America,
especially Venezuela, Brazil and  Argentina , was very negative,”
Borja Mijangos, an analyst at Interdin Bolsa in Madrid, said in
a phone interview. “However, results are overall slightly
positive helped by an improvement in profit margins in Spain on
cost reductions and its bundled offering.”  Domestic Slump  In Spain, sales declined to 3.26 billion euros as the
company lost 275,000 mobile subscribers and average bills
shrank. Oibda margin in Spain widened to 47 percent from 42.6
percent a year earlier.  Telefonica said it has reduced its net  debt  to 51.2 billion
euros from 51.3 billion euros at the end of 2012, slowed down by
the impact of the bolivar devaluation. The company repeated it
targets a net debt of less than 47 billion euros by the end of
the year.  In March, Telefonica sold $1.3 billion of treasury stock
and agreed to sell the company’s U.K. broadband and fixed-line
phone division to  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  for as much
as 200 million pounds ($310 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  