-- Emerging Stocks Rally as China Exports Fuel Tech Advance
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-08T21:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/emerging-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-on-trade-technology-shares.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied,
erasing this year’s declines, as China’s export growth stoked
gains in technology companies and a surge in Turkish banking
shares sent the Borsa Istanbul index to a record.  Lenovo Group Ltd., a personal-computer maker, jumped in
 Hong Kong  as Chinese exports unexpectedly accelerated in April.
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  rallied to an all-time high in
Istanbul after being raised at UBS AG.  African Bank Investments
Ltd. (ABL)  rebounded from a 26 percent plunge in Johannesburg.
Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped from a six-week high as oil producer
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA slumped 9.7 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.8 percent to
1,061.09, its highest close since March 11. The 14.7 percent
increase in exports was led by a 57.2 percent jump in shipments
to Hong Kong that highlighted suspicions of false transactions
used to mask capital flows into China. Investors speculated
 Standard & Poor’s  will raise  Turkey  to investment grade.  “The data was better than expected,” Andres Garcia-Amaya,
a New York-based global market strategist in JPMorgan’s
investment management unit. “There’s a lot of noise to it, but
it is improving.”  Gauges of financial, technology and consumer companies on
the emerging-market index rose the most among 10 groups. The
broader measure trades at 11.1 times 12-month  projected profit ,
compared with the MSCI World’s valuation of 14.6, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund rose
0.8 percent to $44.23. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, added 1.7
percent to 18.08.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.8 percent as OGX dropped to the
lowest price since April 25, the most on the emerging-market
gauge. Mexico had its  credit rating  raised by  Fitch Ratings  on
the prospect that proposed legal changes will boost growth in
Latin America’s second-largest economy. The peso rallied 0.4
percent to 11.9771 per  U.S. dollar  at 4 p.m. in Mexico City,
extending its advance this year to 7.3 percent.  The Micex Index added 0.2 percent in Moscow, rising a
fourth day, in the longest winning streak since Dec. 12. Russia
is considering an increase in dividends paid by state-controlled
companies to 35 percent of profit to boost budget revenue, said
three government officials with knowledge of the matter.  Turkish banks sent the benchmark  stock index  up 1.6
percent. Turkiye Garanti, the country’s largest listed bank,
rose 3.9 percent, with trading volume at 96 percent of the
stock’s daily average, after UBS raised the stock to buy from
neutral.  African Bank  The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index gained 1.6 percent, led
by African Bank Investments. The lender climbed 7.7 percent in
the biggest advance since March 2009.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  jumped 1.3 percent, its highest close
since August 2011. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong added 1.5 percent. Lenovo
rose the most since April 24.  South Korea’s won rose to a two-month high. The currency’s
advance for a fourth day prompted Kim Seong Wook, a director in
the  finance ministry , to say today the government will closely
monitor any “unnecessary movement” that increases the
exchange-rate volatility.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 269 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  