-- Enbridge First-Quarter Profit Falls on Commodity Contract Losses
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-05-08T11:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/enbridge-first-quarter-profit-falls-on-commodity-contract-losses.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest transporter
of Canadian crude to the U.S., said first-quarter profit
declined on derivative contract losses.  Net income fell to C$250 million ($249 million), or 31
Canadian cents a share, from C$261 million, or 34 cents, a year
earlier, the Calgary-based company said in a statement
distributed by Marketwired today. Excluding one-time items, per-
share profit of 62 Canadian cents a share exceeded the 52-cent
average of 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Added production from Alberta’s oil sands and the Bakken
Shale formation has prompted Enbridge to expand and reverse
pipeline routes to refineries on the U.S.  Gulf Coast  and in
 Canada ’s eastern provinces. The company’s Seaway pipeline,
jointly owned with  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , is the only
pipeline shipping crude to the Gulf coast from the Cushing,
Oklahoma storage hub.  Enbridge and Enterprise last year reversed Seaway, a 500-
mile (805-kilometer) pipeline that in the third quarter began
bringing oil to Texas refineries.  Enbridge owns and operates Canada’s largest oil pipeline
network, spanning 24,738 kilometers and shipping more than 2.2
million barrels of crude and liquids a day, according to its
website. The company is investing C$15 billion in the next three
years to add capacity for 1 million barrels of Alberta crude,
Chief Executive Officer Al Monaco said in a speech in January.  The results were reported before the start of regular
trading in  North America . Enbridge rose 0.3 percent to C$47.55
at the close yesterday in Toronto. The shares have 13 buy, three
hold and two sell ratings from analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  