-- Mengniu to Buy Modern Dairy Stake to Control Milk Quality
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T09:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mengniu-agrees-to-buy-modern-dairy-stake-to-control-milk-quality.html
China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , the country’s
largest dairy producer, agreed to buy 26.9 percent of  China
Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117)  for HK$3.18 billion ($409 million) to
gain greater control of milk supplies amid food safety concerns
in the country.  Mengniu Dairy will pay HK$2.45 a share for the Modern Dairy
stake, the company said in a  filing  to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today. That’s 12 percent less than the stock’s  closing
price  yesterday. The two sellers were companies controlled by
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  and CDH China Fund III LP, according to the statement.  Acquiring the shares in Modern Dairy will help Hohhot,
Inner Mongolia-based Mengniu Dairy increase focus on quality of
its supplies amid safety concerns in  China ’s dairy industry.
Food-safety scandals in China ranging from toxic melamine in
milk powder that killed six babies, to kitchen waste reprocessed
into cooking oil and rat meat being sold as mutton has driven
consumers to buy products overseas.  “Accelerating and expanding investments in quality farms
will allow Mengniu to establish a safer and more stable value
chain in the dairy sector,” Mengniu Chief Executive Officer Sun Yiping said in a statement.  Modern Dairy plunged 6.5 percent to HK$2.61, the most since
December 2011. It is still up 23 percent this year.  The two private equity funds bought the shares “at a much
lower price and they’ve been holding onto the shares for a long
time,” Anson Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at KGI Asia Ltd.,
said by phone. “The sale reflected their urgency to realize the
gains.”  Discounted Price  Mengniu shares gained 0.2 percent to HK$21.80. The
benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 0.9 percent.  “We believe Kohlberg Kravis Roberts wanted an earlier exit
from China Modern Dairy rather than having to sit through the
full investment term,” Charles Yan, head of Greater China
Consumer Research at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a note.
“We believe KKR is focused more on building a long-term
strategic relationship with COFCO.”  Modern Dairy is the largest raw milk producer in China, as
well as the largest dairy farming company in terms of herd size,
Mengniu said in a statement.  Steve Okun, a spokesman for KKR, declined to comment on the
pricing. KKR completed purchase of Modern Dairy shares in 2009,
according to its  statement .  Prior to the acquisition, state-owned COFCO held 20 percent
of Mengniu, while New York-based private-equity firm KKR owned
24 percent of Modern Dairy, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today’s deal will give Mengniu preferential purchase
rights to Modern Dairy’s milk supply, Mengniu said in a e-mailed
reply to questions. Mengniu doesn’t plan to increase its stake
in Modern Dairy in the near future, Esther Lau, an external
spokeswoman for the company today.  Consumer Confidence  Mengniu’s operating profit last year  shrank  16 percent to
1.45 billion  yuan  as sales fell 3.5 percent. Food quality and
safety incidents affected  consumer confidence  and sales, it said
in a March 27 statement. In 2011, Mengniu said moldy cattle feed
led to excessive toxin levels in its milk.  Since then, the company has run marketing campaigns
emphasizing product quality to draw consumers back, and also
formed a strategic partnership with Danish dairy firm Arla Foods
in 2012 to improve quality inspection techniques and explore
further co-operation.  Market Share  Mengniu sells liquid milk products including UHT milk and
yogurt under its namesake brand in the Asian nation. It also
produces ice cream and other dairy products such as cheese and
milk powder. The company has the biggest share in China’s
drinking milk market, controlling more than 34 percent share in
2012, according to Euromonitor International.  Inner Mongolia
Yili Industrial Group Co. (600887)  ranked second with 24.8 percent.  Sales of milk in China will rise 70 percent to 147.4
billion yuan ($24 billion) in 2017 from last year, according to
data from Euromonitor International.  Modern Dairy, which first started operations in 2005 and is
the largest raw milk supplier to Mengniu, runs 22 large-scale
diary farms in China.  Milk sales at Modern Dairy rose 49 percent to 1.09 billion
yuan in the second half of last year, according to the company.
About 87 percent of its total sales goes to Mengniu, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Food Scares  Food scares in China’s dairy industry have been common. In
2008, at least 22 companies were found to have sold dairy
products containing melamine, a toxic chemical that can make
diluted milk appear to have a higher protein content.  Chinese police detained in March a Eastern China-based milk
distributor suspected of repackaging and selling milk powder
made by Swiss dairy company Hero Group that wasn’t licensed for
sale domestically, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  Chinese consumers’ distrust of local milk has been driving
domestic companies to look overseas. Yili Industrial said in
December it plans to invest NZ$214 million ($180 million) in a
baby formula project in New Zealand.  Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., the beverage maker owned by
China’s richest man  Zong Qinghou , is looking to  Australia  for
better quality milk sources that China lacks, Zong said in
March. Wahaha already sources its “Edison” baby formula from
the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  