-- Psst, Wanna Buy Some (Real) Viagra?
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-05-08T18:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/enhanced-viagra-site-won-t-end-male-embarrassment.html
Want Viagra without the inconvenience
and potential embarrassment of the pharmacy line?  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the drug’s producer, now has a  site for you :
its own Viagra.com, where you can get the blockbuster impotence
fighter without wondering what shady source you’re dealing with.
Using  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  to verify prescriptions and fulfill
orders, the site is Pfizer’s latest attempt to fight
counterfeiting.  In its  announcement  this week, the world’s largest drug
maker cited a 2011 analysis it did of pills bought from 22 sites
ranking high in search results for “buy Viagra.” About 80
percent were fake, containing only 30 percent to 50 percent of
the drug’s active ingredient, sildenafil citrate.  The new site is a reminder of the original value of
consumer branding: as a guarantee of quality. It’s also evidence
of the failure -- and the perverse effects -- of online drug
regulation.  In an era when trendy products sell themselves with
packaging and ingredients  reminiscent  of patent medicines, and
“branding” usually implies the value created by meaning and
associations, we tend to forget the original appeal of large,
impersonal consumer brands. In the late 19th century, Gold Medal
Flour and Uneeda Biscuits didn’t sell consumers a lifestyle.
They promised to deliver safe, fresh food. Ivory Soap touted
purity to counteract fears of tainted products from unknown
sources.  For the first century of consumer brands, most consumers
weren’t looking for quirky and interesting. They were looking
for reliable. “The best surprise,” was, as  Holiday Inn  put it
in the 1970s, “no surprise.”  Branding Quality  Nowadays, we tend to take basic quality for granted and
look for other value in the brands we choose -- all the more so
when we assume we’re buying a heavily regulated product.
Pfizer’s site reminds drug buyers to look for a label that
guarantees what they’re getting.  The new site is a worthy attempt, but it faces two big
problems.  The first is that the very success of Viagra as an
impotence drug that actually works has lent credibility to
claims most men used to greet with skepticism. Before Viagra’s
1998 introduction, if a concoction claimed to cure impotence,
only the truly desperate or gullible would try it.  Not so today. Among the drug’s unexpected side effects,
then, has been a spate of latter-day patent medicines claiming
to offer  “natural male enhancement.”  These aren’t counterfeits
per se. They’re alternatives whose “natural” formulations --
 if true  -- generally put them outside federal drug regulations.
Pfizer’s new site doesn’t directly address that competition.  The second, more significant problem is that the site does
nothing to confront what’s really driving people to websites
peddling counterfeit drugs: the prescription system.  In its news release, Pfizer cited a  study  by the National
Association of Boards of Pharmacy that found a mere 3 percent of
online pharmacies were operating in compliance “with state and
federal laws and/or NABP patient safety and pharmacy practice
standards,” including the requirement for a “valid
prescription.” Almost two-thirds of the questionable sites post
no physical address, either in the U.S. or abroad, and 39
percent don’t have a public domain name registration making them
easily trackable. (Neither, I should note, do my own personal
websites.)  This result wasn’t inevitable.  In the early days of the Internet, established brick-and-mortar pharmacies set up online shops selling “lifestyle”
prescription drugs, including Viagra,  Roche Holding AG ’s weight-loss drug Xenical and Merck & Co.’s anti-baldness drug Propecia.
It was a good way for independents to make money in competition
with the big chains.  Online Pharmacies  I  visited  one such pharmacy in early 2000, a small shop
called the Pill Box in  San Antonio . Founded in 1971, it started
selling drugs online in January 1999 and a year later was doing
a big business, with online sales then making up half of
revenue. (The rest was medical equipment and compounded drugs.)
The boom was driven primarily by Viagra.  “I don’t think it would have ever occurred if it had not
been for the drug Viagra,” Pill Box owner Bill Stalknecht, a
licensed pharmacist, told me. “There is so much untreated
erectile dysfunction, so much that guys won’t ever talk about.
They’ll talk about it on the telephone, but they will not see a
doctor.”  It didn’t take long for state regulators to drive such
operations off the Internet. Although the legitimate pharmacies
started out taking faxes of patients’ prescriptions, the big
expansion came when the Pill Box and others hired physicians to
review online questionnaires and prescribe drugs without
actually meeting their patients -- a big no-no.  Regulators
balked , and state authorities began going after the doctors and
pharmacies.  The result was today’s Viagra underground.  If you’re going to take Viagra, you would be wise to see a
physician first. But a lot of patients are still determined not
to. Maybe they’re too embarrassed, or maybe they think they just
can’t spare the time. So instead of taking the risk of an online
questionnaire in lieu of an exam, they take the larger risk of
buying drugs with unknown formulations from sources with
uncertain identities. If something goes wrong, no one can be
held responsible.  Pfizer’s new site will undoubtedly pick up a few patients
who search “buy viagra online” and just want to renew their
prescriptions. But aside from search engine results, it offers
little you can’t already get from CVS.com. As long as a real
bottle of Viagra requires a visit to the doctor, even the most
clearly branded site won’t do much against counterfeiters.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of
Style” and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her
on Twitter  @vpostrel . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 