-- Enron’s Jeff Skilling May Get Decade Off Sentence in Deal
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-05-09T12:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/enron-s-jeff-skilling-may-get-decade-off-sentence-in-deal.html
Jeffrey Skilling , the convicted former
Enron Corp. chief executive officer, may get out of prison in as
little as four years if a judge approves a deal with prosecutors
over objections by victims of one of the biggest corporate
frauds in U.S. history.  In exchange for getting as many as 10 years cut from his
24-year sentence, Skilling will drop his bid for a new trial and
end litigation over his conviction. A jury found he spearheaded
a fraud of as much as $40 billion that destroyed the world’s
largest energy trader in 2001.  U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in Houston said he would take
into consideration comments by ex-Enron employees, investors and
other victims before accepting or rejecting the deal.  A sentencing agreement submitted yesterday to Lake by
prosecutors and Skilling’s lawyers calls for the former
executive to give up all claims to $40 million in forfeited
assets and be resentenced to 14 to 17 years in prison, according
to a filing in federal court in Houston. The bulk of the
reduction comes from an appellate ruling that takes nine years
off because sentencing guidelines were improperly applied by
Lake the first time.  Lake held a series of closed-doors status conferences in
the case on May 2, May 3, and again yesterday.  ‘This Magnitude’  “It seems unlikely that the government and Skilling’s
lawyers would’ve presented a deal to the judge without
confidence it would be approved,” David Berg, a Houston trial
lawyer familiar with the Enron prosecutions and Lake, said in a
phone interview. “That’s what three days of closed-door
hearings have been about. I’m unaware of any criminal case where
a deal was reached of this magnitude -- 14 years is a lot of
time -- and the judge rejected it.”  Skilling, 59, has served more than six years of his 2006
sentence for fraud, conspiracy and insider trading. Given the
nine years lopped off by the 2011 appellate ruling, and with the
potential benefit of two more years off for good behavior and
another year off for participation in a drug treatment program,
Skilling could be released in 2017 or early 2018, according to
his lawyer and the agreement.  “The proposed agreement will bring certainty and finality
to a long painful process, although the recommended sentence for
Jeff would still be more than double that of any other Enron
defendant, all of whom have long been out of prison,” his
lawyer,  Daniel Petrocelli , said in a phone interview. “Jeff
will at least get the chance to get back a meaningful part of
his life.”  Home Confinement  Skilling entered prison in December 2006, following roughly
six weeks of home confinement. Prosecutors won a forfeiture of
more than $40 million of Skilling’s assets at trial, which have
been held in reserve while the former executive continued to
appeal his conviction, according to the filing. In dropping his
bid for a new trial and any further appeals, Skilling agreed not
to challenge the forfeiture, which will immediately free up the
funds for Enron victims.  “Today’s agreement will put an end to the legal battles
surrounding this case,”  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the Justice
Department’s criminal division, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Mr. Skilling will no longer be permitted to
challenge his conviction for one of the most notorious frauds in
American history, and victims of his crime will finally receive
the more than $40 million in restitution they are owed.”  Victim Opinions  In an order yesterday, Lake outlined procedures for victims
to voice opinions in writing or in person at Skilling’s re-sentencing on June 21. Lake said some victims had written him
before the deal was formally announced and he may limit the
number who will speak to avoid prolonging the hearing.  Former Enron investors and employees have until June 7 to
send the judge letters and request to speak at the hearing.  “This agreement ensures that Mr. Skilling will be
appropriately punished for his crimes and that victims will
finally receive the restitution they deserve,” Carr said.  There’s a good chance Lake will impose the minimum sentence
under the deal in spite of victims’ objections, Jim DeVita, the
white-collar attorney who defended former  Tyco International
Ltd. (TYC)  Chief Executive Officer L. Dennis Kozlowski. Kozlowski was
sentenced in 2005 to 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison for looting the
company, and is presently seeking parole.  ‘Probably Enough’  “In a case of this nature, even though it involved the
significant and monumental collapse of a company, 14 years is
probably enough,” DeVita, of Day Pitney LLP in  New York , said
in a phone interview. “For someone like Mr. Skilling, the
likelihood of recidivism is nil -- 14 years is more than enough
to deter someone from doing that again.”  When Skilling was sentenced in October 2006, Lake gave him
the minimum term under nonbinding federal guidelines, which
called for as long as 30 years in prison.  After a 16-week trial, a Houston jury convicted Skilling
alongside  Kenneth Lay , Enron’s former chairman, for conspiring
to use off-books partnerships to manipulate the company’s
finances and mislead investors about the company’s true
financial condition. Lay died before he could appeal, and his
conviction was erased.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron plunged into bankruptcy in
December 2001. Investors sued to recover more than $40 billion
in market losses.  Skilling is incarcerated in a federal prison in Englewood,
 Colorado , outside of Denver.  Retrial Sought  Petrocelli, Skilling’s attorney, told Lake at a hearing
last May that the former executive deserved a new trial because
prosecutors failed to turn over potentially exonerating evidence
that could have influenced Skilling’s trial. The government
provided some of the materials to Skilling during his appeal.  In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court heard Skilling’s appeal and
agreed that his conviction was based in part on an invalid legal
theory known as the “theft of honest services.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  reviewed his case
in 2011 and determined there was enough other trial evidence to
convict Skilling without the flawed theory. The appellate court
upheld the verdicts against Skilling and ordered Lake to
recalculate his sentence, having earlier found that sentencing
guidelines were misapplied in his case.  News that Skilling was in talks to reduce his sentence
surfaced in early April, after the  Justice Department  posted a
public notice on its website. The notice requested comments by
April 17 from “Enron employees, stockholders and other
victims” regarding an unspecified “sentencing agreement” with
an unnamed defendant.  Harlan Protass, a partner at Clayman & Rosenberg LLP in New
York who briefly represented one of the friends of the Boston
Marathon bombing suspects, said the judge in Skilling’s case has
the ultimate authority to decide on sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Causey, 04-00025, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  