-- Mersch Says Cuts Become Ineffective as Interest Rates Near Zero
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-08T13:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mersch-says-cuts-become-ineffective-as-interest-rates-near-zero.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Yves Mersch said  interest-rate  reductions become more
ineffective as they approach zero.  “The closer we get to zero, the bigger the inefficiency of
a further rate cut,” Mersch said at a conference in Aachen,
 Germany  today. The ECB isn’t a “toothless tiger” and will use
“tools that are appropriate to the situation.”  ECB policy makers cut the benchmark interest rate to a
record low of  0.5 percent  last week and extended unlimited
liquidity provision to the region’s banks through mid-2014. The
Frankfurt-based central bank also agreed to explore options to
revive the market for asset-backed securities and encourage
lending to smaller companies in tandem with the European
Commission and the  European Investment Bank .  “We will perhaps securitize these loans so that banks in
countries with surpluses can lend without fear that it won’t be
paid back,” Mersch said. “This is something we can’t do from
one day to the next, at the push of a button.”  Inflation expectations in the euro area are stable and in
line with the ECB’s 2 percent goal, Mersch said. He added that
the risk of deflation emerging isn’t larger than 15 percent,
according to economic forecasts.  “If we see inflation pressures, we’d automatically go into
exit mode and steer against them,” he said.  He also said that a banking union will ease fragmentation
in the 17-member euro area and the Single Supervisory Mechanism
will “hopefully” be operational within 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  