-- EU Carbon Drop May Soften Australia Critics, CMIA’s Hobley Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-08T12:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/eu-carbon-drop-may-soften-australia-critics-cmia-s-hobley-says.html
The European Union’s failure to fix an
oversupply of emissions permits that depressed prices in its
carbon market doesn’t materially increase the vulnerability of
 Australia ’s climate program, said Anthony Hobley, president of
the Climate Markets & Investment Association and head of climate
change at Norton Rose LLP in London.  Australia agreed in August 2012 to link its carbon market
with the EU system.  Hobley spoke in an April 23 phone interview.  On arguments against Australia’s carbon program by Tony Abbott,
the nation’s opposition leader:  “A plunge in the carbon price as  Europe ’s economy shrinks
makes it more difficult to argue against the Australian carbon
pricing mechanism on cost grounds alone.”  Abbott would be “arguing against himself” if he says low
carbon prices show the market doesn’t work.  “The lower price removes one of his key arguments to
justify the effort to remove the whole thing and certainly do
not justify the expenditure of political capital involved
forcing a double dissolution in parliament.”  On the benefits to Australia’s emitters of the EU link:  “A well-designed carbon market gives the long-term cost-
effective framework to manage price risk, which businesses need.
Businesses know there is a risk and it needs to know how to
price that risk.”  On changes needed to the EU carbon market:  While the EU market has access to UN credits to help ease
potential price surges, it has “nothing to deal with a price
collapse. One of the key things to come out of the EU ETS
experience is the realization that you need some degree of
management for price stability, as is the case with interest
rates or money supply.”  CMIA supports a second push for European lawmakers to mend
the permit glut, though “this sticking plaster will only slow
the blood loss, it will not stop it without more long-term
intervention.”  On whether markets should be used to protect the climate:  “Emissions trading is by far the most cost effective way
to achieve cuts and unleashes market creativity delivering many
unexpected solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  