-- EU Hits India With Wire Tariffs to Counter Subsidies, Dumping
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-08T13:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/eu-hits-india-with-wire-tariffs-to-counter-subsidies-dumping.html
The European Union imposed tariffs as
high as 27.8 percent on stainless-steel wires from India, saying
EU producers such as Ugitech SA of  France  have been hurt by
Indian subsidies and price undercutting.  The duties punish Indian manufacturers including  KEI
Industries Ltd. (KEII)  and  Mukand Ltd. (MUK)  for allegedly receiving trade-
distorting government aid and selling the wires in the 27-nation
EU below cost, a practice known as dumping.  EU producers that also include  Germany ’s Hagener Feinstahl
GmbH,  Italy ’s Rodacciai SpA and Spain’s Inoxfil SA suffered
“material injury” as a result of subsidies and dumping by
Indian competitors, the European Commission, the bloc’s trade
authority in Brussels, said in two decisions today in the
 Official Journal . The duties, to take effect tomorrow, are for
as long as six months and may be prolonged for five years.  Indian exporters of stainless-steel wires increased their
combined share of the EU market to 17.9 percent in the 12 months
through March 2012 from 12.8 percent in 2009, said the
commission. EU manufacturers’ share of their market fell to 62.9
percent from 67.6 percent over the period, according to the
commission, which said employment in the bloc for stainless-
steel wire production totaled 1,747 people in the 12 months
through March 2012.  The duties to counter subsidies and dumping are the
preliminary outcome of probes that the commission opened last
August in response to complaints against  India  by European steel
industry lobby group  Eurofer .  The provisional anti-subsidy duties are as high as 4.3
percent and the provisional anti-dumping levies are up to 27.8
percent, depending on the Indian producer. EU governments,
acting on commission proposals, must decide within four months
whether to turn the anti-subsidy duties into “definitive”
five-year levies and within six months whether to apply
definitive anti-dumping measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  