-- EU’s Rehn Urges Renewed Push for Cyprus Unity to Help Recovery
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-08T09:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/eu-s-rehn-urges-renewed-push-for-cyprus-unity-to-help-recovery.html
The European Union’s economy chief
weighed into the political dispute over the four-decade division
of Cyprus, saying unification would help the Mediterranean
island emerge from a rescue program.  “The re-unification of the island would give a major boost
to the economic and social development of Cyprus,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told a European
Parliament committee today in Brussels. “Now it is indeed high
time to revitalize the process leading toward the re-unification
of Cyprus.”  Cyprus has been divided between Greek-speaking and Turkish-
speaking regions since  Turkey  invaded the north of the island in
1974 following a coup by Greek-Cypriot supporters of union with
 Greece . Cyprus joined the EU in 2004 after Greek-speaking voters
rejected a unification plan in a referendum, causing the
European bloc to import a border dispute that involves United-
Nations peacekeepers. Turkey still has troops in northern
Cyprus, whose rulers aren’t recognized internationally.  Cyprus in March became the fifth euro-area country to seal
an international rescue agreement after reworking a 10 billion-
euro ($13 billion) package that provoked controversy because it
would have imposed a levy on all domestic bank accounts. The
levy, subsequently limited to accounts above the insured limit
of 100,000 euros, is part of revenue-raising steps that the
Cypriot government must take to unlock the aid from the euro
area and the  International Monetary Fund .  Banking Sector  Rehn said Cyprus has been slow to tackle macro-economic
imbalances, particularly in the banking sector. Noting that he
was EU enlargement chief between late 2004 and early 2010, Rehn
also said inadequate progress has been made on unifying the
island.  “I worked very hard for five years as commissioner for
enlargement to facilitate the re-unification of Cyprus,” he
said. “I regret that there has been no decisive progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  