-- EU Said to Plan Duties Up to 67.9% on China Solar Panels
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-05-09T05:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/eu-said-to-plan-tariffs-of-up-to-67-9-on-chinese-solar-panels.html
The European Union is planning to
impose tariffs of as much as 67.9 percent on solar panels from
 China  to counter unfair pricing in the largest EU trade dispute
of its kind, according to a commerce official from the bloc.  The European Commission expects to introduce the levies by
June 6 to punish Chinese solar manufacturers for selling panels
in the 27-nation EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping , the
official said yesterday on the condition of anonymity. The
commission in Brussels is the EU’s trade authority.  The duties, which will affect more than 100 Chinese
companies and average 47.6 percent, will be the preliminary
outcome of a dumping inquiry that the commission opened in
September, said the official. The probe is due to end in early
December, by which time EU governments must decide whether to
impose “definitive” anti-dumping duties for five years.  The dumping investigation covers 21 billion euros ($27.6
billion) of EU imports in 2011 of crystalline silicon
photovoltaic panels, and cells and wafers used in them. European
companies including  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest maker of
the renewable-energy technology, are demanding punitive levies
to counter growing competition from China following similar U.S.
trade protection. Europe accounts for around more than half of
the global photovoltaic market.  China Reaction  China strongly opposes any limits and will try to protect
the interests of Chinese solar companies, Yao Jian, a spokesman
at the nation’s Ministry of Commerce, said today at a briefing
in Beijing. Dialogue is needed to resolve the dispute, Yao said.  Chinese solar companies fell, led by  Solargiga Energy
Holdings Ltd. (757)  and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  Solargiga dipped
1.2 percent to HK$0.43 at 11:51 a.m. local time in Hong Kong
trading after earlier declining as much as 5.8 percent, the most
intraday since April 11. GCL-Poly, the biggest maker of
polysilicon used in solar panels, dropped as much as 3.7
percent.  The EU is also threatening to impose a separate set of
duties on Chinese solar panels to counter alleged subsidies.
That’s the focus of a second investigation in which the deadline
for introducing any provisional anti-subsidy duties is Aug. 8
and for any definitive anti-subsidy measures is early December.  Chinese companies have gained more than 80 percent of the
market in  Europe  for solar goods compared with almost zero in
2004,  EU ProSun , a group that represents European producers
including Solarworld, said in September when the commission
opened the dumping investigation. EU ProSun requested the
dumping and subsidy inquiries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  