-- Evonik First-Quarter Profit Declines 10% on Lower Selling Prices
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-08T05:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/evonik-first-quarter-profit-declines-10-on-lower-selling-prices.html
Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , the German
chemical maker that listed shares in Frankfurt two weeks ago,
said first-quarter profit fell 10 percent as the company cut
prices for some of its products and raw-material costs rose.  Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization dropped to 589 million euros ($771 million) from
656 million euros, the Essen-based company said today in a
statement. Sales fell 4 percent to 3.26 billion euros in the
quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Engel  is sticking to a full-
year forecast for revenue to rise and operating profit to remain
at about the same level as last year. The chemical maker has
boosted production and plans price increases for some products,
which will support full-year earnings, said the company, which
was previously known as Degussa.  “Since the economic environment remains challenging,
Evonik got off to a somewhat moderate start to 2013 compared
with the very strong first quarter of 2012,” Engel said today
in the statement. “However, we expect business to pick up
perceptibly in the second half of the year, partly because of a
recovery in the global economy and partly because new production
capacities will come on stream.”  Net income advanced 7 percent to 289 million euros in the
first three months, Evonik said.  Evonik, a candidate to join  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index
when enough shares are freely traded, has a market value of
about 15 billion euros.  The company’s owners, RAG Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. plan to sell additional stakes in the chemical maker after
listing shares in April that had already been sold to
institutional investors, they have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  