-- Ex-Gold Fields Chairwoman Seeks to Topple S. Africa’s ANC
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-08T08:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ex-gold-fields-chairwoman-seeks-to-topple-s-africa-s-anc.html
Former  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  Chairwoman
Mamphela Ramphele said Agang SA, a political movement she
founded three months ago, has attracted 10,000 volunteers and is
set on toppling South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress 
in next year’s elections.  “The reception has been overwhelming,” Ramphele, 65, said
in an interview in  Cape Town  yesterday. “The feedback we have
got from South African people is they want change and they want
it now. We believe we can win enough support to form a
government, either on our own or in coalition with others.”  The ANC has dominated South African politics since taking
power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first all-race elections in
1994, winning almost two-thirds of the vote in 2009. Its nearest
rival, the Democratic Alliance, had 17 percent support.  A medical doctor, social anthropologist and author,
Ramphele resigned her position at Gold Fields after more than
two years to enter politics. She fought against apartheid and
was once a partner of Steve Biko, who founded South Africa’s
Black Consciousness Movement and died in 1977 after sustaining
 brain damage  during a beating while in police custody.  Nineteen years after the end of white minority rule,
discontent is mounting over a 25 percent  unemployment  rate and
 income inequality  that ranks among the highest in the world.
 South Africa  had a record 173 protests by poor, shantytown
residents last year over a lack of housing and basic services,
according to Johannesburg-based research group Municipal IQ.  ‘No Return’  “This government has come to a point of no return,”
Ramphele said. “They cannot change the system of governance
because there is no political will to do so. In any other
democracy they would have been asked to fall on their sword.”  The ANC draws most of its support from black voters loyal
to the party because of its fight against apartheid. Breakaway
groups from the ANC, including the United Democratic Movement
and Congress of the People, have failed to make a dent into the
ANC’s popularity.  Prior to being appointed chairwoman of Gold Fields in
November 2010, Ramphele served as a director of  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , the largest investor in South African mining, and managing
director of the  World Bank .  She quit all her business posts in February to create Agang
SA -- meaning “Build South Africa.”  “We can and must build the South Africa of our dreams,”
Ramphele said. “People are ready to stand up and say: ‘You know
what, enough is enough.’ We want to be treated with dignity, we
want to have the kind of political leadership we can believe
in.”  Microeconomic Reforms  Agang will be transformed into a political party next
month, when it will release its policy positions and the names
of a number of high-profile South Africans who have joined its
ranks, she said.  While Agang sees no need to change South Africa’s economic
policies, microeconomic reforms are need to make it easier for
businesses to operate and hire staff, Ramphele said.  Agang is also campaigning for electoral reforms to make
public representatives directly accountable to their
constituents and for state workers to be barred from doing
private work.  Coalition talks with the  Democratic Alliance , the United
Democratic Movement and other opposition parties are ongoing
Ramphele said.  “We believe it is time to realign the politics of this
country,” she said. “It is very important to address the
fragmentation of opposition voices. We have got to build
collaboration, coalitions around defined principals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  