-- Ex-N.Y. Senator Huntley Recorded City, State Officials
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-08T23:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ex-n-y-senator-huntley-recorded-city-state-officials.html
Former  New York  state Senator Shirley Huntley, who pleaded guilty in January to mail fraud conspiracy,
worked with the government to secretly record other elected
officials in a corruption probe, according to her lawyer.  The attorney named nine people recorded by the ex-lawmaker
in a filing made public today in the federal court in Brooklyn.
They are six state senators, a New York City councilman and two
former staff members.  Huntley, who is to be sentenced tomorrow by U.S. District
Judge Jack Weinstein, was asked by the government to “invite
certain individuals into her home and record conversations,”
according to a letter filed by her lawyer, Sally Butler, in a
request for leniency.  The individuals included state Senator John Sampson, of
 Brooklyn , who pleaded not guilty this week to embezzlement and
other charges, and state Senator Malcolm Smith, of Queens, who
was charged last month in a bribery case in  Manhattan .  State Senator Eric Adams, who is running for Brooklyn
borough president, was also named in the letter.  ‘Pursuit of Justice’  “I have not been contacted about any investigation,”
Adams, a former New York police officer, said in a statement
forwarded by a spokesman. “I believe deeply in transparency and
the pursuit of justice -- and that is why I committed 20 years
of my life to law enforcement. I am more than willing to help
with any investigation.”  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, declined to comment on the letter, or whether any
of the officials are currently under investigation.  All of the lawmakers are Democrats.  Others named in the filing were Bronx and Westchester
County state Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson, Queens state Senator
Jose Peralta, New York City Councilman Ruben Willis and Brooklyn
state Senator Velmanette Montgomery. The filing also named a
former political consultant and a former press adviser among
those recorded.  “I am confident that the authorities will find, if they
have not already done so, that I have engaged in no wrongdoing
whatsoever,” Peralta said in a statement forwarded by a
spokesman.  Isn’t Target  Willis said in an e-mailed statement that his attorney has
been in contact with  law enforcement  authorities and informed
him he isn’t the target of the investigation involving Huntley.  “I have personally not been contacted by any law
enforcement officials to date and I look forward to continuing
the work of the people of southeast Queens that elected me,” he
said.  Hassell-Thompson said she was “perplexed” to learn she
was mentioned in the filing.  “To be sure, Shirley Huntley invited me to lunch in 2012.
We met and spoke, in general, about matters including our health
and our families,” Hassell-Thompson said in a statement e-mailed by a spokeswoman. “At no time -- past or present -- did
we discuss anything inappropriate, improper or illegal. My
record is above reproach.”  She added that she was “certain” the government had
already cleared her name.  A representative for Montgomery didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment on the filing.  Huntley, of Queens, was accused of embezzling $87,700 from
a nonprofit group she founded, the Parents Information Network,
which received public grants sponsored by state legislators.
Huntley spent a portion of the money on “personal items,”
including toiletries and household items, Butler said in the
letter.  Child’s Funeral  Huntley also used some of the funds to pay for expenses not
related to the nonprofit’s mission such as a funeral for a child
in her community and graduation caps and gowns for low-income
high school students, according to the letter. The nonprofit was
purportedly established to help educate parents about the New
York City public school system.  In her guilty plea, the lawmaker admitted to the government
that she received $1,000 from an individual who wanted help
doing business at  John F. Kennedy International Airport , which
was in Huntley’s district.  “The government has been able to ban the businessman from
further association with JFK airport,” Butler said in the
letter. “Mrs. Huntley’s assistance to the government should be
considered as a mitigating factor” in her sentencing.  Plea Deal  Under a plea deal with the government, Huntley, 74, faces a
sentence of as long as two years in prison. She also agreed to
pay $87,700 to the state and $1,000 to the  Port Authority  of New
York and  New Jersey  as restitution for the airport bribery
scheme.  Butler filed the letter under seal earlier this month.
Weinstein yesterday ordered that it be made public after
reporters from Newsday, the New York Daily News, the New York
Post, the  New York Times (NYT) ,  Bloomberg News , the Associated Press
and Reuters objected to its being filed under seal. Prosecutors
opposed efforts to make the filing public.  The case is U.S. v. Huntley, 1:13-cr-00054, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  