-- Mexican Bonds Rally Before Carstens Address; Peso Little Changed
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-08T15:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mexican-bonds-rally-before-carstens-address-peso-little-changed.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds gained on
speculation central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will signal
today a willingness to consider rate cuts.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 4.52 percent at 10:51 a.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a record low 4.51 percent reached May 2.  The central bank will probably offer a “dovish tone” in
the presentation, according to Alejandro Padilla, a strategist
at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB. Carstens is scheduled to give a
speech on inflation at 5 p.m. local time.  Peso bonds have returned 16 percent in dollar terms this
year as foreigners seek yields higher than those in developed
markets and as Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto pushes
legislative changes that could bolster economic growth.
Speculation has mounted that the central bank may cut rates for
a second time this year, which would increase the value of the
country’s bonds as yields drop.  “What’s dominating the market is this issue of foreign
flows,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB in Mexico City, said in a telephone
interview. “Significant resources keep coming in.”  As of April 25, foreigners held 58 percent of fixed-rate
peso bonds, compared with 54 percent at the end of 2012,
according to the central bank’s website.  Pena Nieto will present today the details of legislation
intended to increase lending in  Latin America ’s second-biggest
economy.  “At the same time, investors will be paying close
attention to the presentation of the financial reform,” Padilla
wrote in a research report today.  The peso was little changed today at 12.0313 per  U.S.
dollar . It has advanced 6.8 percent this year, the most among
major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  