-- Mexico Credit Rating Upgraded by Fitch to BBB+; Peso Rallies
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-08T21:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mexico-credit-rating-upgraded-by-fitch-to-bbb-currency-rallies.html
Mexico had its credit rating raised by
 Fitch Ratings  on the prospect that proposed legal changes will
boost growth in Latin America’s second-largest economy. The peso
surged to the strongest level since August 2011.  Fitch increased the rating to BBB+, the third-lowest
investment grade level, from BBB, putting it in line with
Moody’s Investors Service’s Baa1 rating. The move reverses a cut
that Fitch carried out in November 2009, when falling oil output
and a recession curbed  tax revenue . The peso rallied 0.4 percent
to 11.9771 per  U.S. dollar  at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, extending
its advance this year to 7.3 percent.  Fitch said in a statement that the increase reflects
Mexico’s economic resilience and that it sees “greater than
anticipated commitment of the new administration and Congress to
pass structural reforms.” President Enrique Pena Nieto, who
took office in December, has pledged to push through legal
changes to boost tax collection and open the state-controlled
 energy industry  to more private investment.  Standard & Poor’s 
raised the outlook on its BBB rating to positive in March.  The upgrade gives “a nod of approval” to Mexico’s
policies and its economic expansion, Alejandro Urbina, who helps
manage about $800 million in emerging-market assets, including
those from Mexico, at Silva Capital Management, said by phone
from  Chicago . “They’ve managed to have good growth and low
inflation and good policies. Foreign investors like that,” he
said.  Growth Outlook  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said yesterday that
the legislation changes could help Mexico’s economy grow as fast
as 6.5 percent annually. Policy makers have also said they
expect the inflation rate to fall back to within their 2
percent-to-4 percent target range during the second half of this
year from 4.72 percent in mid-April.  While the upgrade is based on Mexico’s “strong economic
fundamentals,” the ratings company is waiting to see if the
legislation passes and generates faster growth and improved
fiscal flexibility,  Shelly Shetty , a Fitch analyst, said in a
telephone interview from New York.  “This is really aggressive because the fiscal and energy
reforms haven’t even been presented,”  Benito Berber , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an e-mailed
message. “My view is that once Congress passes fiscal and
energy reform, Fitch and Moody’s will upgrade Mexico to the ‘A’
universe.”  Yields on Mexico’s dollar bonds due in 2022 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.47 percent.
Similar-maturity Brazilian dollar bonds, which are rated one
level lower by Fitch at BBB, yield 2.22 percent.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction of what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
increases, decreases and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  