-- Mexican Parties Introduce Banking Overhaul to Spur Lending
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-08T20:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mexican-parties-introduce-banking-overhaul-to-spur-lending.html
Mexico ’s three biggest parties joined
with President Enrique Pena Nieto to present a bill to spur bank
lending and faster growth in an economy where credit
availability lags the rest of  Latin America .  The proposal seeks to give banks more incentives to lend
rather than invest, providing Mexicans better access to credit
at lower costs, and doesn’t attempt to impose lower  interest
rates  by decree, Pena Nieto said. The legislation, which will be
sent to Congress today, would increase the role of development
banks in helping expand credit, he said.  “Macroeconomic stability, the soundness of our financial
institutions and the will to reach agreements between the
principal political forces in this country opens a unique
opportunity for us,” Pena Nieto said in a speech in Mexico City
today. “It’s the ideal moment for a comprehensive review of the
legal framework for the financial sector and to make responsible
lending an important engine for economic development.”  The lending proposal is the latest in a line of overhauls
since Pena Nieto’s election last July. Congress has passed a
labor reform that allows for hourly contracts as a way to boost
productivity, and, using the Pact for Mexico between Pena
Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , the Democratic
Revolution Party and  National Action Party , approved education
and telecommunications overhauls.  Mexico’s economy is forecast to grow 3.5 percent in 2013,
exceeding  Brazil ’s expansion for a third year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Still,
commercial bank lending is equivalent to just 19 percent of
gross domestic product, half the rate of Brazil and the lowest
of any Latin American nation, according to the most recent
comparable data compiled by the  International Monetary Fund .  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, Mexico’s third-largest bank
by outstanding loans, dropped 2.6 percent to 91.47 pesos in
today’s trading. Mexico’s two largest banks are units of foreign
companies.  Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, the Mexican unit of
Spain’s biggest bank, gained 2.4 percent to 42.06 pesos.
Banregio Grupo Financiero SAB, which sold shares in an initial
public offering in 2011, added 0.1 percent to 69.87 pesos.  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 11.9891 per  U.S.
dollar  at 3:17 p.m. in Mexico City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  