-- Falling IPad Mini Demand to Push Pegatron Electronics Sales Down
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-08T12:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/falling-ipad-mini-demand-to-push-pegatron-electronics-sales-down.html
Pegatron Corp. (4938) , the Taipei-based maker
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices, forecast its biggest drop in consumer-electronics revenue in six quarters as iPad Mini demand falls.  Second-quarter revenue for the business, which also makes
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Surface tablet, will drop 25 percent to 30
percent from the previous three months, Pegatron said today.
That’s the most since a 37 percent decline in the fourth quarter
of 2011.  Pegatron, spun off from  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  in 2010,
joins  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  in facing a decline in
orders from its largest customer. Apple last month reported its
first profit drop in a decade amid shrinking margins and
competition from Samsung Electronics Co., and said it will start
rolling out new products later this year.  A decline in revenue from the iPad Mini “is more on
demand, while price has been stable,” Pegatron Chief Executive
Officer Jason Cheng said. “Not just tablets, also e-books and
games consoles, almost every item is moving in a negative
direction.”  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman for Apple in Beijing, declined to
comment. Pegatron shares dropped 0.5 percent to close at
NT$48.95 today in Taipei before the announcement, stemming its
climb this year to 30 percent.  Hon Hai  The iPad Mini accounts for more than half of Pegatron’s
consumer-electronics revenue, and the iPhone 4S contributes a
majority of sales in the communications division, Cheng said.  “This is a bigger drop than we’d expected,” said Vincent Chen, who rates the company buy at Yuanta Financial Holding Co.
in Taipei. “We’re seeing strong indications from the supply
chain that demand for iPad Mini will now fall 20 percent to 30
percent from the first quarter, instead of an earlier 15 percent
estimate.”  Consumer electronics  accounted for  36 percent of Pegatron’s
revenue in the first quarter, an increase from 10 percent two
years earlier. Its computing division, which makes notebook and
desktop PCs, remains the largest contributor at 40 percent and
will post a 5 percent to 10 percent increase in shipments for
the quarter ending June 30, the company said.  The communications unit will post “flat” revenue growth
this quarter, Pegatron said. The business, which also makes
modems and set-top boxes, accounted for 24 percent of first-quarter revenue.  Hon Hai, the world’s largest maker of electronics products
including the iPhone 5 and iPad, last month reported a 19
percent drop in first-quarter revenue, the most in at last 13
years. The company is due to report first-quarter net income by
May 15.  Pegatron today reported contract-manufacturing revenue last
quarter rose 31 percent to NT$195 billion ($6.6 billion), with
profit for the unit almost doubling to NT$2.31 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 