-- FCC Chief Sees LightSquared Getting Cleared for Airwaves
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-05-08T17:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fcc-chief-sees-lightsquared-getting-cleared-for-airwaves.html
Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said he expects LightSquared Inc. to
eventually win approval for using its airwaves, after it was
blocked by the regulators on concern they would interfere with
global-positioning system signals.  LightSquared’s airwaves are “too valuable” to be left
unused, Genachowski said at an investor conference today in New
York. Work is under way on solutions such as possible swaps of
frequencies for cleaner airwaves and tighter enforcement of
signal parameters in GPS devices, to enable LightSquared’s so-called L-band radio waves to become usable, Genachowski said.  “Clearance will ultimately happen in the L-band for
LightSquared,” said Genachowski. “The spectrum will be freed
for terrestrial use.”  Genachowski’s optimism could help revive some of the hopes
that made LightSquared, a fledgling Reston, Virginia-based firm,
a bold bet for challenging the dominance of Verizon Wireless and
AT&T Inc. in the U.S. wireless market.  Philip Falcone ’s
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC had invested about $3 billion and
owned about 74 percent of the firm, before it filed for
bankruptcy a year ago after failing to get approval.  The FCC under Genachowski gave LightSquared a tentative go-ahead in 2011, then blocked it last year after tests showed the
proposed high-speed network for as many as 260 million people
would interfere with GPS units, including those that help keep
aircraft from crashing into mountains.  LightSquared has said it remains committed to finding a
solution. Last month the FCC gave LightSquared  permission  to
experiment with sharing airwaves now used by U.S. government
weather satellites and weather balloons.  Genachowski is to step down as head of the FCC this month
and Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former lobbyist, has
been nominated to replace him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  