-- Fed Economists Say Low Rates May Boost Stocks for Years
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-08T20:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fed-economists-say-low-rates-may-boost-stocks-for-years.html
U.S. stock investors may reap
unusually high returns during the next five years thanks to
 record-low   interest rates  on  government bonds , according to
researchers at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  A survey of 29 models for the equity risk premium -- the
expected future return of stocks over the risk-free rate offered
by Treasuries -- shows “we will enjoy historically high excess
returns for the  S&P 500  for the next five years,” Fed
economists Fernando Duarte and Carlo Rosa said in a  paper 
released today, referring to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The premium rose to a record 5.4 percent in December, they said.  “The equity risk premium is high mainly due to
exceptionally low Treasury yields at all foreseeable horizons,”
they said.  Equities are near the cheapest level ever compared to
government debt even after the S&P 500 surged  14 percent  this
year, according to the so-called Fed Model, which compares the
earnings yield for stocks with Treasury rates. The valuation
measure was derived from a July 1997 report from the central
bank.  Per-share  profit  of $102.45 for all  S&P 500 (SPX)  companies
represents 6.3 percent of the index’s price level, or 4.53
percentage points more than yields on 10-year Treasury notes,
according to Fed Model data compiled by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 rose 0.4 percent to 1,631.64 as of 3:42 p.m. in
 New York  as eight of 10 industry groups advanced. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note was little changed from yesterday at
1.77 percent.  ‘Widely Used’  The Fed researchers surveyed banks, academic papers and
economists at central banks to find the most “popular and
widely used models” for calculating equity risk premium over
the last 50 years. They analyzed surveys, models and regressions
which together use as predictors more than 30 variables, ranging
from price-dividend ratios to inflation, according to their
report.  The S&P 500 rose to its fourth straight record yesterday,
while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed above 15,000 for
the first time on optimism over global central bank stimulus and
better-than-estimated corporate earnings.  Stocks are in the fifth year of a  bull market  amid three
rounds of bond purchases by the Fed aimed at bringing down
interest rates, spurring economic growth and reducing
unemployment. The so-called quantitative easing has pumped up
the central bank’s balance sheet to  $3.32 trillion .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  