-- Fed Says New Mortgage Settlement Checks to Be Sent Next Week
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-09T15:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fed-says-checks-to-be-sent-to-mortgage-borrowers-paid-wrong-sum.html
The  Federal Reserve  said some mortgage
borrowers who were insufficiently paid as part of a settlement
will be sent supplemental checks next week.  The borrowers, whose home loans were serviced by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, will be sent an additional
payment around May 17, the Fed said today in a  statement  in
 Washington . They were sent erroneous payments as part of the
Independent Foreclosure Review  agreement , the Fed said, citing
an  announcement  by Rust Consulting Inc., which processed
payments.  Rust said today some borrowers were sent checks for less
than the amount directed by the Fed and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The Minneapolis-based company is
distributing $3.6 billion that servicers agreed to pay to settle
claims they improperly seized homes amid the subprime mortgage
crisis.  “The new checks will make up the difference between what
was in the original check sent by Rust and what should have been
paid,” the Fed said in the statement. “Borrowers should cash
both the original checks and the supplemental checks.”  A settlement with regulators in January deemed Goldman
Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  responsible for $232 million in cash to
borrowers and $325 million to help avert foreclosures, though
the New York-based companies no longer own mortgage servicers.
In all, the broader settlement compensated about 4.2 million
borrowers with loans from 13 mortgage servicers.  96,000 Borrowers  About 96,000 borrowers whose loans were serviced by former
Goldman Sachs subsidiary Litton Loan Servicing LP and Morgan
Stanley’s Saxon Mortgage Services Inc. unit were sent checks for
less than the amount that the Fed directed Rust to pay, Rust and
the central bank both said in statements today.  The Fed said it learned of a possible discrepancy yesterday
and contacted Rust to assess the problem. Rust was hired as the
agent to distribute in payments to borrowers who faced
foreclosure in 2009 and 2010.  Rust is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SourceHOV LLC, a
Dallas-based company that provides business consulting services
in areas such as health care, publishing, retail and government.
On March 19, SourceHOV  announced  that Citi Venture Capital
International, a unit of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , would purchase the
stake that  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and unspecified other
minority shareholders held in the company.  Rust has had contracts with other federal agencies,
including the  Department of Justice , the Department of  Homeland
Security  and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
according to  USAspending.gov . The company also has a political
action committee that made $54,500 in contributions in the
2011-2012 election cycle, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics .  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency said that Rust’s selection was “a
product of negotiation” between the government and the mortgage
servicers. “Thirteen servicers used the dominant player in the
space,” Hubbard said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  