-- Ferguson’s Man. United Successor Has Someone to Watch Over Him
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-08T23:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ferguson-s-man-united-successor-has-someone-to-watch-over-him.html
Manchester United’s next coach will
have Britain’s most successful soccer manager, Alex Ferguson,
watching his every move. It may not always be a comfortable
experience.  Ferguson yesterday announced the end of a 26-year reign
that brought 38 trophies, including 13 Premier League titles and
two European Cups. The 71-year-old will remain as a director and
advise on the choice of his successor, with Everton’s  David Moyes  the bookmakers’ favorite.  United has been here before. Matt Busby retired a year
after bringing the team its first European Cup in 1968. Like
Ferguson, he became a director after his 24-year tenure ended,
though came back temporarily when his successor Wilf McGuinness
struggled. McGuinness said the pressure of following Busby at
Old Trafford caused his hair to fall out.  “Sir Matt came back and changed a few things around and
got us back into a reasonable position in the league,” United’s
first European Cup-winning goalkeeper Alex Stepney said in an
interview. “There’s no substitute for the respect we had for
the boss and we just got on with it.”  Former United midfielder Paul Ince, who’s now manager of
Blackpool, said that while Ferguson’s presence could be of
benefit to his replacement, it could also be a burden.  “Replacing  Alex Ferguson  is such a massive, massive job,”
Ince said. “Whoever goes in will need the help of Alex
Ferguson. If it doesn’t go well, you’ve got Sir Alex Ferguson
upstairs and it can put added pressure on you.”  Title Drought  The last of Busby’s five league titles came in 1967. As its
fortunes declined in the early 1970s, United even dropped out of
the top division in 1974-75 as Busby watched on from his
director’s seat. While there were F.A. Cup successes, it took
Ferguson’s arrival in 1986 to set United on the way to winning
the league again, the first coming in 1993 after a 26-year gap.  Ferguson led the club to a record-extending 20th English
championship this season. He’s built winning teams through a
combination of nurturing talent from the club’s youth academy,
including midfielders  David Beckham  and  Ryan Giggs , and signing
foreigners such as Eric Cantona and  Cristiano Ronaldo .  The Scot helped to turn United into  England ’s richest team.
Its American owners, the Glazer family, raised $233 million by
selling 10 percent of the 135-year-old club in 2012. United had
revenue of 320 million pounds ($497 million) last year, and from
July 2014 it will have  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet brand on
its shirts as part of a $559 million agreement.  ‘Different Era’  Jim O’Neill , the outgoing chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said the new manager has nothing to worry about with
Ferguson watching on as a director.  “The Busby thing was badly dealt with, but it’s a
different era, different issues,” O’Neill, a former United
board member, said in an interview. “I know he won’t try to
interfere.”  Even so, Ferguson’s successor shouldn’t try to emulate the
retiring coach, O’Neill added.  “If you’re wise you’re not going to think of replacing
him,” he said. “How can you replace Alex? You have to try and
do it differently.”  O’Neill described Ferguson’s longevity as “staggering”
and said his success as a manager was down to his adaptability
and “preparedness to take a risk and not worry about getting
things wrong.”  “It reminds me of some of the best traders I know,”
O’Neill said. “We’re in an era of the cult of the high-earning
footballer, with salaries of ginormous proportions, and yet
they’re all scared of him.”  F.A. Cup Turnaround  It wasn’t easy for Ferguson in his early days at United. He
initially struggled to win over the fans, and some called for
him to be fired after a losing streak that included a 5-1 defeat
at local rival  Manchester City  in 1989. He kept his job after
United improved and won the F.A. Cup the following year, the
first of his trophies with the club.  Stepney said the revival followed a conversation Ferguson
had with Busby prior to a crucial victory over Nottingham Forest
on the way to the Cup triumph.  “When Sir Alex was under pressure from the press, a man
put his arm around him and told him not to worry about what they
were saying and to ignore it all,” Stepney said. “That was Sir
Matt Busby, and that changed everything. That’s probably the
best piece of advice he’s had as a manager.”  ‘Hanging Around’  O’Neill said the timing of Ferguson’s exit made sense
because there’s little short-term likelihood of United winning
the two European Cup titles it needs to tie Liverpool’s U.K.
record of five.  “I know the kind of issues you go through when you have to
leave a top job,” he said. “I’m pretty sure Alex thought about
those too. He’ll have thought, ‘What’s the point of hanging
around with the risk of decline when I could leave with a
championship?’”  Whatever United’s financial firepower, there are no
guarantees of continued success, whoever the manager is. In its
share-sale prospectus, United told potential investors it was
“highly dependent” on key individuals.  “Any successor to our current manager may not be as
successful,” it warned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  