-- Ferrari Plans Delivery Cut to Maintain Brand Exclusivity
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-08T13:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ferrari-plans-delivery-cut-to-maintain-brand-exclusivity.html
Ferrari SpA, the Italian supercar
manufacturer owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , plans to reduce sales to fewer
than 7,000 vehicles this year to “maintain the exclusivity” of
the brand.  “We made this decision because it’s important also for the
dealer cultures,” Ferrari Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo,
told reporters at a strategy presentation at the company’s
headquarters in Maranello today. “Dealers must understand that
quality is important, not just quantity.”  Ferrari, which unveiled the 1 million-euro ($1.32 million)
LaFerrari hybrid model at the Geneva car show in March, plans to
boost profitability with high-end, customized version of its
vehicles while holding back on their availability. Ferrari sold
7,318 cars in 2012.  The brand’s first-quarter trading profit, or earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time items, surged 43 percent to
80 million euros, helped by higher sales and contributions from
product licensing and car customization. Revenue increased 8
percent to 551 million euros.  Ferrari plans to hire 250  workers  this year, Montezemolo
said today. Of the new employees, 200 will build engines for
Maserati as part of Fiat’s plan to boost sales of upscale models
to counter losses in the volume car business in  Europe .  The super-sports-car segment is expected to slow globally
this year, Lamborghini Chief Executive Officer Stephan Winkelmann said yesterday in an interview.  Montezemolo said Fiat doesn’t intend to sell shares in
Ferrari or spin off the unit as part of the Turin, Italy-based
carmaker’s plan to merge with its Chrysler Group LLC unit in the
U.S.. Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  wants to combine Fiat and
Chrysler after buying full control of the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based division.  Ferrari is in talks with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  about broadening a
partnership on in-car entertainment, Di Montezemolo said in
March. The four-seat Ferrari FF model includes the U.S. mobile-device maker’s mini iPad tablets on the passenger seats. Eddy Cue, Apple senior vice president overseeing online services,
joined the Ferrari board last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Maranello at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  