-- Fisher Says Fed Needs to Set Limit on Size of its Balance Sheet
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-05-08T16:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fisher-says-fed-needs-to-set-limit-on-size-of-its-balance-sheet.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the Fed needs to set a limit on
the size of its assets, and that he favors reducing purchases of
mortgage-backed securities in any tapering of bond-buying.  “There somewhere have to be practicable limits in terms of
how far we build our balance sheet,” Fisher said today in an
interview on CNBC. “We’re moving in the direction of having a
$4 trillion balance sheet so we know we can’t go on forever.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 that it is
prepared to accelerate or slow the pace of its monthly bond-buying in response to changes in the labor market and inflation.
Purchases of $40 billion a month in mortgage-backed securities
and $45 billion of Treasuries have swollen the Fed balance sheet
to  $3.32 trillion .  “We’ve had a rebound in housing,” Fisher, who doesn’t
vote on monetary policy this year, said of the impact from Fed
purchases of mortgage bonds. “It’s done its job and we’re at
risk of overkill. And we’re accumulating so much, the question
is what do we do with it?”  Policy makers pledged last week to  keep buying  $85 billion
per month in a program aimed at bolstering growth and reducing
the  unemployment rate , which last month fell to 7.5 percent from
7.6 percent. In its previous gathering held on March 19-20,
several FOMC officials said the central bank should begin
tapering its program later this year and stop it by year-end,
minutes of the meeting showed.  Fisher has been among the most vocal opponents of
additional easing at the Fed, saying monetary stimulus will do
little to encourage businesses to hire. He said today that
“inflation is not an issue” with the record accommodation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  