-- Fitch Ratings Says Bond Defaults Don’t Mean Grades Are Wrong
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-05-08T19:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fitch-ratings-says-bond-defaults-don-t-mean-opinions-are-wrong.html
Fitch Ratings , the third-largest
credit rater, is telling investors that bond defaults aren’t an
indication that its grades are “wrong.”  “To say an opinion on future default likelihood for a ‘A’,
‘BBB’ or ‘BB’ rated issuer that eventually defaults was wrong
ignores ratings’ role as a product that acknowledges -- bluntly
and clearly -- that default is a possibility at each and every
level of the rating scale,” analysts led by Jeremy Carter wrote
in a report dated today that seeks to explain to investors how
to interpret the firm’s grades.  During the  housing boom , credit raters lowered their
standards to win business, helping spark the worst financial
crisis since the 1930s, according to the Federal Crisis Inquiry
Commission. Congress responded with the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
which mandated that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
reduce the reliance on credit ratings in federal regulation.  Fitch, the third-most active rater behind  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service, has sought to improve its
analysis of structured products by giving greater weight to the
judgment of its analysts and reducing the reliance on
quantitative models.  The SEC is scheduled to meet May 14 to discuss a plan
supported by Senator  Al Franken  of  Minnesota  that would create a
board to select which firms grade bonds that pool together other
debt, instead of leaving it to the banks that pay the credit
raters.  Default Rates  Grades aren’t to be used to determine default rates,
instead for assessing a borrower’s “relative vulnerability to
default,” Fitch Ratings said.  Opinions on the creditworthiness of debt are designed to be
stable, taking into consideration troughs in business cycles and
liquidity risks. Grades are heavily dependent upon expected cash
generation, profitability and leverage, Fitch said. Ratings
don’t convey a specific default rate, since those vary over
time, sector and region.  Investors use grades from Fitch to meet regulatory
requirements. In 1975, SEC regulations designated S&P, Moody’s
and Fitch as Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organizations, or NRSROs. There are now 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 