-- Fluidra Targets Asset Sales to Tap Growth in Latin America, Asia
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-05-08T12:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fluidra-targets-asset-sales-to-tap-growth-in-latin-america-asia.html
Fluidra SA (FDR) , a Spanish water-treatment
company, plans to carry out “small” asset sales in Europe this
year and focus on growing markets in  Latin America  and Asia,
Chief Financial Officer Xavier Tintore said.  Fluidra wants to streamline operations in mature European
markets such as  Spain  while it expects “big business growth
coming from Latin America and Asia in the coming quarters,”
Tintore said today in a phone interview. “We’ll also try to
develop our latest acquisitions in Brazil and China.”  The Sabadell-based company reported a first-quarter net
loss of 2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) compared with a 1.3
million-euro profit a year earlier. “We expect to return to
profitability in the second and third quarters after suffering
from exceptionally bad weather in March,” Tintore said. “In
April, our business was already more stable.”  Fluidra, a maker of swimming-pool products, is facing
strong competition in southern  Europe  as well as its home
market, where consumption is falling with unemployment at 27
percent.  After buying the Brazilian swimming-pool products company
Veico in February, Fluidra doesn’t plan more purchases in the
short term, he said.  Fluidra  shares  fell 1.9 percent to 2.36 euros at 2:45 p.m.
in Madrid, valuing the company at 265 million euros. Gross
margins shrank to 51 percent from 52.2 percent a year earlier,
the company reported in today’s results. “We don’t forecast a
further deterioration of margins this year,” Tintore said.  Founded in 1969, Fluidra has diversified from swimming
pools to treatment of drinking water and industrial wastewater,
hydrotherapy equipment for spas, irrigation systems, valves and
drains. Its shares have risen 15 percent the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  