-- Forint Gains to 3-Week High as Risky Assets Rise: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-08T14:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/forint-gains-to-3-week-high-as-risky-assets-rise-budapest-mover.html
The forint strengthened to its highest
level in three weeks as German industrial production rose for a
second month and an unexpected acceleration in  China ’s external
trade growth boosted riskier, emerging-market assets.  The currency appreciated on anticipation an improvement in
the world economy will help Hungary emerge from recession.
 Germany ’s output increased 1.2 percent in March, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent
decline, according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Economic growth in Hungary, which is in its second
recession in four years, may reach 1 percent this year, state-run news service MTI reported late yesterday, citing Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban .  “Sentiment has improved, the concern about the euro area
crisis has eased and data from overseas signaled the world is
heading for a more favorable economic path,” Pal Saaghy, a
Budapest-based currency trader at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., said in a telephone interview today.  The currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 293.71 per euro by
3:51 p.m. in Budapest, extending its gain in the second quarter
to 3.6 percent, the best performance among more than 100
currencies worldwide tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 5 percent.  Chinese imports advanced 16.8 percent, exceeding analysts’
estimates for 13 percent growth, while exports surged 14.7
percent, data from the General Administration of Customs showed.  Fastest Pace  Orban said  Hungary  will be growing at the fastest pace in
central  Europe  by the time of elections in 2014, MTI reported.
Orban’s comments helped lift the forint, analysts at the broker
unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The government’s relations with commercial banks are now
more constructive, Radovan Jelasity, chief executive officer of
Erste Group Bank AG’s Hungarian unit, said at a conference. This
comment also benefited the forint, the KBC analysts said.  Hungary’s inflation rate falling below the 3 percent target
is allowing the central bank to focus on growth, Magyar Nemzeti
Bank Vice-president Adam Balog told a conference in Budapest
today.  Hungary offers the “best long-end real yields in the
region,” which supports the forint,  Luis Costa , a London-based
strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote by e-mail today.  “We are now lacking catalysts for the next big move up in
euro-forint,” Costa wrote.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 272, the lowest on
a closing basis since Jan. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A 10 percent reduction in utility prices imposed by the
government in January, and plans for further price cuts, will
have a “powerful impact on sentiment and purchasing power” of
consumers, Raffaella Tenconi, a London-based economist at Bank
of America Corp., wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  