-- Qatar Says Four Companies Consider IPOs Amid Investment Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-05-09T11:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/four-state-linked-qatar-companies-mull-ipos-amid-investment-push.html
Four companies owned by state-run
Qatar Petroleum plan to sell shares to the public in the coming
years as the country, home to the world’s third-largest gas
reserves, seeks to build its $136 billion  stock exchange .  Hussein al-Abdulla, a board member of the Qatar Investment
Authority, a sovereign wealth fund, declined to identify the
companies when speaking to reporters in Doha yesterday. The
Qatari stock exchange, which includes 42 listings, is around a
third the size of  Saudi Arabia ’s bourse, the  Middle East ’s
largest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors look at the development of a country’s
equities market when making investment decisions, Prime Minister
Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jaber Al-Thani said at conference in
Doha. “The number of listed companies doesn’t reflect the level
of the economy,” Al-Thani said.  Qatar, which is set to host the 2022 soccer  World Cup , has
been raising its global profile as the country plans investments
of $200 billion on domestic projects in the next decade,
according to Al-Thani’s estimates yesterday. MSCI Inc. declined
last June to upgrade Qatar to emerging-market status from
frontier due to “very low” foreign-ownership limits.  The world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas has
drawn on its energy wealth to buy stakes in companies including
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Tiffany & Co. and  London ’s Harrods department store.  State Assets  Other governments in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council are also considering selling off state assets. “Many
companies that fall under the umbrella of Investment Corp. of
Dubai, the emirate’s main state-owned holding company, are
candidates for IPOs, head of Dubai’s Supreme Fical Committee
said May 7.  The QE Index has gained 5.9 percent this year, compared
with an advance of  34 percent  for Dubai’s DFM General Index. The
Qatari measure fell 0.1 percent today.  Qatar Petroleum lists  subsidiaries  and joint ventures on
its website, including unit Industries Qatar QSC, a publicly
traded chemicals maker that has the second-biggest weighting on
the QE Index. Non-public holdings include Qatar Holding
Intermediate Industries and Amwaj Catering Services, according
to Qatar Petroleum data.  Barwa IPO  The government plans to raise $3 billion through an IPO of
Doha Global Investment, a $12 billion fund set up to acquire
stakes in companies offering good value amid the euro-zone
crisis. Doha-based Barwa Bank said this year it’s also selling
shares to the public, the first IPOs in Qatar since Mazaya Qatar
Real Estate Development QSC raised about 500 million riyals
($137 million) in 2010. Mazaya shares jumped 41 percent in 2012.  Doha Global’s IPO will take place this month and be open to
only Qatari nationals and institutions, Qatar News Agency
reported last month, citing al Abdulla. He said today the
offering is still under discussion. Non-Qatari investors can
trade the stock once it’s listed, QNA said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  