-- Fracking Rule Draws Fire Before U.S. Issues New Version
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-08T15:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fracking-rule-draws-fire-before-u-s-issues-new-version.html
Republican lawmakers and officials
from states such as  Wyoming  faulted the U.S. Interior
Department’s plans to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal
land, even before the agency issues a revised version.  With the U.S. a major landholder in Rocky Mountain states
such as Wyoming and  Montana , rules forcing oil and gas drillers
to disclose the chemicals they use and imposing restrictions on
water use may damp the production boom, said Representative Doc Hastings, chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources.  “Imposing duplicative, burdensome and unnecessary red-tape
will further limit energy production, increase costs and cost
American jobs,” Hastings, a Washington Republican, said today
at a hearing on the rules.  Interior’s  Bureau of Land Management , which proposed rules
for drillers on public lands last year, is poised to issue a
revised version in coming days or weeks. Interior Secretary
Sally Jewell yesterday told a Senate committee that the proposed
regulations “have changed somewhat significantly,” without
providing specifics, Bloomberg BNA reported. The bureau received
more than 170,000 comments on the  proposal .  Officials from Wyoming,  North Dakota  and Montana at the
 hearing today  said federal rules aren’t needed because states
have set requirements on disclosure of chemicals, well-drilling
procedures and the use and disposal of water.  “The intrusion by the federal government into actions that
the states already adequately regulate will cost taxpayers
millions in additional expenses,” Montana State Senator Alan Olson said today at the hearing.  However, a representative of owners of land where the U.S.
holds mineral rights said strong rules are needed to ensure
protection for households, farms and the environment.  “The scale of exploration and development taking place in
many formations today is greater than in the past and often
occurs in closer proximity to more people,” Sara Kendall,
Washington office director of the Western Organization of
Resource Councils, said in her testimony. “The surface
footprint is larger, the demand for water is greater.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  