-- Freddie Mac to Pay Treasury $7 Billion on Quarterly Profit
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-08T14:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/freddie-mac-will-pay-treasury-7-billion-on-first-quarter-profit.html
Freddie Mac , the U.S.-owned mortgage-finance company, will pay $7 billion to the Treasury Department
after reporting the second-largest quarterly  net income  in the
company’s history.  The government-sponsored enterprise, which has operated
under federal conservatorship since it was seized in 2008, had
net income of $4.6 billion for the three-month period that ended
March 31, according to a  statement  released today as part of the
McLean, Virginia-based company’s regulatory filing.  “Not surprisingly the strong rebound in the housing market
of which we’re all aware continued to be reflected in our
excellent financial performance in the first quarter,”  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  Chief Executive Officer Don Layton said on a conference call
with reporters.  Freddie Mac finished the first quarter with net worth of
$10 billion and is required to pay everything above $3 billion
to Treasury in return for taxpayer aid under conservatorship.
The company and Washington-based  Fannie Mae  have received almost
$190 billion in assistance since they were seized amid losses
that pushed them toward insolvency.  They returned to profitability as the housing market
recovered, with Fannie Mae’s net income last year exceeding that
of companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Home Prices  U.S. home prices climbed at the fastest pace since May
2006, rising 9.3 percent in February from a year earlier,
according to an April 30 report by the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae this year ceased paying 10
percent dividends that have returned $65 billion to Treasury and
will instead turn over any profits above a permitted capital
reserve.  Payments to Treasury by the two companies through fiscal
year 2023 are projected to exceed by $51 billion the aid they
have received under conservatorship, according to President
 Barack Obama ’s spending plan released last month. Last year’s
budget saw a $28 billion loss through 2022.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  including Paulson & Co. Inc. have been pushing
Congress to abandon plans to wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac as investors buy up preferred stock that has been soaring
after being considered probably worthless, people with knowledge
of the discussions have said. Employees are also pondering the
firms’ futures.  “We have been looking past conservatorship,” Paul E. Mullings, a Freddie Mac senior vice president who heads its
single-family business, said May 6 during a panel discussion at
an industry conference in New York. “Freddie Mac is getting
ready for a post-conservatorship world, whenever that time
comes.”  The company, which last month hired former  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  mortgage chief David Lowman to take over Mullings’ post as
it builds for the future, will have sent the Treasury a total of
$36 billion with its latest remittance, after drawing $72
billion in aid, Layton said.  “While we expect that the housing recovery will continue
to bolster our financial performance, we are also taking further
steps to improve the business fundamentals,” Layton said. At
the same time, “we’re very clear here inside the company that
our future is in the hands of policy makers and the
government.”  Still, many ideas on how to reform the mortgage-finance
system “would have our company continuing, if not in its
current form,” and any transition will probably take years, so
“we’re encouraged to invest in our systems and processes, to do
things on a long-term basis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  