-- Fusion-io Plunges Most Ever After CEO, Co-Founder Resign
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-05-08T20:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/fusion-io-names-director-robison-ceo-as-flynn-resigns.html
Fusion-io Inc. (FIO)  plunged the most ever
after replacing Chief Executive Officer David Flynn with Shane Robison, a former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  senior leader associated
with a disastrous deal by his prior employer.  Flynn and co-founder Rick White resigned to pursue
“investing activities,” though both will remain on the board
and serve in advisory roles for 12 months, Fusion-io said in a
statement. The shares tumbled 19 percent.  Robison, 59, takes the helm as Fusion-io, a maker of data-storage that counts  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Facebook Inc. among its
biggest customers, is working to diversify with lower-priced
products. Robison’s role guiding Hewlett-Packard’s 2011 purchase
of Autonomy Corp., which resulted in an $8.8 billion writedown
and allegations of accounting lapses, raises concerns about how
well he can direct strategy for Fusion-io, according to Andrew Nowinski, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “ Shane Robison  was in charge of M&A at HP when they made
the Autonomy debacle,” Nowinski said in an interview. He has a
neutral rating on the shares and an $18 target price. “He
doesn’t necessarily have a good track record.”  Fusion-io’s stock fell to $14.60 at the close in  New York ,
expanding the decline for this year to 36 percent. The Salt Lake
City-based company sold shares at $19 apiece in an initial 
public offering in June 2011.  ‘Not Happy’  “People were fine with the current management team and
they are not happy that these guys are leaving so suddenly,”
Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., said in
an interview.  Fusion-io sells corporate storage computers based on  flash
memory , which is faster and more expensive than widely used
magnetic disk drives. Last month, Fusion-io said it purchased
NexGen Storage Inc. for $119 million in cash and stock to expand
in lower-priced storage options, part of Flynn’s effort to
expand its customer base.  In naming Robison, Fusion-io is gaining an executive who
Hewlett-Packard CEO  Meg Whitman  holds responsible for the
botched Autonomy transaction. She blamed ex-CEO  Leo Apotheker 
and Robison for failing to vet the deal.  “The CEO at the time and the head of strategy who led this
deal are both gone - Leo Apotheker and Shane Robison,” Whitman
said when she disclosed the writedown last November.  Hewlett-Packard  Robison, a director at Fusion-io since December 2011, spent
more than nine years at Hewlett-Packard as chief strategy and
technology officer and executive vice president, joining via the
company’s 2002 acquisition Compaq Computer Corp. His career in
technology spans more than three decades, including seven years
at Apple. He left Hewlett-Packard in October 2011, shortly after
Whitman arrived.  While at Hewlett-Packard, Robison was tasked with expanding
its software business to compete more effectively with
International Business Machines Corp.  “Shane Robison is a very seasoned Silicon Valley
veteran,” said Jeffrey Fidacaro, an analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co. in New York. Yet software at Hewlett-Packard remains
a small percentage of sales, and the company had trouble
integrating some acquisitions, he said.  “He brings a mixed track record from his time at HP,”
said  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. He has a
neutral rating on the shares and a $21 target price. “We do not
think it is a good sign to see co-founders leaving so soon after
going public.”  ‘No Disagreement’  Robison said that the board determined the timing of his
start as CEO was the best way to make an effective transition,
with both Flynn and White remaining involved at the company.  “This is not about a problem with the company,” Robison
said in an interview. “It isn’t about any bad behavior on the
part of the founders. There’s no disagreement on strategy.”  A sale “is not my focus,” Robison said. “My focus is on
growing the company and building on what we have. If somebody
expresses interest, our board knows how to deal with that.”  Fusion-io “is in good shape,” Robison said, and he plans
to enter new markets and expand internationally. The company’s
flash-storage products, which can help business customers manage
burgeoning data that’s moving through their  computer networks ,
represent “an exciting growth opportunity.”  Investor Concerns  Robison will need to assuage investor concerns that the
company is too reliant on Facebook and Apple, leaving the
company vulnerable to spending decisions made by those two
customers. Combined, the two companies account for about 55
percent of revenue, according to supply chain data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fusion-io reaffirmed its April forecast for an adjusted
operating loss of approximately $5 million on revenue of about
$110 million for the fiscal fourth-quarter, which ends in June.  “Today’s announcements are not related to any issues
regarding the integrity of the company’s financial statements or
accounting policies and practices,” Fusion-io said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  