-- Gaelectric in Talks With Investors on Energy Storage in Ulster
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-08T15:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/gaelectric-in-talks-with-investors-on-energy-storage-in-ulster.html
Gaelectric Holdings Plc, the Dublin-
based developer, is in discussions with infrastructure investors
for a 300 million-pound ($466 million) project in Northern
Ireland to store surplus energy from  wind turbines .  Gaelectric plans to form partnerships with investors by the
end of the year to build the venture near Larne, County Antrim,
Chief Executive Officer Brendan McGrath said today in an
interview. He outlined the plans after the developer opened its
Carn Hill wind farm nearby in Newtownabbey.  Gaelectric’s storage project seeks to solve the problem
associated with wind and solar plants which generate power
intermittently unlike so-called baseload that produces power
round-the-clock. The U.K. is seeking to spur energy storage
technologies that allow more of the renewable power it’s relying
on to curb emissions and boost supplies to be built.  “I would consider storage to be an enabling technology,”
McGrath said by phone from Belfast. “It allows more renewables
on to the system and helps manage the inconsistency of wind, so
essentially what you are doing is providing ancillary services
to the system.”  Gaelectric’s plant will use excess electricity from
turbines to power a motor that will drive a compressor to store
air in an underground salt cavern. When demand is high, the air
is released to run a turbine generating power, burning some
natural gas at the same time to boost output.  The project will generate 268 megawatts and cost about 270
million to 300 million pounds, McGrath said. It may use three to
four salt caverns each about 80 meters (262 feet) deep and the
same in circumference, McGrath said. He aims to get European
Union funding for the venture, designated as a project of common
interest by the 27-member bloc. The U.K.’s Green Investment Bank
could also be a candidate to supply funds, he said.  Salt Deposits  Larne is the only place in  Northern Ireland  with salt
deposits potentially suitable for storing compressed air,
according to Gaelectric. The salt resources deep in the earth
can be used as air-tight caverns required for storage, it said.  Gaelectric is boosting operations in Northern Ireland as
the province targets 40 percent of its electricity from
renewables by 2020 from 12.6 percent at the end of 2011,
according to data on the Department of Energy and Climate Change
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  