-- Gas Chamber Wagner Canceled as Audience Seeks Medical Aid
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-05-08T22:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/gas-chamber-wagner-canceled-as-audience-seeks-medical-aid.html
A new staging of Richard Wagner’s
opera “Tannhaeuser” set during the Holocaust was canceled
after some scenes so upset audience members at the Dusseldorf
opera house that they sought medical attention after the
performance.  The  Deutsche Oper am Rhein  said the opera will be performed
only in concert from today, ditching the staging. A statement
sent by e-mail last night said the decision was made after
“some scenes, particularly a very realistic shooting scene,
clearly affected numerous audience members so strongly both
psychologically and physically that they had to seek medical
help afterward.”  The staging provoked an outcry at its May 4 premiere,
according to Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper. The opening scene
depicted Tannhaeuser as a concentration camp guard, shooting
newly arrived Jewish prisoners, the paper said.  Other scenes depicted death in gas chambers, suicides by
self-immolation, rape and other brutalities, Der Spiegel
magazine reported. The premiere audience gave their verdict with
loud boos, according to the Koelner Stadt-Anzeiger.  Wagner’s opera is more traditionally set in medieval
 Germany  in a time of troubadours and picturesque castles. The
hero is a singer who has fallen from grace for spending too much
time on the mountain of love with Venus. In Dusseldorf, she
morphed into a dominatrix.  The director, Burkhard Kosminski, declined to make changes
to the relevant scenes, according to the statement.  “Of course -- and for legal reasons too -- we will respect
the freedom of the artist,” the opera house said.  It is not the first time an opera has been taken off the
stage in Germany for fear of upsetting audiences. In 2006, the
Deutsche Oper in Berlin canceled performances of Mozart’s
“Idomeneo” after officials warned it risked offending Muslims.  The production, directed by Hans Neuenfels, ended with a
blood-spattered King Idomeneo placing the four severed heads of
Poseidon, Jesus, Buddha and Mohammed on chairs.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 