-- GE Sees U.S. Wind-Turbine Installs Doubling Next Year After Lull
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-05-08T18:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ge-sees-u-s-wind-turbine-installs-doubling-next-year-after-lull.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the biggest U.S.
supplier of  wind turbines , expects domestic installations to
double next year after the renewal of a tax credit boosts
demand.  Wind-farm developers including  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  and
Invenergy LLC may install 3,000 megawatts to 4,000 megawatts of
turbines in the U.S. this year and as much as 7,000 megawatts
next year, Anne McEntee, GE’s vice president of renewable
energy, said today in an interview.  The U.S. added a record 13,124 megawatts of turbines last
year, outpacing natural gas installations for the first time, as
wind developers raced to complete projects ahead of the Dec. 31
expiration of the production tax credit. Denmark’s  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS)  and  Spain ’s  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA (GAM)  also expect
new orders to pick up by the third quarter.  “The U.S. market is beginning to turn around,” McEntee
said at the Wind Power 2013 conference in Chicago. “Utilities
see wind energy as a hedge against rising fuel costs.”  The production tax credit for energy generated by renewable
sources expired at the end of 2012 and was renewed for a year on
Jan. 1.  GE has received orders this year for more than 1,000
megawatts of wind turbines, including one from NextEra for 100.3
megawatts announced today for a Michigan wind farm and
Invenergy’s 215-megawatt deal announced last week for a project
in Texas.  Germany’s  Nordex SE (NDX1) , which hasn’t announced any sales in
the U.S. this year, said the last-minute nature of the tax-credit extension stymied developers that might have placed
orders by now.  Slow Utilities  “Utilities have acted slower than I predicted,” Ralph
Sigrist, chief executive officer of Nordex USA, said today on a
panel at the conference. “They’re taking their time.”  Developers have more flexibility this year because they
only need to begin construction by Dec. 31 to be eligible for
the tax credits, said Borja Negro, chief executive officer of
Gamesa’s U.S. unit. The previous version of the credit applied
to projects that went into service before the deadline. It pays
owners 2.3 cents per kilowatt-hour.  “With the start-construction language we could see a U.S.
market of up to eight gigawatts” of sales contracts signed this
year, Negro said. “It could be more but unfortunately we’re
facing a lot of ups and downs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  