-- Genetic Test Helps Identify Aggressive Prostate Cancer
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-08T20:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/genetic-tests-help-identify-aggressive-prostate-cancer.html
A novel test from  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX) 
helps predict whether prostate cancer is aggressive or slow-growing, giving patients and doctors more information to shape
treatment for the most common tumor found in men, a study found.  Results from the study presented today at the American
Urological Association  meeting  in San Diego may triple the
number of men whose cancer can be closely monitored for growth
rather than vigorously targeted for destruction, the Redwood
City, California-based company said in a statement. The research
in 395 men found the Oncotype DX Genomic Prostate Score provided
meaningful detail on which tumors were likely to spread.  While only 3 percent of low-risk prostate cancers are life
threatening, 90 percent of men choose aggressive care such as
surgery and radiation, said Genomic Health Chief Executive
Officer Kimberly Popovits. Doctors have few tools to identify
those with fast-growing and potentially deadly forms, she said.  “The issue that is so striking in prostate cancer is that
treatment comes with significant, life-long and life-changing
side effects,” she said. “If you could confidently say to
them, you really do have low-risk disease, then you feel very
comfortable going into an active surveillance management
program,” she said. “This could be practice changing.”  Genomic Health rose 6.4 percent to $36.02 at the 4 p.m.
close of  New York  trading. The shares have gained 24 percent in
the past 12 months.  Aggressive Therapy  Overtreatment carries high costs for the health-care system
and for men who may suffer side effects, including impotence and
incontinence. The Oncotype DX test, which evaluates 17 genes in
tissue taken during a prostate biopsy to establish the grade and
state of the cancer, will be available beginning today. The
company will begin talking to insurers about covering the cost
immediately, Popovits said.  The test also identified a smaller number of patients who
had more aggressive disease, suggesting the men needed immediate
treatment. Prostate cancer will be  diagnosed  in 238,590 men in
the U.S. this year, according to the American Cancer Society. It
kills almost 30,000 each year, second only to lung cancer.  The test will compete with products such as  Myriad Genetics
Inc. (MYGN) ’s Prolaris. The Oncotype DX is also approved for breast and
colon cancer was developed in collaboration with University of
 California , San Francisco, which conducted the study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  