-- German Government Approves Battle-Tank Export Deal to Indonesia
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-08T09:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/german-government-approves-battle-tank-export-deal-to-indonesia.html
The German government has approved the
export of 104 battle tanks to  Indonesia , in the second major
defense deal in three weeks involving German equipment.  The government approved the export of the tanks, 50
infantry fighting vehicles, 4 armored recovery vehicles, 3
armored vehicle-launched bridges and 3 pioneer tanks for export
to the country, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg
news. The government said it can’t disclose if the equipment was
new or handed down from the German army.  German military-vehicle maker Krauss-Maffei Wegmann GmbH &
Co. KG, on April 18 said it won a $2.5 billion contract to
supply 62 Leopard 2 tanks, considered among the world’s most
advanced battle vehicles, and 24 PzH 2000 Howitzers to Qatar.
That transaction may mean more than 200 million euros for
revenue for  Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , which partners with closely-held
Krauss-Maffei on both systems, according to analyst estimates.  Weapons exports have become increasingly important to
sustaining sales for U.S. and European arms makers as home
markets contract.  Saudi Arabia  is also exploring the purchase of
Leopard 2 tanks, considered among the world’s most advanced
battle vehicles.  Rheinmetall today said first-quarter sales and order intake
in its defense operations declined, and the unit swung to a loss
as it sold fewer tracked vehicles and less ammunition.
Dusseldorf-based Rheinmetall is cutting at least 500 jobs at its
defense units in an efficiency push lasting through 2015.  Spokespeople for Rheinmetall and Krauss-Maffei weren’t
immediately available for comment.  Der Spiegel  earlier reported
the export of tanks to Indonesia, citing the government
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  