-- German Tax Revenue Growth Weakens Amid Euro Area Recession
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-05-08T14:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/german-tax-revenue-growth-weakens-amid-euro-area-recession.html
German tax revenue will be lower than
forecast this year and next, the Finance Ministry said in new
forecasts that show the recession in the euro area is weighing
on the region’s biggest economy.  Revenue will total 615.2 billion euros ($810.5 billion) in
2013, a decline of 2.8 billion euros from a November projection,
the ministry said today in an e-mailed statement. Next year, tax
revenue will grow by 3.8 billion euros less than expected to
638.5 billion euros, the ministry said. It cited the findings of
a three-day meeting of a tax panel that includes economic
institutes and the Bundesbank in the eastern city of Weimar.  The federal government will be able to absorb the
anticipated drop in revenue without being forced to make an
upward adjustment of net new borrowing this year, Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said at a press conference in Berlin
after the data was released. The 2014  federal budget  now in
planning will still show a structural balance, Schaeuble said.  The clouded revenue development “has no impact on the 2013
federal budget,” said Schaeuble, who cited the economy’s
contraction in the fourth quarter of 2012 as contributing to the
new revenue outlook. Net new federal borrowing this year will
not exceed the expected 17.1 billion euros set in the budget he
said.  Weaker tax revenue growth is repeated in each year of the
panel’s latest forecast compared with the earlier estimate.
Total German tax revenue from 2013 to 2017 will be 13.2 billion
euros less than estimated six months ago, the panel estimated.  ‘Positive Result’  “It’s a positive result all in all,” Schaeuble told
reporters.  Germany ’s record level of employment is supporting
tax revenue growth even if the current outlook is slightly
dimmer than in November, his ministry said in the e-mail.  The International Monetary Fund predicts the German economy
will expand 0.6 percent this year after growing 0.7 percent in
2012 as its biggest export market, the euro area, remains mired
in recession. German unemployment rose for a second month in
April and business and investor confidence dropped.  The German government is obliged to reduce the federal
deficit because of a constitutional “debt brake” that compels
Schaeuble to cut the budget shortfall to 0.35 percent of gross
domestic product by 2016.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  