-- German Scientists Use Offshore Wind Farms to Replenish Lobsters
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-08T07:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/german-scientists-use-offshore-wind-farms-to-replenish-lobsters.html
German scientists are betting that
offshore wind farms can help replenish the  North Sea ’s fledgling
lobster population.  Scientists from the  Alfred-Wegener Institute  in Bremerhaven
will release 3,000 lobsters next year around the stone field
section of the foundations of EWE AG’s 108-megawatt  Riffgat 
project. The gaps between the rocks make for ideal lobster
habitat, said Heinz-Dieter Franke, a biologist at the institute.  “The stone fields at the many offshore wind farms built in
the German Bight offer a new chance to strengthen the lobster
population,” Franke said in a phone interview. The 700,000 euro
($918,000) project is being financed by the state of  Lower
Saxony , he said.  Wind farm developers including EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  are
beginning to face the same scrutiny as  oil companies  for
projects in sensitive places. While programs to protect
porpoises from offshore wind construction noises have added
costs for developers, the farms can become a safe retreat for
fish and crustaceans as commercial fishing isn’t allowed near
them, Franke said.  About 80,000 lobsters were caught a year in the south-eastern North Sea in the 1930s, Franke said. That number has
dropped to a few hundred today, mainly as a bycatch of crab
fishing. Since the 1950s and 1960s, the population has shrunk to
as little as 5 percent of its original size for reasons that
aren’t fully understood, he said.  The institute is raising the lobsters on the island of
Helgoland and will release them in the late summer of 2014, when
they’re about 10 to 12 centimeters in size and have a “very
good” chance of survival, Franke said. If the Riffgat pilot
project is successful, it could be repeated at other wind farms
for much less money, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  