-- Gold Imports by India Seen Topping 100 Tons for a Second Month
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-05-08T04:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/gold-imports-by-india-seen-topping-100-tons-for-a-second-month.html
Gold imports by India, the world’s
largest consumer, are set to exceed 100 metric tons for a second
month in May as jewelers rush to beat central bank curbs on
overseas bullion purchases by banks, a refiner said.  The biggest slump in  gold prices  in more than three decades
on April 15 spurred banks, traders and jewelers to import more
than 100 tons last month, said Rajesh Khosla, managing director
of MMTC-PAMP India Pvt. Purchases this month will match April’s
imports, he said. MMTC-PAMP’s refinery in northern Indian state
of Haryana can process 100 tons of gold, 600 tons of silver and
make 2.5 million pieces of coins a year, he said.  The  Reserve Bank of India , or RBI, will issue guidelines by
the end of this month to restrict banks from importing gold on a
consignment basis as it seeks to reduce domestic demand and curb
a record  current-account deficit , the central bank said on May
3. Banks will be allowed to buy on a consignment basis to meet
only genuine needs of exporters of jewelry. The bulk of the
imports by banks now is on a consignment basis that doesn’t
require them to fund the purchase, RBI said.  “The imports this month look as good as in April as
everyone is trying to import as much as possible before the RBI
guidelines are issued,” Khosla said in an interview in  New
Delhi  yesterday. “The price looks good, let’s import,’ every
jeweler seems to be saying. Time will tell whether they were
right or not?”  Supply Shortage  Retail buyers flocked to jewelry stores and bank outlets in
India to buy ornaments and coins after gold plummeted 14 percent
in two sessions through April 15 in the worst slide since 1983,
causing a shortage in supplies. The  Reserve Bank  has said the
current-account shortfall, exacerbated by bullion imports, and
consumer-price inflation above 10 percent are among risks that
constrain room for further  interest rate  cuts to revive economic
growth from the lowest in a decade.  “At current prices, it looks the imports will be more than
last year,” said Khosla, whose refinery is a venture between
state-owned  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC)  and PAMP SA of  Switzerland . “If the
central bank wants to restrict, imports will fall.”  India’s gold  imports  dropped 11 percent last year to 860
tons from a record 969 tons in 2011, the World Gold Council
estimates. Demand for jewelry and investment fell to 864.2 tons
in 2012, the second straight year of decline, it said.  Tripling Taxes  India has tripled  import taxes  on gold from as low as 2
percent in January last year after the current-account deficit,
the broadest measure of trade, widened and the rupee slumped to
a record against the  U.S. dollar . Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has blamed the deficit on a “passion” for gold,
saying the gap is a greater concern than the worst  budget
deficit  among the so-called BRIC nations. The deficit widened to
$32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012.  While bullion has rebounded from a two-year low of
$1,321.95 an ounce on April 16, driven by coin and jewelry
demand from the U.S. to  China  and India, it is 24 percent below
the record $1,921.15 reached in 2011. Gold for immediate
delivery rose as much as 0.4 percent to $1,458.85 an ounce, and
was at $1,454.59 at 10:24 a.m. in Mumbai.  “The global price of gold seems to have stabilized at
current levels,” Khosla said. “Further increase in the price
depends on economic recovery in the U.S. and  Europe .”  Bear Market  Gold fell into a  bear market  in April as investors sold the
metal in favor of riskier assets, spurred by expectations that
the global economy was recovering. Holdings in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the biggest bullion-backed exchange-traded product, fell
0.4 percent to 1,057.79 metric tons yesterday, the lowest level
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail demand for gold in India was good ahead of the
wedding season and the Akshaya Tritiya festival on May 13,
Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director and former chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, said yesterday.
Jewelers are paying between $10 an ounce and $12 an ounce over
the London cash price to secure supplies, compared with $2 an
ounce before the price slump, he said.  Akshaya Tritiya festival is considered by the country’s
more than 900 million Hindus as the traditional day to buy
precious metals. Bullion is bought during festivals and
marriages as part of the bridal trousseau or gifted in the form
of jewelry by relatives.  The appetite for gold continued to be “very strong” in
 India  and an index of physical flows showed demand five times
that of a 12-month average, UBS AG said on May 3. “Appetite is
likely to hold up as we get closer to the Akshaya Tritiya
festival,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  