-- Gold’s Biggest Drop in 30 Years Fails to Deter Advocates
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-05-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/gold-s-biggest-drop-in-30-years-fails-to-deter-advocates.html
A drive to recognize gold and silver
as legal currency, rather than trust in U.S. dollars, is forging
ahead with bills in six states, even after gold lost 13 percent
of its value over two trading days last month.  The gold-as-currency movement, fueled by distrust of
federal monetary policy and concern that the dollar may be
devalued, suffered a setback last week as  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer  vetoed  a bill that would have made Arizona the second
state to recognize gold and silver coins as legal tender.  Still, lawmakers in six other states are considering bills
to monetize precious metals, and the drop in gold prices after
12 straight years of annual gains isn’t a major factor, said
Rich Danker, project director for economics at the American
Principles Project, which advocates for gold currency.  “I don’t see any cold water being thrown at this because
of the collapse of gold prices,” Danker said in an interview.
“People view gold as a storage of wealth. I don’t believe that
diminishes when you have a price collapse. People have looked at
gold as holding its purchasing power over time.”  Gold futures plunged 4.1 percent on the Comex in  New York 
on April 12 and then 9.4 percent on the next trading day, the
biggest decline since 1980. After touching a two-year low of
$1,321.50 an ounce on April 16, prices have rebounded to close
yesterday at $1,448.80. They are still down 14 percent this year
and 23 percent from a closing high in 2011.  The  bear market  ended the appeal of a precious metal that
soared to a record $1,923.70 in 2011 on demand for a hedge
against  Europe ’s debt crisis and inflation spurred by government
stimulus.  ‘Administrative Burdens’  Brewer, a 68-year-old Republican, didn’t refer to the drop
in a May 2 letter to lawmakers explaining her veto. The governor
cited “administrative and fiscal burdens” of accepting gold
and silver for payments, even as she agreed with concerns that
the dollar could lose value due “as a result of an
unsustainable federal deficit.”  “I believe the provisions in this legislation need to be
more carefully examined and there should be prior coordination
with those government agencies tasked with the oversight of
these transactions,” Brewer said in the letter.  The move left  Utah  the only state to recognize precious
metals as currency. The state’s lawmakers authorized bullion for
currency  in 2011 .  Gold-as-currency bills have passed the lower chambers of
the legislatures in  Missouri  and  South Carolina  and a state
House committee in  Kansas . Bills also have been introduced in
the current legislative session in  Indiana ,  Oklahoma  and
 Louisiana .  Policy Discontent  As an expression of discontent with federal monetary
policies, bills to recognize gold and silver as legal currency
should be immune from fluctuations in prices, said  Loren Gatch ,
who teaches political science at the  University of Central
Oklahoma , in Edmond  “Until there’s a real capitulation in gold, price changes
won’t have much of an impact on the movement,” Gatch said by e-
mail. “Gold has come down, but over the long run it’s still
quite elevated. After all, it hovered between $300 and $400 for
20 years before it began its big move upward in 2005.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has kept
overnight interest  rates  near zero since December 2008. The Fed
has pledged to hold the benchmark near zero as long as U.S.
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Fundamental Case  “The fundamental case for gold as currency is still
intact,” said Jim Rickards, senior managing director at Tangent
Capital Partners LLC in New York and author of “Currency Wars:
The Making of the Next Global Crisis.”  “Gold is definitely volatile. Nothing changed on April 15
in a fundamental way. The question is, are you really going to
be walking around with gold in your pocket and using that as
currency?”  Even in Utah, the answer is still no. Treasurer Richard Ellis, a Republican, said Utah hasn’t set up a currency exchange
for precious metals, nor are private vendors accepting gold or
silver for payment. The drop in  gold prices  last month
underscored the peril of accepting the commodity as currency,
Ellis said by telephone.  “This has been my biggest concern -- when you take gold,
even within a day, the price of gold changes, to say nothing of
over time,” he said.  In  Kansas , where the state House’s Taxation Committee
approved a gold-as-currency measure, the hope is that enough
other states follow suit to create a national exchange, said
Richard Carlson, a Republican state representative and committee
chairman.  “There could be a national money market to buy and sell
gold and silver bullion based on current market rates,” he said
by telephone. “It could be a good alternative investment for
Kansans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  