-- Google Says Authors Can’t Sue Over Digital Books as Group
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-05-08T20:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/google-asks-court-to-reject-class-action-suit-by-writers.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked an appeals court to
deny class status to a group of authors who claim in a
$3 billion lawsuit that the company’s project to digitally copy
millions of books from libraries violates their copyrights.  Lawyers for Google and three writers, including Jim Bouton,
the author of “Ball Four,” argued their case today before a
three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan .
Google is seeking to overturn a lower-court order that let the
authors proceed as a class on behalf of other writers.  “Plaintiffs cannot claim to represent the many class
members who benefit from and approve of Google Books,” Seth Waxman, a lawyer for Mountain View, California-based Google,
told the judges, who said they would issue a ruling later.  The  Authors Guild , which represents writers, and individual
authors sued in 2005, alleging that Google, owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, was making digital copies of books
from libraries without seeking permission from copyright owners
or paying fees.  Judge Denny Chin rejected a negotiated settlement by the
parties in 2011. Attempts to renegotiate the deal failed, and
the litigation resumed. Chin granted class certification last
year to all authors residing in the U.S. who have at least one
book in Google’s project.  Class certification makes it possible for all those who
meet specified criteria to sue together rather than separately,
increasing the chances of a settlement.  ‘Not Piecemeal’  “Let’s get it adjudicated on a class basis, not piecemeal,
book-by-book,” Robert LaRocca, a lawyer for the authors, told
the judges.  Google said in court papers that it has scanned more than
20 million books worldwide and that Internet searchers would be
able to view “snippets” of each book online. Its defense
relies on the fair-use provision of copyright law, which allows
the use of copyrighted materials without permission for
educational, research and news purposes.  U.S. Circuit Judge Pierre Leval suggested that defense
might be worth adjudicating first.  “The big question is: Is Google going to succeed with its
fair-use defense?” he said to the company’s lawyer. “The
class-action question raises interesting and challenging points,
but I wonder if you’re out of sequence.”  Come Back  Leval said the appeals court might send the case back to
the district court to consider the fair-use argument and the
parties could return later to the appeals court on the class-action matter.  “I don’t want to litigate fair-use issues with one hand
tied behind my back,” Waxman replied.  Last July, the parties filed motions for judgment without a
trial. Chin halted action on the case in district court until
the appeals court rules.  The authors are seeking statutory damages of $750 for each
book. Court papers state that more than 4 million English-language books have been digitally copied. That would mean
damages of at least $3 billion, a figure named by Waxman in
court today.  The other authors in the appeal are Betty Miles and Joseph
Goulden. The Authors Guild, still a plaintiff in the case, isn’t
a party to the appeal because it’s not a member of the class.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in federal appeals court in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  