-- Grant Hill’s Advice for Derrick Rose’s Critics
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-05-08T12:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/grant-hill-s-advice-for-derrick-rose-s-critics.html
The longer the Chicago Bulls stay
alive in the NBA playoffs, the louder the clamoring will grow
for the return of their injured budding superstar,  Derrick Rose .
Before the din becomes overwhelming, critics should remember the
story of an injured budding superstar of another era: Grant Hill.  The pressure on Rose, who hasn’t played since undergoing
knee surgery last year, is already absurd. His detractors point
out that injuries haven’t stopped teammates such as Joakim Noah,
who has been playing with plantar fasciitis, or Nate Robinson,
who has been battling the flu (complete with his very own vomit
pail on the bench). One fan has  sued Rose  for emotional
distress, and a Chicago radio station asked listeners to send
letters pressuring Rose to suit up. Even Steve Kerr, a TV
commentator and former Bulls guard, basically called Rose soft,
 saying  he “owes it to his teammates to return.”  Kerr, who played against Hill for about a decade in the
National Basketball Association, can’t be that clueless. As Hill
told me: “It’s noble and admirable what Noah and Robinson and
these guys are doing. But to compare that to what Rose is going
through is irresponsible.”  We mythologize warrior-athletes; the more visible the
agony, the better. But not all sports injuries are the same.
It’s easy to remember those who inspired their team to glory by
playing through pain -- and just as easy to forget those, like
Hill, who never recovered from the damage they inflicted on
themselves by doing so.  Ankle Trouble  Before Hill became an NBA journeyman, he was the next
Michael Jordan. The Detroit Pistons took him with the third pick
in the 1994 draft; he was an instant and perennial all-star. In
the 1999-2000 season, Hill’s last with the Pistons, he averaged
25.8 points per game.  Toward the end of that season, Hill’s ankle started
bothering him. The Pistons’ trainers treated it and Hill
continued playing, but the ankle kept getting worse. After he
pulled himself from a game, the team’s doctors assured him that
it was merely a bone bruise. Hill sat out the last few games of
the regular season, amid criticism that he was worried about
jeopardizing his free-agent payday. He returned for the
playoffs, but in his second game he felt a “pop” in his ankle.
Hill couldn’t go on. The ankle was diagnosed as broken. He
underwent surgery four days later.  The story might still have ended happily. In August 2000,
three months after his ankle surgery, the Orlando Magic signed
Hill to a seven-year, $93 million deal. In September, Orlando
cleared him to scrimmage against his new teammates. “I’m going
against guys on the Magic that six months earlier I averaged 40
points against,” Hill said. “And I’m not feeling right.”  Hill wasn’t right. In the end, the ankle would require four
more surgeries. He spent the prime of his career -- years when
he should have been dominating the league -- in hospitals and
training rooms. The Magic had made a mistake, pushing Hill back
onto the court before his ankle had fully healed. But Hill had
made a mistake, too, deferring to the judgment of the team’s
doctors and ignoring his own instincts. He stayed in the NBA --
he may retire this summer, at 40, after spending the season with
the Los Angeles Clippers -- but he never played with the same
confidence again. “If I had sat out for a whole season, who
knows what would have happened?” Hill said.  The Bulls haven’t pushed Rose back onto the court
prematurely. But they did throw him under the bus, announcing in
February that he had been medically cleared to play. “I don’t
want to be critical of the Bulls, but I wish they just said,
‘Look, he’s out,’” Hill said.  Knee Trouble  Instead, Rose now sits on the bench in his slick suits,
looking every bit the part of the rich athlete who cares only
about himself. He won’t rule out the possibility of playing
during the postseason, which is yet another thing that he has
been criticized for. Rose can’t win. If he definitively confirms
he’s not going to play, it will only reinforce what his critics
are saying about him.  Basketball is a physical game, but it’s also a
psychological one, especially for elite players such as Hill and
Rose, who are accustomed to feeling invincible on the court.
Rose’s knee may have “healed,” but that doesn’t mean he’s ready
to test it in games -- let alone in the playoffs against the
Miami Heat.  This is not Isiah Thomas and his badly sprained ankle. This
is a torn anterior cruciate ligament, the one that enables Rose
to stand firm against an onrushing LeBron James or leap over
Dwyane Wade. It wasn’t that long ago that a torn ACL was a
career killer.  Thomas was obviously hurting when he  famously scored  25
points for the Pistons against the Lakers in the third quarter
of Game 6 of 1988 NBA Finals. But Rose hasn’t played
professional basketball in more than a year. Sure, he has
practiced some with the team, and was even “busted” throwing
down a dunk in  a viral video  -- as if that has anything to do
with going up against average NBA players, never mind LeBron.  People are treating Rose’s body like it belongs to them. It
doesn’t. Only he will know when he’s ready to go. “Here’s the
thing,” Hill says. “You want Derrick Rose to come back as
Derrick Rose the great MVP, all-star player that he is -- to
have that feeling when he steps on the court that no one can
stop him. I remember that feeling from when I was young.”  Are you listening,  Chicago ?  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  