-- Green Mountain Gains After Raising Forecast on K-Cups
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-05-09T13:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/green-mountain-coffee-profit-rises-42-as-k-cup-sales.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
the maker of Keurig single-serve brewers, rose to the highest
price in more than a year after boosting its profit forecast on
higher K-Cup sales and announcing an expanded partnership with
Starbucks Corp.  The  shares  climbed 18 percent to $70.01 at 9:54 a.m. in New
York after surging to $70.98, the highest intraday price since
Feb. 21, 2012. Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain has
gained 44 percent this year through yesterday, while the Russell
1000 Index has advanced 15 percent.  Profit excluding certain items in the year ending in
September will be as much as $3.15 a share, up from a previous
forecast for a maximum of $2.82, Green Mountain said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts, on average, projected $2.85.
Starbucks also announced yesterday it will add K-Cup brands
including  Seattle ’s Best Coffee in a five-year agreement with
Green Mountain.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Kelley, who took the helm in
December, has tried to lure consumers with different flavored
drink pods for the company’s Keurig brewers. Green Mountain
later this year will begin selling Lipton iced and hot tea K-Cups and Vue packs. The company also recently began selling
antioxidant and vitamin-enhanced single-serve pods.  “K-Cups resonate well with consumers,” Marc Riddick, an
analyst at Williams Capital Group in New York who rates the
shares the equivalent of buy, said in an interview. “The
product that resonates with customers is ultimately what wins.”  Single-serve cup sales 21 percent to $794 million in the
second quarter.  Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, also
will add Teavana tea and cocoa to its K-Cup portfolio, the
Seattle-based company said in a statement.  ‘Symbiotic Relationship’  The pact is a “symbiotic relationship” for the two
companies, Riddick said. With single serve, “the market
opportunity is so great because most of us are drinking more
coffee than we did five years ago,” he said.  Green Mountain also sells  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) ’s
Dunkin’ Donuts brand K-Cups, as well as Gloria Jean’s and
Caribou Coffee single-serve coffee packs. The Keurig maker first
reached an accord with Starbucks in March 2011 to sell pods.  “This long-term partnership is a big win for our
shareholders, customers and consumers,” Kelley said during an
earnings call. The contract may be renewed for another five
years “upon achieving mutually agreed upon volumes,” he said.  Starbucks stores will sell Keurig brewers and the two
companies have identified about a dozen international markets to
expand to with Keurig machines and K-Cups, Kelley said during an
interview.  Profit Rises  Green Mountain’s second-quarter  net income  rose 42 percent
to $132.4 million, or 87 cents a share, from $93 million, or 58
cents, last year. Excluding certain items, profit was 93 cents a
share. Analysts projected 73 cents, the average of 12 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of Green Mountain brewers and accessories dropped 9.6
percent to $126.8 million in the second quarter. The company is
trying to combat rivals in the U.S. with new coffee machines --
including the Vue and Rivo brewers. The Keurig Rivo R500
espresso maker is $315 on the Bloomingdale’s website, while
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s Verismo V585 machine is $299 on its website.  Total revenue rose 14 percent to $1 billion in the quarter.
Analysts estimated $1.02 billion, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  