-- Gundlach Recommends Shorting Chipotle on Earnings Growth
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-08T22:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/gundlach-recommends-shorting-chipotle-on-earnings-growth.html
Jeffrey Gundlach, manager of the top-ranked  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , reiterated his case
for shorting  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)   “I am not impressed with earnings growth,” Gundlach,
chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP, said today at the 2013 Sohn Investment Conference in  New
York . “I like CMG products, but gourmet burrito is an
oxymoron,” he said, referring to Chipotle by its ticker symbol.  Chipotle, the Denver-based fast-casual dining chain with
more than 1,450 locations, has been trying to attract customers
and boost sales with more traditional advertising, catering
services and new food, including Sofritas -- tofu with spices
and roasted peppers. The company, led by co-Chief Executive
Officers Steve Ells and Montgomery Moran, has said that it may
raise menu prices later this year.  Chipotle fell 3.6 percent on April 11 when Gundlach first
recommended shorting the stock, before rallying 11 percent
since. Chipotle looked “vulnerable” after recent gains,
Gundlach said at the time, without giving a price target.
Gundlach, whose flagship mutual fund has beaten 99 percent of
peers in the past three years, correctly predicted the subprime
mortgage crisis in 2007 and told investors in 2012 to bet
against Apple Inc. shares before they started falling.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a security and sells
it, in anticipation that the price will fall and the security
can be repurchased later at a lower cost.  Stock’s Rally  Chipotle’s stock increased 23 percent this year through
today’s close of $366.33 in New York, compared with a gain of 14
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Net  income  in the
first quarter increased 22 percent to $76.6 million, or $2.45 a
share, from a year earlier, Chipotle said last month. Analysts
estimated $2.13 a share, on average.  The stock carries a high  price-earnings  ratio, he said. Its
P-E ratio is almost 40, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A former drummer in a  rock band  with a passion for art,
Gundlach’s investment picks have included natural gas, gemstones
and stocks. He made a recommendation to invest in natural gas in
April 2012 after the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Natural Gas Index
had fallen 59 percent since January 2009. Since then, the index
has almost doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  