-- Libya’s Jibril Says Purge Law May Affect 500,000 People
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-05-08T15:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/libya-s-jibril-says-purge-law-may-affect-500-000-people.html
Half a million people may lose their
jobs as a result of  Libya ’s so-called Isolation Law, which will
“destroy governing structures,” according to the leader of the
country’s biggest political party.  “The law that was passed does not help national
reconciliation,” Mahmoud Jibril, leader of the National Forces
Alliance, said today in an interview with Al Arabiya television.
The legislation was only agreed because militias intimidated
parliament, he said.  Heavily armed militiamen blockaded the foreign and interior
ministries April 28, demanding legislators pass the bill. The
siege was lifted May 5 when congress backed the measure, and
then extended to other ministries yesterday after the gunmen
said it was inadequate. The law bars Muammar Qaddafi-era
officials from office for at least 10 years.  Libya is mired in unrest two years after Qaddafi’s removal,
with militias across the country refusing to disarm and
Islamists on the rise in the oil-producing east. The ability of
the gunmen to lay siege to state institutions highlights the
weakness of the central government and its security forces.  In a joint statement issued in Tripoli today, the U.K.,
U.S. and  France  called on Libyans to refrain from armed protest
and violence during the transition to democracy.  Western Appeal  “The democratically elected representatives and leaders of
the Libyan people must be able to carry out their duties and
move forward with the constitution motivated by their
responsibility to the Libyans who elected them rather than by
the threat of force,” they said in the statement. The three
countries organized Western military action against the Qaddafi
regime in 2011.  On the streets of Tripoli today, militiamen said they won’t
lift their blockade until the law comes into force, scheduled
for June 5.  “We will stay until we see the law is implemented,” said
Anas Hamman, a sports shoes salesman from Tripoli. “If you
don’t remove these people, you won’t make progress in this
country,” he said of officials with ties to the previous
regime.  Militiamen from the western city of Misrata, Zintan and
Benghazi in the east, are taking part in the blockades,
according to Hamman.  The Political Positions Standards Implementation Authority
will meet to decide who is affected by the legislation.  Jibril is among those likely to be included in the ban,
because he served for several years as an economic adviser to
Qaddafi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Triploi at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  