-- ICU Said to Explore Sale That May Fetch $1 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-08T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/icu-said-to-explore-sale-that-may-fetch-more-than-1-billion-1-.html
ICU Medical Inc. (ICUI) , the San Clemente,
California-based producer of intravenous medical equipment, is
weighing a sale that may fetch more than $1 billion, said people
familiar with the matter. The shares rose to their highest
closing price since first being sold to the public 21 years ago.  ICU is working with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on finding
suitors, according to the people, who asked not to be named as
the process is private. Deliberations are in the early stages
and the company is still gauging interest, the people said.  Among the chief beneficiaries of a sale may be Chief
Executive Officer  George Lopez , the founder and ICU’s top holder
with an 11 percent stake, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. ICU got its start almost 30 years ago, when Lopez
began working on a device to prevent IV lines from accidentally
disconnecting, the corporate website shows.  The buyer is just as likely to be a private-equity investor
as another health-care company, said Lawrence Solow, an analyst
with CJS Securities Inc. in  White Plains , New York. “To try and
fit it strategically, it’s hard to say who it would be,” he
said. “There’s nobody that lines up with their markets.”  A large medical device and supply company might also be
interested, Solow said in a telephone interview. Solow, who has
a market outperform rating on the shares, declined to name any
possible bidders.  Tom McCall, a spokesman for ICU, said he had no immediate
comment, while a spokeswoman at JPMorgan declined to comment.  Shares Surge  ICU climbed 13 percent to $68.83 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day increase since October 2008. The stock has
gained  30 percent  over the past year, compared with a 22 percent
increase for the Standard & Poor’s 600 Smallcap Index.  The company generated about $315 million in revenue last
year. Its biggest product line is devices used in drug
infusions, including equipment that connects a patient’s
intravenous port to a drug or solution. The company also makes
storage, compounding and delivery systems for often-toxic cancer
drugs, and sells them to drugmakers and hospitals.  ICU also carries a growing amount of cash on its balance
sheet, $155 million in the first quarter. That cash generation
may make it even more attractive to a private-equity target,
Solow said. He called the $1 billion potential price, not
including the cash, “a feasible valuation.”  One of ICU’s biggest products is a connector called the
Clave, which makes up about a third of its  sales , according to a
March 7 research report by Piper Jaffray Cos. The equipment lets
doctors or nurses attach the feed from a nutrition or saline
bag, or a dose of medicine, into a patient’s IV port, using a
sterile, needle-free connection.  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , a drugmaker that focuses on difficult-to-make-and-store drugs, is one of ICU’s biggest customers. Sales
to the company made up about a third of revenue during the first
quarter, ICU Chief Financial Officer Scott Lamb said on an April
22 conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  