-- Mighty River Sale Takes Key Toward New Zealand Budget Goal
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-09T00:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mighty-river-raises-nz-1-7-billion-in-biggest-new-zealand-ipo.html
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key
moved closer to eliminating the  budget deficit  with a NZ$1.7
billion ($1.4 billion) sale of Mighty River Power Ltd. shares in
the nation’s biggest initial public offering.  The government, which will retain a 51 percent stake in the
Auckland-based utility, sold the shares at NZ$2.50 each, Finance
Minister  Bill English  and State Owned Enterprises Minister Tony Ryall said yesterday. The price compares with the indicative
range of NZ$2.35 to NZ$2.80 given last month.  Key plans to raise NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion selling
shares in state-owned companies after the budget deficit reached
a record on spending following the 2011 Christchurch earthquake.
He also plans to offer stakes in Meridian Energy Ltd., Genesis
Power Ltd. and Air New Zealand Ltd., banking on demand for
higher yielding assets as the nation’s interest rates sit near
record lows.  “It’s an encouraging development, particularly if they are
able to achieve their target,” said Art Woo, director of Asia
sovereign ratings at  Fitch Ratings  in  Hong Kong . “It does show
they are making efforts to stabilize their public debt-to-GDP
ratio, which has risen over the past five years.”  New Zealand  is targeting a return to  budget surplus  by 2015
after the deficit became as wide as NZ$18.4 billion in the 12
months ending June 30, 2011. The government forecasts a gap of
NZ$7.34 billion in the current year. The country lost its top
 credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in 2011,
prompting Key to focus on debt reduction.  Sale Proceeds  “Proceeds will go into the Future Investment Fund,
allowing the government to control debt while continuing to
invest in public assets,” English said in a statement.  The sale values Mighty River at NZ$3.5 billion, making it
one of the largest members of the New Zealand stock exchange.
The company projects a dividend of 12 cents a share this year, a
yield of 4.8 percent. That compares with 2.8 percent at Contact
Energy Ltd., the largest publicly traded New Zealand power
company with a capitalization of NZ$4.11 billion.  More than 113,000 New Zealanders will hold shares in Mighty
River, which begins trading on May 10, according to the
statement.  “The whole exercise and the success of it will build the
confidence of retail investors that this is something that they
can do,” English told reporters. “We believe they will be
looking for further opportunities.”  Future IPOs  English declined to comment on the timing of the next IPO,
adding it is “possible” details will be included in his May 16
budget.  The demand for the shares particularly from overseas
investors was such that the government “could have done all
three” power company sales last night, said Andrew Bascand,
managing director of Harbour Asset Management Ltd. in
Wellington.  “Globally, the bidding went ridiculous,” he said. “They
got scaled massively.”  Of the shares issued, 86.5 percent will be New Zealand
owned, including 26.9 percent by retail investors and 8.6
percent by institutions, according to the statement. The
government will retain a majority 51 percent shareholding and
about 13.5 percent will be held by overseas institutions.  The sale values Mighty River at NZ$3.5 billion, making it
one of the largest members of the New Zealand stock exchange.
The company projects a dividend of 13 cents a share next year, a
cash yield of 5.1 percent.  ‘Reasonable Yield’  “Its not a big growth industry so needs to have a
reasonable yield,” said Bascand. “We like these things over 5
percent, it looks alright.”  About 440,000 people pre-registered their interest in
receiving offer documents before the IPO was announced on April
5. The three-week offer period ended May 3 and the final price
was reached after an institutional auction closed yesterday.  The sale is the largest in  Australia  or New Zealand since
Aurizon Holdings Ltd., the rail company formerly known as QR
National Ltd., raised A$4.05 billion ($4.13 billion) in November
2010. New Zealand’s previous biggest IPO was the government’s
NZ$1.1 billion sale of 60 percent of Contact Energy in 1999.  Mighty River operates nine hydro plants on the Waikato
River, the nation’s longest, five geothermal stations and the
natural gas-fired Southdown plant near Auckland. It sells power
to about 20 percent of the nation’s homes, mainly through retail
unit Mercury Energy.  Lead Managers  The lead managers of the offer were Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd., and a partnership of Credit Suisse
Group AG and First NZ Capital Securities. JB Were (NZ) Pty,
Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. and Forsyth Barr Ltd. managed
the retail share offer.  Key’s government was forced to make a supplementary
disclosure last month after opposition parties said they would
revise regulation of the industry if they form a government
after the 2014 general election. Their proposal includes
creating a state agency to buy wholesale electricity at a
regulated price, and also envisages splitting the retail and
generation units of existing companies.  Bascand lowered his bid range for Mighty River by about 10
percent to reflect the uncertainty the opposition proposals put
around future earnings.  The shares were offered amid contract negotiations between
Meridian and Rio Tinto Group Ltd., the majority owner of the
nation’s only aluminum smelter, which used about 13 percent of
national power output last year. Demand would slump if Rio
closed the plant and companies such as Genesis may respond by
shutting some generation sites, Bascand said.  “Meridian and Genesis both have tickly little issues,” he
said. “All roads lead back to discussions with Rio, you’d have
to put that to bed thoroughly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  