-- Military Sex Assaults Rising 35% Bring Calls for Change
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-09T01:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/military-sex-assaults-rising-35-bring-calls-for-change.html
Democratic lawmakers and victims’
advocates said they will push to strip U.S. military commanders
of the power to prosecute sexual assaults after a Pentagon
survey found attacks jumped 35 percent over the past two years.  The survey released yesterday estimated that 26,000 active-duty troops experienced unwanted sexual contact over the last
year, up from 19,300 two years earlier. It was issued days after
an  Air Force  officer in charge of sexual-assault prevention was
charged with sexual battery, prompting a vow from President
 Barack Obama  to “do everything we can to root this out.”  “If people have engaged in this behavior, they should be
prosecuted,” Obama said yesterday during a news conference in
 Washington . “They’ve got to be held accountable.”  The Pentagon report and the May 5 arrest of Air Force
Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski intensified debate over
whether the military does enough to protect personnel from
sexual assaults. While Obama pledged to “exponentially step up
our game” to combat a problem that has plagued the military for
decades, several lawmakers questioned whether the administration
was going far enough to ensure justice for victims.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat on the
Armed Services Committee, said she will push to prosecute sexual
assault cases outside the military’s chain of command so that
victims will be more comfortable in coming forward.  Retaliation Fears  “They don’t feel that there is an atmosphere by which they
can report safely,” Gillibrand told Air Force leaders at a
hearing yesterday. “They’re afraid of retaliation. They’re
afraid of being treated poorly by their commanders, being
treated poorly by their colleagues.”  About a dozen House and Senate lawmakers from both parties
have been invited to the White House for a meeting tomorrow to
discuss the issue, according to a person familiar with the
invitation who asked not to be identified because the meeting
hadn’t been announced.  The lawmakers, who weren’t named, will meet with Obama
senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  and Tina Tchen, the chief of
staff to first lady  Michelle Obama , the person said. The
president is scheduled to travel to  Texas  tomorrow and won’t
attend the meeting, the person said.  In the House, a bill sponsored by Representative Jackie Speier, a  California  Democrat, would create an independent
office within the Defense Department to handle assault cases.  Hagel’s Resistance  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel resisted that idea, even as
he announced steps that he said would help curb assaults.  “The ultimate authority has to remain within the command
structure,” Hagel said at a Pentagon news conference held to
announce the annual report on sexual assaults.  “We do have to go back and review every aspect of that
chain of command, of that accountability, and some things do
need to be changed,” Hagel said. “But I don’t think taking it
away, the responsibility -- ultimate responsibility -- away from
the military, I think that would just weaken the system.”  Air Force Secretary Michael Donley echoed Hagel’s view at a
Senate hearing, saying, “Commanders need to be part of the good
order and discipline for their units.”  Krusinski, who had served as chief of the Air Force’s
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response branch since February,
was arrested in Arlington,  Virginia , where he “approached a
female victim in a parking lot and grabbed her breasts and
buttocks,” according to an Arlington County  police report .  Officer’s Arrest  The 41-year-old officer was removed from the job pending an
investigation, according to an Air Force statement. He was
released after posting a $5,000 bond, according to Dustin
Sternbeck, an Arlington County police spokesman.  He’s is scheduled for arraignment tomorrow in Arlington
County General District Court in Virginia. Efforts to locate
Krusinski for comment weren’t successful.  The arrest in the Washington suburb where the Pentagon is
located provides “dramatic evidence of the need for the
 Department of Defense  to act swiftly and decisively to address
the plague of sexual assaults in the military,” Senate Armed
Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
said yesterday at the hearing he held with Air Force leaders.  “It is unacceptable that this occurs anywhere at any time
in our Air Force and we will not quit working on this problem,”
General Mark Welsh, the Air Force chief of staff, said yesterday
at Levin’s hearing.  Pentagon Survey  The Pentagon’s anonymous survey of active-duty troops found
that 26,000 reported experiencing unwanted sexual conduct last
year, amounting to an average of 71 incidents per day. A survey
two years earlier estimated 19,300 such incidents. In 2006, the
only other time the survey was conducted, there were an
estimated 34,200 incidents.  About 6.1 percent of active-duty women and 1.2 percent of
active-duty men surveyed said they had experienced unwanted
sexual contact within the previous 12 months.  Those estimates dwarf the number of cases reported each
year. Victims have said they’re afraid of coming forward, partly
because they feared a risk their career. There were 3,374
reported cases of assault in 2012, a 5.7 percent increase from
the previous year, the Defense Department said yesterday.  “This report tells us we’ve got more work to do,” said
Major General Gary Patton, director of the Pentagon’s Sexual
Assault Prevention and Response Office.  ‘Every Level’  Hagel, announcing a series of measures, said he would hold
military commanders accountable “at every level,” improve the
treatment of assault victims and conduct regular inspections of
military workplaces to guard against “materials that create a
degrading and offensive work environment.”  Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a
victims’ support group, said she’s “very disappointed” in
Hagel’s reluctance to establish an independent authority to
prosecute sexual assaults.  “The military system today is the equivalent of having
mayors, governors or the president decide whether to investigate
or prosecute and then have the power to simply reduce a sentence
or overturn the results if they don’t like it,” Parrish said in
an e-mail.  Senators  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, and
 Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat, introduced legislation that
they said would make it easier to prosecute assault cases. It
includes a procedure already used by the Air Force to provide a
Special Victims’ Counsel who can assist assault victims
throughout the legal process.  Lackland Scandal  Krusinski’s arrest took place with the Air Force still
reeling from a scandal in which at least five military
instructors were convicted of sexual assaults or unprofessional
relationships with trainees or students at Lackland Air Force
Base in  San Antonio , Texas.  An investigation of the Lackland case identified 23 alleged
offenders and 48 alleged victims.  Levin said he plans to include legislation on sexual
assault as part of this year’s annual defense authorization
bill, as early as next month.  Hagel last month proposed barring military commanders from
overturning court-martial convictions of sexual assault and
other major crimes.  The proposal, which requires legislation from Congress,
follows lawmakers’ protests over a case at Aviano Air Base in
 Italy , where an aggravated sexual-assault conviction in a court-martial last year was overturned by Air Force Lieutenant General
Craig Franklin, the so-called convening authority who oversaw
the case. His decision fueled debate about whether the military
acts forcefully enough to prosecute wrongdoing.  Reid Letter  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today that he supported legislation that would bar commanders
from arbitrarily overturning court-martial verdicts. In a letter
to Levin, Reid urged that such a provision be included in the
 defense spending  bill for fiscal 2014.  In a potentially similar case, Air Force Lieutenant General
Susan Helms, selected to become vice commander of the Air
Force’s Space Command, had her nomination blocked by Senator
 Claire McCaskill , a member of the Armed Services Committee.  McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, wants to examine Helms’s
previously unpublicized decision to overturn an aggravated
sexual-assault conviction for a captain at Vandenberg Air Force
Base in California. Welsh confirmed the reversal at yesterday’s
hearing, saying Helms didn’t think the evidence to reach the
verdict met the “burden of reasonable doubt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  