-- Millennial Media CEO Says Now Not Time to Sell Company
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-09T20:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/millennial-media-ceo-says-now-not-time-to-sell-company.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM)  Chief Executive
Officer Paul Palmieri said the company will remain independent
for the “foreseeable future,” tamping down speculation that it
could be a takeover target.  The mobile advertising company has lost 42 percent of its
value since a public listing last year, making its assets
attractive to a technology buyer interested in gaining a bigger
foothold in the fast-growing market. IDC’s Karsten Weide said in
April that  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  could be interested, while
IPOPlaybook.com’s Tom Taulli has said the company would fit well
with Microsoft Corp.  “We’re operating on all cylinders as an independent player
in this marketplace,” Palmieri said in an interview yesterday.
“It doesn’t surprise me that that would be attractive to
someone, but we are pursuing our independent path now and for
the foreseeable future.”  After forecasting 2013 sales that missed analyst estimates
in February, Millennial’s market value has slipped to about $600
million. The company fell as low as $6.90 in extended trading
yesterday after restating those estimates in its first-quarter
results report. Today, the shares fell 1.2 percent to $7.41 at
the close in  New York .  Millennial Media reported a first-quarter loss, excluding
items, of 1 cent a share, the Baltimore, Maryland-based company
said in a statement. That compared with a 2-cent average loss
estimated by analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue was $49.4 million, beating the $49.2 million estimate.  “They are going up against some big players,” Taulli said
in April. “I don’t think there’s a lack of buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  