-- Tim Hortons Falls as Canadian Store Sales Drop
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-08T20:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tim-hortons-falls-as-canadian-store-sales-drop.html
Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) ,  Canada ’s largest
coffee and doughnuts chain, fell the most in almost three months
after a slowing economy prompted sales at its Canadian stores to
drop for the first time since the company went public.  Shares in the Oakville, Ontario-based company  fell  2.6
percent to C$57.13 in Toronto today after falling as much as 4.1
percent earlier, the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 8.  Sales at stores in Canada that have been open more than a
year declined 0.3 percent in the first quarter from the same
period a year ago, the company said in a statement with
earnings. That was the first drop since 2006, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Obviously they’re not growing as fast as they were when
they went public,” Bobby Hagedorn, an analyst with Edward Jones
& Co. in said by phone from  St. Louis . “When you’re growing
faster your younger stores tend to compare a bit better, so you
don’t have that tailwind behind you. The market is obviously
more competitive than it was.”  Tim Hortons  reported net income fell 2.9 percent to C$86.2
million ($86 million) in the first quarter, or 56 cents a share,
compared with estimates of 61 cents. Revenue rose 1.4 percent to
C$731.5 million, compared with the average estimate of C$748.9
million.  The company faces a Canadian  unemployment rate  that’s been
above 7 percent for four years and record  consumer debt , as well
as increased competition from McDonald’s Corp.’s expanded coffee
offering.  New CEO  “In Canada, we believe  consumer confidence  and
discretionary spending have been negatively impacted by rising
unemployment, high consumer debt and the cooling housing
market,” the company said in its statement.  The company appointed Marc Caira, 59, a former executive
with  Nestle SA (NESN)  as its new president and chief executive officer
to take over in July. Paul House had been acting CEO since May
2011. The company will hold its annual shareholders’ meeting
tomorrow.  Tim Hortons said on its earnings call that it’s committed
to the U.S. market, sees potential to add debt to its balance
sheet and rejected the idea of transferring its real estate to a
real estate income trust. The company also said it has more bias
toward share buybacks than special dividends.  Boston-based hedge fund Highfields Capital Management LP
said May 1 it had increased its stake in Tim Hortons to 4
percent and met with the company to recommend using debt to fund
“capital return” and to halt a push into the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  