-- Tim Hortons Gains as Highfields Demands Return
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-08T12:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tim-hortons-gains-as-highfields-demands-return.html
Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)  investors are betting
Highfields Capital Management LP will spark an extended rally as
the hedge fund demands higher payouts and an end to a struggling
U.S. expansion at Canada’s largest coffee and doughnuts chain.  Shares of the Oakville, Ontario-based company have  surged 
7.4 percent to C$58.64 since Boston-based Highfields said May 1
it had increased its stake to 4 percent and met with the company
to recommend using debt to fund “capital return” and halting a
push into the U.S. The stock had been the  third-worst performing 
among 16 global restaurant companies on a one-year basis through
April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even if they only get half of what they’re proposing
done, the change that would drive in terms of how they think
about the business and how they manage the business would be
pretty material,” Kenric Tyghe, an analyst with Raymond James
Securities said by phone from Toronto yesterday.  While Tim Hortons, founded by a National Hockey League
player of the same name in 1964, says it sells eight out of 10
cups of coffee in  Canada  from 3,436 restaurants, the brand has
been slow to catch on in the U.S. Operating profit last year was
C$182,000 ($181,180) per store in Canada compared with C$20,000
per store in the U.S., Derek Dley, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. said in an e-mail yesterday.  Tim Hortons, which reported first-quarter revenue and net
income below analysts’ estimates today, had lost 4.3 percent in
the 12 months before Highfields made a letter to management
public on May 1. Revenue rose 1.4 percent to C$731.5 million,
compared with the average estimate of C$748.9 million. Net
income fell 2.9 percent to C$86.2 million, or 56 cents a share,
compared with estimates of  61 cents .  New CEO  The stock has risen 79 percent in the five years through
yesterday, compared with a 13 percent drop in the broad Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite  index .  The company today appointed Marc Caira, 59, a former
executive with  Nestle SA (NESN)  as its new president and chief
executive officer. Paul House had been acting CEO since May
2011. The company will hold its annual shareholders’ meeting
tomorrow.  By increasing leverage and cutting back or stopping
investment in its U.S. business, Tim Hortons’ shares could
approach or exceed C$100 within 12 to 18 months, Highfields said
in a letter to Tim Hortons’ management. Earnings growth “would
be achieved by reducing the equity base through capital return
as opposed to investing capital into the U.S. at sub-par
returns,” said the letter, which Highfields provided to
Bloomberg.  Molly Morse, a Highfields spokeswoman, declined to comment
further. Highfields, founded in 1998, manages $11 billion and
does not make performance figures public, Morse said.  Raise Leverage  Tim Hortons should emulate rivals  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) 
and  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  by taking advantage of record low
borrowing rates to drive growth, said Highfields in the letter.  The company’s ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, is
0.56 times, below the average 1.1 times of its restaurant peers,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Dunkin’ Brands and
Domino’s have the highest ratios at 5.1 times and 4.7 times
respectively.  “We do not see any structural reason why THI couldn’t
increase its debt leverage and return the cash back to
shareholders, if it chose to do so,” Michael Kelter, an analyst
at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a research note to clients May 1,
referring to Tim Hortons by its stock ticker symbol.  More Leverage  Kelter estimates if the company took on C$1 billion of debt
and increased its leverage to three times EBITDA including
restructuring or rent costs, it could  fund  a C$6.50 special
dividend or buy back up to 12 percent of shares. If Tim Hortons
increased its ratio of adjusted net debt to four times earnings
with C$2 billion of debt it could fund a special dividend of $13
a share or buy back up to 23 percent of the stock, the note
said.  Taking on that kind of debt would be a risk the company can
ill afford amid headwinds in Canada as consumers carry record
debt, said Stephen Groff, who helps run $6 billion as a
portfolio manager at Cambridge Global Asset Management, a unit
of CI Investments Inc. The ratio of Canadian household debt to
disposable income rose to a record 165 percent in the first
quarter from 164.7 percent in the previous period.  “What’s good for the company in the short term isn’t
necessarily the best in the long term,” Groff, whose company
owns Tim Hortons’ shares, said in an interview May 6. He said he
favors sticking with management’s current strategy of trying to
expand the business rather than taking on debt.  U.S. Stores  “Average sales per store appears destined for lower levels
than that experienced in Canada, perhaps dictated by a more
competitive environment in the U.S.,’ David Hartley, an analyst
with Credit Suisse, said in a note April 24.  Hartley estimates closing the U.S. business would generate
C$3.34 per share. He declined to be comment further.  ‘‘Adding five times leverage to your balance sheet can be
very risky,’’ said Dley. ‘‘While it may lead to short-term
earnings accretion, investors that have been with Tim Hortons
since the IPO essentially are likely not going to want to go
that route.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  