-- India Said to Plan Completing FY14 Asset Sales by December
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-08T05:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/india-said-to-plan-completing-7-billion-asset-sales-by-december.html
India plans to accelerate sales of
state companies to meet the fiscal-year goal of 400 billion
rupees ($7.4 billion) by December, two  finance ministry 
officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The government wants to wrap up the stake sales before
elections are announced, one of the people said. Policy makers
want to take advantage of a rebound in stocks for better
valuations, the other person said. The officials asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak on the
subject. Indian national elections are due by May 2014.  In the fiscal year through March, the government plans to
reduce its holdings in Coal India Ltd., National Aluminium Co.,
Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd., Indian Oil Corp., Power Grid Corp.
of India and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram is counting on revenue from shares of
government-controlled companies to narrow the  budget deficit  and
maintain an investment-grade  credit rating  after a similar
program fell 20 percent short of target last year.  The benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  index has jumped 9 percent
from a seven-month low reached on April 9 as the central bank
cut  interest rates  three times this year to revive economic
growth from the slowest pace in a decade.  Starting September, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration has taken steps to boost economic growth by
reducing energy subsidies, allowing more foreign investment in
industries including aviation and retail and cutting levies on
capital inflows.  Missing Goal  The asset-sale program fell short of its 300 billion rupees
target in the year ended March 31, with the government managing
to raise only 80 percent, according to data provided by the
finance ministry. D.S. Malik, the New Delhi-based spokesman at
the ministry, declined to comment.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent government bond due
June 2022 slipped 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
7.73 percent as of 11:10 a.m. in Mumbai. The rupee was little
changed at 54.115 a dollar.  State-run Coal  India  and Indian Oil Corp. could be offered
for sale first as they may fetch a “substantial amount,” one
of the officials said. The government may get about 200 billion
rupees by selling a 5 percent stake in Coal India to the public
and a similar holding to the company, according to a finance
ministry’s draft proposal obtained by  Bloomberg News  last month.  Initial public offerings have dropped 55 percent to 3.5
billion rupees in the worst start to a year since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chidambaram has vowed to reduce the budget shortfall to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the current financial year,
from an estimated 5.2 percent in the previous 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  