-- Indian Parliament Ends 2 Days Early as Protests Halt Legislation
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-08T07:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/indian-parliament-ends-2-days-early-as-protests-halt-legislation.html
India’s  parliament  ended its budget
session two days before schedule as clashes between opposition
parties and the government stalled legislation including a bill
meant to expand a program to feed the poor.  While the current sitting was due to finish on May 10, the
lower house of parliament will be sent into recess from today,
Meira Kumar, the speaker said after opposition lawmakers stormed
the well of the house in another day of protests and halted
debate. The upper house of parliament also ended proceedings
today.  The government will now be unable to pass a bill that it
hopes will help deliver a third term in power in elections that
must be held within the next year. The bill, if enacted, will
grant the nation’s poor the right to buy food grains at
subsidized rates as the ruling Congress party aims to meet a
pledge to spread the benefits of faster economic growth.  The Bharatiya Janata Party and other groups are demanding
the resignation of the Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Law
Minister Ashwani Kumar over alleged interference in a probe into
the allocation of coal blocks.  The protests were prompted by findings by  India ’s top court
that the country’s main anti-corruption agency allowed the
government to vet its findings of a probe into alleged
corruption. Singh was in charge of the coal ministry at the time
when many of the mining permits were awarded. The Supreme Court
in New Delhi will hold a hearing on the case today.  The Central Bureau of Investigation, which is probing
allegations of graft in the award of mining rights, told the
Supreme Court last month the status of the investigation was
shared with the federal law minister and two officials of the
prime minister’s office and coal ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  