-- India’s Rupee Gains for Second Day on Current-Account Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-08T04:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/india-s-rupee-gains-for-second-day-on-current-account-optimism.html
India ’s rupee rose for a second day on
speculation a drop in commodity prices will result in a
reduction in the current-account deficit in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy.  Government bonds  advanced.  India is due to publish trade data between May 10-15, and
Yes Bank Ltd. predicts lower prices could shrink the shortfall
in the current account to 4.1 percent of gross domestic product
in the year through March 2014 from an estimated 5 percent in
the previous year. Brent crude prices fell 7 percent last month
and gold dropped 7.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The two commodities comprise 43 percent of the nation’s imports,
Yes Bank estimates.  “Lower commodity prices, a pickup in global quantitative
easing and policy attention towards current-account deficit
financing are likely to be supportive of the rupee,” Shubhada
Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank in Mumbai, wrote in a research
report today. Risks stem from a deterioration in growth, she
wrote.  The rupee advanced 0.1 percent to 54.08 per dollar as of
9:46 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.48 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  lowered borrowing costs
yesterday, a day after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said further interest-rate cuts are possible.  Current-Account Financing  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May
4 that the odds of further monetary easing to spur growth are
“practically non-existent.”  The monetary authority lowered
its  repurchase  rate to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent a day
earlier, taking this year’s reduction to 75 basis points.  India’s government last week reduced a tax on foreign
holdings of rupee-denominated debt, as it seeks to finance the
shortfall in the broadest measure of trade. Global funds boosted
holdings of the notes to a record $37.3 billion on May 6,
exchange data show. The central bank bought 97 billion rupees
($1.8 billion) of sovereign bonds yesterday through open-market
auctions, it said in a statement.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 dropped
one basis point to 7.73 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.04 per
dollar, compared with 55.14 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.70 versus 54.78. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  