-- India’s Nifty Futures Gain, Signaling Stocks May Extend Rally
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-08T01:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/india-s-nifty-futures-gain-signaling-stocks-may-extend-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may extend a rally to the highest in
more than three months.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery rose 0.4
percent to 6,076 at 9:30 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 1.2 percent to 6,043.55 yesterday, its
highest close since Jan. 30. The S&P BSE Sensex index added 1.1
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares jumped 1.6 percent to a one-month high.  Global stocks rose yesterday as corporate earnings beat
estimates and central banks eased monetary policy to boost
growth. The  Reserve Bank  of India cut borrowing costs on May 3,
while  European Central Bank  trimmed rates to a record low this
week, the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to continue its bond-
buying program and Australia’s central bank yesterday reduced
its benchmark  interest rate .  “Strength in global markets, the Indian central bank’s
recent rate cut and a fall in commodity prices has boosted
market sentiment,” Nidhi Saraswat, senior research analyst at
Bonanza Portfolio Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.
“Investors are showing steady confidence in the market even at
higher levels.”  The Sensex has rebounded 9.1 percent since plunging to a
seven-month low on April 9, as overseas investors  stepped up
equity purchases  amid optimism the RBI would cut interest rates
and a drop in gold and crude  oil prices  improved the
government’s prospects of narrowing a record current-account
deficit.  Foreign Flows  Foreign funds bought a net $170 million of local shares on
May 5, extending their net investment in stocks this year to $12
billion, a record for the period, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Funds bought a net $802 million of Indian equities last
week, the most since the period ended Feb. 8, the data show.  Profit at just two of the 12 Sensex companies that have
reported March-quarter results so far has  trailed  analyst
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
43 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 and 40 percent in
the previous two quarters.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s largest mortgage
lender, may today report fourth-quarter net income of 15.2
billion rupees, compared with 13.1 billion a year earlier,
according to the median of 31 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  The Sensex has advanced 2.4 percent in 2013 and trades at
13.7 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with a multiple
of 10.6 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The gauge’s
50-day volatility, a measure of price swings, rose to a  nine-
month high  on May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  