-- India’s Congress on Course to Win Power in Key Southern State
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-05-08T05:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/india-s-congress-on-course-to-win-power-in-key-southern-state.html
India ’s ruling Congress party is on
course to winning power in the southern state of Karnataka in a
rare piece of good news for the party as the government battles
corruption allegations that have paralyzed parliament.  Congress  is leading in 111 seats in the 224-member
assembly, with leads or results in 99 percent of constituencies,
according to the television channel CNN-IBN. The  Bharatiya
Janata Party , the main opposition party, which has governed
Karnataka for the last five years, was winning in 38, the
television channel said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and his Congress party are
trying to build momentum ahead of national elections scheduled
for May 2014 in the face of persistent graft charges that have
hobbled the government’s legislative agenda. The BJP and other
political parties are demanding the resignation of the prime
minister and the law minister over alleged interference in a
probe into the allocation of coal blocks. India’s top court will
hold a hearing on the case today.  “This is a good result for Congress, it will lift their
morale, and it is a sign that they are not withering away,”
said Satish Misra, an analyst at the Observer Research
Foundation, a policy group based in  New Delhi . “But Congress
won this election by default because of the BJP’s problems in
the state.”  For the BJP, losing power in Karnataka, home to the Indian
offices of  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and General Electric Co., would frustrate
the party’s bid to expand its base beyond its stronghold in the
north. Karnataka is the first state in southern India the party
has ruled without a coalition partner.  Illegal Mining  Rather than acting as a catalyst for gaining broader
electoral support, the provincial government in 2011 became
embroiled in a $3.6 billion illegal mining scam where companies
were accused by the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman of
operating without permits and evading taxes. Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa was named in the probe and forced to step down.  Those revelations blunted the BJP’s campaign to target
Congress over corruption.  With the BJP disrupting parliament to demand the
resignations of both Singh and Law Minister Ashwani Kumar,
legislation to extend a subsidized food program and change laws
on land purchases for industry have yet to be debated. Congress
wants to pass both as it chases the votes of poor Indians ahead
of next year’s national election.  Congress Vice President  Rahul Gandhi  and  Narendra Modi , the
BJP chief minister of western Gujarat state, have addressed
rallies in Karnataka, trading barbs about corruption. The two
men are being promoted within their parties as candidates for
prime minister.  Celebrations Tempered  A loss today for the BJP would mean that the  party  now
rules six of India’s 28 states either outright or in an
alliance. If Congress wins, Singh’s party will govern alone in
14 states.  Any celebrations for Congress may be tempered by the top
court hearing today. The Supreme Court is expected to discuss
why the country’s top anti-corruption agency allowed the
government to vet findings of a probe into alleged corruption.
Singh was in charge of the coal ministry at the time many of the
mining permits were awarded.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation , which is probing
allegations of graft in the award of mining rights, told the
 Supreme Court  last month the status of the investigation was
shared with the federal law minister and two officials of the
prime minister’s office and coal ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  