-- Mine Sales in Bear Market Brings Private Equity on Prowl
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-09T08:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mine-sales-in-bear-market-brings-private-equity-on-prowl.html
Mining companies led by  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  are holding the biggest ever sale of assets this year just
as commodity prices head into a bear market. What’s bad timing
for the miners might be the opposite for private equity.  About $48 billion of mines and assets are on the block,
almost double last year’s $23 billion of completed and pending
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I haven’t seen anything like it in more than 20 years,”
said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion in
equities, including BHP and  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group, at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Mining companies have done pretty well
buying assets at the bottom of the cycle and turning some over
near the top, but this is completely the other way around.”  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, and London-based
Rio Tinto are leading the global asset disposal and may sell
businesses or stakes in mines for as much as $35 billion,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Private-equity firms are finding
that tempting, raising almost $9 billion in 16 months for mine
investment, more than the previous four years combined,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aaron Regent, who was fired last year as chief executive
officer of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest producer of the
metal, started a company to invest in mining assets, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the firm run
by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is considering a bid for
Rio’s stake in an Australian copper and gold mine, two people
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Steve Okun, a spokesman for KKR in Hong Kong, said the firm
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  ‘Financial Firepower’  Richard Barker, Sydney-based co-head of metals and mining
in  Australia  at RBC Capital Markets, sees private equity ready
to step up acquisitions.  “When you think of the financial firepower of the
resource-focused private equity firms, they can put a lot of
money into transactions,” Barker said at a May 1 media
briefing. “Private equity is going to be the solution to
funding many of these projects.”  Former Xstrata Plc CEO Mick Davis and Chief Financial
Officer Trevor Reid are weighing plans to set up a privately
backed mining fund, people familiar with the matter said last
month.  Bankers led by Lloyd Pengilly, previously at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , are setting up a London-based fund to invest mainly in
African mining. Denham Capital Management LP, a $7.3 billion
U.S. private equity fund focused on mining and energy, said in
February it aims to sign a deal for as much as $300 million in
Australia, the biggest exporter of iron ore and coal.  On the Block  BHP may sell stakes worth as much as $25 billion in coal
mines and oil and gas fields from  Algeria  to the U.S., Deutsche
Bank said in a March 11 report. Rio, the world’s second-biggest
miner, could offload as much as $10 billion, the bank said.  That’s as commodity prices as measured by the  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  had
their worst month in almost a year in April on concern the
slowdown in  China’s growth  will curtail demand.  Much more is on the block.  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  is among
companies selling or halting projects to cut debt and boost
dividends, Deutsche Bank said in the report. The world’s largest
commodities trader is selling the Las Bambas copper project in
 Peru , valued at $6.5 billion by BMO Capital Markets, to gain
clearance from  China  for its $29 billion takeover of Xstrata
Plc. A spokesman for the Baar, Switzerland-based company
declined to comment.  The sales follow a decade-long takeover binge of more than
$1.1 trillion by resources companies, which led to more than $60
billion in asset writedowns.  Albanese Not  The shift to an offload strategy includes boardroom exits,
such as the chief executive officers of Melbourne-based BHP and
Rio this year. Andrew Mackenzie, who takes up the BHP CEO  job  on
May 10, joins the new Rio CEO Sam Walsh in clearing the decks of
underperforming assets.  After Walsh  took charge  of London-based Rio in January, he
made it clear cutting costs and conserving capital is his focus.
The man he replaced, Tom Albanese, left after overseeing
acquisitions that led to $14 billion in writedowns.  “We’re targeting cash proceeds from divestments, and are
reviewing a number of potential non-core assets for
divestment,” Walsh said today at Rio’s annual meeting in
Sydney.  Done Deals  Still, some deals are getting done. BHP last month sold the
Pinto Valley copper mine in the U.S. for $650 million to
 Canada ’s  Capstone Mining Corp. (CS)  That took Melbourne-based BHP’s
total asset sales in the past year to $5 billion, it said April
29, including a Canadian diamond mine, an Australian uranium
project and a stake in a gas field in the Browse basin.  “Consistent with our commitment to simplify the portfolio,
BHP Billiton continues to selectively pursue asset divestment
opportunities, with a firm focus on value,” BHP said in an e-mail. “Our recent Pinto Valley announcement is an example.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer
of the precious metal, said last month that it has a shortlist
of bidders for its Navachab mine in northwestern  Namibia .  “The number of deals in a falling price environment can go
up because they either have to reduce costs or find synergies by
combining with other projects,” said Peter Bacchus, global head
of natural resources at Jefferies Inc.  ‘No Buyers’  BHP has 10 sales under way, according to a  UBS AG (UBSN)  report,
citing Chief Financial Officer Graham Kerr. Aluminum and
stainless steel are “non-core” businesses, Kerr said at a
meeting in March, according to UBS.  Kerr said there were no buyers for some assets, while
petroleum operations were the easiest to sell, according to a
JPMorgan report of the same meeting.  Even in China, the world’s biggest buyer of minerals,
acquisitions slowed to $2.2 billion in the first quarter, the
lowest since the third quarter of 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “China is not as active as they were,” said Campbell Stewart, head of natural resources at UBS in Melbourne. “Some
companies are struggling with profitability or have made
acquisitions that have not worked out, which reduces their
ability to do further M&A.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  