-- Infinia Raises $8.3 Million for Concentrating Solar Systems
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-09T00:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/infinia-raises-8-3-million-for-concentrating-solar-systems.html
Infinia Corp., a producer of systems
that convert concentrated solar heat into electricity, has
raised about $8.3 million since January as part of a private
financing round, according to regulatory filings.  The company received $1.5 million as part of a convertible
note financing with two existing shareholders, Infinia Chief
Financial Officer Jeffrey Williams said today by telephone and
declined to name the investors. The amount adds to $3.8 million
received in April and $3 million in January as part of the same
funding round, and Infinia will seek an additional $30 million
within nine months, he said.  Closely held Infinia, based in Ogden,  Utah , makes mirrored
dishes that focus sunlight on Stirling engines to produce
electricity. Its investors have included  Paul Allen ’s Vulcan
Capital, billionaire venture capitalist Vinod Khosla and Apple’s
biggest supplier, Foxconn Technology Group.  “It’s been a little bit of a long road for some of them,
but we’re making some nice progress,” Williams said. “It’s
exciting times for us as we’ve started the installation of our
1.5-megawatt field at the Toole Army Depot.” That project will
be Infinia’s largest and the biggest in the world to use
Stirling systems, he said.  The funding will support additional orders for the
company’s currently available 3.5-kilowatt PowerDish 4 systems
and its 7.5-kilowatt to 9-kilowatt PowerDish 5 systems that will
be introduced in the fourth quarter, Williams said.  Infinia in September  said  it won orders to supply 75
megawatts and 55 megawatts of its systems for projects in Greece
and Cyprus, respectively.  The Toole Army Depot project “is the first real large-scale deployment of our technology,” Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  