-- ING Will Accelerate Sale of European Insurer as Profit Rises
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-05-08T16:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ing-will-accelerate-european-insurance-ipo-as-profit-climbs.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, will accelerate the sale of a stake
in its European insurer after first-quarter profit more than
doubled. The shares surged.  The company plans to hold an initial public offering next
year, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in a statement
from Amsterdam today. Net income in the three months to March
rose to 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) from 728 million euros
a year earlier. That beat the 1.48 billion-euro median  estimate 
of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ING is seeking buyers for insurance assets from  Asia  to the
U.S., cutting 7,500 jobs and making savings of 1 billion euros a
year by 2015 after receiving a 10 billion-euro government
bailout in 2008. The bank has completed about 70 percent of a
restructuring plan imposed by European Union regulators.  “We are now accelerating preparations for the base case of
an IPO of our European insurance company,” Hommen, 70, said.
“We believe that this is possible, simply because of all the
things we have done.”  ING will also look at other possibilities for selling a
stake in the unit, including a spin off or a sale to an
investor, he said. The goal is to be ready for the IPO by the
middle of next year, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Flynn said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Shares Surge  The company’s shares jumped 3.1 percent to 6.79 euros at
the close of trading in Amsterdam, climbing for the fifth day
and paring losses this year to 3.8 percent. That compared with a
9.3 percent gain for the 46-member Stoxx 600 Banks Index this
year and an 11 percent increase for  Europe ’s benchmark gauge for
 insurance companies .  Maintaining momentum in restructuring is “the key
trigger” for ING’s share performance, said Lemer Salah, an
analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam who recommends clients
buy the shares. “The company showed strong performance across
its banking activities and in particular commercial banking.”  The European insurance unit, consisting mainly of
operations in the Benelux region and eastern Europe, could be
worth 4.8 billion euros, Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank
International in the Dutch city of Utrecht, said by phone.  First-quarter profit was boosted by a 950 million-euro gain
on the sale of units in  Hong Kong ,  Thailand  and Macau. Profit
excluding divestments and one-time items rose to 800 million
euros in the first quarter from 579 million euros a year
earlier, helped by improved interest margins in the bank and
cost savings, ING said.  Asset Sales  Last week, Hommen raised $1.27 billion by selling 25
percent of the  ING’s U.S. insurance unit  in an IPO. It expects
proceeds of 500 million euros from the transaction, he said.  ING has repaid the Dutch government 7.8 billion euros from
the 2008 bailout, with 2.4 billion euros in interest and
premiums. The EU agreement requires it to return the remainder
by 2015, according to a statement on the company’s website.  Hommen, who is stepping down in October, has overseen more
than  25 asset disposals  with proceeds of at least 20 billion
euros from  Latin America  to Asia. He’s also renegotiated terms
of restructuring imposed by the European Commission. Under the
new timeline, ING has to dispose of more than 50 percent of its
European insurance arm by the end of 2015 while it got until the
end of 2018 to complete the divestment.  ING’s insurance business in Europe and Asia reported first-quarter operating income of 79 million euros, down from 129
million euros a year earlier. Underlying pretax profit was 85
million euros, compared to a loss of 43 million euros a year
earlier on lower market-related items.  Asian Units  The company must also sell more than 50 percent of its
Asian insurance and investment-management operations by the end
of next year, and dispose of the rest by the end of 2016. It
should also divest at least 25 percent of its U.S. arm by the
end of 2013, more than half by the end of 2014 and the rest by
2016, according to the conditions of its bailout.  Underlying pretax profit for banking operations in the
first quarter rose 1.6 percent from a year earlier to 1.17
billion euros, the company said. Interest earnings increased 1.7
percent from the fourth quarter, helped by repricing of loans
and moderate volume growth, ING said.  ING’s banking unit set aside 561 million euros for doubtful
loans, compared with 439 million euros a year earlier and 589
million euros in the fourth quarter. Costs associated with risks
for Dutch mortgages rose to 82 million euros from 33 million
euros in the fourth quarter and will probably stay at that level
in the coming quarters, ING said.  The bank’s core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio under Basel
III accounting rules, a benchmark measure of financial strength,
was 10.4 percent at the end of March, exceeding a target of 10
percent, ING said.  With capital targets met, ING was able to focus on
selective loan book growth, particularly in structured finance
and the retail business in  Belgium , the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  