-- Intuitive Trainer Denies Robot Surgery Training Was Watered Down
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e
-- 2013-05-08T23:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/intuitive-trainer-denies-robot-surgery-training-was-watered-down.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. didn’t cut
corners in a training program for surgeons to use its robots and
met all the objectives submitted to federal regulators, a
witness testified in a wrongful death case against the company.  Kate Lederer, a training specialist with the Sunnyvale,
California-based company, said she continued teaching “in
explicit detail” all the 23 skills listed on a checklist for
surgeons contained in a document submitted to the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  when the company sought clearance in 2000
for its da Vinci robotic surgical system.  Lederer rebuked the accusation by lawyers suing the company
that the program had been “watered down” so that surgeons
could be more quickly certified.  The trial in state court in Port Orchard,  Washington , now
in its fourth week, is the first of at least 26 lawsuits against
Intuitive alleging injuries tied to the da Vinci system. The
robots were used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last year.  The case on trial was brought by the widow of Fred Taylor,
who claims the training Intuitive provided for the robotic
surgery was compromised by aggressive marketing, leading to
errors in the removal of Taylor’s prostate gland in 2008 that
eventually caused his death four years later.  First Patient  The urologist who operated on Taylor, Scott Bildsten, had
performed 100 successful prostatectomies using traditional
methods; Taylor was Bildsten’s first patient using the da Vinci
unassisted.  During her testimony, Lederer explained why a three-day
learning session at Intuitive, which was part of the FDA
clearance, was reduced to one day, or two days, depending on
what participants wanted. She said that when the program was
designed in 1999, hospitals and staff didn’t have access to da
Vinci machines.  By 2008, the robots had become prevalent in large urban
medical centers, making it possible for the company to use these
machines for introductory instruction for surgeons, Lederer
said. These sessions replaced one day of training previously
held at Intuitive labs, she said.  Lederer said the training had actually improved by the time
Bildsten took a one-day instructional course at company
headquarters.  Cross-Examination  During cross-examination, plaintiff’s attorney Richard
Friedman pressed Lederer on whether the company went beyond
teaching equipment skills into clinical training.  She said she only taught doctors how to use the robots, not
how to operate on patients.  “It’s expected surgeons understand surgical techniques,”
she said, “regardless of da Vinci or non da Vinci.”  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v.  Intuitive Surgical
Inc. (ISRG) , 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Guthrie in state court in Port Orchard, Washington,
at  freepsg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  