-- Iron Ore Seen Dropping by BHP as Supply Growth Tops Demand
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-05-08T08:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/iron-ore-seen-dropping-by-bhp-as-growth-in-supply-exceeds-demand.html
Global  iron ore  supplies will expand
faster than demand over the long term, lowering prices and
reducing volatility of the raw material used to make steel,
according to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining company.  New seaborne cargoes will replace more expensive output,
mainly in China, Alan Chirgwin, general manager of iron ore
marketing, told a conference in  Singapore  today. He didn’t give
price forecasts or define long term. China is the world’s
largest buyer of the biggest seaborne cargo after crude oil.  Iron ore  has lost 10 percent this year, nearing bear-market
territory, amid forecasts for an increase in global supplies
just as demand growth in China drops. As producers boost
output, higher-cost Chinese supply will drop and the price
will extend declines, Deutsche Bank AG said in report last month.
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  is pressing ahead with its expansion, Alan Smith,
president of iron ore  Asia , said at the conference today.  “As the new supply gradually displaces high-cost
production, it will therefore translate into lower prices,”
BHP’s Chirgwin said. “Significant low-cost supply, mainly from
 Australia  and  Brazil , will eventually meet and exceed
incremental Chinese demand.”  Imported ore with 62 percent content at the Chinese port of
Tianjin was at $130 a dry metric ton yesterday, from $144.90 at
the end of last year, according to data from The Steel Index Ltd.
Prices have lost 18 percent since peaking at $158.90 on Feb. 20,
nearing the 20 percent decline that some investors use to define
a  bear market . Brazil and Australia are the top ore suppliers.  Global Surplus  Global seaborne supply will climb 5.8 percent to 1.13
billion tons this year, followed by 16 percent growth in 2014
and 10 percent in 2015, according to Morgan Stanley. Total
demand growth may drop from 6.7 percent in 2013 to 6.3 percent
next year and 5.1 percent in 2015, the bank said in an April 23
report. The market will shift into surplus from 2015 after a run
of deficits stretching back to at least 2005, it said.  “There’s no scarcity of high-quality resources: the issue
that remains is the development,” said Chirgwin. “We start to
see new, large seaborne supply coming to market mostly coming
from large companies which have access to the resources and
established infrastructure. Supply growth is, and will continue,
accelerating.”  Undeveloped Projects  The 50 largest undeveloped projects could more than double
global seaborne supply by adding 1.4 billion tons of production
at a cost of $246 billion, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
March 19 report. The list of projects is primarily comprised of
those planned though not yet funded.  Rio Tinto , the second-biggest miner, will probably pursue a
$5 billion expansion of its iron ore output in Australia, Chief
Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  said this week, according to two
people present at a meeting.  David Luff , a spokesman for Rio,
declined to comment on the expansion.  Rio Tinto is pressing ahead with its development in the
Pilbara, said Smith, president of iron ore Asia, referring to
Australia’s top producing region. The London-based company
expects  record sales  of ore to China this year, he said.  “The past few days have been awash with news flow on major
iron ore projects, with Rio Tinto reaffirming their preference
to reach 360 million tons per annum in the Pilbara,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. said in a report today that also listed planned
expansions by  Fortescue Metals Group (FMG)  and Brazil’s Vale SA.
“However, there are always potential spanners in the works,
whether that is future approvals for permits, balance-sheet
concerns or another dramatic iron ore price cycle.”  Big Four  Vale, Rio, BHP and Fortescue are the four biggest suppliers,
projected to account for 807 million tons of seaborne shipments
this year, according to Morgan Stanley. That’s 72 percent of the
forecast global total.  Iron ore imports  by  China  climbed to 67.2 million tons in
April, the highest level in four months, according to data from
the General Administration of Customs today. Shipments were 64.6
million tons in March and 57.7 million tons in April last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s  steel output 
climbed 7.7 percent to a record 66.3 million tons in March,
according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics.  China’s so-called resource intensity will drop as economic
growth slows, BHP’s Chirgwin said. In future, China’s gross
domestic product may expand at 7 percent to 8 percent a year,
with steel demand growth at half that pace, compared with GDP
growth of about 10 percent over the past decade, and steel
demand growth of 1.5 times that figure, he said.  China’s days of double-digit economic growth are over,
Zheng Yongnian, director of the East Asian Institute at the
 National University  of Singapore, said at the conference. This
is normal as no developing economy can sustain an extended high
growth rate, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  