-- Mirvac to Focus on Prime Offices, Partnerships for Returns
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-09T06:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mirvac-to-focus-on-prime-offices-partnerships-to-boost-returns.html
Mirvac Group (MGR) ,  Australia ’s third-biggest diversified property trust by assets, will focus on
high-quality offices and housing in inner suburbs of major
cities, and new investment partnerships to increase returns.  Mirvac said it will seek partners for each unit of its
business and plans to sell as much as half of its Westpac Place
building in Sydney, and 699 Bourke Street and 664 Collins Street
premises in  Melbourne .  The company, which reported a 69 percent slump in first-half  profit  after writing down residential development projects,
joins other real estate trusts, including  Westfield Group (WDC)  and
 Goodman Group (GMG) , in funding higher-return activities by selling
stakes to investors. Chief Executive Officer Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz
plans to create an office investment “club” with as many as
five investors by June 30.  “It is clear that to deliver returns to security holders,
we needed greater focus across the group in certain areas,”
Lloyd-Hurwitz said in a regulatory statement today following a
review of the business. “Stable income will be derived from our
high-quality portfolio of passive assets, whilst growth will be
achieved via a range of opportunities including repositioning of
existing assets.”  ‘Guidance Confirmed’  Mirvac, based in Sydney, will move away from lower-quality
offices without redevelopment potential, shopping malls in
“suboptimal” markets and residential developments in outer
suburbs, the company said.  The company reaffirmed operating earnings per share will be
between 10.7 Australian cents and 10.8 Australian cents in the
year to June 30. It exchanged almost A$972 million ($990 million)
of pre-sales contracts in its residential business.  “Mirvac provided a comprehensive strategic review, but
with no significant changes,” John Kim, Sydney-based head of
real estate research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an e-mail. “The only minor surprise is little new information on
capital partnerships.”  Mirvac shares rose 1.5 percent to A$1.745 at the close of
trading in Sydney, extending gains this year to 18 percent,
compared with a 12 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index for 2013 and a 7.4 percent increase in  Stockland (SGP) ,
Australia’s biggest diversified property trust by assets. Mirvac
closing price today was a 6.4 percent premium to the value of
its assets as of Dec. 31.  The company in September agreed to sell half of its Old
Treasury Building in Perth to Singapore-based  Keppel REIT. (KREIT)  That
followed the sale of half of its 8 Chifley Square building in
Sydney to the same company in July 2011.  Stockland reports the results of its strategic review on
May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  