-- Islanders Defeat Penguins as Sharks Sweep NHL Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-08T13:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/islanders-top-penguins-as-sharks-sweep-nhl-series-over-canucks.html
(Corrects goal-scorer in third paragraph.  John Tavares broke a third-period tie
as the  New York Islanders  defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 6-4
to even their National Hockey League series at two games apiece,
while the  San Jose  Sharks completed a four-game sweep of the
Vancouver Canucks.  The Islanders won their first playoff game on home ice
since 2002, having tied an NHL record by losing seven straight
postseason games at Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, New York.  Patrick Marleau  scored 13 minutes, 18 seconds into overtime
as the Sharks wrapped up their best-of-seven first-round series
with a 4-3 overtime victory at home.  In other games last night, the Ottawa Senators took a 3-1
series lead with a 3-2 overtime win at home against the  Montreal
Canadiens  and the Chicago Blackhawks have a 3-1 advantage after
their 3-0 victory at the Minnesota Wild.  Tonight, the  New York Rangers  try to even their series
against the visiting  Washington Capitals  at two games each; the
 Toronto Maple Leafs  are home against the Boston Bruins, who have
a 2-1 series lead; the Los Angeles Kings travel to the St. Louis
Blues with that series tied at 2-2, and the  Detroit Red Wings 
visit the Anaheim Ducks in a series also tied 2-2.  Brian Strait gave the Islanders a 1-0 lead at 14 minutes,
five seconds of the first period, which James Neal tied at 1-1
45 seconds later.  Overtime Win  New York’s Mark Streit added a second-period power-play
goal, which was countered 58 seconds later by Pittsburgh’s
Evgeni Malkin. Brandon Sutter put the Penguins up by one before
Kyle Okposo again tied the game at 3-3.  After Pascal Dupuis gave the Penguins a 4-3 lead in the
opening minute of the third period, Mark Streit, Tavares and
Casey Cizikas had goals for the Islanders.  Game 5 in the series is set for tomorrow in Pittsburgh.  The Sharks took a 2-1 first period lead on goals by Brent Burns and Joe Pavelski. Mason Raymond scored for the Canucks,
who claimed the lead in the final period on goals by Alex Burrows and Alexander Edler before Pavelski scored his second
goal to throw the game into overtime at HP Pavilion in San Jose,
California.  At Scotiabank Place in Ottawa, Kyle Turris scored a goal
two minutes, 32 seconds into overtime to earn a win for the
Senators. P.K. Subban and Alex Galchenyuk scored within 62
seconds of each other to give the Canadiens a 2-0 lead in the
second period, while Mika Zibanejad and Cory Conacher tied the
game in the final period for Ottawa, who travel to the Canadiens
tomorrow for Game 5.  At Xcel Energy Center in  St. Paul ,  Patrick Sharp  scored two
goals and Bryan Bickell added a third for the Blackhawks, who
can eliminate the Wild in Game 5 tomorrow on their home ice at
United Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  