-- Issa Says Heads of Benghazi Panel Refused to Testify
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-08T16:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/issa-says-heads-of-benghazi-panel-refused-to-testify.html
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa 
said the Obama administration has failed to cooperate with his
probe of the attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  Issa of  California , chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, also said today at a hearing of the
panel that leaders of the State Department’s review board
refused to testify before the panel.  Today’s hearing revives efforts by Republicans to show the
Obama administration didn’t provide enough security to U.S.
diplomats in Libya before the attack last Sept. 11 that killed
U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans,
failed to respond militarily during it and engaged in what Issa
has called a “cover-up” afterward to hide the role of
terrorists linked to al-Qaeda.  Obama administration officials have rejected all of those
characterizations, and Democrats have said Republicans are
trying to exploit a tragedy for political gain.  The oversight committee’s top Democrat, Representative
 Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , said today that the Republicans are
trying to “smear” officials in a “full-scale media
campaign,” including with false statements that the military
was told to stand down rather than sending aid during the
attacks.  Cummings said the leaders of the Accountability Review
Board named by former Secretary  Hillary Clinton  to investigate
the attacks and the department’s role -- Thomas Pickering, a
former undersecretary of state, and retired Admiral  Michael Mullen , former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- should
be asked to appear in the future.  Witnesses testifying today will include Gregory Hicks, the
second-ranking U.S. diplomat in Libya at the time of the attack.  Scaring Attackers  In an excerpt released by the committee this week, he told
House investigators he tried in vain to get fighter jets to fly
over Benghazi to scare off the attackers. He also said four U.S.
special forces troops were ordered not to board a Libyan
military transport plane that flew to Benghazi from Tripoli in
the hours after the attack.  “A fast-mover flying over Benghazi at some point, you
know, as soon as possible might very well have prevented some of
the bad things that happened that night,” Hicks said.  Former Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  testified last year
troops were mobilized to prepare a response, though the military
assets weren’t close enough to reach Benghazi in time. He said
the Pentagon “spared no expense to save American lives.”  Hicks also said he knew from the outset there was no
protest at the Benghazi mission that night, as the
administration initially said. Republicans have questioned
“talking points,” later corrected by the administration, that
said the embassy attack grew out of a spontaneous demonstration
against an anti-Islamic video.  “I never reported a demonstration,” Hicks said. “I
reported an attack on the consulate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  