-- Mitsui, Mitsubishi See $1 Billion Profit Boost This Year on Yen
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-05-08T10:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mitsui-mitsubishi-see-1-billion-profit-boost-this-year-on-yen.html
Mitsui & Co. (8031)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,
 Japan ’s biggest trading companies, expect a weaker yen to add
almost $1 billion to profit this year, putting them on track to
outpace their domestic peers in net income growth.  With both companies forecasting the yen to average 95 to
the dollar in the year to March 31, Mitsui expects net income to
grow 20 percent to 370 billion yen ($3.74 billion). Mitsubishi
sees an 11 percent increase to 400 billion yen.  Mitsui, the most reliant of Japan’s traders on resources
for profit, may book a 65 billion yen foreign exchange gain this
year, it said yesterday when reporting earnings. Mitsubishi sees
a 30 billion yen addition from foreign exchange, the trader said
today.  “Yen depreciation is providing a strong lift to Mitsui’s
shareholder equity because of extensive foreign currency
investments,” Barclays Plc said in a note to investors today,
forecasting Mitsui to beat its peers in profit growth.  Japan’s top trading houses, which include  Itochu Corp. (8001) ,
 Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and  Marubeni Corp. (8002) , earn about half their profit
from producing and selling oil, gas, coal, iron ore, copper and
grains, which are all priced in the dollar.  Monetary easing under the administration of Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe since December has caused the currency to fall more
than 20 percent in the past six months, the most among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes.  Profit Forecasts  Marubeni, Japan’s top trader of agricultural commodities,
was the only one of the top five to report profit growth for the
year ended March 31. The company, based in  Tokyo  as are all the
traders, said today net income growth may slow to 2.1 percent
this year to 210 billion yen. Marubeni also expects the yen to
average 95 to the dollar, the company said.  Itochu, which expects the yen to strengthen to 90 to the
dollar in the 12 months to April, forecast net income to gain
3.5 percent to 290 billion yen this year led by quadrupling of
profit from oil and gas sales, the company said in a statement
today.  The company expects its energy unit to report 24 billion
yen in net income this year from 5.8 billion yen a year earlier,
with most of that coming from liquefied natural gas, for which
Japan is the world’s top importer.  Itochu, which overtook Sumitomo last year as Japan’s third-
largest trader by profit and market value, will also ramp up its
investments in commodities to two-thirds of total in the next
two years, from about 50 percent in the prior two years, the
company said. Itochu plans 1 trillion yen in investments in the
next two years.  Sumitomo, which also sees the yen at 90 this year, forecast
profit to rise 3.2 percent to 240 billion yen this year from a
recovery in non-resource businesses and one-off gains from
“business reorganization,” the company said May 2.  Sojitz Corp. (2768) , one of Japan’s two largest sellers of rare
earth metals, said today that it returned to profit last year
with 14.3 billion yen in net income. The trader forecast net
income to jump to 25 billion yen this year on expectations of
increased sales of automobiles and fertilizers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  