-- IVG Immobilien Declines After First Quarter Loss Widens
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-08T15:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ivg-immobilien-declines-after-first-quarter-loss-widens.html
IVG Immobilien AG (IVG) , the German real
estate investment company that plans to restructure 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) of debt,  lost more than a quarter of its
market value  after reporting that earnings worsened.  IVG closed down 27 percent to 41 cents a share, cutting its
 market value  to about 85 million euros. The first-quarter net
loss swelled to 45.1 million euros from 4.6 million euros a year
earlier, the Bonn-based company said today in a statement.  IVG, once  Germany ’s largest commercial property company,
has lost about 98 percent of its  market  value since 2008
following property writedowns and difficulties paying debt. The
company and its funds own buildings valued at 21 billion euros,
including a stake in  London ’s Gherkin tower, according to its
2012 annual report.  A debt-restructuring proposal will be presented at IVG’s
annual shareholders meeting on Aug. 14, according to today’s
statement. The company has 3.2 billion euros of debt due by the
end of 2014, most of it borrowed to fund operations and acquire
property, according to its  annual report .  “Even if liabilities are restructured, group cash flow
appears insufficient,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in a
research note today. “We see zero value for ordinary equity.”  IVG declined the most ever in Frankfurt trading March 27
after the company said its finances needed restructuring. At the
same time it reported a 2012 net loss of 98.7 million euros and
said its loan-to-value ratio, a measure of indebtedness, was
higher than planned at 70.6 percent.  The company is seeking additional investors in the fund
that owns half of the Gherkin after lenders demanded that IVG
reduce the debt it used to buy the building.  IVG may offer shares to creditors to cut at least 1 billion
euros from its financial commitments, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing four unidentified people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  