-- JPMorgan Says Energy Watchdog May Seek to Punish Units, Workers
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-08T23:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/jpmorgan-received-wells-type-notice-from-ferc-in-energy-probe.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S.
bank , was warned by federal energy-market regulators that its
personnel and two subsidiaries may face claims stemming from a
probe into bidding practices.  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission staff told JPMorgan in
March they may recommend the agency bring an enforcement case,
the New York-based company said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. Claims may include “alleged violations of FERC rules
and the rules of certain independent system operators,” the
lender said, without elaborating on the allegations.  The FERC has stepped up scrutiny of corporations as it
wields policing powers that were expanded in the wake of Enron
Corp.’s 2001 collapse. Agency investigators may seek to hold
JPMorgan traders and commodities-unit chief Blythe Masters
“individually liable,” the New York Times reported last week,
citing a 70-page document the watchdog sent the bank in March.  The case focuses on eight “schemes” adopted by traders in
Houston between September 2010 and June 2011, according to the
newspaper. Traders offered energy at prices “calculated to
falsely appear attractive,” prompting state authorities in
 California  and  Michigan  to make about $83 million in
“excessive” payments to JPMorgan, the Times cited
investigators as saying.  While Masters, 44, was less involved with daily decisions,
investigators said she got e-mails and presentations outlining
the strategies, the publication reported, citing the document.
JPMorgan has said it intends to defend itself and the employees,
and that it disputes that people including Masters acted
inappropriately.  Rights Revoked  The FERC revoked a JPMorgan unit’s right to trade power for
six months in November after accusing the firm of providing
misleading information to a California energy authority. The
suspension, which took effect in April, marked the first such
sanction for an active market participant.  The bank reduced its estimate of “reasonably possible”
legal costs beyond reserves yesterday. The additional costs
could amount to as much $6 billion as of the end of March,
compared with $6.1 billion at the end of 2012, it said.  The bank has been fighting claims it abetted Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, including a 2010 lawsuit filed by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm. Picard is
currently appealing a dismissal of that case.  JPMorgan yesterday broadened its description of related
probes to say it’s responding to investigations conducted by the
 Justice Department  and other regulators. An annual filing in
February referred to “various governmental inquiries.”  Alleged Manipulation  Since the start of 2011, the FERC has disclosed 13 probes
of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural gas markets.  The agency is seeking a record $488 million in penalties
from Barclays Plc and four former traders for allegedly gaming
energy markets in the Western U.S. from late 2006 to 2008. The
London-based bank has maintained that the traders did nothing
wrong and has vowed to fight penalties in court if necessary.  Deutsche Bank AG is among companies that have chosen to
settle. The Frankfurt-based lender agreed on Jan. 22 to pay $1.6
million to resolve FERC claims that an energy-trading unit
manipulated markets in 2010. The bank didn’t admit nor deny
wrongdoing.  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has said the agency isn’t
taking aim at Wall Street banks and instead is trying to ensure
the markets operate fairly. It has an enforcement staff of about
200 employees devoted to policing the markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  