-- JPMorgan Joins BofA With Perfect Trading Record in Quarter
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-09T10:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/jpmorgan-returns-to-perfect-trading-record-following-whale-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  had perfect trading records in the first quarter,
making money every day of the period as Morgan Stanley posted
losses in eight sessions and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in two.  One daily gain at JPMorgan exceeded $200 million as the
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets recovered from last year’s London
Whale derivatives loss, the New York-based company said
yesterday in a regulatory  filing . Bank of America, the second-largest lender, generated more than $25 million of revenue on 97
percent of trading days, compared with 76 percent at Morgan
Stanley, the firms said in separate filings. Goldman Sachs,
which generated about half its revenue from trading last
quarter, said its team made more than $100 million on 17 days.  JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
57, has overhauled risk controls and shuffled top managers ahead
of the bank’s annual meeting on May 21, when shareholders 
decide whether to split his two jobs. The firm hadn’t posted
perfect results since the first quarter of 2011, before trader
Bruno Iksil built an unmanageable position of  credit derivatives 
that led to more than $6.2 billion in losses last year. He was
dubbed the London Whale because his bets were so large.  Bank of America posted the unblemished quarter after
reining in value-at-risk, or VaR, an estimate of potential
trading losses, according to the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company’s quarterly filing.  “If you look at our VaR, and our risk-taking, we’re
keeping it balanced relative to the rest of the company,” CEO
 Brian T. Moynihan , 53, said in an April 17 conference call.  Revenue Slump  While Bank of America avoided losses, its trading revenue
slumped 20 percent, a drop surpassed only by Morgan Stanley
among the five largest Wall Street banks. The decline at New
York-based Morgan Stanley was driven by a 42 percent slide in
fixed-income and commodities trading, excluding accounting
charges tied to the firm’s own debt.  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman , 54, announced plans in
January to cut the amount of capital used by the fixed-income
trading business as he seeks to double  return on equity  even
without improvement in markets. The bank said last month it
already reached its asset-reduction target for the end of 2013.  The fixed-income business suffered amid lower commodities
revenue in the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat
said last month. Revenue also fell in  interest rates , while
credit and foreign-exchange trading were strong, she said.  Goldman Sachs  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s trading revenue declined 32 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. None of its daily losses
exceeded the firm’s value-at-risk.  Goldman Sachs generated $5.22 billion from its trading
division in the first quarter of 2013, excluding accounting
charges, a 12 percent decline from the year-earlier period.
About $230 million of that revenue came from a reinsurance
business the firm sold a majority stake in this month.  Clients were “more active really in the first month of the
quarter and then it slowed down a bit in March,” Chief
Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said last month. “As issues
started to come back more on to front screens as it relates to
issues in  Europe , clients obviously pulled back toward the end
of the quarter.”  Trading revenue fell 5.4 percent at JPMorgan and 12 percent
at Goldman Sachs.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which had a 4.4 percent
decrease in trading revenue, doesn’t disclose money-losing days.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which relies least on trading among the
largest U.S. banks, had at least four days of negative revenue
from those operations during the first quarter, the San
Francisco-based company said yesterday in a filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  