-- Juhayna Jumps as Packaged Milk Demand Boosts Profit: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-08T12:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/juhayna-jumps-as-packaged-milk-demand-boosts-profit-cairo-mover.html
Juhanya Food Industries climbed to a
record after demand for packaged milk helped the Egypt’s biggest
dairy producer more than double first-quarter profit.  The company’s  stock  increased 2 percent to 9.15 Egyptian
pounds, the highest since Juhayna sold shares to the public in
June 2010, as of 1:32 p.m. in Cairo. Volume increased to 2.1
times the three-month daily average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Juhayna was the second-biggest advancer on the
benchmark EGX 30 Index, which gained 0.6 percent.  The foodmaker’s shares have surged 19 percent this year,
outperforming the benchmark gauge, which declined 1.1 percent
amid escalating political instability. Juhanya’s first-quarter
sales increased 28 percent, helping boost profit to 96 million
pounds from 43 million pounds a year earlier, according to a
filing to the bourse today.  “The underlying demand fundamentals are still very strong
as consumption for their core products grows, mostly driven by
the shift from loose to packaged milk,” Hatem Alaa, an equity
analyst at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by phone.
The stock is “one of the safer investments in  Egypt  at the
moment.”  The stock’s relative strength index rose to 87 today after
crossing 70 on April 30. A reading of above 70 signals to some
traders that the stock is poised to decline.  Juhayna’s investment to start its dairy farm may reach 725
million pounds, 2.4 times the initial projection, Cairo-based CI
Capital Holding said in March. CI Capital set the stock’s 12-
month price estimate at 8.6 pounds with a neutral rating.
Another  five analysts  have a hold rating on the stock, while two
recommend buying and two selling, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  