-- Kerry to Return to Israel Calling Mideast Peace Bid More Serious
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-05-08T15:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/kerry-to-return-to-israel-calling-mideast-peace-bid-more-serious.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said he will return to the Middle East in two weeks as the Obama
administration intensifies efforts to renew Israeli-Palestinian
peace talks.  Kerry met with Israeli Justice Minister Tzipi Livni today
in Rome and told reporters he plans to return to the region May
21 or 22 to discuss resurrecting the peace process with Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas .  “We are working through threshold issues,” Kerry said,
describing preparatory talks as increasingly serious. The trip
will be his fourth to the Middle East since succeeding  Hillary Clinton  as the top U.S. diplomat in February.  Kerry has said he is pursuing a “quiet strategy” to ease
the distrust between Israelis and Palestinians that has
prevented Netanyahu and Abbas from meeting in more than two
years. Livni, a former foreign minister, joined Netanyahu’s new
government in March after being given the formal role of leading
peace negotiations with the Palestinians.  The U.S. and other mediators have been unable to get peace
talks restarted since Netanyahu declined to extend a 10-month
partial settlement freeze in September 2010 and Abbas said he
would negotiate only if all building stopped.  Before arriving in Rome, Kerry met yesterday in Moscow with
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  and said the two
governments would push for talks between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and opposition leaders to curtail fighting and
establish a transitional government. More than 70,000 people
have been killed since the insurgency against Assad erupted more
than two years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Rome at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  