-- Keystone Pipeline Nemesis Leads Charge From Family Van
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/keystone-pipeline-nemesis-leads-charge-from-her-family-minivan.html
Jane Kleeb takes her Honda Odyssey
across the highways and back roads of Nebraska to deliver a
simple message: the oil pipeline can be stopped.  On one recent trip, she steered around puddles left by a
spring thaw on a stretch of unpaved road. She was headed for a
ranch  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP)  proposed Keystone XL pipeline would
cross, to visit a couple that is fighting the project.  Kleeb , 40, the executive director of  Bold Nebraska , figures
she travels the state at least twice a week to tell residents
that if they stick together, they can block the pipeline. She
has put 60,000 miles on the Odyssey since buying it 1 1/2 years
ago.  “I thought citizens on their own had pushed back, but the
government wasn’t representing them,” Kleeb, organizer and
political activist, said in an interview. “Now we have more of
a unified voice.”  Much of the opposition to the $5.3 billion Keystone project
has centered in Nebraska, where Kleeb is working to organize
families along the 274-mile (441-kilometer) route through the
state. The pipeline would be able to carry about 830,000 barrels
of diluted bitumen, a type of heavy crude, from  Alberta ’s oil
sands to refineries in the U.S. Gulf Coast.  The mother of three young girls, Kleeb stands about 5 feet,
6 inches in cowboy boots and has been a formidable force against
the pipeline, squaring off against  oil companies  and labor
groups that have spent millions of dollars pushing the project
in  Washington .  Sand Hills  President  Barack Obama  cited concerns raised by Kleeb and
others in the state over the threat to the Sand Hills region, a
giant wetland that sits above the Ogallala aquifer, when he
blocked an original pipeline path last year.  TransCanada has since pushed its pipeline proposal further
east on a path that the  Nebraska  Department of Environmental
Quality says avoids the area.  Supporters say the project will increase U.S. energy
security and create thousands of construction jobs.  Barry Rubin, a spokesman for Nebraskans for Jobs and Energy
Independence, which receives money from the oil industry and
labor groups supportive of the project, said most residents in
the state want Keystone to be built. Nebraskans favor building
the pipeline by a 2-to-1 margin, according to an Omaha World-Herald poll conducted in September.  Kleeb has exaggerated the risks of the pipeline, stoking
fears among Nebraskans whose property the line would cross, he
said.  ‘Loud Voice’  “Jane has provided a very loud voice to a very vocal
minority,” Rubin, a former director of the Nebraska Democratic
Party, said in an interview. “She’s a good political organizer.
She’s a fantastic paid activist.”  Shawn Howard, a spokesman for the Calgary-based
TransCanada, said Kleeb was part of the “big green machine”
that includes environmental groups like the  Sierra Club  that
want to stop the pipeline because they oppose the production of
fossil fuels.  Kleeb says she’s fighting for Nebraska landowners who are
bearing all the risks of the spill and won’t realize many of the
economic benefits.  “What TransCanada puts through that pipeline is not good
for our families, and that is not fair,” Kleeb told U.S. State
Department officials at a public hearing on the revised project
last month in Grand Island, Nebraska.  Kleeb’s path to the leader of the anti-Keystone movement
has not been without its own bumps. Teased about her weight, she
said she began to develop anorexia in the 5th grade.  “I started to diet, and it consumed every ounce of me,”
she said.  Fought Anorexia  Her heart stopped at one point while she was staying at an
in-treatment facility. That scared her, and she began to work
her way back to good health. But it wasn’t until she was 23 that
she was fully recovered, she says.  Kleeb credits her mom, who directed an anti-abortion group,
with instilling in her a sense of activism that she leaned on in
her recovery. While their politics eventually diverged, Kleeb
says her community involvement helped her overcome anorexia. It
helps to get your mind off the “nuts and bolts” of recovery,
she said.  “If I can beat anorexia, then bring it on TransCanada,”
she said.  After directing an AmeriCorps program in Philadelphia,
Kleeb moved Washington to run the Young Democrats for America.
That was the role would eventually lead her to Nebraska.  Nebraska Rancher  In 2006, a colleague sent her a picture of Scott Kleeb, a
politically active Nebraska rancher, and suggested Jane ask him
to speak at the Young Democrat’s convention in  Arizona . He
agreed.  After a short courtship that included a stay at his
family’s ranch in the Nebraska’s Sand Hills, they married and
moved to Hastings, a town in southern Nebraska about a 110 miles
west of Lincoln, the state capital.  In 2006, Scott Kleeb unsuccessfully ran as a Democrat to
represent Nebraska’s 3rd Congressional District, which covers
the western part of the state. Another effort to run for  U.S.
Senate  in 2008 was also unsuccessful. He now runs an energy
efficiency company in Hastings.  Jane Kleeb says one goal of hers is to revive the
progressive political movement in Nebraska, where reforms such
the unicameral legislature and rural electrification programs
took root.  The state is now solidly Republican, as are many people in
the coalition Kleeb helped to build. The state’s governor and
entire Congressional delegation is Republican.  $250,000 Budget  “She’s good at bringing folks together and focusing their
attention on the issues before us,” said John Hansen, president
of the National Farmers Union, which also opposes the pipeline.  Bold Nebraska has a budget of about $250,000 a year. About
85 percent of its donors are from the state, though supporters
as far away as  Vermont  have contributed. Kleeb is the only full-time employee.  Dick Holland, a Nebraska philanthropist who was an early
investor in  Warren Buffett ’s Omaha-based  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , contributes about $50,000 to $75,000 annually, Kleeb said.  At the Grand Island hearing, Kleeb, one of several hundred
people who attended the meeting in a “Pipeline Fighter” t-shirt, used the three minutes allotted time to appeal directly
to Obama.  “We’re telling President Obama, it’s your turn,” she
said. “It’s your turn to be the change you’ve talked about in
your 2008 race. It’s your turn to be the change you talked about
in your inaugural address.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 