-- KKR Emerging as Asia Buyout Winner Beating Carlyle, TPG
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-05-09T14:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/kkr-emerging-as-asia-buyout-winner-beating-carlyle-tpg.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  is emerging as the global
private-equity winner in Asia, beating rivals Carlyle Group LP
and TPG Capital in the performance of funds started since 2006
and their latest money-raising efforts.  KKR’s first Asia fund, a $4 billion pool from 2007, is
producing a 14 percent net internal rate of return, according to
a  regulatory filing . The New York-based firm, run by Henry
Kravis and  George Roberts , plans to hit the $6 billion target
for its second Asia fund by June, after beginning marketing last
year. It’s the fastest finish for a pool its size in Asia, while
Carlyle and TPG have been slower to gather fresh capital.  “The fundraising success shows investors’ endorsement of
KKR’s team, strategy and track record in Asia so far,” said
Alice Chow, a Hong Kong-based senior adviser at FLAG Squadron
Asia Ltd., which invests in funds and makes direct private-equity investments.  Carlyle’s 2006 and 2008 Asia funds returned 8 percent and
negative 2 percent annually as of Dec. 31, according to the
Washington-based firm. TPG’s $3.8 billion fund from 2008, its
fifth in the region, was marked at 1.1 times invested capital at
year-end after falling below cost in the third quarter,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be identified because the firm doesn’t disclose performance.
KKR’s 2007 fund had a 1.8 multiple at Dec. 31.  More Selective  Being seen as a success is critical as global investors
have become more selective about which firms to back at the same
time they’re allocating more money to Asia. The Asia-Pacific
region’s share of global private-equity fundraising almost
doubled to 15 percent last year from a decade ago, totaling
$43.9 billion, according to Zug, Switzerland-based Capital
Dynamics AG.  This shows “a clear trend of rising allocations to the
region,” said Ivan Herger, head of research at the $17 billion
private-equity manager. The number of firms in the region more
than doubled to 3,100 last year from a decade ago, according to
the Asian Venture Capital Journal, which tracks the industry.  “Take a look at where the money is going and which of the
funds raised more money globally,” said Sebastiaan van den Berg, a managing director at HarbourVest Partners (Asia) Ltd. in
Hong Kong, an investor in private-equity funds. “If that’s a
measure of perceived strengths by the global investors, it’s KKR
which is on top.”  Targeted China  KKR has investments in 28 companies around Asia, including
 Japan , India and Australia. About half the deals since 2009,
when asset prices started falling after the global financial
crisis, have targeted  China .  “There’s a tremendous proliferation of different funds,
and there’s a lot more choice that investors can choose,” said
Joseph Bae, a Korean-American whom KKR sent to Hong Kong to
start its Asia business eight years ago when he was just 33.
“With that choice, you’re going to have real winners and losers
within the industry.”  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. will start raising its fourth
fund, with a target of $3 billion, later this year, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Following lackluster performance of its second fund in
2005, London-based CVC had success with its third, raised in
2008: Its recent sale of  Indonesia ’s PT Matahari Department
Store and the exit of Infastech last year allowed the fund to
return a net 22 percent, the person said, adding that its first
fund in 2000 returned a net 31 percent.  Later Entrants  KKR set up shop in Asia in 2005, later than TPG, Carlyle or
CVC. Other later entrants include Boston-based Bain Capital LLC,
which started its first fund in 2007. Blackstone Group LP, which
opened its first office in the region in 2005, has yet to raise
a buyout fund specifically for Asia, though it’s putting
together a $4 billion pool for real estate.  “Comparing the well-established players with new entrants
can be sometimes like a middle-aged man running a marathon with
a youngster,” said Piau-Voon Wang, a Singapore-based partner at
Adams Street Partners LLC, which manages $24 billion in private-equity assets globally. “That KKR has done well fundraising
doesn’t mean that TPG and Carlyle have fallen flat on their
faces.”  Spokesmen in Asia for TPG, Carlyle and CVC declined to
comment on fundraising or investment returns.  New Funds  Global firms are amassing new regional funds as their last
rounds raised between 2005 and 2008 are nearing the end of their
investment cycles. TPG, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , has raised
$1.3 billion for its newest Asia fund since last year and
expects to reach $2 billion -- half of its goal -- by the middle
of this year, and intends to keep the target, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Carlyle has gathered slightly more than $1 billion, just a
third of its target of $3.5 billion, for its fourth fund, the
two people familiar with the fund said.  Carlyle’s first Asia fund, raised in 1998, was its most
successful, returning a net 18 percent, or four times capital,
to investors after it completed its sale of a stake in China
Pacific Insurance Group Co. in January, the firm reported. Its
second fund had a 1.7 multiple at Dec. 31, company filings show.
The firm  said today  its third fund was 1.2 times capital
invested with a net return of 1 percent as of March 31.  Stable Team  On the investment side, fund performance is measured by
criteria including internal rate of return, multiple of invested
capital and cash distributed to investors.  KKR has had a more stable Asia team than its peers since it
came to Asia in 2005, with no departures among its partners, and
has made fewer mistakes in its  investment  decisions, according
to two investors considering participating in the firm’s second
fund who asked not to be identified. KKR is also good at
managing client relationships by keeping investors posted on its
portfolios, they said.  Its first Asia fund has exited two investments, including
Intelligence Holdings Ltd., a Tokyo-based recruitment firm, in
April. That sale returned to investors five times more than
capital invested, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the returns
haven’t been made public.  Investors’ Priorities  “Investors look at exits and cash returns first and
foremost,” said Roy Kuan, a managing partner at CVC, whose
current Asia fund has returned to investors 75 percent of its
$2.9 billion at 3.3 times capital invested. “Many Asian funds
simply haven’t returned very much cash back to investors yet.”  KKR’s sale of computer-parts manufacturer Unisteel
Technology Ltd. in  Singapore  last year also returned about two
times capital invested, the people said.  The firm’s $1.8 billion acquisition of Oriental Brewery Co.
of South Korea in 2009 will probably generate the fund’s highest
return, the two people said. Values of its stakes in  China
Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117)  and Chinese financial-leasing company
Far East Horizon Ltd. are already 2.5 times to three times the
cost, based on recent stock prices, one of the people said.  KKR sold a 20.5 percent stake in China Modern Dairy this
week, representing 2.98 times invested capital, the person said.
The fund retained a 3.5 percent stake.  Not all KKR’s investments are a success. The firm is
expected to mark down the value of its $300 million stake in
 China International Capital Corp.  investment bank, the people
familiar with the fund said. Bond and stock underwriting
revenues for 2011 slumped 62 percent from 2010 when private-equity firms including KKR and TPG bought stakes, according to
the  Securities Association of China,  a self-regulatory body for
the industry.  Taishin Loss  TPG wrote down its 10 percent stake to 60 cents on the
dollar last year, two people familiar with the matter said. The
firm also took a loss for an investment in  Taiwan ’s Taishin
Financial Holdings Co., the people said.  TPG lost four partners at its Asia unit, then called
Newbridge Capital LLC, in 2009 and 2010, including Dan Carroll
and Paul Chen, and raised concerns among investors that the firm
wouldn’t be able to continue its track record. Another partner,
Weijian Shan, departed in 2010 and successfully raised his own
$2.5 billion buyout fund last year, the people said. Mary Ma,
who had joined in 2007, also left in 2011 to start her own fund.  Fourth Fund  Despite the departures, TPG’s fourth fund, raised in 2005,
made at least five profitable investments that boosted its value
to about three times capital invested, the person with knowledge
of the fund’s returns said. Deal makers include Ben Gray, Tim Dattels and Puneet Bhatia, all part of the old Newbridge team
still with TPG.  Among the deals was Australian retailer Myer Holdings Ltd.,
which was sold in 2009 and returned six times capital invested,
or a $1.3 billion profit, to TPG’s Asia and global funds, the
person said. The fourth fund was returning a net 20.7 percent
annually as of Sept. 30, according to a  filing  by the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System, known as Calpers, which is
an investor.  The fund also sold a 10 percent stake in Shriram Transport
Finance Ltd. in February and a 24 percent stake in Singapore’s
Parkway Holdings Ltd. in 2010. The two deals returned 4.6 times
and five times the money invested. TPG’s investment in
Indonesia’s  PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional (BTPN)  is valued around
seven times capital after shares rallied 55 percent in the past
12 months. The fund agreed yesterday to sell a 24.3 percent
stake in the bank to Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. for
9.2 trillion rupiah ($947 million).  Delta Dunia  Still, TPG’s latest fund from 2008 includes Indonesian
coal-mining contractor  PT Delta Dunia Makmur (DOID) , whose shares
dropped 85 percent since TPG’s investment in December 2010. Li
Ning, a Chinese sportswear retailer, posted its first annual
loss of $319 million for 2012, a year after TPG bought its
convertible bonds.  TPG, which came to Asia in 1994 in the Newbridge venture,
made big returns early on. The Newbridge III fund, started in
2000 in an environment of little competition for distressed
assets, returned 30.8 percent annually as of September,
according to Calpers, mainly buoyed by Shenzhen Development Bank
Co., probably its most-profitable investment ever.  Carlyle, which started in Asia in 1998, suffered high
turnaround with its departures in the last two years. Managing
directors including Rajeev Gupta, who ran the  India  business,
and Luo Yi, the firm’s eight-year veteran in China, left in
2011. Anand Balasubrahmanyan, who led the Southeast Asia team,
departed last year.  China Focus  For Carlyle, returns for its second and third Asia funds
have underperformed other global competitors in part because
they’ve concentrated mostly on China and aren’t active in
Southeast Asia, the two investors said. The two funds made 14
out of their 20 investments in China and Taiwan, according to
 Carlyle’s website .  “In private equity investment, it’s natural to see a J-curve showing low returns in early years and growing gains in
the outlying years as it takes time to work with the portfolio
companies to improve management and efficiency and create
value,” said Brian Zhou, a Beijing-based spokesman for Carlyle.  The number of private-equity deals in China fell an
unprecedented 43 percent last year, according to  Asian Venture
Capital Journal . Domestic initial public offerings, which funds
count on to exit investments, tumbled 70 percent.  “It hasn’t been a satisfying experience in China and that
always has an impact overall on Asia because it’s just a big
part,” said Adams Street’s Wang.  Euphoria Waned  Starting in 2006, private-equity firms were betting on the
boom in China, investing in companies readying for initial
public offerings and seeking to profit from the high multiples
in the public market. The euphoria died down since 2011 as
regional IPO markets slowed.  “To be successful in the environment at this stage in the
industry is a lot harder,” KKR’s Bae said. “It’s no longer
based on pre-IPO multiple arbitrage or distressed situations.”  Operational improvements are key, he said. KKR boosted
Intelligence Holdings’ revenue and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization by 45 percent and 170
percent, respectively, in three years before its April sale.  Bae, who joined KKR from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 1996,
came to Hong Kong in 2005 accompanied by Justin Reizes.  “When they first came to Asia with no track record, they
approached the team from Morgan Stanley,” said Vincent Huang, a
partner at London-based private-equity firm Pantheon in Hong
Kong. “They hired the top-quality people in the region, made
very few mistakes, and the team is getting stronger.”  KKR Hires  KKR hired Morgan Stanley veterans David Liu and Julian Wolhardt in 2006 to build its China business. Ming Lu, formerly
with CCMP Capital Advisors LLC, also joined that year and now
heads KKR’s Southeast Asia business. Reizes, who had come from
Morgan Stanley in 1999, was made head of  Australia  in 2007.
Sanjay Nayar, a former Citigroup Inc. banker, joined in 2009 to
run KKR’s India business.  While the current return figures are interim estimates and
may not indicate performance when the funds are fully
liquidated, they generally reflect the financial health of the
 companies  and help investors assess potential performance.  “We’ll have to wait till the end of this cycle to see
who’s the champion at the end,” said Wang of Adams Street.
“It’s too early to declare that KKR is the champion among the
mega buyout funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  