-- Kuroda Stimulus Backfires as Mortgage Costs Rise: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-05-08T06:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/kuroda-stimulus-backfires-as-mortgage-costs-rise-japan-credit.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s stimulus policies are backfiring in the housing market,
where  mortgage rates  are rising even as the central bank floods
the financial system with cash.  While 35-year  home-loan costs  rose one basis point to 1.81
percent this month from an all-time low of 1.8 percent in April,
any increase will be undesirable for the BOJ, according to
Mizuho Securities Co. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
monetary easing almost halved 30-year U.S.  mortgage rates  since
2008 to 3.35 percent on May 2.  The BOJ’s April 4 announcement that it would double bond
buying to generate 2 percent inflation unleashed the highest
government-debt volatility in a decade and pushed 10-year yields
up by 4 1/2 basis points. The benchmark lending rate for large
corporations, known as the  prime rate , increased five basis
points from its record low to 1.2 percent on April 10, despite
the BOJ’s aim of stoking the economy through cheaper funding.  “It makes little economic sense for rates to decline when
the BOJ says it will raise consumer prices,” said Toru Suehiro,
a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho, one of the 24 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt auctions. “Yields are
higher than before the monetary easing to reflect the volatility
risk, and lending rates have risen because they are set based on
bond yields.”  ‘Reducing Liquidity’  Volatility, as measured by the gap between the 10-year
yield’s daily high and low, jumped to 30 1/2 basis points on
April 5, the most since July 2003, after Kuroda unveiled a plan
to buy more than 7 trillion yen ($70.7 billion) of Japanese
 government bonds  a month, accounting for more than half of the
total amount that the government plans to sell in the market
this fiscal year.  “The BOJ’s buying is reducing the liquidity of government
bonds, preventing market participants from finding appropriate
yield levels,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , a senior global-markets
analyst in  Singapore  at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of
 Japan ’s second-largest financial group by market value. “That
situation will make the market dependent on the BOJ’s purchases
just like a morphine addict.”  The 35-year  mortgage rate  in Japan was at 2.92 percent in
August 2008, according to data compiled by the Japan Housing
Finance Agency, the month before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. that froze global credit markets. The prime rate
was at 2.25 percent at that time, figures from Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. show.  Japan’s 10-year  bond yield  was at 0.595 percent today,
compared with 0.55 percent on April 3. The average U.S. 30-year
mortgage rate was at 6.4 percent in August 2008, based on a
Freddie Mac survey of 125 lenders.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Mitsubishi Materials
Corp. and  Asahi Glass  Co. hired banks for bond sales. Mitsubishi
Materials hired Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. for an offering of five-year
notes, while Asahi Glass hired Daiwa, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley and Nomura Holdings Inc., according to separate
statements yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley and
Nomura.  Odakyu Electric Railway Co. registered to sell as much as
120 billion yen of debt, according to a filing with Japan’s
Ministry of Finance. The Tokyo-based passenger rail operator
offered three-year, 0.22 percent notes in January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japanese
corporate bonds rather than sovereign debt was at 37 basis
points yesterday after falling to 36 on May 6, the lowest since
August 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The spread for company notes worldwide was at 136 basis
points, or 1.36 percentage points, the data showed.  Yen Slide  The yen traded at 98.97 per dollar at 3:04 p.m. in Tokyo, 1
percent from the four-year low of 99.95 reached last month in
the wake of the BOJ’s easing. It has weakened more than 11
percent this year, the most among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes.  The BOJ forecast on April 26 that Japan’s gross domestic
product will expand 2.9 percent in the year ending March 31
while consumer prices excluding fresh food will rise 0.7 percent
during the period. The central bank’s asset purchases will raise
expectations for price gains, lowering inflation-adjusted
 interest rates  and providing “ stimulative effects ” on private
demand, the BOJ said in a statement.  Japan’s real GDP stagnated in the October-December period,
and the so-called  core-inflation  rate in Tokyo fell for four
straight years though April, when it slid 0.3 percent from a
year earlier. In contrast,  housing starts  advanced for a seventh
month in March, increasing 7.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to government figures.  Wage Outlook  Further housing demand hinges on the BOJ’s ability to keep
borrowing costs lower and whether household incomes will gain.
Economy Minister Akira Amari said on May 4 that wages need to
rise in Japan to spur inflation, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
has urged companies to consider increasing salaries.  Minutes  of the BOJ’s April 3-4 meeting showed some board
members said a “great opportunity” existed to overcome
deflation. A few members said that while wages of full-time
employees are starting to increase in some big companies, more
time is needed for a broader range of workers to see raises.  An index for Japanese wages rose for a second month in
March after falling in January to the lowest level since 1992,
 figures  from the labor ministry show.  “I expect the BOJ to maintain its stance of supporting the
economy” by keeping a lid on yields, said  Yasuhide Yajima , the
chief economist at NLI Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, an
affiliate of Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s biggest life
insurer. “Yields won’t rise at least until summer because 10-year rates are affected by both inflation expectations and
purchases” by investors driven by the BOJ’s bond buying, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  