-- Natural Gas Becomes Haven in Gold Plunge: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-05-08T17:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/natural-gas-becomes-haven-in-gold-plunge-riskless-return.html
Natural gas, the worst-performing and
most volatile commodity of the past decade amid a glut in
supply, is replacing gold as a haven for commodity investors as
the metal slumps.  The heating and power-plant fuel produced the best risk-
adjusted returns of 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index over the last 12 months, rebounding from the worst ranking
in the prior 10 years, the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING
shows. Gold, the decade’s top performer, and silver tumbled as a
stock market rally and a rising dollar curbed demand for the
metals as a refuge.  Power plants  and factories are stepping up their use of gas
after a surge in  production  of the fuel from shale formations
pushed prices to a 10-year low last year. Rising demand may make
historically volatile gas a haven,  Jeffrey Currie , head of
global commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New
York , said in an April 16 research note. Banks from Goldman
Sachs to Citigroup Inc. are boosting their forecasts for natural
gas prices while cutting their estimates for gold.  “Natural gas is emerging as a clear winner among commodity
investments,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy
at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone interview on May
1. “The late-winter rally has fueled expectations that gas will
outperform alternative investments in the sector.”  Gas Gains  Natural gas futures for June rose 4.3 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.963 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:05 p.m. today. The futures have
advanced 65 percent over the past year. Gold for June delivery
on the Comex in New York climbed 1.3 percent to $1,468 an ounce.
Silver for July delivery gained 0.4 percent to $23.905 an ounce.
Gold is down 9 percent over the past 12 months and silver 19
percent.  Gas has climbed a risk-adjusted 0.7 percent over the past
year, followed by unleaded gasoline and corn, both with 0.5
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gas showed the best
improvement by risk-adjusted return from the previous 10 years.  The 24 commodities in the GSCI index had an average 0.2
percent risk-adjusted decline in the 12 months through
yesterday. Silver had the worst reversal in risk-adjusted
returns, followed by copper and gold. Gold, the best commodity
by risk-adjusted return in the prior decade, fell to fourth from
bottom.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing the total return by the volatility, or
the degree of daily price variation, giving a measure of income
per unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an
asset can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses.  Getting Burned  For most of the past decade, investors have been burned by
gas. Prices rose as high as $15.78 in 2005, then fell to a 10-
year low of $1.902 in 2012. Even as it rebounds this year, it is
still the most volatile commodity in the GSCI index, with a
reading of 40.4, compared with 46.7 in the prior decade.  Among the casualties of the price swings is the biggest
leveraged buyout in history, the $48 billion takeover of Dallas-
based Energy Future Holdings Corp., known as TXU Corp. before it
was bought in 2007. KKR & Co., TPG Capital LP and Goldman Sachs,
who led the deal, took a gamble that rising gas rates would push
up power prices and give its nuclear and coal-fired plants a
competitive advantage.  As prices fell, earnings declined and the power company
struggled under its debt load. Energy Future Holdings this month
reported its ninth consecutive quarterly loss as the value of
contracts to lock in the price of natural gas declined. The
company is seeking to restructure at least $32 billion of debt.  ‘Shale Revolution’  Improved technology for extracting gas from shale
formations across the U.S. has unlocked record supplies, driving
prices lower over the past years. Producers use a technique
known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which involves
pumping water, sand and chemicals underground to release gas
embedded in rock.  The U.S. surpassed  Russia  as the world’s largest gas
producer in 2009, data from  BP Plc  show. The boom in oil and
natural gas output helped the U.S. cut its reliance on imported
fuel. The country met 84 percent of its energy needs in 2012,
the most since 1991, Energy Information Administration data
show.  “The shale revolution has helped shape the improving
economic environment in the U.S., making U.S. natural gas and
the  U.S. economy  the new safe haven,” Goldman’s Currie said in
the April 16 report.  Gundlach’s Comparison  U.S. gas output may climb 1 percent to a record 69.9
billion cubic feet a day this year, according to the  EIA. 
Soaring production and mild weather brought inventories of the
fuel to an all-time high of 3.929 trillion cubic feet in
November.  By April of last year, prices had dropped so low that
 Jeffrey Gundlach , the top performing bond-fund manager, compared
it with gold in 1997, before the surge in the metal’s price. As
1997 ended, spot gold traded at its lowest price since 1979. The
precious metal retreated 21 percent for the year and posted
losses in each of the next three years. Since then, the price
has risen more than fivefold, gaining for 12 straight calendar
years.  The low price of gas and ample supply have fueled demand
from industrial consumers and electricity generators.
Consumption of the fuel by industrial users, including chemical
companies and aluminum plants, increased 4.3 percent in February
from a year earlier to 22.2 billion cubic feet a day, the most
since February 2004, according to the most recent data from the
EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm. Demand rose 2
percent from January, the seventh consecutive monthly increase.  ‘Still Alive’  Consumption of the fuel by  power plants  surged to 35.27
billion cubic feet a day in July, the highest in records going
back to 1990. U.S. power plants produced an equal amount of
electricity from gas and coal in April 2012 for the first time
on record, EIA data show. Each fuel represented 32 percent of
the electricity generated that month, with the share from gas
climbing from 23 percent from a year earlier while coal’s
contribution dropped from 41 percent.  “We’ve had high gas demand, which means lower storage
levels,” Anthony Yuen, a strategist at Citigroup in New York,
said in a June 1 phone interview. “That’s the key reason why
natural gas is still alive and well while other commodities have
declined.”  Weather Boost  The increase in gas demand will probably accelerate after
2015,  Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 Minneapolis , said in a note to clients April 5. Consumption will
gain about 6 percent from 2015 through 2020 as new gas-fired
power plants are built and industrial use rises, RBC said.  Prices rebounded this year as cold weather erased an
inventory surplus that had reached a six-year high of 61 percent
over the five-year average in 2012. March temperatures were the
lowest for that month in 11 years, according to the National
Climatic Data Center, an agency of the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . Gas stockpiles totaled 1.777
trillion cubic feet in the week ended April 26, 6.2 percent
below the five-year norm and 31 percent below last year’s level
for the period.  The boost in weather-driven demand for natural gas comes as
production growth slows. The number of rigs drilling for gas in
the U.S. fell by 12 to an 18-year low of 354 last week, data
from Baker Hughes Inc. in Houston showed on April 26. The total
has dropped 15 percent this year. Gas rigs reached an all-time
high of 1,606 in August 2008.  Gold’s Decline  Gas price swings will probably persist, BNP’s Viswanath
said. Inventories remain abundant and mild summer weather may
curtail consumption by electricity generators, she said.  “The EIA data continues to show healthy supplies,”
Viswanath said. “Producers have quite a bit of spare supply
capacity and they may be encouraged by this run-up.”  Gas tumbled the most in nine months on May 2 after a
government report showed U.S. stockpiles expanded by more than
forecast. Prices slid 7 percent, the biggest one-day decline
since Aug. 2.  Meanwhile, gold has lost 12 percent this year through May
1, plunging into a  bear market  in April, amid bets that economic
recovery in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, may reduce
the precious metal’s appeal as a store of value.  The turn in the gold cycle is quickening and investors
should sell the metal, Goldman Sachs analysts Currie and Damien Courvalin said in an April 10 recommendation that returned 5.4
percent in three days.  No Haven  Gold ceased to be the haven for investors after it fell
when the euro was close to collapse last year, billionaire
investor  George Soros  said in an interview with the  South China
Morning Post  published April 8. Soros cut his stake in the SPDR
gold fund by 55 percent in the fourth quarter, a filing with the
Securities & Exchange Commission shows.  John Paulson , the biggest gold bug on  Wall Street , lost 27
percent in his gold fund last month, bringing declines for the
year to about 47 percent.  UBS AG said April 2 that the commodities supercycle has
ended and that returns are unlikely to match the performance of
the past decade, joining Citigroup, which called the end to the
cycle in November. There will be “many more losers than
winners” for commodities this quarter, Citigroup analysts
including Edward L. Morse, the bank’s global head of commodities
research, said in an April 12 report.  Bullish Bets  Money managers increased bullish bets on natural gas for 11
consecutive weeks as the futures soared.  Hedge funds  boosted
 wagers  on rising prices in the week ended April 30 to the
highest level in records dating back to January 2010.  Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for 2013 natural  gas
prices  on April 4 to $4.40 per million British thermal units, a
17 percent increase over the previous outlook. Citigroup boosted
its estimate 21 percent to $4.30 per million Btu on April 12.  “We’ve been fielding a barrage of questions from investors
who are looking at natural gas,” Viswanath said. “Gas had been
in the doldrums for the past four years and investors have been
waiting for an opportunity to buy. The thinking is that with the
moderation in inventories, this might be the ideal time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  