-- News Corp. Said in Talks to Move U.K. Office
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-08T16:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/news-corp-said-in-talks-to-move-u-k-office.html
News Corp.’s News International unit 
is in talks to move its U.K. headquarters to a 17-story building
adjacent to the Shard skyscraper in London, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The U.K. newspaper unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  is
negotiating a lease for as much as 428,000 square feet (40,000
square meters) in the building known as The Place in the London
Bridge neighborhood, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. No deal has been
completed and News International is among several companies
interested in occupying the building, one of the people said.  News International’s lease is due for renewal next year and
the company is exploring all options to ensure it continues to
meet the needs of the business, a News International spokesman
said by e-mail. Sellar Property Group, the developer of the
Shard and the Place, declined to comment.  News International, publisher of The Sun and the London-
based Times newspapers, sold its headquarters in London’s
Wapping neighborhood to  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG)  about a year
ago to profit from London’s surging residential market. The
company moved to  Land Securities Group Plc’s (LAND)  Thomas More Square
office and has an option to break the lease in 2015.  The Place and the Shard are part of a development called
the London Bridge Quarter that Sellar Property is developing
along with the Qatar Central Bank. The 72-story Shard is the
tallest building in western  Europe .  CBRE Group Inc. and Colliers International advise Sellar on
getting tenants for The Place.  Estates Gazette and Property Week reported the news earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  