-- News Corp. Reporters Cases Transferred With Brooks Bodyguard
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-08T12:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/news-corp-reporters-cases-transferred-with-brooks-bodyguard.html
Two senior News Corp. journalists and
the bodyguard of Rebekah Brooks, the former head of the
company’s U.K. unit, were among six defendants who appeared at a
 London  court for the first time to face bribery, misconduct and
obstruction charges.  Fergus Shanahan, the executive editor of News Corp.’s Sun
newspaper and a 24-year-veteran of the tabloid, and Duncan
Larcombe, its chief royal reporter, had their cases transferred
to a higher criminal court for a hearing in June. The four other
defendants were also ordered to appear at the same time at a
hearing in London today.  Shanahan is charged with authorizing a journalist to make
two payments totalling 7,000 pounds ($10,800) to a public
official in exchange for information between 2006 and 2007.
Larcombe is accused of making 34 payments from 2006 through 2008
worth 23,000 pounds to a former sergeant at the  Royal Military
Academy  in Sandhurst, where Princes William and Harry were
commissioned, and his wife.  News Corp. (NWSA)  newspapers have been at the heart of wide-
ranging investigations since 2011 which have uncovered phone
hacking and bribery allegations at its two main tabloids. News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the company’s News of the
World tabloid after revelations it had illegally accessed
messages on the mobile phone of a murdered school girl.  Mary Kearney, a spokeswoman for News Corp’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment on today’s court appearances.  Sandhurst Sergeant  The former Sandhurst sergeant,  John Hardy , and his wife
Claire, were charged with misconduct in a public office. A
fourth suspect, Tracy Bell, is accused of accepting a bribe at
Sandhurst. Bell, who was a pharmacy assistant at the facility’s
medical center, received 1,250 pounds between October 2005 and
July 2006 for information that featured in five Sun articles,
prosecutors said.  Brooks’s former bodyguard,  David Johnson , will face charges
of hiding evidence during investigations of phone hacking and
bribery at the company’s newspapers. Johnson, 47, concealed
“computers and other items from the  Metropolitan Police
Service ,” during its probes into voice-mail interception and
corruption of public officials, prosecutors said. He was charged
with perverting the course of justice.  Brooks, 44, the former chief executive officer of the U.K.
unit and a past editor of both the Sun and the News of the
World, has also been charged with phone hacking and bribery. She
was charged for perverting the course of justice in May 2012
along with her husband, Charlie Brooks, over claims they hid
papers and computers from investigators and removed seven boxes
of material from the archive of London-based News International.  Criminal Probes  About 80 journalists and public officials have been
arrested in connection with the criminal probes so far. Four
former law enforcement officers have been sentenced to as much
as two years in prison for passing on information to News Corp.
U.K. tabloids, three of them in exchange for money.  News Corp. journalists are accused of hacking mobile-phone
messages of more than 600 people, including U.S. actors  Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie , soccer player  Wayne Rooney  and murdered
British schoolgirl Milly Dowler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  