-- Nigeria Army Abuses May Undermine Fight Against Islamists
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-05-09T12:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/nigeria-army-abuses-may-undermine-fight-against-islamists.html
When Nigerian soldiers in pursuit of
Islamist militants reached the northeastern town of Baga, fish
trader Mohammed Adawu had no time to save his sick 72-year-old
father.  “We all ran for our dear lives before they set our house
ablaze and my father was burnt to death,” Adawu said on April
30 outside three destroyed buildings by a market. Other
residents crowded around him and told of their escape from
attacks by soldiers last month in Baga, a fishing town on the
shores of Lake  Chad .  While local officials and a senator from the area, Maina
Ma’aji Lawan, put the death toll at between 185 and 228 people,
the army says 30 insurgents, six civilians and a soldier were
killed, and 30 houses were burned down. New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said satellite images of Baga show at least 2,000
homes were destroyed.  The violence at Baga signals that the Nigerian army’s lack
of respect for human rights is undermining its four-year-old war
against the Islamist Boko Haram group in Africa’s biggest oil-producer, according to Fred Saugman of IHS, an Englewood,
Colorado-based research company, and Clement Nwankwo of Policy
and Legal Advocacy Centre in the capital, Abuja said.  Nigerian security forces “have lost trust, which is
obviously the vital component” in fighting an insurgency
“where the support of the people is the most critical,”
Saugman said by phone. “It’s really hard for the president to
gain back what’s been lost through this incident.”  Senate Investigation  Nigeria’s Senate has started its own investigation of the
violence and leading opposition parties accuse President
Goodluck Jonathan of indifference to army abuses. While the
National Human Rights Commission said it will conduct an
independent investigation, the fallout continues to spread,
raising the stakes for Jonathan before elections in 2015.  “The breach of fundamental rights by security agencies
isn’t one incident or one event,” said  Shehu Sani , president of
Civil Rights Congress, a human-rights group based in the
northern city of Kaduna. “It’s become automatic and
institutionalized.”  Boko Haram, which means “western education is a sin” in
the local Hausa language, started its violent campaign to impose
Sharia law on Nigeria after police killed its founder,  Mohammed
Yusuf , while in custody during clashes with the security forces
in the northeastern city of Maiduguri. More than 700 people,
mostly his followers, died in the violence.  Bomb Attacks  Since then it has carried out gun and bomb attacks across
the north and Abuja, the capital, that have killed more than
1,500 since 2009, according to Human Rights Watch.  Africa ’s most
populous country of more than 160 million people, is roughly
split between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly
Christian south.  On May 7, militants wearing army uniforms attacked a
military barracks, a prison and a police station in the
northeastern town of Bama, killing at least 42 people, and
freeing 105 inmates, according to military and police spokesmen.  Jonathan canceled a one-day visit to  Namibia , which was
scheduled to start today on his way back from the  World Economic
Forum  in  Cape Town , “due to security situation at home,”
presidential spokesman Reuben Abati said on  Twitter .  The fighting in Baga began after the fighters attacked a
military patrol and killed a soldier near a mosque where they
previously stashed weapons, according to Austin Edokpaye, a
spokesman for the joint military  task force  in the region.  Targeted Civilians  Analysis of high-resolution images from April 6 and April
26, before and after violence in the area, “confirms massive
destruction of civilian property,” Human Rights Watch said.  The military denies it targeted civilians with Defense
Ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade saying Boko Haram fighters,
armed with weapons including rocket-propelled grenades, set off
incendiaries that destroyed the houses.  Jonathan’s office said in an e-mailed statement that
preliminary reports confirm the military’s death toll, adding
that “the total number of houses in the town is far less than
1,000.”  This wasn’t the first time the Nigerian army has been
accused of retaliating against civilians when its members were
killed by militants. In 1999, the army attacked Odi in the oil-rich Niger River delta after alleged militants killed 12
soldiers. Almost the entire town was burned to the ground,
according to  Human Rights Watch .  Burning Houses  In Baga, Adawu and other residents said the army targeted
at least some civilians and burned houses. “All we know is that
the military were responsible for the killing of my father,”
Adawu said.  Another Baga resident, Mallam Ibrahim Modu, said six of his
neighbors were shot dead that night. While he doesn’t know who
killed them, “what I can still recall was that some soldiers
came into my house that very day and ordered me to come out
before they set my house on fire in my very presence,” he said.  Islamist attacks have been restricted to Abuja and the
mainly Muslim north, leaving oil facilities and financial
markets in the commercial hub of Lagos, in the south,
undisturbed. The  Nigeria  Stock Exchange All-Share Index has
advanced 27 percent this year, the world’s 10th-best performer.  Jonathan is weighing giving amnesty to Boko Haram as a
means to end the violence and has set up a committee to advise
him on the plan.  Reaching Out  The government’s consideration of dialogue “should not be
seen as a weakening of its resolve and determination to use all
the forces at its disposal to crush all brazen affronts to the
powers and sovereignty of the Nigerian nation,” Abati said in a
statement yesterday.  The fighting in Baga may have torpedoed any hopes of ending
the violence through talks, according to Sani of the Civil
Rights Congress.  “The massacre in Baga will undermine any attempts at peace
and dialogue,” Sani said in a phone interview. “Breach of
fundamental rights, which include extra-judicial killings and
mass murders like this, will not in any way help in the cause of
peace or in the process of dialogue.”  The Baga attack, happening at a time the government was
considering reaching out to the Islamists, may suggest a
military out of the control of political authorities, according
to Saugman of IHS. “If you can’t control your military then you
can’t ensure that the amnesty is effectively enforced,” he
said.  To roll back the influence of the militants and defeat the
insurgency, the government needs to be able to protect people
from attacks and win their trust, according to Nwankwo.  “If the human beings who should provide you with
information about the activities of terrorists are afraid of the
security services who are supposed to protect them, then there’s
no way that you can win,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  