-- South Korea’s Park Sees U.S. Ties as Key in Facing North
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-05-09T01:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/north-korean-provocations-won-t-succeed-park-says.html
South Korean President Park Geun Hye
called for expanding security and economic ties with the U.S. as
the two allies stand together against threats from  North Korea .  North  Korea ’s actions, including development of nuclear and
missile arsenals, undermine security on the Korean peninsula and
will be “met decisively,” she said in an address yesterday to
U.S. lawmakers. A strong South Korean government “backed by the
might of our alliance” ensures that “no North Korean
provocation can succeed,” Park said.  “The Republic of Korea will never accept a nuclear-armed
North Korea,” she said.  Park’s speech at a joint meeting of Congress followed talks
the previous day with President  Barack Obama , in which the two
leaders sought to demonstrate unity between the U.S. and South
Korea in response to North Korean belligerence. Obama said May 7
the longtime allies are “as united as ever.”  Park, three months into her presidency, is making her first
trip abroad to mark the 60th anniversary of the U.S.-South
Korean alliance as two nations also seek to expand cooperation
on  trade  and energy as well as security.  Park told lawmakers yesterday there has been a historical
pattern in which North Korea threatens  South Korea  and, after a
period of international sanctions, nations try “to patch things
up” by offering “concessions and rewards” to the Pyongyang
government. In the meantime, North Korea continues to advance
its nuclear-weapons capabilities, she said.  World powers must stop responding to periodic North Korean
belligerence with actions that reward such behavior and create
uncertainty, she said.  ‘Vicious Circle’  “It’s time to put an end to this vicious circle,” she
said, drawing a standing ovation from lawmakers.  Later, Park told a business luncheon that the U.S. and
South Korea should deepen economic ties.  “Korea is firmly committed to free trade, to economic
openness, for creativity can never thrive in a closed economy,”
she said at the event sponsored by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
in Washington. “We will make the Korea-U.S. alliance even
stronger.”  Speaking in the U.S. House chamber, Park thanked the U.S.
for its support in the  Korean War , singling out for recognition
four U.S. lawmakers who are veterans of that conflict, and
stressed the importance that South Korea places on the current
alliance in the face of security challenges.  South Korea is maintaining the “highest level of
readiness” and responding to North Korea’s threats “resolutely
but calmly,” she said.  Stable Markets  “Korea’s economy and financial markets remain stable,”
she said. “Companies both domestic and foreign see this and are
expanding their investments. Korea’s economic fundamentals are
strong, its government is equal to the test, and it is backed by
the might of our alliance.”  Park said she will work on building trust with North Korea
since “I am confident that trust is the path to peace” and
eventual reunification. Still, she said North Korea needs to
give up its nascent nuclear arsenal and become a “responsible
member” of the international community.  “Pyongyang’s provocations will be met decisively,” she
said. “At the same time, I will not link humanitarian aid to
the North Korean people, such as infants and young children, to
the political situation.”  Park proposed that the U.S. and northeast Asian nations
establish multilateral dialogues on topics such as environmental
challenges,  disaster relief , nuclear safety and counterterrorism
to which North Korea could be invited as a step toward finding
“common ground.”  Unpredictable Regime  A day earlier, Obama and Park said North Korea’s regime is
too unpredictable to know whether dictator Kim Jong Un is ready
to ratchet down tensions.  Both leaders vowed that Kim won’t be allowed to wring
concessions from nations by making threats. Obama also warned
that the U.S. is ready to back its allies in any military
confrontation.  On other matters, Park repeated her call for a “modernized
successor” to the existing civilian nuclear cooperation accord
with the U.S. South Korea wants to be able to process uranium
for reactor fuel and to reprocess spent fuel, measures that are
complicated diplomatically by proliferation concerns and efforts
to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons
development.  ‘Economic Pillar’  She also called for  expanding trade  and for Congress to
adopt legislation that would ease visa limits for South Koreans.
The U.S.-Korea free trade agreement, which went into effect in
March 2012, “adds an economic pillar to our alliance,” she
told lawmakers.  South Korea was the seventh biggest U.S. trading partner in
2012, according to U.S. Census Bureau data, with exports and
imports totaling $101 billion.  The U.S.  trade  deficit with South Korea was $1.3 billion in
March, compared with $551 million a year earlier, according to
figures from the U.S. Census bureau. The value of U.S.  exports 
to South Korea in March declined to $3.85 billion from $4.2
billion at the same time last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  