-- Norway Keeps Main Rate at 1.5% After Warning on Krone Strength
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-08T12:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/norway-keeps-main-rate-at-1-5-after-warning-on-krone-strength.html
Norges Bank kept its  benchmark
interest rates  unchanged for a seventh meeting after fighting
krone strength with verbal warnings to mitigate the  exchange
rate ’s effect on inflation and exports.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 1.5 percent, the
Oslo-based bank said today in a statement. The decision was
predicted by 18 of the 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg,
while five had foreseen a cut to 1.25 percent.  “In March, the key policy rate was projected to remain at
around the current level for the next year before being raised
gradually towards a more normal level. There is no basis for
changing this assessment now,” Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad
said in a statement.  Governor Oeystein Olsen, who has kept rates unchanged for
more than 12 months, signaled in March he was prepared to ease
policy to stem a currency appreciation that’s pushed inflation
below target and hurt exporters. Those comments helped shave 2.7
percent off the krone since March, tempering gains fueled by its
status as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Norwegian
currency touched a 15-month low against the euro last month.  Central bankers and politicians from  Norway  to  Switzerland 
to  New Zealand  are battling to contain exchange rate gains as
investors seek alternatives to the euro and dollar. New
Zealand’s dollar plunged today after its central bank sold the
currency, while Sweden’s Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said
yesterday in an interview that krona strength could become an
issue for the Swedish central bank.  Norwegian policy makers have been reluctant to ease further
after cutting in 2011 and 2012 as low rates spur household
borrowing and push private debt levels to records.  House prices 
in western Europe’s largest oil exporter have doubled since
2002, and rose an annual 6.6 percent last month. Private debt
burdens will swell to more than 200 percent of disposable
incomes this year, the central bank estimates.  Global Easing  Weak global growth prospects have also prompted central
bankers in the euro area, the U.S. and  Japan  to add stimulus,
curbing Norway’s scope to damp the country’s overheated housing
market without fueling krone gains. The  European Central Bank 
this month lowered its benchmark rate to a record 0.5 percent to
drag the euro area out of a recession.  The Norwegian krone rose to a  record on an import weighted
basis  on Feb. 13, closing at 84.30. The index traded at 88.15
yesterday, indicating a 0.8 percent weakening.  Pressure on the central bank to cut rates and support
inflation eased yesterday after the government unveiled its most
expansionary budget in four years, proposing to spend more oil
money and stimulate the economy by 0.6 percentage point.  Norway’s economy is starting to suffer from the fallout
from Europe’s debt crisis, pushing unemployment to the highest
level in more than two years. The government will use 125
billion kroner ($21 billion) of its sovereign wealth fund to
plug deficits this year, up from 105 billion kroner last year
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  