-- Norway Excludes Schweitzer-Maudit and Huabao From Wealth Fund
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-08T11:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/norway-excludes-schweitzer-maudit-and-huabao-from-wealth-fund.html
Norway ’s sovereign-wealth fund, the
world’s largest, excluded  Schweitzer-Mauduit International Inc. (SWM) 
and  Huabao International Holdings Ltd. (336)  from its portfolio
because of their involvement in tobacco production.  The $740 billion Government Pension Fund Global sold its
shares in both companies because they produce reconstituted
tobacco leaf, or RTL, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
today. The ministry, which sets the investment guidelines for
the Oslo-based fund, excluded the groups based on the
recommendation of the Council of Ethics.  “The council underlines that RTL primarily is made from
the tobacco plant and therefore must be regarded as a tobacco
product,” the ministry said. “The two companies concerned
state in their annual reports and investor presentations that
they produce RTL.”  RTL is made from remnants, dust and other by-products of
the processing of tobacco leaves and from parts of the tobacco
plant that can’t otherwise be used, according to the ministry.
RTL can constitute as much as 15 percent of the tobacco content
of cigarettes, the ministry said.  Alpharetta, Georgia-based Schweitzer-Mauduit supplies about
80 percent of the U.S. market for so-called low-ignition
proclivity papers, which have thick bands that act as buffers so
a cigarette goes out if a smoker isn’t drawing air through it.  China ’s Huabao International, among other things produces
and sells tobacco flavors, according to its website.  The fund, which is  Europe ’s largest equity investor, takes
into account ethical rules encompassing human rights, some
weapons production, the environment and tobacco when deciding on
investments. It has  excluded  more than 50 companies following
recommendations from the Ethics Council. The exclusions are
announced after the shares are sold.  At the end last year, Norway’s wealth fund held shares
valued at about  165 million kroner  ($28.3 million) in Huabao
International and about 50 million kroner in Schweitzer-Mauduit,
according to the fund’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  