-- Novelis to Add Researchers as It Seeks to Boost Recycled Content
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-08T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/novelis-to-add-researchers-as-it-seeks-to-boost-recycled-content.html
Novelis Inc. plans to boost research
and development staff by 40 percent as the biggest supplier of
flat-rolled aluminum products to global carmakers seeks to
increase recycled content in products used in cans and vehicles.  Personnel including scientists and engineers at its
research and development center located in Kennesaw,  Georgia ,
will increase to about 140 people in the next two years from 100
at present, Jack Clark, chief technical officer of the Atlanta-based company, said in an interview yesterday in Seoul.  The U.S. unit of  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  India ’s second-biggest aluminum maker, is more than tripling recycling capacity
by 2020 to meet increased demand and plans to make as much as 80
percent of its products from recycled metal by 2020, Derek
Prichett, vice president at Novelis for global recycling, said
in October.  “People are becoming more and more aware and more and more
concerned about the need to recycle,” Clark said yesterday
during a visit to the company’s Asian headquarters in  Seoul .
“Recycling is important to our business and we have to focus on
that.”  Aluminum for delivery in three months rose 1 percent to
$1,900.75 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange as of 6:13
p.m. in Seoul yesterday. Prices have fallen 8 percent this year
amid concerns that slowing growth in China, the world’s biggest
metals consumer, will damp demand.  Consumption of the light metal is expected to continue
growing in China, Clark said. The Asian nation’s economy, the
world’s second-biggest, expanded 7.7 percent in the three months
through March 31, slowing from 7.9 percent in the prior quarter
and 9.7 percent in the year-earlier period.  “The middle class is continuing to develop, which will
only consume more and more aluminum,” Clark said. “Aluminum in
cars is just getting started in  China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  