-- NYC Paid Sick Leave Passes Council by Veto-Proof Majority
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-09T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/nyc-paid-sick-leave-approved-by-council-with-veto-proof-majority.html
The  New York City  Council voted to
require employers with 20 or more workers to provide paid sick
days, a measure Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has promised to veto.  The 45-3 vote yesterday was more than the two-thirds
majority needed to override a veto. The step, set to take effect
April 1, 2014, will expand its reach to businesses with 15 or
more employees a year later. It will also require all employers
in the city to provide unpaid sick leave starting in 2014.  There are about 1 million  New Yorkers  who don’t get paid
time off for illness and would become eligible for the benefit
by 2015. Similar measures have won approval in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
 San Francisco  and  Seattle , while others are pending in
Massachusetts and  Vermont .  “People who are sick or who need to care for a loved one
should be able to take time off without the fear of losing their
job or not having money to pay the bills,” Council Speaker
Christine Quinn said at a news briefing before the vote.  Quinn had blocked a sick-leave measure for three years that
would have covered an additional 300,000 workers at businesses
with five or more employees, citing concern about its impact on
small companies while the city’s  jobless  rate remained above 9
percent. The speaker, one of five Democrats seeking her party’s
mayoral nomination, relented after brokering a compromise that
led to the bill passing yesterday.  ‘Short-Sighted’  The mayor, an independent, described the law as “short-sighted economic policy” in a March 29 statement in which he
pledged to veto it. His position hasn’t changed since then, said
 Julie Wood , a spokeswoman.  Kathryn Wylde , chief executive officer of the Partnership
for New York City, a civic association of corporate leaders who
joined Quinn in opposing the original bill, said her group
reluctantly backed the compromise because “we want them to pass
the bill that’s least damaging.”  Most of the companies represented in Wylde’s group already
provide paid sick leave and wouldn’t be affected by the law, she
said by e-mail yesterday. Yet they continue to view the council
action as “an intervention by government in employer-employee
relationships that contributes to the high-cost regulatory
environment that discourages  job creation  here,” she said.  Carlo Scissura, president and chief executive officer of
the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, also supported the legislation
after opposing the initial version, calling it “a good
compromise” that wouldn’t hurt “mom-and-pop stores with less
than 20 employees that could not otherwise afford to compensate
their employees with sick pay.”  Four Months  Under the measure that passed, employees would need to work
at least four months before earning paid time off, including
part-timers. Work-study students and seasonal employees would be
excluded. The Consumer Affairs Department would enforce the law.  Supporters for paid sick time have based their advocacy on
the fact that the 20-year-old U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act
doesn’t cover about 40 percent of workers. The federal law,
which grants as much as 12 weeks of job-protected time off,
applies only to those working more than 25 hours a week and
employers with 50 or more employees.  The U.S. law also doesn’t enable recovery of lost wages and
applies only to serious illness, not routine conditions such as
colds and flu. Proponents have been fighting to expand the law,
concentrating their efforts at the state and local level.  New York  City’s mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  