-- Oaktree Unit in Combine Talks With Germany’s Prime Office
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-08T15:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/oaktree-unit-enters-talks-to-combine-with-germany-s-prime-office.html
A unit of  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) ,
the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is in talks to
combine with Prime Office AG to expand its real estate assets in
 Germany . Prime Office’s shares gained the most since they first
traded two years ago.  An agreement may be reached by the end of the year for a
merged company that would be traded publicly, Munich-based Prime
Office said in a statement today. The new company formed with
Oaktree’s OCM German  Real Estate Holding AG (REAEH)  would have a gross
asset value of about 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion), Prime
Office Chief Executive Officer Claus Hermuth said in the
statement.  “A merger of both companies offers the potential to create
a leading German property company with a focus on high-quality
office properties with an attractive and highly diversified
tenant base across major German cities and metropolitan areas,”
Hermuth said.  Oaktree is raising a fund to invest in  Europe  as banks in
the region rein in property lending to help repair balance
sheets hit by the financial crisis. The value of income-producing office buildings in Germany fell  3.1 percent last year 
compared with an 0.8 percent drop for all commercial property,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said March 20.  Talks began after Prime Office approached Oaktree’s
Cologne, Germany-based unit following a strategic review of the
company and the country’s “still challenging commercial
 property market ,” according to the statement. Prime Office said
it couldn’t provide specifics on the terms of a possible deal
because talks are ongoing.  Regulation Deadline  Under German law, real estate investment trusts like Prime
Office must hold equity equal to at least 45 percent of their
properties held as investments by the end of this year, Prime
Office said. The company’s ratio was 43.7 percent at the end of
March, up from 42.9 percent at the end of last year. The REIT
plans to sell its 62,250 square-meter (670,000 square-foot) SZ-Tower office building in Munich to help meet the requirement, it
said in the statement.  Revenue at Prime Office fell 20 percent to 14.5 million
euros in the first quarter from a year earlier after it sold a
property in Hamburg and a lease in  Frankfurt  expired. The amount
of empty and not leased space in its portfolio rose to about 23
percent as of March 31 from 14 percent at the end of the
previous quarter.  Prime Office was up 58 cents, or 18 percent, at 3.78 euros
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the biggest gain since the
company’s initial public offering in July, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  