-- Obama Confers With Utilities CEOs on Storm Preparedness
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-08T20:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/obama-confers-with-utilities-ceos-on-storm-preparedness.html
President  Barack Obama  met with chief
executives of  utility companies  and their affiliated lobby
groups on minimizing power disruptions during major storms like
those that occurred in the Northeast after Superstorm Sandy.  The closed meeting at the Energy Department was billed by
the White House as a discussion on “lessons learned” since
last year’s storm as the June 1 start of the U.S. hurricane
season approaches. The administration didn’t release a list of
those invited to the meeting.  Sandy hit Oct. 29 with hurricane-force winds and flooding
that killed more than 125 people in 10 states. It ravaged shore
communities from  New Jersey ’s Atlantic City to Bridgeport,
 Connecticut . Thousands of homes and businesses were left in the
dark for weeks afterward.  An above-average  hurricane season  is expected this year,
with 18 named storms compared with the 30-year average of 12,
researchers at  Colorado State University  said April 10.  There’s a 72 percent chance of at least one major hurricane
of Category 3 or higher making landfall on the U.S. coastline
this year, compared with a 42 percent chance in 2012,
researchers said.  In addition to causing deaths and damage to homes and
businesses, hurricanes can delay freight, disrupt communications
and create havoc for transportation companies.  Storm Damage  Insurance claims from Sandy reached $18.8 billion in New
York and New Jersey, making it the  third-costliest  storm in U.S.
history, according to the  Insurance Information Institute .
Damage to electric utilities was in the hundreds of millions.  Some utilities are seeking rate increases, while others aim
to offset costs with lower-priced natural gas or recoverable
investments to help consumers conserve energy.  Ralph Izzo, chairman and chief executive officer of  Public
Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) , New Jersey’s largest utility, has
said that the epic storm would cost the utility as much as $300
million in damages.  One of the big issues for utilities is aging
infrastructure, according to Samuel Brothwell, a Bloomberg
Industries utility analyst. “A lot of the electrical
distribution infrastructure looks very similar to what you saw
in the early part of the 20th century.”  “We’ve not come up with the cellphone equivalent.”  Many utilities, he said, are looking to beef up their
surveillance of the electrical grid.  “You can’t stop storms but you can respond more quickly if
you know where the trouble spots are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  