-- Billionaire Batista’s Off-Book OGX Liabilities Revealed
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-08T19:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/ogx-s-off-book-liabilities-revealing-potential-claims.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
which has the worst-performing bonds in  emerging markets  this
year, holds off-balance-sheet obligations tied to its sister-company that could swell liabilities by as much as 39 percent in
the event of insolvency, according to  Covenant Review .  While parent EBX Group Co. said in March its units have the
“necessary funding established for the coming years” and OGX
announced yesterday it raised $850 million selling an oilfield
stake to  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the amount would
only extend cash reserves by six months, until mid-2014, at
OGX’s current burn rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields
on $2.56 billion of OGX bonds due 2018 almost doubled this year
to 20.49 percent yesterday, the highest for notes sharing its B
grade from  Fitch Ratings , after output setbacks left it short of
targets.  Creditors of  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , which billionaire  Eike Batista 
created to build and rent ships to OGX, can take possession of
the vessels and demand the  oil company  repay debt used to
finance their construction if the producer becomes insolvent,
according to a private placement memorandum OSX issued with its
March 2012 bond sale. OGX could then be on the hook for the $500
million of OSX bonds and $1.3 billion of syndicated loans in a
bankruptcy, said Covenant Review, the credit-research firm that
specializes in analyzing safeguards in bond contracts.  Effective Guarantee  “If you look at the OSX bond offering document, it doesn’t
say the bonds are guaranteed by OGX, but it’s effectively the
same thing as a guarantee,”  Adam Cohen , the founder of Covenant
Review, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “Overall,
this means that the amount of claims against OGX in a bankruptcy
may be more than the market realizes.”  OGX’s press office said in an e-mailed response to
questions that the ships it charters from OSX shouldn’t be
considered debt, and said that its assets and liabilities are
audited and released regularly.  “The contract between OSX and OGX includes the leasing of
exploration and production units,” OSX said in an e-mailed
statement. “The assets and liabilities relative to the
platforms belong to OSX.”  While one of the three ships financed by the bonds and
 loans  has been put into service, the two other vessels are
scheduled to be delivered in the third quarter. Language in the
bond memorandum indicates all the debt have the same provisions
allowing investors to seek immediate repayment if OGX is
insolvent, according to Cohen.  Seizing Ships  Creditors could seize the ships that guarantee the debts,
although it’s unlikely they’re worth enough to pay off the
obligations and investors would probably also sue OGX for full
repayment at the same time, Cohen said.  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX listed total liabilities of $4.58
billion at the end of last year.  Batista, 56, has seen $5.4 billion of his personal wealth
wiped out this year as investor confidence in the ability of his
companies to deliver profits deteriorated.  He pledged to generate profits at OGX, which had no track
record of sales or production, by joining state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA in developing the world’s largest crude
oil discoveries in the past decade.  OGX’s cash holdings fell 43 percent last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding the $850 million stake
sale, its $1.65 billion of cash and equivalents would run out by
year-end at its current burn rate, according to fourth-quarter
earnings data.  Negative Flow  Trailing 12-month free  cash flow  was negative $1.77 billion
last year, the data show. OGX is  scheduled to report  first
quarter earnings tomorrow.  OGX said yesterday that offshore oil output plunged 84
percent from February to 1,800 barrels a day in April after it
halted two of three wells at the Tubarao Azul field. OGX plans
to restart one well this month and another in June.  Most investors in OGX probably aren’t aware of the
obligations tied to OSX, creating further concern about a
company that’s already struggling to generate sufficient cash,
according to Luiz Campos, a Sao Paulo-based money manager at
Dinosaur Merchant Bank.  “I didn’t know about this, but if it’s true, I think we’ll
start talking about insolvency in a more aggressive way,”
Campos said in a telephone interview. “If that’s the case,
OGX’s current risk is very poorly measured.”  Asset Sale  OGX’s sale of a stake in its Tubarao Martelo oil block in
 Brazil ’s Campos Basin should “buy them some time” as the
company seeks to bolster investor confidence amid concern over
missed financial and production targets, said Revisson Bonfim,
an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in New York.  Malaysia’s state-owned producer known as Petronas agreed to
buy a 40 percent stake in two blocks in the offshore Tubarao
Martelo field located in the Campos Basin, according to an e-mailed statement from Petronas.  “It’s certainly a positive as it would increase their
liquidity and bring a very strong partner into their projects,
which could lead to other opportunities as well,” Bonfim said
in a telephone interview.  Batista also said in October that he would pump $1 billion
of his own money into OGX if the company needs additional
capital and can’t find more favorable alternatives.  OGX’s 2018 bonds rallied to a three-week high today,
climbing 1.72 cent to 65 cents on the dollar as yields fell to
19.76 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in New York.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 166 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed three basis points to 110 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere
to its debt agreements.  The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.0040 per  U.S.
dollar . Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2014 rose one basis point to 7.86 percent.  OGX’s 2018 and 2022 notes are the worst-performing
emerging-market bonds this year with at least $500 million
outstanding, according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors in OGX also need to consider that future vessels
ordered by the oil producer may subject it to similar
guarantees, according to Covenant Review’s Cohen.  Money managers should “start taking a closer look at where
assets are scattered around the  capital structure  and unraveling
the guarantees and collateral,” Cohen said. “It’s a difficult
exercise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  