-- Holcim Shares Rise as Cuts Boost Profitability in Europe
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l
-- 2013-05-08T09:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/holcim-profit-declines-on-wintry-weather-india-slowdown.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  rose as much as 3 percent
in Zurich trading after the Swiss cement maker said cost cuts
helped to boost profitability at its units in  Europe  and Latin
America in the first quarter.  The margin based on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to 29.7 percent from 26.2
percent in Latin America and to 2.8 percent from 1.8 percent in
Europe, the Jona, Switzerland-based company said in a statement
on its website today.  “The pleasant surprise is that Europe improved thanks to
further cost-cutting as well as stable or slightly higher
selling prices,” said Raymond James analyst Arnaud Palliez.  To counter a construction slump in Europe, caused by the
region’s economic crisis, Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana has cut costs and expanded in emerging regions such as
 Latin America  and  Indonesia . In Europe, first-quarter sales
dropped 11 percent, also impeded by snowy weather conditions
that extended beyond March.  The stock gained as much as 2.20 francs to 74.70 francs and
was up 2.2 percent as of 11:24 a.m. in Zurich trading, valuing
the company at 24.2 billion francs ($25.8 billion). Before
today, Holcim had added 8.4 percent this year, while German
rival HeidelbergCement rose 22 percent and French competitor
 Lafarge (LG)  SA gained 7.4 percent.  Cement Sales  Holcim’s total Ebitda fell 9.5 percent to 650 million
francs in the first quarter while sales fell 7.2 percent to 4.32
billion francs. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted 4.65
billion francs.  “Holcim anticipates an increase in sales of cement in
2013, but it will be challenging to reach the previous year’s
levels in the aggregates and ready-mix concrete businesses,”
the company said. “While Group regions Asia Pacific,  North
America  and Latin America are expected to witness higher sales
volumes, Holcim is somewhat less optimistic with regard to
Europe and Africa Middle East.”  The companywide savings program is expected to help
generate “significant organic growth” in operating Ebitda this
year, it said.  Lafarge, which is also cutting jobs and procurement costs,
yesterday reported a 26 percent decline in Ebitda.  Germany ’s
HeidelbergCement reported a rise in first-quarter
profit as growth in America and job cuts helped to offset harsh
winter conditions that impeded building in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  