-- News Corp. Veteran Mockridge Takes Top Job at Rival Virgin Media
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-05-08T12:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tom-mockridge-is-named-ceo-of-virgin-media.html
Tom Mockridge , who led  Rupert Murdoch ’s U.K. newspaper unit during phone-hacking allegations,
was named the head of British cable operator  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) ,
placing him in competition with his former employer.  Mockridge, who spent more than 20 years at Murdoch’s News
Corp. media empire, in roles including the head of  Sky Italia  as
well as European TV operations, will replace  Virgin Media  Chief
Executive Officer Neil Berkett once the company’s takeover by
 Liberty Global  Inc. is complete.  Liberty Global, the cable giant controlled by billionaire
 John Malone , is buying Virgin Media for $16 billion to expand in
Europe’s biggest pay-TV market and take on  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , in which Murdoch owns about 40 percent.
Mockridge quit News International last year amid speculation he
was passed over for the job as CEO of News Corp.’s publishing
business, which is being spun off from its entertainment units.  “This is nothing personal,” Mockridge said of media
headlines pitting Malone against Murdoch in a battle for U.K.
pay-TV subscribers. Speaking in a phone interview, he
characterized Malone and Murdoch as “two very successful men
that respect each other immensely.”  Mockridge said in an e-mail when he resigned from News
International that he wasn’t “comfortable” with the role
offered to him amid the separation of the businesses.  European TV  “His appointment may look unusual because of his News
International background, but when you look at his background in
European TV it makes total sense,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in  London .  Mockridge’s annual salary wasn’t disclosed. Current Virgin
Media CEO Berkett makes about 750,000 pounds ($1.16 million) a
year. Berkett, who has had the top job since 2008, will walk
away with $86.8 million once the deal is completed. Shortly
after Liberty Global agreed to buy the U.K. cable operator in
early February, he announced he would leave.  Mockridge said his experience in working with consumer-facing mass-distribution companies will benefit Virgin Media. He
also noted how fast Liberty Global has grown in Europe in a few
years. Malone has been using Liberty Global to expand in Europe,
where he has more than 18 million pay-TV subscribers.  Liberty Global (LBTYA)  CEO Mike Fries said the company isn’t
viewing Virgin Media as a “turnaround” story. “It’s an
opportunity for us to build scale and it will be felt in the
U.K. and outside,” he said during the phone interview with
Mockridge. “We won’t come in and fix anything, but figure out
how successful the company can be.”  Building Scale  The Virgin Media acquisition gives Malone a “fantastic
footprint” in the U.K., according to DeGroote, and
significantly expands his European cable business, which already
operates in countries including Germany and the Netherlands.  Liberty Global is expected to continue its strategy of
European acquisitions and has been busy in recent weeks buying
stakes in Dutch cable operator Ziggo NV.  Fries said the company’s  acquisitions  “pipeline is always
full” and “our clear strategic objective is to build greater
scale in Europe where we operate and in new markets.”  Fries said Mockridge, who he’s known for 15 years, was
considered among a pool of internal and external candidates at
Liberty Global and Virgin Media.  Mockridge “has a great track record of building business
from scratch and managing a large organization,” Fries said.
“He’s also worked in a conglomerate and in complex
environments.”  Mockridge became CEO of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International
unit in 2011 as phone-hacking allegations piled up against
journalists at its U.K. newspapers.  DeGroote said that Mockridge’s recent experience at News
International “shouldn’t overshadow what he’s done for so many
years in TV.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Schweizer at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  