-- Homeland Security Working to Fight Cyberattacks, Napolitano Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-08T19:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/homeland-security-working-to-fight-cyberattacks-napolitano-says.html
The Obama administration is working
“full-bore” on helping the business and government agencies
confront the threat of cyberattacks, Homeland Security Secretary
 Janet Napolitano  said today.  Napolitano’s comments came two days after the Pentagon
directly accused  China ’s military of probing U.S. government
computers for sensitive data. That report follows comments in
March by U.S. National Security Adviser Tom Donilon, who said
China was engaged in a “large scale” effort to steal  trade
secrets  and intellectual property.  Cybersecurity is the fastest growing-part of Napolitano’s
agency, which is helping critical industries develop voluntary
cybersecurity standards, she said in remarks today at the
Conference of the Americas. Speaking at the State Department
event in  Washington , the former  Arizona  governor also said she
hoped her agency would be busy implementing on overhaul of
immigration laws.  “In terms of real-time, ongoing threat in the United
States to our infrastructure, and thereby to our way of doing
life, cyber is a very, very concerning and active field,”
Napolitano said today. “So it’s one of the things, as I said in
my early remarks, we’re really full-bore on.”  Her department has major responsibilities for securing the
Internet domains, Napolitano said. It also is responsible for
securing and working with the private sector on critical
infrastructure. “We have a very tight timeline for setting the
standards for that,” she said.  The offices within  Homeland Security  that concentrate on
cyber issues “are the fastest growing area of our shop,” she
said.  Budget Increase  The Obama administration, as part of its fiscal 2014 budget
request, is seeking to increase U.S. government spending on
cybersecurity to $13 billion, about $1 billion more than current
levels.  The administration has identified 18 critical
infrastructure industries, including energy and finance, that it
will work with, Napolitano said. “Coordinating councils”
already exist for the government to work with these industries
on physical infrastructure, she said. The administration will
use the same structure to cooperate with business on
cyberthreats.  The Chinese army may be behind the hacking of at least 141
companies worldwide since 2006, according to a Feb. 19 report
from Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant Corp.  Donilon, who helps shape  U.S. foreign policy , said in his
March 11 speech that China needs to recognize the scope of the
hacking issue, take steps to halt computer espionage and start a
“constructive dialogue” with the U.S. on the matter.  Student Visas  Asked what her department was doing after the terrorist
attack in  Boston  to ensure that foreign students are properly
vetted when they apply for visas, Napolitano said efforts are
under way to make sure that “data held by one department way
over here on one program is united with data held over here, and
it’s exchanged in real time so everyone has access -- everyone
who needs to has access to it.”  That process, called “common vetting,” now happens
between agencies manually, Napolitano said. It will become
automated in the “next weeks,” she said.  The larger challenge of getting immigration changes through
Congress is “at the beginning of a long road,” Napolitano
said. She said she hopes the administration will “be very busy
implementing comprehensive immigration reform in the  United
States .”  The administration is still working closely with  Mexico  on
violence related to drug cartels, Napolitano said.  Napolitano said she wanted to see more cooperation between
the U.S. and Mexico on  trade  and travel and called for more
construction at large ports of entry. “Both countries should
have skin in the game where improvements at the land border are
concerned,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  