-- Monster Beverage Falls After Saying Sales Slowed in April
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-05-09T14:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/monster-energy-falls-after-profit-hit-by-distributor-payments.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , the largest
U.S. energy drink maker by sales volume, fell the most in six
months after Chief Executive Officer Rodney Sacks said sales
growth in April slowed.  The shares fell 6.7 percent to $52.13 at 10:06 a.m. after
earlier sliding as much as 11 percent for the biggest intraday
decline since Nov. 8. The Corona, California-based company’s
 shares  had risen 7.8 percent this year through the close of
regular trading yesterday, compared with a 14 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The U.S. energy-drink market has experienced a slowdown
this year through April, in part due to negative publicity over
their safety and caffeine content, Sacks said on a conference
call yesterday, after the company reported its first-quarter
results. Sales rose 5.7 percent in April over the previous year,
less than the 39 percent jump posted in April 2012.  “Our products are safe based on both our and the
industry’s long track record and the scientific evidence
supporting the safety of our ingredients,” Sacks said on the
call.  Net income declined 17 percent to $63.5 million, or 37
cents a share, from $76.1 million, or 41 cents, a year earlier,
the company said yesterday in a statement. Sales rose 7.3
percent to $555 million. The average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was $501.7 million in sales.  Distributor Agreements  Monster said profit for the quarter was cut by $8.3 million
from payments to terminate distributor agreements. It shifted
some distribution rights to new partners and had to pay
termination fees to the old distributors under their contracts,
the company said.  The company will receive $8.2 million in payments from new
partners that will be recognized as deferred revenue over 20
years.  Monster dropped distributors in New York and San Diego,
Roger Pondel, a spokesman, said by telephone yesterday. Pondel
said wholesalers tied to  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , which
distributes almost half of Monster’s U.S. sales volume, picked
up San Diego rights and lost New York.  The Food and Drug Administration said in November that it’s
investigating whether energy drinks may cause harm when consumed
in excess or by young people or those with pre-existing heart
conditions. The agency may move to regulate the drinks’ use or
labeling.  San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera sued Monster on
May 7 for allegedly improper marketing to minors. That came a
week after Monster sued Herrera in federal court, claiming his
investigations of the company violate free-speech rights and
attempt to improperly regulate the caffeine content of its
products.  Monster’s share have risen 7.8 percent this year through
yesterday.  Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest soft-drink maker, also
distributes almost half of Monster’s U.S. volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  