-- Morgan Stanley Expands Debt Purchases as Brokerage Adds Deposits
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-08T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/morgan-stanley-expands-debt-purchases-as-brokerage-adds-deposits.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is expanding the types
of  debt  it buys as deposits increase with the purchase of its
brokerage venture and interest rates remain near record lows.  Morgan Stanley added $677 million of collateralized debt
obligations to its available-for-sale portfolio in the first
quarter and increased its corporate bond holdings to $3.53
billion, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The
portfolio was invested solely in government and agency debt and
U.S.-backed  student loans  at the end of 2011.  The available-for-sale portfolio grew 27 percent to $41
billion in the 12 months through March as the firm gained
investable deposits by acquiring more of the brokerage from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  Morgan Stanley will get an additional $60 billion
over time after buying the rest of the venture this year, and
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has sought to build the
lending business to produce better returns from those funds.  Morgan Stanley owned $29.1 billion of U.S. Treasury and
agency debt on March 31, down from $30 billion a year earlier.
The portfolio had $2.17 billion of auto loan asset-backed
securities, up from $237 million, and almost six times the
amount of corporate bonds it had in March 2012.  The portfolio still contained less credit risk than that of
larger banks. While Treasury and agency securities accounted for
71 percent of Morgan Stanley’s available-for-sale book, they
comprised only 3.2 percent of  Wells Fargo & Co .’s and 3.3
percent of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s at year-end.  Warned Fed  Gorman, 54, was on a council of bankers that warned the
 Federal Reserve  in February of the potential harm of low
 interest rates  to U.S. financial institutions even as they
endorsed the central bank’s record stimulus.  “The margin pressures that the low-rate environment has
put on financial institutions, coupled with dramatically
increased compliance and other infrastructure costs, have caused
many to seek higher returns by accepting greater interest-rate
or credit risk,” the bankers said on Feb. 8, following a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Jan. 29-30.  Morgan Stanley had $211 million of net unrealized gains in
its portfolio as of March 31, according to the filing. That’s
down from $257 million at the end of 2012.  The bank increased both consumer and residential real
estate loans in its brokerage business by at least $300 million
in the quarter from the end of last year, according to the
filing. About 5 percent of Morgan Stanley wealth-management
clients have a loan with the bank, compared with an average of
10 percent for competitors, Gorman said in a January
presentation.  Total loans were $47.1 billion, up from $46.4 billion at
the end of 2012. The bank had a $129 million allowance for loan
losses, which covered $26.5 billion of loans held for
investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  