-- Morgan Stanley Overhauls Equity Systems to Cut Microseconds
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-05-08T17:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/morgan-stanley-overhauls-equity-technology-to-shave-milliseconds.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  has overhauled its
trading infrastructure for U.S. equities to keep pace with a
marketplace in which millionths of a second count.  The bank modernized its technology for stock trading to
save fractions of a millisecond and is now moving clients onto
the new platform, Bill Neuberger, global co-head of Morgan
Stanley Electronic Trading at the New York-based company, said
by phone. A millisecond is a thousandth of a second and a
microsecond is a millionth. When carrying out buy or sell orders
for customers, the changes will enable the bank to get 99
percent of the shares available on exchanges at a specific
price, up from the high 80s two years ago, he said.  Faster computers and regulatory changes aimed at spurring
competition among exchanges have increased the speed at which
stocks change hands over the last 15 years. High-frequency
trading, which relies on fast access to changing data, now
accounts for more than half of U.S. stock volume. Neuberger and
Andrew Silverman, who run Morgan Stanley Electronic Trading,
oversaw the firm’s 18-month project.  “As markets continued to evolve, the importance of speed
and smart coordination became more and more prominent,”
Neuberger said. “Trading fundamentally changed. We needed to
think about it at the level of microseconds as opposed to
milliseconds in the previous world and that involved rethinking
how our trading systems operate.”  The technology overhaul is unprecedented for Morgan
Stanley, said Neuberger, who has worked at the bank for 24 years
including eight in  information technology  where he wrote
software code. The firm typically made changes to its equities
technology at a more gradual pace, he said. He declined to say
how much the bank spent on the project.  Daily Volume  Morgan Stanley’s  equities  trading unit accounts for more
than 11 percent of average daily volume in the U.S., up from
less than 10 percent two years ago, Neuberger said. Neuberger,
who said he expects the upgrade to increase market share, and
Silverman are responsible for the trading technology systems
across Morgan Stanley’s entire equities division including the
electronic unit.  The overhaul and focus on low-latency trading, or buying
and selling with a minimum of delay, comes as banks face
decreased profitability from  stock trading  following a  decline 
in U.S. volume for three years in a row.  Morgan Stanley’s equities trading revenue was $1.59 billion
in the first quarter, a 19 percent drop from a year earlier,
excluding accounting charges. The business, headed by Ted Pick,
produced the second-most revenue among global investment banks
last year, trailing only Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Largest Broker  The firm has been the largest broker by volume traded on
the Nasdaq Stock Market in the exchange’s listed companies every
month since at least June, according to  data  from Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.  Morgan Stanley plans to buy the remaining 35 percent of a
brokerage joint venture from Citigroup Inc. this year, giving it
full ownership of a wealth management division with $1.79
trillion in client assets. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman 
said earlier this year that his firm will get a revenue benefit
since it no longer has to give Citigroup a portion of retail
trading orders.  The bank introduced the new trading infrastructure
internally in recent weeks and is shifting clients onto it,
according to Silverman, who was head of U.S. algorithmic trading
at Goldman Sachs before joining Morgan Stanley in 2006. The firm
will shift its U.S. options client business to the new
technology by mid-year, futures and European trading by the end
of the year and  Asia  in 2014, he said.  Market Data  The overhaul encompasses trading-related systems and
technology including how market data from 13 stock exchanges is
processed, algorithms that execute orders, Morgan Stanley’s dark
pools and so-called smart routers, or software that decides
which venue should receive the smaller pieces of a larger order
and for how many shares. It also includes hardware, the way
Morgan Stanley connects to exchanges and how it uses its main
data center for equities trading in Weehawken,  New Jersey .  Morgan Stanley has three dark pools: MS Pool, Trajectory
Cross and MS Retail Pool. The retail venue was introduced about
two years ago.  “Reducing latency, increasing automation and maintaining
proper risk measurements are major objectives of financial
firms,” Anthony Dostellio, Chicago-based managing partner at
Objective Paradigm Inc., a technology recruiting firm
specializing in financial services, said by phone. “More
organizations are facing a greater emphasis on getting data,
analyzing data and reacting to data.”  IT Spending  Spending by banks and brokers for U.S. equity trading IT
infrastructure is projected to be $2.09 billion this year, down
from $2.27 billion in 2012, according to Bob Iati, partner and
global head of consulting at New York-based research firm Tabb
Group LLC. The costs include market data, feed handlers, high-speed messaging, data centers and networking.  As markets moved to more automated processes from exchanges
centered on human traders over the last decade, brokers
developed algorithms or electronic execution strategies to buy
and sell bigger orders over a period of time without
exacerbating price moves. Programs employed by brokers and their
clients usually take liquidity by trading against bids and
offers that have been placed on exchanges and dozens of
alternative venues.  “You want to hit a bid but it’s made up of 13 different
bids,” Silverman said, referring to orders spread across  stock
exchanges . “The ability to maximize the capture of that
liquidity was declining.”  Canceling Quotes  High-frequency traders may see incoming orders take
liquidity in a stock at several exchanges and cancel their bids
or offers on other venues. While firms including market makers
usually quote on many platforms because they don’t know which
venues investors or brokers will use, they don’t want to get
more executions than they expect. Their place in the queue of
orders awaiting execution at a certain price also differs across
venues, giving them an incentive to quote in multiple places.  For investors and brokers, that poses a problem, Silverman
said. They see quotes available across exchanges and are
frustrated when they try to trade with them and the bids or
offers vanish or only fewer shares are available.  “In today’s market, liquidity is fleeting,” Silverman
said.  The problem of market makers canceling quotes at better
prices isn’t new and occurred when trading was handled by
individuals manually entering bids and offers on their computer
screens. Some brokers in recent years have timed when their
algorithms send trade requests seeking to access buy and sell
orders at different exchanges to try to reach as many quotes as
possible at the same time.  Hit Rate  Morgan Stanley’s average hit rate of about 99 percent means
that if 10,000 shares are available at a specified price, the
bank could take all but 100.  The firm changed its smart router as part of the overhaul.
Decisions about how to handle orders now incorporate real-time
learning algorithms that evolve as they get new information from
trading orders, improving the ability to get more shares by
selecting venues where trades are more likely, Neuberger said.  The data center is where the smart router’s “brain” sits,
with smaller order-handling systems co-located at exchanges or
other venues, Neuberger said. Dark fiber is used to send orders
rapidly between the Weehawken building and other sites, he said.  Keeping Up  “Infrastructure at a bank isn’t a commodity,” David B.
Weiss, a senior analyst at Boston-based research firm Aite Group
LLC, said by phone. “It’s part of their business. They’ve all
got to keep up with the Joneses.”  Banks employ systems engineers and software engineers and
individuals with advanced degrees in computer science,
electrical engineering, math and physics to build and manage
trading systems, Dostellio said. The smartest and most versatile
are also pursued by high-frequency trading firms, gaming
companies, corporations that make consumer products sold online
and social-media firms, he said.  Morgan Stanley’s electronic trading group worked in the
past with application developers to construct execution
algorithms and smart routers. Trading executives decided how
they wanted the algorithms to behave and developers built them.  For the project the bank brought so-called enterprise
infrastructure specialists into the discussion with developers
for the first time, Neuberger said. These are engineers focused
on hardware, network switches and operating systems. The
involvement of both groups ensured that the hardware and
software were integrated to “trim microseconds,” he said.  Servicing Brokers  The changes will also benefit Morgan Stanley’s business of
servicing other brokers, Silverman said. The bank, like its
rivals, handles some trading services for small and mid-size
brokers. The new technology will let it process more orders, he
said. Morgan Stanley has more than 275 broker-dealer clients
globally and expects that number to increase with the new
infrastructure, he said.  The bank maintained two separate equities trading
technology infrastructures during the overhaul. Doing so doubled
the computer-coding work to prepare for regulatory changes such
as the so-called limit-up/limit-down system that curbs trading
in individual stocks when prices move rapidly and ordinary
technical updates to systems.  “We’re betting a lot in a resource-constrained environment
that this will be a big selling point for us globally,”
Neuberger said. “The decay due to the changing market
environment and latency issues is so fast that what you had four
years ago -- it gets old.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 