-- Mosaic Deal Talk Sparked as Barriers Lift: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-05-08T15:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/mosaic-deal-talk-sparked-as-barriers-lift-real-m-a.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the fertilizer maker that
was split off from Cargill Inc. two years ago, is poised to
become the industry’s biggest takeover target after hurdles to a
deal are lifted this month.  On May 26, charitable trusts associated with Cargill’s
founding family can begin the process of selling restricted
Mosaic  shares  they got in the split, opening the door to a sale
of the whole company. The potential tax consequences related to
buying Mosaic also expire this month. While an acquisition of
the $26 billion company would be the biggest fertilizer deal on
record, Mosaic’s valuation relative to profit is 23 percent
cheaper than that of its closest rival Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mosaic, the second-biggest North American potash producer,
represents the best option for an acquirer seeking to gain a
foothold in the industry, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is the most likely suitor after the Canadian
government scuttled its attempted purchase of Potash Corp. in
2010, according to Morningstar Inc. Mosaic’s production would
even fill a hole for the newly combined Glencore Xstrata Plc,
said WorldCommodity Funds Inc.  “Prior to the Cargill trust lockup period ending, it was
not likely to happen,” Tim Beranek, a  money manager  at Denver-
based Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion and
owns Mosaic shares, said in a telephone interview. “Now it’s a
potential candidate. For a large mining company that knows how
to manage big assets like this, it makes a lot of sense.”  Cargill Split  Rob Litt, a spokesman for Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic,
declined to comment on whether the company is considering a sale
or has been approached by potential buyers.  Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Cargill, a closely held
commodities trader, shed its 64 percent stake in Mosaic in 2011.
The split-off left the estate of Margaret A. Cargill, the late
granddaughter of the company’s founder, with Mosaic shares, some
of which it could sell at the time to meet the needs of trusts
held by philanthropies that she founded.  About 129 million of the Mosaic shares allotted to the
trusts were subject to transfer restrictions and a third of them
can be sold beginning May 26. This month also marks the two-year
anniversary of the tax-free transaction, meaning a suitor won’t
bear  tax liabilities  it could have faced buying Mosaic before
that milestone.  Viable Candidate  “All of these actions will make Mosaic a more viable
takeover candidate,” Jeffrey Stafford, a Chicago-based analyst
at Morningstar, said in a phone interview. He estimates Mosaic’s
so-called intrinsic value to be $69 a share, 11 percent more
than its closing price yesterday of $62.22.  Today, Mosaic shares gained 2.6 percent to $63.81 at 10:58
a.m.  New York  time, the highest since September 2011.  The company’s  enterprise value  -- market capitalization
plus net debt -- is 8.3 times its trailing 12-month earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, versus
Potash Corp. at almost 11 times Ebitda, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “We don’t think Mosaic’s valuation is at a point where an
acquirer would be discouraged,” Stafford said. “We see the
shares as slightly undervalued.”  BHP would be the most logical acquirer because it already
tried to buy Potash Corp., Mosaic’s biggest competitor, he said.
Potash, a form of potassium that helps crops withstand drought
and strengthens plant root systems, may become BHP’s fifth major
commodity to invest in, after  iron ore , coking coal, copper and
oil and gas, Graham Kerr, chief financial officer of the
Melbourne-based company, said last month.  Less Intervention  While Mosaic produces both potash and phosphates used as
fertilizer, its potash operations  accounted  for more than half
of its gross profit in fiscal 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Canada  blocked BHP’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash
Corp. in 2010, saying that a sale of the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based fertilizer company wouldn’t provide a “net
benefit” to the nation, one of the requirements governing
takeovers of Canadian companies by foreign entities.  While Mosaic mines potash in Saskatchewan, it’s based in
the U.S., so an acquisition of the company would face less
government intervention than that of Canadian peers, according
to New York-based Goldman Sachs analyst Adam Samuelson. He
estimates the odds of a Mosaic takeover are as high as 30
percent.  Glencore, which last week closed its $29 billion
acquisition of Xstrata Plc, may find Mosaic appealing for its
next pursuit, said Jim Llewellyn, who manages the WorldCommodity
Fund and is based in Atlanta. Glencore doesn’t mine potash.  Potash Interest  “It’s a hole in their playbook,” Llewellyn, whose fund
owns Mosaic shares, said in a phone interview. “Glencore is
very opportunistic, and I wouldn’t be surprised to see them go
after Mosaic.”  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
and Vale SA, the third-largest, have also shown interest in
potash and fertilizers, said Morningstar’s Stafford. Rio Tinto,
based in  London , formed a joint venture in 2011 with a
subsidiary of OAO Acron that explores for potash in Canada.  Representatives at Glencore, BHP, Rio Tinto and Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale said the companies don’t comment on market
speculation, when asked whether they’re considering buying
Mosaic.  For a global mining company, buying Mosaic may provide some
insulation from a potential slowdown in  China’s economy , said
Llewellyn. More than half of Mosaic’s  revenue  comes from North
and  South America , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Changed Environment  On the other hand, BHP may defer its own potash project in
Saskatchewan because pricing for the fertilizer has been flat,
and the chief executive officer who led the hostile bid for
Potash Corp. is leaving, said Mark Gulley, a New York-based
analyst with BGC Partners Inc.  “After BHP’s takeover bid for Potash Corp. was aborted,
the consensus view was that BHP might logically consider buying
Mosaic,”  Horst Hueniken , a money manager at Dundee Corp. in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “But that was before BHP’s
CEO stepped down. The environment has changed.”  Vale, which suspended an Argentina potash project in March
after the government refused to give it tax breaks, seems to be
focused on South America, Gulley said. At the same time, Rio
Tinto’s new CEO  Sam Walsh  took over in January after his
predecessor stepped down following about $14 billion of
writedowns for failed deals. Walsh said on a February earnings
call that acquisitions aren’t “on his radar screen” and that
he’s focused on the company’s existing projects and operations.  Risk Appetite  “The risk appetite on behalf of the global miners has
diminished,” Gulley said in a phone interview. The odds of a
Mosaic takeover also “have diminished considerably for each one
of those potential bidders.”  Glencore Xstrata’s CEO Ivan Glasenberg said last week that
the $71 billion company will study so-called bolt-on
acquisitions and isn’t planning to do any major deals right now.  Still, Mosaic’s cheap stock could lure buyers that may be
able to run the business more efficiently, WorldCommodity Funds’
Llewellyn said.  Mosaic’s gross margin in the last 12 months -- or its
ability to mark up the price of its product -- trailed 89
percent of fertilizer makers larger than $10 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It also earned about 23 cents in
operating profit for each dollar of revenue over that span,
while Potash Corp. earned almost  38 cents  on the dollar, the
data show.  “If you consider yourself a value investor, it’s almost
criminal not to own a little Mosaic,” Llewellyn said. “I would
love to see Mosaic taken out and the management team replaced
with somebody more aggressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  