-- Toshiba Forecasts Higher Profit on Chip, Power Equipment
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-05-08T06:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/toshiba-forecasts-higher-profit-on-chip-power-equipment.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker of
flash-memory chips, elevators and steam turbines, forecast a 29
percent gain in full-year profit on higher demand for
semiconductors and power equipment.  Net income may be 100 billion yen ($1 billion) for the year
ending March 31, compared with 77.5 billion yen a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. Sales may
rise 5.2 percent to 6.1 trillion yen, the company said  Toshiba, the world’s second-biggest maker of flash memory,
is focusing on its chip and energy operations while trying to
rebuild its home-appliances business. Hisao Tanaka, who will
succeed Norio Sasaki as president in June, plans to speed up
overseas expansion to benefit from faster economic growth than
in its home country where the population is shrinking.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
selling, general and administrative expenses, may rise 34
percent to 260 billion yen this fiscal year, Toshiba said.  Toshiba  lost  5 percent to 512 yen in Tokyo trading before
the earnings release. It has risen 52 percent this year,
compared with a 37 percent gain in the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  Net income in the three months ended March 31 fell 62
percent to 23 billion yen, Toshiba said. Sales rose to 1.7
trillion yen.  Television Losses  Toshiba’s television unit lost about 50 billion yen in the
past financial year as the business was hurt by a weaker yen,
Corporate Executive Vice President Makoto Kubo told reporters
today.  The company is targeting a profit in the business in the
September quarter and may raise prices for television and
personal computers in  Japan  because of a weaker yen, he said.  Operating profit at Toshiba’s social infrastructure
business, its biggest unit by sales, fell 24 percent to 71.2
billion yen in the three-month period. The division makes
thermal and hydropower systems, elevators and medical devices.
It gained from demand for gas-fired power stations following the
2011 Fukushima nuclear accident.  Toshiba was selected to supply  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.
with so-called smart meter systems that allow users to access
data on their power use. Toshiba will be a prime contractor and
system integrator of the communication system which Tokyo
Electric plans to install in as many as 27 million households in
the next 10 years.  Memory Chips  Toshiba’s electronics devices unit, which  makes   flash
memory  for Apple Inc. products, had an operating profit of 35.7
billion yen last quarter.  The price of 32-gigabit  NAND flash memory  surged 41 percent
to $4.04 in the three months ended March 31, according to
TrendForce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot market for
the chips. The price began rising after Toshiba, the biggest
supplier after Samsung Electronics Co., cut production in July.  Toshiba is buying the chip-production assets of Bridgelux
Inc., a producer of energy-sipping light-emitting diodes. The
deal expands a licensing and manufacturing partnership the
companies signed last year, Toshiba and Bridgelux said last
month.  The company is in talks to sell as much as 36 percent of
its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power business after being
forced to increase its stake in the unit to 87 percent. Toshiba
was compelled to buy 20 percent of Westinghouse in January after
Shaw Group Inc. used an option to sell its stake. Separately,
Toshiba is in talks with  General Electric Co. (GE)  to set up a
venture to develop and sell thermal-power systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  