-- Spurs Remain in Champions League Hunt With 2-2 Draw at Chelsea
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-08T23:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tottenham-rallies-for-2-2-draw-at-chelsea-in-premier-league.html
Tottenham came from behind to tie 2-2
at Chelsea in English soccer’s Premier League, though missed the
chance to move into the top four as three teams fight for the
remaining two Champions League spots.  Gylfi Sigurdsson’s goal with 10 minutes remaining earned
Spurs the draw at Stamford Bridge in west London last night.
Emmanuel Adebayor also scored for Tottenham, while Oscar and
Ramires got Chelsea’s goals in the first half.  The result keeps Chelsea in third place with 69 points, two
more than Arsenal and three ahead of Tottenham, with two matches
remaining. The top three teams in the standings qualify for the
Champions League group stage next season, while the fourth
enters a playoff.  “It keeps it going,” Tottenham captain  Michael Dawson 
told  Sky Sports . “It’s out of our hands if Arsenal win their
two games. We’ll keep fighting.”  Premier League champion Manchester United and second-place
Manchester City have already secured spots in Europe’s elite
club competition. Chelsea would have gone six points ahead of
Tottenham with a win last night and virtually clinched a place
as its goal difference is far superior to Spurs.  Chelsea, which faces Benfica in the Europa League final on
May 15, visits Aston Villa and plays Everton at Stamford Bridge
in its final two matches. Arsenal hosts Wigan before going to
Newcastle, while Tottenham is at Stoke and hosts Sunderland.  “We have to think about winning the next game and being
ready for the final,” Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez 
said. “We have to manage players, manage the squad and find the
balance. We have to win one game to get in the top four.”  Oscar’s Opener  Chelsea went in front in the 10th minute when  Gary Cahill 
headed Juan Mata’s corner kick toward the far post where Oscar,
who got away from  Scott Parker , nodded it in.  Spurs tied it 16 minutes later as Adebayor picked up the
ball in his own half, carried it deep into the Chelsea end and
curled a shot into the top right corner.  Chelsea regained the lead six minutes before half time as
 Fernando Torres  threaded a pass between defenders which Ramires
ran down and shot past  Hugo Lloris .  Tottenham made it 2-2 with 10 minutes left as Adebayor
back-heeled a pass from Benoit Assou-Ekotto to Sigurdsson, who
took one touch before shooting past  Petr Cech .  “Our focus will be to continue to do our job and hopefully
with the teams Arsenal and Chelsea have to play, fighting for
survival, something can happen,” Tottenham coach Andre Villas-Boas said. “Anything can happen. The Premier League is
completely unpredictable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 