-- How Congress Could Have Spared Us Tax-Day Headaches
-- B y   L a w r e n c e   Z e l e n a k
-- 2013-05-08T17:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/how-congress-could-have-spared-us-tax-day-headaches.html
A century ago  today , the U.S. took a
critical step toward embracing a permanent income tax when the
House passed the Revenue Act of 1913, which led to the creation
of the familiar Form 1040. For many years, however, few
Americans were required to fill out the dreaded document because
the income tax affected only a small number of wealthy
taxpayers.  In 1943, Congress converted the  income tax  to a mass levy
by drastically lowering exemption levels and introducing wage
withholding. A Philadelphia lawyer, Clement J. Clarke Jr., told
the House Ways and Means Committee that the  mass tax  could be
designed so that returns wouldn’t be required for most
taxpayers.  Under Clarke’s approach, the exact amount of tax could be
collected by wage withholding. The taxpayers who would qualify
for this simplified system had to meet several criteria: They
could have only wage income; they had to qualify for the lowest
tax bracket, and they had to claim the standard deduction (an
innovation proposed by Clarke) in lieu of claiming itemized
deductions, which had been the only option.  With the precise amount of tax paid through withholding,
there would be no need for a  tax return  to reconcile the
difference between the amount withheld and actual tax liability.
Clarke estimated that this would mean that 30 million  taxpayers 
-- more than half the nation’s total -- would be spared the
bother of filling out a 1040.  Standard Deduction  The  Associated Press  reported that Clarke wowed the
committee: “No witness got a more cordial reception before the
committee,” a dispatch said. “The committee liked Clarke’s
suggestions so well it asked him to submit a written elaboration
as quickly as he could prepare it.”  But something got lost in the translation to legislation.
Congress enacted a  modified version  of Clarke’s proposal in
1944, including his idea of an optional standard deduction as an
alternative to itemized deductions. But instead of eliminating
tax returns entirely for millions of taxpayers, as Clarke had
envisioned, Congress retained a bare-bones filing requirement
for everyone: Taxpayers had to file returns but didn’t have to
calculate their tax liabilities. Based on the information
supplied by a taxpayer, the government would calculate the tax,
and refund any overpayment or bill the  taxpayer  for any
underpayment.  At the time, no one saw a meaningful difference between
Clarke’s original proposal for a truly return-free system of
exact withholding and the enacted approach of letting the
government do the arithmetic. Reporting on the legislation, the
 New York  Times inaccurately asserted that “an estimated
30,000,000 Federal income taxpayers will be relieved in future
years of filing tax returns supplementing the withholding of
payments from their salaries or wages.”  No one complained that the law fell short of the original
goal. Apparently, observers considered the elimination of the
need to keep records to support itemized deductions (for most
taxpayers), and the elimination of any need to add, subtract,
multiply or divide, to be the practical equivalent of a return-free system.  As the  tax code  has become more complex, this seemingly
trivial distinction has grown into a significant difference. The
 Internal Revenue Service  is still willing to do the math for
most of us. In Publication 967, it volunteers to calculate your
tax if your income is $100,000 or less and if you agree not to
take itemized deductions. Nonetheless, only about one taxpayer
in 1,000 takes the IRS up on its offer. That’s because the real
labor of preparing one’s taxes isn’t so much the calculation,
but the record keeping that comes with increasingly complex
versions of the 1040. As a consequence, what was viewed as the
near-equivalent of a 1040-free income tax in  1944  has become a
trivial curiosity today.  Things might have turned out very differently in the
postwar era, if Congress had opted for genuine return-free
taxation for most taxpayers, rather than for what it erroneously
viewed as a close approximation of a return-free system. H&R
Block Inc. and TurboTax might not be household names, and most
taxpayers would have more free time and fewer headaches every
spring.  (Lawrence Zelenak is the author of “Learning to Love Form
1040: Two Cheers for the Return-Based Mass Income Tax.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Lawrence Zelenak at  zelenak@law.duke.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  