-- Toyota Seen Beating Forecast With Yen’s $4 Billion Buffer
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-05-09T10:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/toyota-seen-beating-profit-forecast-with-yen-s-4-billion-buffer.html
There’s conservative and then there’s
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   The world’s largest carmaker yesterday  forecast  profit and
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates, based on outdated
projections for the yen to trade at 90 against the dollar and
120 versus the euro this fiscal year. The Japanese currency is
trading closer to 100 and 130, with analysts projecting it to
weaken even further.  That means the company has room to beat its forecast for
profit to climb to a  six-year high  as Toyota estimates it earns
about 40 billion yen ($405 million) every time the Japanese
currency drops by 1 yen against the dollar. The weakening yen,
whose strength had shackled Japanese exporters for a half
decade, is now giving President Akio Toyoda an edge to compete
with  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “They got between a 400 to 450 billion yen buffer from
their currency assumptions,” said Ben Williams, a London-based
fund manager at GAM (U.K.) Ltd., overseeing about $300 million
in Japanese equities. Yesterday’s earnings figures were
“neutral to positive,” he said.  Shares of the Toyota City, Japan-based company fell 1.4
percent to close at 5,760 yen in Tokyo trading. They’ve rallied
88 percent since mid-November as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
helped reverse the appreciation of the yen, adding about $94
billion in market value -- almost quadruple the size of Cyprus’s
economy.  Rough Calculation  Toyota calculated the yen forecasts by averaging exchange
rates in March and rounding them, spokesman Masami Doi said. The
projection doesn’t take into account business conditions or
domestic production levels, he said. The yen averaged at about
95 against the dollar in March.  In general, it’s better to round the exchange rate in a
safer way in the event the rate deteriorates and negatively
impacts earnings calculations, Doi said.  Toyota isn’t alone in being conservative.  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270)  and Nintendo Co. are predicting the same
exchange rates. Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. is even forecasting 84
against the dollar -- a level not seen since December. Honda
Motor Co. and ANA Holdings Inc. are closer to reality,
projecting 95.  Even with conservative yen projections, Toyota is looking
forward to its highest profit in six years.  Net income  will
probably increase 42 percent to 1.37 trillion yen in the 12
months ending March 2014 after tripling last fiscal year, the
company said yesterday.  Reversal of Fortune  Toyota’s improving prospects illustrate how fast Japan Inc.
is reversing its fortunes. Six months ago, the yen was still
roiling corporate earnings by trading near postwar highs, and
Toyoda was warning that manufacturing in  Japan  was hollowing
out.  For Toyoda, 57, relief couldn’t come soon enough. Since he
ascended to the presidency in 2009, he’s dealt with a strong
yen, the humbling  recall  of millions of vehicles, as well as
natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand . Sales in China have
been falling since September.  “With the weaker yen, this should be a good year for
Toyota,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. In Japan, “the mood is good, it’s getting
better, and you can expect for people to buy more,” he said.  Surging Japan  Profit last quarter more than doubled to 314 billion yen as
income from  Japanese operations  unexpectedly tripled to 309.8
billion yen, or 57 percent higher than the average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of five analysts. Profit from Japan was twice
that of North America,  Europe  and the rest of Asia combined.  Outside Japan, earnings weren’t as good.  Profit from North America, Toyota’s largest overseas
market, was 39 percent below the average analyst estimate, as
the company faces a resurgent  Detroit  where GM, Ford Motor Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC are offering their best vehicle lineup in
a generation. Toyota’s market share in the U.S. has fallen to a
15-month low.  In other Asian markets, profit was 12 percent below
estimates as demand from  China  -- where consumers have been
shunning Japanese brands since a territorial dispute flared in
September -- shrank for a third straight quarter. Toyota’s slide
continued in April and the company’s China head, Hiroji Onishi,
said last month that a full recovery won’t occur before autumn.  In Europe, Toyota also fell victim to the economic slump in
the region, where industry sales are headed to a 20-year low.
Profit from Europe fell to 5.1 billion yen, less than half the
average analyst estimate.  Back at home, the outlook is brighter.  “Exporters can become more optimistic on the domestic
production side,” said Martin Schulz, an economist at Fujitsu
Research Institute in  Tokyo . “Toyota’s entire network of
suppliers looks so much more happier. This lifts sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  