-- Pakistani Cricket Star Khan Appeals for Votes From Hospital Bed
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-05-08T03:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/pakistani-cricket-star-khan-appeals-for-votes-from-hospital-bed.html
Pakistani cricket icon  Imran Khan 
appealed from his hospital bed for voters to back his party in
weekend elections if they want to transform their country, hours
after injuring his head and back in a fall at a rally.  Khan, leading his Tehreek-e-Insaf party in the May 11 polls,
fell off a forklift from the height of 14-20 feet (4-5 meters)
while being lifted on to a stage at a rally in Lahore last night.
He fractured a vertebra and sustained head and neck injuries,
his party leader Asad Umar said in comments aired live on Geo
television. Khan was rushed to hospital where he was declared
stable.  “God helps those who help themselves,” he later said in a
video message after doctors advised three weeks’ rest. “Vote
for PTI’s ideology on May 11.” Leading rivals in the campaign
wished him a speedy recovery.  Khan, 60, who spent more than 15 years as a political
nobody before gaining appeal among young Pakistanis, managed to
win just a single seat, his own, in the last election his party
contested in 2002.  Khan’s message to the nation’s youth, spread through daily
updates on social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook,
have won him large crowds. While the  Pakistan  Muslim League of
former premier  Nawaz Sharif  leads in opinion polls, Khan may be
able to dent Sharif’s tally of seats in the key province of
Punjab, which sends more than half the elected 272 members to
parliament’s lower house.  Pakistan’s parliamentary elections will mark the first time
in the nation’s history that one elected civilian administration
completed its five-year term and handed power to a successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  