-- Paris Wheat May Drop on Fibonacci Breach: Technical Analysis
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-05-08T06:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/paris-wheat-may-drop-on-fibonacci-breach-technical-analysis.html
Milling wheat may reach the lowest
level in more than a year in Paris trading if futures breach a
so-called Fibonacci resistance level, according to  technical
analysis  by Arnaud Saulais at Starsupply Commodity Brokers.  Futures for delivery in November on NYSE Liffe are near
resistance of about 205 euros ($268) a metric ton, representing
a 23.6 percent retracement between November’s high and the
contract’s all-time low in May 2012, said Saulais, a broker at
Starsupply in Nyon,  Switzerland . That’s one of the levels
singled out in Fibonacci analysis. If prices slide further, the
decline may extend to about 191 euros in the next month, the
contract’s low and the least for most-active futures since
February 2012, he said.  The November contract is down 15 percent at 211.50 euros
since reaching a peak at 249.75 euros on Nov. 9 as output in the
European Union and the former  Soviet Union  is set to rebound
after dry weather last year. Concern about slow planting
progress for U.S. spring grain crops after rains this year kept
prices from falling further, Saulais said. U.S. farmers finished
planting 23 percent of spring wheat as of May 5, down from 82
percent at the same time a year earlier, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. They sowed 12 percent of corn, down from
69 percent in 2012.  “If planting improves at the end of this week and next
week, prices could go down,” Saulais said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Maybe milling wheat will cross the 205
level. We are still in a bearish condition because production in
eastern  Europe  looks quite good and conditions in western Europe
are quite good as well.”  EU Harvest  World production of wheat may climb to 680 million tons, up
3.8 percent from a year earlier, the International Grains
Council said April 25. The soft-wheat harvest in the EU, the
world’s top grower, may be 129.7 million tons, increasing 5.2
percent from the prior season, the European Commission said
April 26. The USDA is set to release its first estimates for the
next U.S. and world harvests on May 10.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes. Fibonacci
analysis is based on a theory that prices tend to drop or rise
by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 