-- PBOC Signals Resumption of Bill Sales as Capital Inflows Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T09:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/pboc-signals-resumption-of-bill-sales-as-capital-inflows-rise.html
China ’s central bank signaled it will
resume bill sales for the first time in 17 months as overseas
investors pump money into the country to take advantage of the
yuan’s rise.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for a sale of
three-month bills tomorrow, according to two traders required to
bid at the auctions.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial
institutions stemming from foreign-exchange transactions, a
gauge of cross-border capital flows, rose by 1.22 trillion yuan
($199 billion) in the first three months of 2013, more than four
times as much as in the same period last year, central bank data
show. That helped drive a 1.5 percent gain in the  yuan  against
the dollar this year.  “The central bank’s gauging of demand shows it will resume
bill sales soon,” said Shi Lei, Beijing-based head of fixed-
income research at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of the
nation’s second-biggest insurance company. “Foreign capital
inflows are too big. The central bank needs more tools to mop up
excess liquidity.”  The yield on the 3.14 percent government bonds due February
2017 climbed three basis points to 3.12 percent as of the 4:30
p.m. close in Shanghai, according to the Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest increase since April 10.  “Rising yields reflect a change in investors’ monetary
policy expectations following the demand gauging,” said Xu Hanfei, head of fixed-income research in  Shanghai  at GF
Securities Co., the nation’s third-biggest brokerage. “The PBOC
probably wants to use the bill sale to damp the market’s
interest-rate cut speculation.”  Increase Scrutiny  The central bank last issued bills in December 2011. It
also gauged demand for 28-day repurchase contracts today.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, China’s
currency regulator,  said  on May 6 it will increase scrutiny of
cross-border capital flows by importers and exporters to prevent
speculative funds from entering the country disguised as
payments for trade.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.27
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 19 basis points to 2.99 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Andrew Janes, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 