-- PBOC Signals It May Resume Bill Sales as Capital Inflows Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-08T02:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/pboc-signals-it-may-resume-bill-sales-as-capital-inflows-rise.html
China ’s central bank signaled it will
resume sales of bills for the first time in 17 months as global
funds pour money into the country to take advantage of the
 yuan ’s rise.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for a sale of
three-month bills tomorrow, according to two traders required to
bid at the auctions.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial
institutions stemming from foreign-exchange transactions, a
gauge of money flows, rose by 1.22 trillion yuan ($199 billion)
in the first three months of 2013, more than four times as much
as in the same period last year, central bank data showed. The
yuan gained 1 percent this quarter.  “The central bank’s gauging of demand shows it will resume
bill sales soon,” said Shi Lei, Beijing-based head of fixed-
income research at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of the
nation’s second-biggest insurance company. “Foreign capital
inflows are too big. The central bank needs more tools to mop up
excess liquidity.”  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.29
percent at 10:14 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The central bank last issued bills in December 2011. It
also gauged demand for 28-day repurchase contracts today.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 19 basis points to 2.99 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Robin Ganguly, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 