-- Petronas Buys $850 Million Stake in OGX Oil Field in Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-05-08T21:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/petronas-agrees-to-buy-850-million-stake-in-ogx-oil-field.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. will pay $850
million for a share in a field owned by  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA , the Brazilian oil producer whose output
dropped 86 percent in three months.  Malaysia’s state-owned producer known as Petronas agreed to
buy a 40 percent stake in two blocks in the offshore Tubarao
Martelo field located in the Campos Basin, according to an e-mailed statement from Petronas.  Billionaire  Eike Batista , OGX’s founder and controlling
stakeholder, is selling assets and reshuffling management in his
commodities and logistics companies to bolster investor
confidence amid concern over missed financial and production
targets.  “Petronas views the acquisition as a highly attractive
opportunity in terms of asset quality and for strategic future
growth in  Brazil ,” the Malaysian company said in the statement.  The acquisition marks Petronas’ first entry into
exploration and production in Brazil and followed a C$5.2
billion deal last year to take over Canadian producer Progress
Energy Resources Corp.  The purchase highlights Asian interest in Brazilian oil
assets.  China  National Petroleum Corp., China’s largest oil
producer, is in talks to acquire Barra Energia Petroleo e Gas, a
Brazilian oil startup, for about $2 billion, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Stake Option  “Asian energy companies are scrambling for assets
overseas,”  Praveen Kumar , a Singapore-based senior consultant
at FACTS Global Energy, said today by phone. “The plan,
following the Chinese model, is to bring that oil back to the
host country, or sell it and monetize it that way.”  OGX slid 9.7 percent to 1.76 reais at the close of trading
in Sao Paulo, erasing an earlier advance of as much as 9.7
percent. The Rio de Janeiro-based company started to pump oil
last year and reached its highest offshore production in January
with 13,200 barrels a day.  Under the agreement, Petronas has the option to acquire a 5
percent stake in OGX from Batista at a price of 6.30 reais per
share. This option can be exercised at any moment until April of
2015 and no new shares would be issued,  OGX (OGXP3)  said in a separate
statement today.  Petronas’s interest in acquiring a stake in OGX shows “the
quality of our team of executives and our growth
opportunities,” CEO Luiz Carneiro said, according to the
statement.  OGX plans to start output at the Tubarao Martelo field,
whose name means hammerhead shark, in the fourth quarter, it
said in a March 27 presentation. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company has already drilled six wells at the field and is
waiting for  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Batista’s shipbuilding unit, to
deliver a production vessel to begin pumping the crude.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch is adviser to Petronas on the
acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  