-- Phillies’ Halladay to Have Surgery; Return This Season Possible
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-08T19:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/phillies-halladay-to-have-surgery-return-this-season-possible.html
Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay said he’ll have shoulder surgery to repair an injury
caused by a bone spur and that he hopes to return this season.  Halladay, the two-time Cy Young Award winner who was placed
on Major League Baseball’s 15-day disabled list after allowing
17 earned runs in his past two starts, told reporters today in
San Francisco that the bone spur caused a partial tear of his
rotator cuff and fraying of the labrum in his right shoulder.  “The doctors seemed pretty optimistic that if what they
saw was correct that I could come back and be a lot more
effective and have a chance to pitch this year,” Halladay said.
“He said they thought they could turn back the clock two or
three years for me.”  Halladay, 35, is 2-4 with an 8.65 earned run average in
seven starts this season. His 4.5 walks per nine innings is more
than double his career average of 1.9.  He said he hasn’t felt overwhelming pain, which the doctor
attributed to the muscles around the injury being so strong, and
that his biggest issue was being unable to locate his pitches.
He hasn’t decided where or when he will have the operation.  “We really don’t have a timetable,” Halladay said about
his return. “The timetable’s going to come once they go in.”  Halladay, who will be a free agent after the season, won
the Cy Young Award as the National League’s best pitcher in his
first season with the Phillies in 2010 after throwing a perfect
game during the regular season and a no-hitter in the playoffs.
Having also won a Cy Young Award while pitching for the Toronto
Blue Jays in 2003, he has a 201-104 career record, tied with Tim Hudson for second on baseball’s active wins list behind Andy Pettitte of the  New York  Yankees, who has 248.  Tyler Cloyd, 25, will start in place of Halladay tomorrow
at the  Arizona  Diamondbacks. The Phillies are 16-18, four games
behind the NL East Division-leading Atlanta Braves. They’ll try
to complete a three-game sweep at the San Francisco Giants this
afternoon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  