-- PKK Militants Have Started Withdrawal From Turkey, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-05-08T11:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/pkk-militants-have-started-withdrawal-from-turkey-lawmaker-says.html
Fighters from the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, have started withdrawing from  Turkey  under a
peace agreement being negotiated between the government and the
group’s jailed leader, a senior Kurdish lawmaker said.  The bulk of the militants will have gone by the end of
June, Gultan Kisanak, co-leader of the pro-Kurdish Peace and
Democracy Party, said by telephone today. They are withdrawing
toward neighboring northern  Iraq , taking precautions against
possible attack, said Kisanak, citing villagers in rural areas
of the country’s largely Kurdish southeast.  “We are relying on assurances from the government that
they are not going to be targeted,” Kisanak said. “If Turkish
troops do not leave their barracks, the chances of a
confrontation are minimal.”  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has pledged a
safe exit for about 2,000 militants who have been operating in
the country’s eastern and southeastern regions, as part of an
effort to end almost three decades of fighting by militants
seeking Kurdish autonomy.  The PKK on April 25 agreed to start a gradual withdrawal in
response to calls by its imprisoned chief Abdullah Ocalan, who
is engaged in talks with Turkish officials. The fighting has
claimed the lives of tens of thousands of people since 1984.  The PKK rejected calls by Erdogan to lay down their weapons
during the withdrawal.  “The Kurdish problem in essence is a matter of rights and
freedoms for Kurdish people,” Kisanak said. “There has been a
dimension of war and now the withdrawal will mean silencing guns
for a long time. It is time to seize the opportunity to carry
out reforms for a lasting peace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  