-- Poland Cuts Interest Rates to Record Amid Lack of Recovery
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-05-08T16:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/poland-cuts-interest-rates-to-record-amid-lack-of-recovery-signs.html
Poland ’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low as the European Union’s
largest eastern economy struggles with slowing growth.  The Narodowy Bank Polski lowered the seven-day  reference
rate  by a quarter-point to 3 percent today, matching the
estimate of 11 of 38 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg. (POREANN)  Two
predicted a half-point cut and 25 forecast no change in
borrowing costs.  Policy makers resumed reductions after a pause last month
as  inflation  slowed to its weakest in more than six years and
manufacturing shrank the most in 45 months in April. While the
reduction in borrowing costs shouldn’t be seen as a start of a
new round of monetary easing, a further cut or unchanged rates
are possible when policy makers meet next, Governor  Marek Belka 
said at today’s news conference.  “Today’s decision should be treated as a certain
adjustment of what we announced two months ago and implemented
last month,” Belka said today. “We concluded that consumer-price growth and high-frequency data show that the inflation
rate could stay on a very low level.”  Rate Bets  Bond yields extended their decline and derivative traders
stuck to their wagers on more rate cuts to come. Ten-year
government bond yields dropped 15 basis points to 3.10 percent.
Forward-rate agreements are factoring in at least 50 basis
points of cuts in the next six months, according to the
difference between the contracts and the Warsaw interbank
offered rate.  Belka has joined his counterparts in the euro area, Hungary
and  Australia  in embracing record-low rates as the debt crisis
on Poland’s border curbs growth and consumer prices. Poland is
fighting against the steepest slowdown in more than a decade.  The  European Central Bank  last week cut  interest rates  for
the first time since July and President  Mario Draghi  said the
slowdown “has spread to parts of the euro area where so far the
transmission of monetary policy has never been questioned.”
Hungary reduced borrowing costs for a ninth month in April and
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut the  benchmark rate  to a record
low yesterday, weakening the currency.  Euro Effect  The recession in the 17-nation euro area, which buys 52
percent of Polish exports, has put a damper on growth. The
European Commission last week cut its 2013 growth forecast for
Poland to 1.1 percent, the slowest in 12 years, from 1.2 percent
seen previously.  “The data flow had been pretty supportive of a move lower
in rates,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at
London-based  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd., wrote in an e-mail.
“This likely swung the ‘swing’ voter Belka into the easing
camp.”  Policy makers reduced borrowing costs by a total of 150
basis points between November and March. They didn’t cut last
month because of “ambiguous” signs of a recovery, minutes of
the meeting showed.  Since then, a report showed the purchasing managers’ index,
a gauge of manufacturing, fell to 46.9 in April,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  said this month. The weakest reading since July 2009 was
accompanied by “downside risks building up” in the euro area,
it said. Nothing in the first-quarter data suggests “a
breakthrough” in economic growth, the statistics office said
last month.  Weak domestic demand coupled with the government’s drive to
reduce the  budget deficit  sent  inflation  to 1 percent in March,
the lowest since June 2006. The central bank, which last May
unexpectedly raised rates amid the slowdown to curb price
growth, is targeting inflation at 2.5 percent.  “The Monetary Policy Council may have to be more reactive
than what they would like to be,”  Raffaella Tenconi , an
economist at  Bank of America  Corp. and one of two forecasters
who predicted a half-point cut today, said yesterday in an e-mailed note. “Inflation persistently below the target corridor
of 1.5 percent-3.5 percent puts high pressure on the MPC to
act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  