-- Polish Yields Sink to Record on Surprise Rate Cut as Zloty Gains
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-05-08T18:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/polish-yields-sink-to-record-on-surprise-rate-cut-as-zloty-gains.html
Yields on Polish  government bonds 
plummeted to record lows and the zloty strengthened after
Narodowy Bank Polski unexpectedly cut  interest rates .  The central bank lowered its  reference rate  by a quarter-
point to a all-time low of 3 percent because of below-target
inflation and doubts about the recovery in the euro region,
Poland’s biggest export market, Governor  Marek Belka  said today.
While further rate cuts are not ruled out, the reduction
shouldn’t be seen as the “beginning of a new cycle of monetary
easing,” he said.  “Belka was guarded in his comments about whether further
policy easing is on the cards,”  William Jackson , a London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd, wrote in a note. “With
inflation likely to fall further below the bank’s target and
activity set to remain sluggish, we expect at least one more 25
basis point interest rate cut this year.”  Yields on two-year government notes fell six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to a record 2.57 percent at 8 p.m. in
Warsaw, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rates on five-
year debt tumbled 14 basis points, the most in a month. Six-
month forward-rate agreements, derivatives used to bet on
interest rate levels in November, declined 14 basis points.  Today’s quarter-point reduction was expected by 11 out of
38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with 25 predicting no
change and two forecasting a 50 basis point cut.  Poland ’s annual
 inflation  rate declined to 1 percent in March, the least in more
than six years, compared with the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target.  After an initial weakening after the rate announcement, the
zloty rallied, advancing 0.2 percent to 4.1330 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  