-- Private Student Debt Refinancing Could Help Economy, CFPB Says
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/private-student-debt-refinancing-could-help-economy-cfpb-says.html
Allowing consumers to refinance
private loans with public funds is one option for alleviating
the burden of college debt on the U.S. economy, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau said in a report published today.  About 15 percent of the $1 trillion in outstanding
education loans consists of private debt, and the CFPB suggested
that a combination of private initiatives and public policy
could help ease this burden. Other government agencies have
concluded that education loan balances, which now exceed credit-card debt, prevent young people from investing in other parts of
the economy, including housing and autos.  “Even if such a program required public funds, or a
sharing of the cost between the public sector and the owners of
the loans, the economic benefits of facilitating restructuring
activity at scale might outweigh program costs,” the CFPB wrote
in the  report .  The document, an aggregation of more than 28,000 comments
that the consumer bureau received on the subject, aims to start
a broader discussion about reducing the education debt burden,
Rohit Chopra, the CFPB’s student loan ombudsman, said in a
telephone briefing.  The CFPB report outlines a “student debt domino effect”
that hampers economic growth and limits borrowers’ financial
prospects. It also highlights how the private debt load might be
eased through refinancing, and how debtors might clean up their
credit reports.  Private Focus  The report emphasizes possible solutions to the private
debt burden, since federally backed loans already include
workout options such as income-based repayment. Secretary of
Education Arne Duncan said the report deserves “serious
consideration” from policymakers.  “The CFPB’s important work highlights that many students
are struggling to repay debt from private lenders, identifies
obstacles that hinder lenders from providing borrowers with more
options to better manage their debt, and provides thoughtful
options,” Duncan said in an e-mailed statement.  Pauline Abernathy, vice president at The Institute for
College Access and Success, which advocates for greater access
to higher education, said the CFPB report would be a tool for
supporters of lower loan levels to push for new options, or even
legislation.  “The public needs to understand how inflexible the loan
burden is, and the impact on the economy,” Abernathy said in an
interview.  Miami Hearing  Education debt is the also subject of a hearing the CFPB is
holding in Miami today. Richard Cordray, the agency’s director,
will exhort lenders to aid borrowers, according to his prepared
remarks.  “If these borrowers could refinance, their debt would be
much more manageable,” Cordray plans to say. “Given today’s
historically low interest rates, there is a tremendous
opportunity for lenders to take advantage of an underserved
market.”  Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who
set up the consumer bureau in 2010 and 2011 before her election,
today proposed legislation that would allow students to obtain
federal loans at steeply reduced rates.  On July 1, rates on new federally subsidized Stafford Loans
for undergraduates will rise from 3.4 to 6.8 percent. Warren
proposed that students have one year to borrow at the same rate
at which banks borrow at the Federal Reserve’s discount window,
about 0.75 percent, she said.  “Big banks get a great deal when they borrow from the
Fed,” Warren said on the Senate floor. “In effect, the
American taxpayer is investing in those banks. We should make
the same kind of investment in our young people who are trying
to get an education.”  Other Markets  Government agencies including the Federal Reserve and the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, a body of regulators,
have acknowledged the impact of student debt on the economy over
the past month.  In an April 17  blog post , the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York concluded that debt loads are driving former students out
of other lending markets, notably housing and autos.  “While highly skilled young workers have traditionally
provided a vital influx of new, affluent consumers to U.S.
housing and auto markets, unprecedented student debt may damp
their influence in today’s marketplace,” according to the post.  The financial stability council reached  similar conclusions 
in its annual report, approved on April 25.  Resources Diverted  In its report, the CFPB relayed concerns about other
impacts of student debt, such as limited access to small
business funding and restricted retirement savings. Also, rural
communities can struggle to attract young professionals, like
doctors, who need more lucrative work to pay off debt. The
median education debt for 2012 medical-school graduates was
$170,000,  according to the Association of American Medical
Colleges.  Private education loan origination peaked at $22 billion in
the 2007-2008 school year, and dropped to about $6 billion in
2010-2011, according to data collected by the  College Board , a
New York-based non-profit group. Consumer advocates urge
students to max out their federal borrowing first, while banks
argue that delinquency rates are lower on private loans.  About 30 lenders are issuing private loans today. Among the
largest are  SLM Corp. (SLM) , better known as Sallie Mae;  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ; and  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , according to the Consumer
Bankers Association.  Chopra, the CFPB student loan ombudsman, urged Congress and
President  Barack Obama ’s administration not to forget the
current cohort of borrowers, who have suffered as a result of
the recession.  ‘Struggling Today’  “It is very tempting for policymakers to focus solely on
future generations of student loan borrowers so it can be
avoided for the next group,” Chopra told reporters. “But for
borrowers struggling today, that singular focus feels like
rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.”  Many commenters to the agency called for a “robust
refinancing market,” Chopra said.  Chopra said the private refinancing market may need a boost
from government involvement. Some lenders have been able to work
out better terms for borrowers, and other innovations suggest a
refinancing market is emerging, he said.  “The question is whether it will scale at appropriate
speed to help significant volumes of borrowers today,” Chopra
said.  Richard Hunt, the president of the consumer bankers group,
said in a March 27 letter that banking regulators limit options
for reworking student loan repayments because banks have to
write down the value of the loans using an adverse accounting
methodology.  Martin Gruenberg , the chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., disputed that claim.  “Workout arrangements could include loan extensions,
deferrals, modifications and flexible repayment plans,”
Gruenberg said in a May 1 letter to Hunt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  