-- Productivity Cooling as Gains From Tech Boom Fade: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-08T20:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/productivity-cooling-as-gains-from-u-s-tech-boom-fade-economy.html
Four years into an expansion, the
 productivity  of American workers has slowed and some economists
say there are few signs it will soon rebound.  Employee output per hour grew at an average 0.7 percent
annual rate over the past 12 quarters, which economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. say is a pace so slow it’s rarely seen
outside of recessions. Gains since the recovery began in June
2009 have averaged 1.5 percent, the weakest of the nine postwar
expansions that lasted as long, according to IHS Global Insight.  One reason is that companies have been slow to boost
spending on more sophisticated machinery and time-saving devices
such as faster computers -- a driver of the late 1990s boom in
productivity. Without bigger gains in efficiency, it will be
difficult for economic growth to gain momentum, and worker pay
may suffer even as businesses are spurred to boost hiring in the
short term.  “Productivity is having a very slow run,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase in  New York .
After an initial surge in 2009, “it’s been pretty disappointing
since then. It means the economy’s speed limit might be lower
than we thought.”  The pace at which an economy can grow without stoking
inflation, which economists term its speed limit, reflects the
rate of growth of the  labor force  plus how much each worker can
produce. Smaller gains in productivity therefore mean advances
in gross domestic product will also be restrained.  Stocks rose, after the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed
above 15,000 for the first time yesterday, as earnings forecasts
from Whole Foods Market Inc. and Electronic Arts Inc. beat
analyst estimates. The Dow gained 0.3 percent to 15,105.12 at
the close in New York.  German Production  Elsewhere today, signs that  Germany  is beginning to recover
are mounting after  Europe ’s largest economy reported industrial
production unexpectedly rose in March for a second month.  When the  U.S. economy  slumped during the last recession,
business investment in equipment and software plunged even more,
causing its  share  of GDP to shrink to 6.4 percent by mid-2009,
almost a four-decade low. At 7.5 percent in this year’s first
quarter, the share is still below both its pre-recession level
and the record 9.6 percent reached in mid-2000, during the
productivity boom.  “The pace of technological improvement isn’t progressing
as much,” and “computing power isn’t growing as fast,” Feroli
said. “We need to see stronger, sustained growth in investment
spending.”  Fiscal Policy  Erik Johnson, a senior U.S. economist for IHS Global in
Lexington,  Massachusetts , agrees. “Maybe we’re plateauing a bit
in terms of the kind of gains we could get” out of digital
technology advances, he said. In addition, lackluster demand and
fiscal policy uncertainty mean “large capital projects that
massively help supply chains and efficiency within companies
have gone to the backburner.”  As a result, productivity is languishing, and Johnson
projects it will increase 0.5 percent this year. He forecasts it
will “slowly drift up” to an average 1.6 percent increase in
the next 10 years.  That is still well short of recent history. From 1996
through 2004, worker output per hour rose 3.1 percent a year on
 average , according to figures from the Labor Department.  The plunge in prices of computing equipment during that
time “gave companies the incentive to invest,” said Stephen Oliner, a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute 
in Washington and an economist at the Federal Reserve Board from
1984 to 2011.  In addition, semiconductor manufacturing was in a phase of
rapid innovation, and the marriage of computers and
communication technology lifted efficiency, he said.  Computer Prices  Since 2004, productivity growth waned because computer
prices declined at a less rapid pace and the most-productive
applications of the Internet revolution were already in
practice, said Oliner. More recently, funding for risky ventures
that drive innovation has been scarce and companies that do have
the money to spend are less willing to take chances, he said.  At the same time, Oliner says innovations in chip
production are generating advances, and areas such as cloud
computing may eventually reignite productivity gains.  “I don’t think it’s over,” said Oliner, who advised
former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  on productivity.
“Semiconductor technology, the key driver of improvements in IT
equipment, is still progressing at a rapid rate. We could have a
second wave of IT-based productivity enhancement.”  Greenspan, Productivity  As productivity gains picked up between the late 1990s and
early 2000s, Greenspan recognized accelerating worker efficiency
would contain inflation even as the economy strengthened and
unemployment stayed low. The realization allowed the Fed to keep
 interest rates  little changed from 1996 to 1999.  In the meantime, the slowdown in efficiency need not be all
bad. As companies reach the limit of how much they can wring
from current employees, they’ll need to add workers as orders
improve, economists including Feroli said.  “We’re at the edge,” said Richard Moody, chief economist
at Regions Financial Corp. in Birmingham,  Alabama . “There’s not
a whole lot of latitude for firms to meet orders with their
existing workers. Once we see faster demand, that’s going to
spur an increase in hiring.”  The gains in employment aren’t expected immediately, nor
will businesses go all out to take on more staff, Moody said.
The economy has to first cope with the fiscal tightening that is
projected to curb growth this quarter, and as the drag fades,
demand may pick up toward the end of the year and into 2014,
inducing a healthier job market.  3M Co. (MMM)   3M Co., the maker of products ranging from  Scotch tape  to
dental braces, is among companies trying to wring out more
productivity by controlling expenses. The  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company cut its annual earnings forecast after quarterly
profit trailed estimates amid a slowing global economy.  “We’ve been managing costs quite cautiously through last
year, through the first quarter,” David Meline, chief financial
officer, said on an April 25 earnings call. “We’re in a
position now where we’ll continue to do that until such time
that we see our growth picking up more strongly, which would
support incremental investments in certain areas.”  Wage gains will be harder to come by as firms restrain
costs, though it also indicates inflationary pressures from
labor expenses will be contained, said Guy Berger, an economist
at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Productivity has slowed to a “crawl,” he said. “It’ll be
tough to generate income gains in this environment.”  Postwar Period  In the first period of increased productivity growth since
World War II, from 1947 through 1972, worker efficiency grew at
a 2.8 percent annualized rate, Berger said. That meant the level
of productivity could double every 20 years to 25 years, so an
American worker in the early 1970s could generate twice as much
output in an hour as his predecessor did in the late 1940s, he
said. Those gains would be reflected in better pay and a higher
standard of living.  Without a new driver of efficiency akin to the high-tech
boom, the 0.7 percent rate of productivity over the past three
years means it will take the U.S. about 94 years to achieve the
same feat.  “Hopefully we’ll find ‘the next big thing’ before then,”
Berger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  