-- Transocean Profit Rises as Customers Demand More Rigs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-05-08T20:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/transocean-profit-rises-as-customers-demand-more-rigs.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, said first-quarter profit rose as
demand increased for drilling vessels in shallow and deep
waters.  Net income climbed to $321 million, or 88 cents a share,
from $10 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean said today in a statement on
Marketwired. The company was expected to earn $1 a share, the
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Expectations were for higher revenue and lower depreciation
costs, James West, an analyst at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in  New York , said in a telephone interview before
the earnings were released.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who holds a 5.61 percent
stake in Transocean, called on the company in January to issue a
$4-a-share dividend and is seeking to replace three board
members including Chairman Michael Talbert. Transocean, which
had about $5.1 billion in cash and near-cash items at the end of
2012, has proposed a $2.24-per-share dividend after not issuing
one last year as it sought to maintain an investment grade
credit rating and a “strong, flexible balance sheet” while
reducing the value of its businesses.  “It sold their jackup fleet, and some of the depreciation
went with the jackups,” said West, who rates the shares a buy
and owns none. “On the revenue side, that’s just deepwater rigs
and jackups rolling over to higher dayrates.”  The number of  rigs  operating in the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico 
climbed 19 percent to an average of 50 during the first quarter
from 42 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Transocean owned the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig
that was destroyed in the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico. The company employed nine of the 11 workers who died in
the April 2010 disaster.  The earnings statement was released after the close of
regular trading in New York. Transocean rose 0.9 percent to
$55.26 at the close. The shares have 26 buy ratings from
analysts, 16 holds and two sells.  (Transocean scheduled a conference call for tomorrow at 10
a.m. New York time, accessible at  http://www.deepwater.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  