-- Republican Governors, Congress Split on Online Tax Bill
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-05-08T18:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/republican-governor-congress-fissure-seen-with-online-bid.html
Retailers that want the Republican-led
U.S. House to pass legislation letting states collect  sales
taxes  from out-of-state sellers have some skillful lobbyists on
their side: Republican governors.  They also have some staunch opponents and doubters:
Republican House members from those same states.  Chief executives including  Rick Snyder  of  Michigan , Robert Bentley of  Alabama  and  Bob McDonnell  of  Virginia  are leaning on
their home-state lawmakers to help fill budget gaps or reduce
other taxes with revenue the measure would generate.  The governors’ advocacy conflicts with a strain of anti-tax
Republican philosophy that equates the legislation to a tax
increase, a burden on small businesses and a permission slip for
states to audit businesses with no physical presence in their
borders. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  yesterday added his
voice to Republican skepticism.  “I know that it’s important to the states,” said
Representative Robert Aderholt, an Alabama Republican, who said
in a brief interview yesterday that he hasn’t decided whether
the bill is akin to a tax increase or would be perceived as one.
“But certainly, anything that resembles a tax, we tread very
lightly.”  Representative  Fred Upton  of Michigan said that support for
the measure from his state’s governor, Snyder, doesn’t sway him.  “I think it’s taxation without representation,” Upton, a
Republican, said in an interview yesterday.  ‘Probably Not’  Whether the Republican divide can be resolved will
determine whether the plan backed by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Best
Buy Co. (BBY)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  becomes law. Opponents include  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) , direct marketers and anti-tax groups such as Americans for
Prosperity and Americans for  Tax Reform .  Boehner, in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television,
when asked whether he could support the online sales tax
measure, said, “Probably not.” When asked why, he cited the
burden on small businesses, saying “Moving this bill where
you’ve got 50 different sales tax codes, it’s a mess out
there.”  Ohio’s Republican Governor  John Kasich  told reporters today
in Columbus he’s waiting to see what the House does with the
bill and that he’s “got enough things I’m trying to do here
without having to tell Congress what to do.” Kasich served 18
years in Congress, ending in 2001.  Tax-Free Shopping  Boehner’s lack of support for the measure emphasizes the
difficulty it will have winning passage, especially in its
current form. It would end the era of tax-free Internet shopping
and put as much as $23 billion a year into state coffers.  The Senate passed its bill May 6 on a 69-27 vote, though
that wide margin obscures a partisan split. Among Republicans,
21 voted for the bill and 22 voted against it. The only five
Democrats who voted against the measure were lawmakers from
states without sales taxes, which have little to gain.  In the Republican-controlled House, a similar partisan
breakdown would easily provide enough votes for passage. It also
would require Republican leaders to rely on Democratic votes to
pass the bill and expose fissures in their party.  In the House, Michigan, Alabama and Virginia are home to a
combined 23 Republican members, and just three of those are co-sponsors of the House version of the online sales tax measure.
That gives those states’ governors an opportunity to lobby their
own representatives, and opponents of the bill say that may give
its proponents political cover.  ‘Serious Look’  “I certainly think it’s causing lawmakers to take a
serious look at the bill,” said Dan Holler, communications
director of Heritage Action for America, a small-government
group in Washington.  House leaders have deferred to the Judiciary Committee,
where Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia has promised a
“thoughtful” approach. In a statement issued after the Senate
vote, he said he was “open to legislation” as long as it
addressed complexity for businesses and retailers’ ability to
contest states’ actions.  Representative Steve Womack, an Arkansas Republican and the
lead sponsor of the House bill, said today on Bloomberg
Television that he was open to changes.  State Revenue  States point to the revenue they could collect under the
proposal. In Michigan, for example, the state is losing $872
million in 2012 and 2013. Collecting all of that would increase
 state sales tax  for the state by about 6 percent and total state
revenue by about 2 percent.  Representative Dan Benishek, a Michigan Republican, said
the state’s concerns wouldn’t really affect his thinking. He
said he is less supportive than he used to be, because of
concerns that compliance would be a burden for retailers.
Representative Bill Huizenga, another Michigan Republican,
hasn’t discussed the issue with Snyder, Huizenga’s spokesman
Brian Patrick said in an e-mail.  By 2017, Virginia would collect an additional $300 million
a year, and the state has already earmarked more than half that
money for transportation. Lawmakers would have to find
replacement revenue if Congress doesn’t act.  Representative Randy Forbes, a Virginia Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that any legislation
must be done “in a way that does not burden small businesses or
consumers.”  Shelby, Sessions  The governors have already exerted some of their influence
in the Senate. Both Republican senators from Alabama,  Richard Shelby  and  Jeff Sessions , voted in favor, and Sessions said he
talked with Bentley several times about the bill.  “I felt their position was meritorious,” he said in an
interview. “I don’t think it’s a partisan issue. I don’t think
it’s a tax-and-spend issue. I do think it is a disadvantage to
local business.”  Alabama will lose more than $1 billion over five years in
sales and use tax revenue from online purchases, according to a
study by the University of Alabama Birmingham issued in February
2012. The report said the state would lose from 3,500 to 4,000
jobs annually as a result.  Representative Mo Brooks, an Alabama Republican, said he
probably wouldn’t make up his mind until the day of a vote. He
said he was concerned about potential economic costs for
fledgling online retailers.  Giving Weight  “I always give weight to the views of Alabama’s elected
officials,” he said in an interview yesterday. “But
ultimately, I have to decide based on what I believe is best for
America.”  Holler said Republicans would come to see the bill as a
burden on small businesses. The bill includes an exemption for
retailers with less than $1 million in annual remote sales.  “If you’re a small-government Republican or a small-government conservative, that’s not the way you should
operate,” Holler said. “I think there’s going to be a lot of
hesitation when people get beyond this top line argument about
fairness.”  David French , the chief lobbyist at the  National Retail
Federation  in Washington, said Republican governors were crucial
in the Senate campaign to pass the bill. He said they can
provide “air cover” for House members by talking about how
they wouldn’t necessarily make it a tax increase.  “A lot of the Republican governors have been using it in a
revenue-neutral way to create a better business climate,”
French said.  Supreme Court  The bill would in effect overturn a 1992 U.S.  Supreme Court 
decision that prevented states from collecting taxes from
retailers that lack a physical presence in their borders. That
decision and the growth of Internet commerce gave a competitive
advantage to online retailers.  Customers technically owe so-called use taxes on purchases
from out-of-state retailers. Few taxpayers file use tax returns
and states do little to enforce those laws.  Republicans who support the bill focus on that point to
make the case for letting states require out-of-state retailers
to collect the tax.  “I believe this is an issue of fairness,” said
Representative Martha Roby, an Alabama Republican who said
Bentley mentioned the issue as a priority during a meeting with
the state’s congressional delegation in Washington. “It’s money
that’s already owed to the state, so it’s not a tax increase.”  The bills are H.R. 684 and S. 743.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  