-- Resolution’s Sales Drop as Firms Delay U.K. Pension Enrollment
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-08T08:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/resolution-s-sales-drop-as-firms-delay-u-k-pension-enrollment.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance buyout
firm founded by Clive Cowdery, said first-quarter revenue
dropped as corporate clients delayed enrolling into pension
plans as new legislation is implemented in the U.K.  Sales fell 17 percent to 242 million pounds ($375 million)
in the first three months of the year, compared with the same
period a year earlier, London-based Resolution said today in a
statement. The value of new business increased 9 percent to 38
million pounds as the firm wrote more profitable policies.  After scrapping its initial acquisition strategy,
Resolution is focused on generating cash from its three
purchases --  Friends Provident , Axa U.K. Life and Bupa Health
Assurance -- while building its pension business. The company is
seeking to benefit from the U.K.’s auto-enrollment legislation,
which compels firms to offer employees a pension plan.  “In the first quarter only the very largest pension
schemes have auto enrolled,” Chief Executive Officer Andy Briggs said on a call with reporters. “We remain very confident
that we will deliver significant growth in volumes and profits
in our corporate benefits this year but that will come through
in the second half.”  Sales of corporate pension plans dropped 25 percent to 109
million pounds in the first quarter, dragging down U.K. revenue
18 percent to 142 million pounds, Resolution said. Low prices
and smaller pay rises for existing customers also crimped
earnings at the division.  The results showed “progress in restructuring the business
and delivering efficiency gains, but volumes were below
consensus estimates,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at
Oriel Securities Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock. “These
figures are unlikely to drive the shares forward.”  Resolution  fell  0.6 percent to 270.7 pence a share at 9:05
a.m. in  London , valuing the firm at about 3.8 billion pounds.  The firm has a cash balance of 839 million pounds before
the payment of a 200 million-pound second-half 2012 dividend, it
said. Cash has been bolstered by the lower cost of writing new
policies and cost cutting, Resolution said. The firm’s dividend
is sustainable even as other insurers such as  Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  RSA
Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  reduce their payouts to shareholders, Chief
Financial Officer  Tim Tookey  said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  