-- RNB Retail and Brands Climbs on JC Closures: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-05-08T09:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/rnb-retail-and-brands-climbs-on-jc-closures-stockholm-mover.html
RNB Retail and Brands AB , a Swedish
clothes retailer, rose the most more than a week in Stockholm
after the company said it will close unprofitable JC stores and
that Marthyn Inghamn will step down as the unit’s chief.  The shares rose 17 percent to 0.07 krona as of 11:54 a.m.,
the biggest intraday gain since April 26. The company led the
gainers in the  OMX Stockholm All-Share index.   JC, which sells denim brands such as Levis and Lee as well
as its own Crocker label, had an operating loss of 111 million
kronor ($17 million) in the financial year that ended Aug. 31
and has exited  Norway  to trim losses. Inghamn was hired from
Levis Europe in August 2011 to reverse a downward spiral. While
JC’s market position in jeans has strengthened, related items,
such as tops and shirts, have had weak sales, the company said
today in a statement.  “We have been evaluating a number of different options and
the measures we are now taking will create a foundation to
reduce JC´s operational loss within a short period of time,”
RNB’s Chief Executive Officer Magnus Hakansson said in the
statement. “We are now working on further reducing risk.”  A planned restructuring and reorientation of the non-denim
assortment means Inghamn isn’t the right person to lead JC,
Hakansson said. Peter Bondelid, currently supply chain director,
was named acting head of JC.  RNB will decide and communicate during May which stores
will be closed and plans to give more details on the complete
strategic overview before the end of August.  The company also sells children’s clothes under the Polarn
O. Pyret brand and men’s wear in the Brothers store chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  