-- Rockefeller Cool on FCC Pick Needing Fans Beyond Industry
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-05-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/rockefeller-cool-on-fcc-pick-needing-fans-beyond-industry.html
Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and
former lobbyist, moves toward a U.S. Senate hearing on his
nomination to lead the Federal Communications Commission without
stated support from the lawmaker who can most sway the process.  The taciturn reception from Democratic Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat whose committee will
first vote on Wheeler’s confirmation, signals the nominee may
face a fight as he seeks to lead the agency where he once argued
on behalf of the wireless and cable industries.  Those scrutinizing Wheeler, 67, can mine a record in
 Washington  that spans his work representing the cable industry
in the 1970s to his current job as managing director at Core
Capital Partners LP, a Washington-based firm that invests in
startups. Not every investment worked out: Wheeler was on the
board of a mobile-phone retailer that was ordered in 2005 and
2007 by the FCC to pay almost $1 million in penalties.  “It could be a tough confirmation hearing before Senator
Rockefeller, but I think at the end of the day Tom Wheeler is
confirmed,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst with
Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview. “I don’t see
opposition rising to a level to threaten his confirmation.”  Rockefeller, the Commerce Committee chairman, had supported
Jessica Rosenworcel, his former aide and now a Democratic FCC
commissioner, to succeed  Julius Genachowski  as chairman.
Rockefeller didn’t issue a statement for two days after
President  Barack Obama  on May 1 named Wheeler, and it said the
senator respected Obama’s decision.  President’s Call  “I thought she was the best candidate but it’s not my
decision to make,” Rockefeller said in a brief interview May 6.
He said he’d had “a good conversation” with Wheeler and hoped
to have a hearing before the end of this month for Wheeler and
two other administration nominees,  Penny Pritzker  for the
Commerce Department and Anthony Foxx for transportation
secretary.  Wheeler’s nomination prompted congratulatory statements
from largest U.S. telephone company  AT&T Inc. (T) , No. 2  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , and from  Brian Roberts , chief executive
officer of biggest cable company  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , who cited
Wheeler’s “vast knowledge of the communications industry.”  Critics are also seizing upon Wheeler’s experience.  “We think he would be a horrible FCC chairman,” Sascha
Meinrath, director of the Open Technology Institute at the New
America Foundation policy group in Washington, said in an
interview. “Show me the evidence that he supports a public-
interest agenda. Don’t tell me that all the information I have,
all the data, the decades of history on this guy should be
ignored.”  ‘Boo Birds’  For instance, Meinrath said, Wheeler as head of the
wireless trade group opposed letting consumers take telephone
numbers from one mobile carrier to another if they switched
providers. Meinrath’s group and 27 others in March, before
Wheeler’s nomination was announced, signed a letter to Obama
saying “it’s time to end regulatory capture at the FCC” after
“decades of industry-backed chairmen.”  Too many Americans lack access to high-speed  Internet
service  and its price is increasing while competition declines,
the groups said in the letter.  The critics are misreading the evidence about Wheeler,  Gigi Sohn , president of  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based policy
group, said in an interview. She said she supports Wheeler and
expects him to win confirmation.  “Obviously if Wheeler had just walked off the board of
Comcast or AT&T, I would be joining the boo birds,” Sohn said.
“But you have to look at the totality of the circumstance.”  Piracy Repeat  Wheeler in recent years has helped fund innovative Web
startups, Sohn said. She called Wheeler “clearly pro-net
neutrality,” or supportive of Obama’s policy that bars
Internet-service providers from favoring some Web content.  The policy passed under Genachowski faces a lawsuit from
Verizon, and depending on how a court rules could come back to
the FCC under its next leader.  Some members of the Senate Commerce Committee have
expressed support.  “He’s a strong candidate,” Senator Mark Warner, a
Virginia Democrat, said in an interview.  “I think he’s a good nominee and we’ll see how the hearing
goes,” Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, said in an
interview.  Meinrath, of the Open Technology Institute, said groups are
weighing whether to attempt a grassroots, e-mail driven campaign
like the protest that killed anti-piracy legislation backed by
Hollywood studios.  “Given his industry backing it will be very difficult to
derail unless the public weighs in,” Meinrath said.  InPhonic Investment  One of Core’s investments was InPhonic Inc., a Washington-
based mobile gear-and-service retailer where Wheeler joined the
board in 2004, according to filings.  The following year, the FCC proposed a penalty of $819,905
against the company for failing to register and pay into funds
that subsidize service for the poor and the deaf. The agency in
April 2007 proposed an additional $100,000 penalty for not
registering as a provider of international services.  By then Wheeler had left the board, departing in June 2006,
according to filings. A few weeks before his departure the
District of Columbia’s attorney general accused InPhone of
deceptive rebate offers. The company filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2007 and sold its remaining assets.  David Steinberg , chief executive officer of InPhonic at the
time, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment. Wheeler
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  