-- Romania Cuts Inflation Forecast in Boost to Rate-Cut Pledge
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-05-08T14:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/romania-lowers-2013-inflation-forecast-in-boost-to-rate-cut-vow.html
Romania’s central bank lowered its
2013 inflation forecast, bolstering a pledge to trim borrowing
costs as price growth slows more than previously predicted.  The year-end inflation rate will probably be 3.2 percent,
rising to 3.3 percent in 2014, within the central bank’s target
of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent, Governor Mugur Isarescu said
today in Bucharest. That compares with a Feb. 7 estimate of 3.5
percent inflation for this year and 3.2 percent for next.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei kept the benchmark  interest
rate  at 5.25 percent, the European Union’s highest, for a ninth
meeting on May 2, while paving the way for several rate cuts in
the second half of the year as inflation slows. Policy makers
are seeking to join an easing trend in central and eastern
 Europe  to spur growth amid the euro-area recession.  “We pre-announced last week the start of a rate-cutting
cycle that depends, of course, on economic data and our
forecasts coming true,” Isarescu told a news conference on the
bank’s quarterly inflation report. “The volatility of
agricultural output has pushed us from agony to ecstasy as the
inflation decline has sped up and we have elements that show our
forecasts have an elevated probability of fulfillment.”  ‘Tolerable’ Swings  The leu, the fourth-best performer against the euro this
year among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg with
a 3 percent gain, was 0.1 percent lower at 4.3204 at 5:21 p.m.
in Bucharest.  Swings of 5 percent to 6 percent in the leu are
“tolerable” as policy makers seek to maintain their grip on
consumer-price growth, according to Isarescu, who declined to
specify the starting level or time period to which he was
referring.  “We don’t want to discourage exports but we’re seriously
looking at the multiple balances on which lower inflation should
be based,” he said.  The eastern European country’s central bank can accelerate
rate reductions because inflation is easing quicker than
previously thought, Isarescu told reporters last week.  Reserve Requirements  Policy makers may start trimming minimum reserve
requirements for leu deposits once commercial banks resume
lending, he said today. There are no plans to lower reserve
ratios for deposits denominated in foreign currencies because
the move would spur deleveraging, which has been orderly so far,
according to Isarescu.  Romania ’s inflation rate, the EU’s highest, fell more than
estimated in March to 5.25 percent from 5.65 percent in
February.  April figures  will be released by the National
Statistics Institute on May 10.  Consumer prices will probably decline in August, with
inflation likely to slow to within the bank’s target band in the
third quarter, Isarescu said. The inflation rate will drop to as
low as 3.2 percent this year, he said.  Risks to the inflation forecast include a possible increase
in raw material prices and uncertainties over government plans
to sell state assets and push through other “structural
reforms,” according to Isarescu.  Romania avoided a recession last quarter as gross domestic
product rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent from the previous
three months. The economy is set to grow 1.6 percent this year,
according to the European Commission.  While the central bank also predicts 2013 GDP expansion of
1.6 percent, the final figure may be higher because of
agricultural output, Isarescu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  