-- Trulia to Acquire Market Leader for $355 Million
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-08T22:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/trulia-to-acquire-market-leader-for-355-million.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , a property-information
website, said it plans to acquire software maker  Market Leader
Inc. (LEDR)  for $355 million, expanding its offerings to real estate
agents.  The deal includes $6 in cash and 0.155 share of stock for
each share of Market Leader, San Francisco-based Trulia said
today in a statement. The $11.33 per-share price is an 18
percent premium to Market Leader’s  close  yesterday.  Trulia, which provides Web and mobile software that matches
agents and properties with potential buyers and renters, is
adding technology that helps real estate professionals keep
track of leads. Trulia is going head-to-head with  Zillow Inc. (Z) ,
the Seattle-based real estate technology company that has
announced four  acquisitions  in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ll be looking to how we can integrate the product
experience to create a more valuable service for real estate
professionals,” Trulia Chief Executive Officer Pete Flint said
today in an interview. “We’ll be working on having each sales
force selling both products. That’s a no-brainer.”  Trulia  fell  7.8 percent to $31.68 at the close in New York.
The decline coincided with a 10 percent slide for Zillow, which
reported first-quarter results yesterday.  While Zillow’s revenue and forecast exceeded analysts’
estimates, the company said that it’s doubling advertising
spending for the rest of the year.  “The stocks generally trade in some synchronization,”
Flint said. “No doubt that the category was negatively impacted
by some of the recent news.”  Market Leader, based in Kirkland,  Washington ,  rose  13
percent to $10.84 at the close. The company recorded $45 million
in revenue last year. Trulia had  sales  of $68.1 million.  The deal will eat into Trulia’s  cash  pile. The company is
paying about $162 million in cash, or about three-quarters the
amount it reported on its balance sheet at the end of the first
quarter. Much of that came from a $113 million follow-on stock
offering in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  