-- Rumsfeld, Cheney Trade Shots, Charm Podesta: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-05-08T15:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/rumsfeld-cheney-trade-shots-charm-podesta-d-c-scene.html
“Obviously, I get to speak first
since I was the best secretary of defense,” joked former Vice
President  Dick Cheney , while introducing  Donald Rumsfeld  at a
book party last night.  The book was “Rumsfeld’s Rules: Leadership Lessons in
Business, Politics, War and Life” out in mid-May. The evening’s
humor, coming from two dour government veterans, was unexpected.  “You’re a hell of a lot better writer than you used to
be,” said Cheney at the Georgetown home of Susan and Michael Pillsbury, a Department of Defense consultant who has worked for
both men.  Rumsfeld shot back, saying Cheney’s next book should be
about heart transplants.  “I’m just a hunk of meat. Move me around anywhere,”
Rumsfeld told his hosts, while greeting guests and posing for
pictures with old friends such as Senator  Orrin Hatch , the Utah
Republican, Richard Myers, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, and former Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of South
Carolina, now president of the Heritage Foundation.  Lynne Cheney, who supplied such words of wisdom for the
book as “dogs don’t bark at parked cars,” was there with her
husband.  Democrat  John Podesta , the chairman of the Center for
American Progress, explained his presence among the flock of
Republicans.  “Former chief of staff club,” he said referring to his
position under President  Bill Clinton , while Rumsfeld held the
same job in the Ford administration. Podesta said he and
Rumsfeld have forged a friendship, despite their differing
views.  ‘He’s Hysterical’  Rumsfeld chided Podesta for having his nametag on the wrong
side. “He’s hysterical, actually,” said Podesta about
Rumsfeld’s hidden charm.  The book is a collection of Rumsfeld’s favorite anecdotes
and adages that he’s collected through the years. He records
such nuggets on the index cards he always keeps in his suit
pocket.  He also offers his own erudition on everything from how to
run a meeting to “the case for capitalism.”  Pillsbury, a China specialist, said he encouraged Rumsfeld
to include quotes from Confucius and Mao Zedong, which he did,
mixed in with witticisms from  Mark Twain .  The book comes just in time for the arrival of Rumsfeld’s
first great-grandchild, thanks to his granddaughter Kailey
Schleich, who was on hand last night.  “I put her to work in my office,” he said, only half-joking, referring to DHR Holdings LLC, the home base of his
Rumsfeld Foundation.  “He’s a fun boss,” she said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on the  art  market,
Alec McCabe on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 