-- S. Africa’s IDC Plans to Sell up to 5 Billion Rand Bonds in Year
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-08T09:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/s-africa-s-idc-plans-to-sell-up-to-5-billion-rand-bonds-in-year.html
Industrial Development Corp., South
Africa’s state-owned development financier, plans to issue as
much as 5 billion rand ($553 million) in local-currency bonds in
the year to March, Chief Financial Officer Gert Gouws said.  “We could issue 4 to 5 billion rand in 1 billion-rand
increments,” Gouws said in an interview in Cape Town today.  South Africa, which has the world’s biggest known reserves
of platinum and chrome and is the continent’s largest producer
of gold and iron ore, wants more minerals to be processed
locally to boost the economy and create jobs, with the IDC
supporting projects that promote this. The company owns 7.9
percent of  ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa Ltd., the continent’s
biggest steelmaker, and a 21.9 percent stake in iron-ore
producer  Merafe Resources Ltd. (MRF)   President Jacob Zuma has set a goal to reduce the jobless
rate in the continent’s biggest economy to 14 percent by 2020
from 25.2 percent in the first quarter. Economic growth will
probably reach 2.6 percent this year, less than half the 7
percent pace the government estimates it needs to meet the jobs
pledge.  The rand has depreciated 6.4 percent against the dollar
this year, the worst performance among the 24 major emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Its three-month implied
volatility against the dollar declined 7.5 basis points, or
0.075 percentage point, to 12.575 percent, indicating that
options traders see smaller swings in the currency in coming
months. Still, it’s the highest of all major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  “The weaker rand contributed positively to our mining and
beneficiation clients,” Gouws said. Volatility in the currency
“causes anxiety in the heart and minds of many of our clients.
It contributes to uncertainty. It increases the levels of
complexity of doing business.”  The rand slipped 0.2 percent to 9.0487 per dollar by 10:29
a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  