-- TSA’S Biometric Card Program Still Not Ready, GAO Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-05-08T22:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tsa-s-biometric-card-program-still-not-ready-gao-says.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration , after more than a decade of work, hasn’t
developed reliable technology to control port access with
biometric identification cards, the Government Accountability
Office said.  A pilot program ordered by Congress in 2010 to fix card
readers was so riddled with errors that lawmakers should push
back their deadline for issuing a final regulation, the GAO said
in a  report released today . The cards were first ordered in a
law passed 11 years ago.  TSA and the Coast Guard, which manage the Transportation
Worker Identification Credential program for the Homeland
Security Department, didn’t record clear baselines and didn’t
track malfunctioning TWIC cards, the GAO said.  The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee is
holding a  subcommittee hearing  tomorrow on TSA’s efforts to
implement TWIC. Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican
who held a series of hearings on the TSA last year when he led
the House transportation committee, will preside.  The GAO examined the program under a mandate included in a
2010 law that reauthorized the Coast Guard. The Homeland
Security Department reported the findings of the pilot program
to Congress in February 2012.  Millions Enrolled  More than 2.5 million workers are enrolled in the program
and almost 2.3 million credentials have been issued, according
to a  TSA website . Users, such as truck drivers, pay $129.75 for
the card, which is valid for five years.  The cards were initially required by Congress in 2002 in
response to the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. In a previous
May 2011 study, GAO’s undercover investigators with fake TWIC
cards were waived into secure port areas.  TSA is working to understand GAO concerns with TWIC and to
“assess the potential benefits and challenges of requiring
reader use,” agency spokesman  David Castelveter  said in an e-mail. The agency is enhancing  customer service , reviewing smart-card technology and overhauling the program’s administration, he
said.  An acquisition review board met in March and will continue
to meet regularly to continue the program’s overhaul,
Castelveter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  