-- San Leon to Develop Polish Shale as Talisman, Marathon Quit
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-05-08T15:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/san-leon-to-develop-polish-shale-as-talisman-marathon-quit-1-.html
San Leon Energy Plc (SLE)  plans to develop
Polish shale gas assets as soon as possible after  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)  exited the country and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  said it
would follow suit, the company’s exploration director said.  San Leon rose as much as 15 percent in London today to the
highest level in more than two months after saying it bought
Talisman’s interest in Poland’s Baltic basin. Dublin-based San
Leon will become operator of three licenses in the area and
signed a deal with United Oilfield Services Inc. to
hydraulically fracture a well in the so-called play, it said.  About 25 percent fewer exploration wells were completed
last year in Poland than forecast amid complex permitting rules
and the government’s announcement that prospective output will
be taxed.  Over the past year,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pulled out of the
eastern European nation, citing disappointing drilling results,
Talisman exited following a change in strategy and Marathon said
yesterday it is evaluating disposal options for its licenses
there. Chevron owns Polish acreage at Grabowiec, Zwierzniec,
Frampol and Krasnik, and owns a subsidiary Chevron Polska Energy
Resources Sp Zoo employing 30 people in Warsaw.  “I don’t think the majors have the mind-set and the
patience to explore and prove these types of plays,” John Buggenhagen, San Leon’s exploration director, said in an
interview in Warsaw today. “We can now begin to move forward to
prove this play.”  Shares Jump  San Leon rose as high as 7.9 pence, the most since March 5,
and was at 7.61 pence at 3:45 p.m. in London, valuing the
company at 142.5 million pounds ($221.2 million).  Exit from  Poland  by Talisman and Marathon is not a setback
for exploration as work on their licenses will continue, Deputy
Environment Minister Piotr Wozniak said in Warsaw today.  “Personally, I’m sorry that renowned companies like
Talisman and Marathon are leaving, but from our point of view
the question who will carry on work on their acreage is of
secondary importance,” Wozniak said. “A bad signal would be if
the licenses were left without an owner.”  Following the completion of six exploration wells on its 11
licenses, Marathon decided to leave the country after
“evaluation of exploration activities and unsuccessful attempts
to find commercial levels of hydrocarbons,” the company said in
an earnings release yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  