-- Sanford Bests Colbert Sister for South Carolina Comeback
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sanford-tops-colbert-s-sister-for-south-carolina-comeback-2-.html
Republican Mark Sanford will return to
the U.S. House after winning a special election last night in
 South Carolina , staging a comeback four years after scandal
tarnished his image while he served as the state’s governor.  Sanford’s defeat of Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch, an
older sister of comedian  Stephen Colbert , capped a bid for
personal and political redemption by a candidate who was once a
rising star in his party.  “I am one imperfect man, saved by God’s grace,” Sanford
told supporters as he celebrated his victory in Mount Pleasant,
South Carolina. He said his campaign was based on
“reconstructing those market-based principles, those
constitutional ideals and those themes of limited government.”  Sanford, 52, was aided by the political tilt of a
Charleston-based district that backed Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  over President Barack Obama, 58 percent to
40 percent, in the 2012 election, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Carolina’s 1st District is the best-educated
and wealthiest of the seven in the state, with a median
household income of $56,079 compared with $42,367 statewide,
according to 2011 Census Bureau estimates.  Sanford was familiar to most voters, having represented
much of the current district from 1995 until 2001, when he
retired from Congress to honor a term-limits pledge. He was
elected governor in 2002 and re-elected in 2006.  Affair Admission  In 2009, Sanford admitted to an extramarital affair with an
Argentine woman he visited out of state after first telling
aides he was hiking the Appalachian Trail. Sanford was censured
by the Republican-led state legislature and paid ethics fines,
though he resisted calls from members of his own party and
others to resign. He finished his term in early 2011.  The affair ended Sanford’s marriage, and he’s now engaged
to the Argentine woman, Maria Belen Chapur.  In his campaign to revive his political career, Sanford
acknowledged mistakes in his private life as he asked voters to
give him a second chance and to consider his 14 years in public
office. He spotlighted his favorable ratings from groups
promoting spending restraint and tax cuts, and touted his
opposition to appropriations projects in Congress and to federal
stimulus funds as governor.  He also tied Colbert Busch, a first-time candidate, to
national Democratic figures such as House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California . Pelosi had a voter-approval rating of 24
percent and a disapproval rating of 61 percent in the district,
according to a May 4-5 survey by Public Policy Polling, a
Democratic-leaning group based in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  ‘Nationalizing’ Race  “Sanford has gotten back into the race by nationalizing it
and painting Colbert Busch as a liberal,” the survey company
said in a May 5 analysis of its poll that showed Sanford up by 1
percentage point, compared with a 9-point deficit two weeks
earlier.  With 100 percent of the vote counted, Sanford won 54
percent to 45 percent for Colbert Busch, according to the
Associated Press tally. Sanford led Colbert Busch in all five of
the district’s counties.  Republicans interpreted Sanford’s win as a warning sign for
President  Barack Obama  and Democratic prospects in next year’s
midterm election, in which the party as of now will need a net
gain of 17 seats to claim a House majority.  “These results demonstrate just how devastating the
policies of Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi are for House
Democrats in 2014,” Representative Greg Walden of  Oregon , the
chairman of the  National Republican Congressional Committee ,
said in a statement last night.  Trespassing Complaint  Sanford won with little help from the committee, the
political arm of House Republicans. The organization kept its
distance from his campaign after AP said last month that
Sanford’s ex-wife, Jenny, filed a complaint accusing him of
trespassing at her home in February. Sanford said he wanted to
watch the end of the  Super Bowl  with one of their four sons and
unsuccessfully tried to reach his ex-wife, who has custody.  Democrats reacted to Sanford’s win by touting the
newcomer’s performance in what Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee Chairman Steve  Israel  termed in a statement a “deep
red Republican district,” referring to the color used by
television networks for Republican areas of the U.S.  “The fact that the Democrat made this competitive is a
testament to the strength of Elizabeth Colbert Busch as a
candidate and the Republican habit of nominating flawed
candidates,” said Israel, a House member from  New York .  ‘Aggressive’ Approach  “Democrats will be aggressive and drive deep into
Republican-held territory this cycle to find districts with
flawed Republican candidates where we can compete,” he said.  Colbert Busch courted women by emphasizing that she had
raised her children as a single mother and by describing herself
as a “tough, independent businesswoman.” She works as a
business-development official with an arm of  Clemson University .  While she received campaign donations from House Democrats
and assistance from outside groups that aired advertisements
attacking Sanford, Colbert Busch played down her party
affiliation and raised questions about parts of Obama’s budget
proposals and his 2010 health-care law.  Colbert Busch outraised Sanford, collecting about $1.2
million to his $788,000 through April 17, Federal Election
Commission data show. Her brother, a satirist who hosts  Comedy
Central ’s “The Colbert Report,” helped in the money raising.
The DCCC and House Majority PAC, a super-political action
committee, aired television ads attacking Sanford’s ethics.  Sanford will succeed Republican  Tim Scott , who resigned
from the seat in January to become a U.S. senator. The House
will have 233 Republicans and 201 Democrats once Sanford is
sworn in. There’s one vacancy, in a Republican-leaning district
in  Missouri .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  