-- Sanford Tops Colbert’s Sister to Pull Off Comeback
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-05-08T00:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sanford-tops-colbert-s-sister-to-pull-off-comeback.html
Republican Mark Sanford won a special
election for a U.S. House seat in South Carolina, staging a
political comeback after admitting to an extramarital affair
four years ago while he served as the state’s governor.  Sanford defeated Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch, a
business development official and an older sister of comedian
Stephen Colbert, for an open seat in the Republican-leaning 1st
District in and around Charleston.  Sanford had 54 percent of the vote to 45 percent for
Colbert Busch, with 98 percent of precincts reporting in today’s
election, according to the Associated Press tally.  Republican Tim Scott resigned the seat in January to become
a U.S. senator.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  carried the
district by 18 percentage points in last November’s election.
Sanford, 52, focused much of his campaign on tying Colbert
Busch, 58, to national Democratic figures including House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of  California .  Sanford was serving his second term as governor when he
rejected calls in 2009 to resign after acknowledging an affair
with an Argentine woman whom he visited after telling staff
members he was hiking the Appalachian Trail. He was censured by
the Republican-led state legislature and paid ethics fines,
though he resisted calls from members of his own party and
others to resign, finishing his term in January 2011.  The affair ended Sanford’s marriage, and he’s now engaged
to the Argentine woman, Maria Belen Chapur.  Sanford previously served in the House from 1995 to 2001.  The House will have 233 Republicans and 201 Democrats when
Sanford is sworn in. There’s one vacancy in a Republican-leaning
district in Missouri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  