-- SEC Sues Chinese Video-Sharing Company Subaye for Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sec-sues-chinese-video-sharing-company-subaye-for-fraud.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued  Subaye Inc. (SBAY)  for fraud, saying the Chinese video-advertising and entertainment company misled investors about its
financial prospects and revenue.  The SEC, after filing its complaint yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan , later said Subaye agreed to settle the
matter without admitting or denying the allegations against it.
The Beijing-based company also consented to a final judgment
barring any further securities law violations, the agency said.  “Through its public filings and announcements, Subaye
repeatedly made misrepresentations to prospective investors,”
the SEC alleged. “Subaye falsely promoted itself as an up-and-coming company with a bright future, millions of dollars in
revenue and vibrant business operations.”  In SEC filings and in statements issued to investors,
Subaye made claims of rapid growth in sales and operations,
claiming in 2010 to have more than 1,400 sales and marketing
employees. It reported revenue of $39 million for its 2010
fiscal year and projected more than $71 million in revenue in
2011.  In a December 2010 press release and regulatory filings,
Subaye reported $22 million in “marketing expenses,” which the
company attributed to a “strategic decision to dramatically
increase our marketing expenses in new markets.”  New CEO  After NASDAQ threatened to delist the company because of
compliance issues, Subaye hired a new chief executive officer,
Alexander Holtermann, who traveled to  China  on May 12, 2011,
according to the complaint.  Holtermann discovered that Subaye’s office, located in a
university building, was shuttered. He learned from neighbors
that the office had been vacated the previous day, regulators
said.  Inside, he found “an empty student office, a small stack
of papers, no bank accounts, very little cash, two paying
customers, no employees, no IT infrastructure, and almost no
financial records. Holtermann concluded that Subaye was a
scam,” according to the complaint.  Monetary Penalty  James T. Crane, 36, ’s former chief financial officer, was
also named in the complaint filed by the SEC. The SEC seeks
disgorgement of Crane’s ill-gotten gains and civil monetary
penalty against Crane.  “Subaye had no verifiable revenues to back up its claims
of customers; the people it claimed as customers had no such
relationship to the company; and it lacked the infrastructure to
support its claimed cloud computing services,” the SEC said in
the complaint. “Instead, with the support of its Chief
Financial Officer Crane, Subaye had presented the world with an
imaginary business. The multimillion-dollar company Holtermann
had been recruited to run appeared not to exist.”  Subaye had been listed on  NASDAQ  from March 15, 2010, until
Nov. 11, 2011. It currently trades on the over-the-counter
market.  A telephone listing for Subaye in Beijing has been
disconnected. Crane couldn’t be located for comment.  The case is SEC v. Subaye Inc., 13-cv-03114, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 