-- SEC Should Make Companies Disclose Political Spending
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-08T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sec-should-make-companies-disclose-political-spending.html
Two years ago, an idiosyncratic band
of 10 law professors  wrote to  the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asking it to require public companies “to disclose to
shareholders the use of corporate resources for political
activities.” Their immodest proposal has since become a popular
cause: The proposed rule has generated half a million  public
comments , a record.  More transparency, in both politics and finance, is almost
always better. The question sometimes is whether the means
justify the end. In this case, they do.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, among others,  objects  that
the SEC is being asked to make up for the failings of the
 Federal Election Commission , which is charged with regulating
campaign finance but diligently fails to do so. There is merit
to this argument: If the FEC actually regulated the disclosure
of political spending, SEC action wouldn’t be necessary.  Critics of the rule also  argue  that most corporate
political spending doesn’t pass the threshold for “materiality,”
meaning the spending isn’t substantial enough (relatively
speaking) to warrant disclosure. This is also true: In any large
company, it’s unlikely that political spending will amount to
more than a rounding error.  Politics, however, is about more than finance, and its
costs and benefits are not always apparent on the bottom line. A
corporation’s political campaigns -- like its marketing,
advertising or public-relations campaigns -- can have a
disproportionate impact on its reputation.  Consider  the case  of Target Corp., which in 2010 donated
$150,000 to a business group supporting Minnesota Republican
gubernatorial candidate Tom Emmer, an opponent of same-sex
marriage. Disclosure of that contribution was justified on two
grounds: First, shareholders had a right to know that their
money was being spent on causes or candidates they might not
support. (Shareholders are not empowered to stop the activity,
but they are empowered to sell their shares.) Second, had an
internal company disclosure process been in place, Target
executives might have thought twice about making such a
contribution, which resulted in damaging publicity and a
nationwide boycott of Target stores by gay-rights supporters.  That is precisely what the Chamber and allied business
groups say they fear -- that disclosure will enable corporate
opponents to “illegitimately” put public companies “in a poor
light.”  Here’s where their argument wears thin. If corporations
want to play in the political arena, they should have the
fortitude to do so openly and be held accountable for it. The
voting public might not care to have a role in the matter (not
all companies are as dependent on consumers as Target). But
shareholders, at least, will be in a position to accept or
reject the use of their money for political ends.  The SEC shouldn’t, and can’t, substitute for the FEC in
policing political spending. But corporate disclosure is well
within its purview; it already requires disclosure of
expenditures such as executive pay.  There is also the possibility that the proposed rule may
improve corporate governance as much as campaign finance.
“Corporations will have a process in place, as they should, to
determine when to spend,” former FEC chairman  Trevor Potter ,
president of the Campaign Legal Center,  told   Bloomberg News . “It
will not be a single corporate officer responding to a phone
call from a friend but rather will reflect a measured,
thoughtful spending of shareholder money.”  Those corporations worried about disclosing their spending
should probably stay out of politics. For the rest, a little
sunlight will benefit shareholders, executives and the public
alike. The SEC should adopt the rule.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 