-- Obama Labor Pick Delayed as Republican Step Up Opposition
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-05-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/senate-republicans-delay-vote-on-labor-pick-as-opposition-mounts.html
Thomas Perez ’s nomination for U.S.
labor secretary is running into mounting opposition from Senate
Republicans, with some saying confirmation might be at risk. A
committee vote on the nomination was delayed for a week.  Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky on the Senate
floor yesterday said Perez, the Justice Department’s top civil
rights lawyer, has shown a willingness to “to bend or ignore
the law” in pursuit of “far-left ideology.” Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, joined McConnell in
opposition.  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican and member of the
labor committee considering the nomination, said, “there’s real
trouble with the nomination” because “a lot of people don’t
feel he’s been straightforward” answering questions from
lawmakers.  “There’s a real concern about giving him the job,”
Hatch told reporters.  The maneuvering over Perez, 51, underscores Republican
resistance to some Obama second-term cabinet picks, with
partisan splits also possible over  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  heiress
 Penny Pritzker  to be secretary of commerce and  Gina McCarthy  to
head the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  McConnell’s spokesman,  Don Stewart , said it is clear Perez
will need backing from at least 60 senators in the full Senate
to get the nomination to a vote. Democrats hold 55 seats.  The Senate health and labor committee planned to vote at 4
p.m. yesterday on sending the nomination to the full Senate,
until an anonymous Republican invoked a seldom-used rule barring
committee meetings that begin more than two hours after the full
Senate adjourns in the morning. A vote was rescheduled for May
16, the earliest date under the rule.  ‘Get Through’  Panel Chairman  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat, said he
remains confident Perez will be confirmed.  Republicans “don’t want Mr. Perez to be secretary of labor
because he is someone who knows how to get things done at the
Department of Labor,” he said in an interview. “They are going
to do everything they can go stop it, but he will get through.”  Perez, who would replace Hilda Solis, has clashed with
Republicans over his handling of two whistle-blower lawsuits
that the Justice Department declined to pursue, part of a deal
where St. Paul, Minnesota, agreed to drop a case being appealed
to the Supreme Court in return for the department withdrawing
from a whistle-blower case. On Tuesday, a Republican-led House
panel held a hearing on the cases, with Democrats decrying what
they said was a partisan effort to derail Perez’s selection.  House Subpoena  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, top Democrat on
the committee that held the hearing, yesterday joined
Representative Darrell Issa of California, the committee
chairman, in sending letter to Perez requesting that he provide
all personal e-mails used to conduct official business that were
subpoenaed by the panel last month, and respond by the end of
this week.  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, one of two Hispanic
Republicans, said yesterday he’ll vote against Perez and Senator
Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican and member of the labor
committee, said he also is likely to oppose him. Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, said weeks ago he will block the
confirmation in the full Senate.  At the White House, spokesman  Jay Carney  said Perez has a
long record of aiding poor and middle-class Americans, and that
Republicans are politicizing the confirmation.  “There has not been a case made that is not political and
partisan against his nomination, and we hope and expect the
Senate will move forward,” Carney said yesterday.  No Senate Republicans have publicly said they will support
Perez so far, although many senators make confirmation decisions
after committee action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  