-- Sharp Jumps on Credit Line, IPhone Supply Reports: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-05-08T04:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sharp-jumps-on-credit-line-iphone-supply-reports-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the unprofitable maker of
Aquos televisions, surged to a 10-month high in Tokyo trading
after media reports it will get an increased  credit line  from
lenders and supply  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone.  The stock surged as much as 11 percent to 385 yen, the
highest level since July 4, before trading at 369 yen as of the
midday break. Sharp will get a credit line of 150 billion yen
($1.5 billion) from lenders, the Nikkei newspaper reported.
Details will be set this week, two people familiar with the
matter said. The company will produce screens for the iPhone
starting in June, Nikkan Kogyo said. The electronics maker will
set an operating profit target of as much as 140 billion yen,
Sankei reported.  Sharp, which has 200 billion yen of convertible bonds due
this year, has been seeking investments from rivals and selling
assets as its cash pile shrinks amid continued losses in its
liquid-crystal-display business. The Osaka-based company, which
is due to release its mid-term plan on May 14, has 360 billion
yen of loans due June 30.  “These reports are positive for Sharp’s financing and
production,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito
Securities Co. “But the news is not enough to solve the problem
Sharp encounters. The market simply reacted to the positive
news.”  IPhone Displays  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.’s banking units will set up the new credit line,
which is higher than a previous 100 billion-yen plan, Nikkei
said without attributing the source of the information. The
funds will help the company repay the bonds while the banks will
extend deadlines for the loans due in June, the newspaper
reported.  Sharp will start producing LCDs for Apple’s new iPhone as
early as June, Nikkan Kogyo reported, without saying where it
got the information.  The 2015 operating-profit target for Sharp will be set
between 130 billion yen and 140 billion yen, Sankei reported,
without saying where it got the information.  The company isn’t the source of the report on its mid-term
plan, Sharp said in a statement. Sharp isn’t in a position to
comment on lenders’ plans, spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said by
phone, declining to comment on the Apple supply report. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  