-- Shearman Kuwait Deal, Baker & McKenzie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/shearman-kuwait-deal-baker-mckenzie-business-of-law.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, said it received $2.19 billion in cash
from  Petrochemical Industries Co.  of Kuwait as compensation for
the cancellation of a joint venture more than four years ago.  Shearman & Sterling LLP represented Dow on the mergers and
acquisitions transaction and the arbitration. The Shearman deal
team was led by George Casey and the arbitration team by Henry Weisburg. Anthony Grabiner of One Essex Court and Edward Sparrow
of Ashurst LLP are advising Petrochemical Industries.  The payment reflects the full damages awarded by the
International Chamber of Commerce as well as recovery of Dow’s
costs, the Midland, Michigan-based company said yesterday in
regulatory filing. Dow plans to use the money to pay down debt
and remunerate shareholders, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Liveris said yesterday in a statement.  “This was earlier and larger than we expected, and gives
management more flexibility for evaluating the structure of
Dow’s portfolio,” Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst
at Jefferies & Co., said in a report yesterday.  PIC, a unit of state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corp., canceled
a contract forming K-Dow, a 50-50 venture with Dow’s plastics
unit, in December 2008. The failure of the venture deprived Dow
of a $9 billion payment during the financial crisis, almost
derailed its 2009 purchase of Rohm & Haas Co. and prompted the
company’s first dividend cut.  For more, click here.  Moves  Baker Botts’s IP Palo Alto Head Kennerly to Join Paul Hastings  Paul Hastings LLP added Chris Kennerly, former chairman of
Baker Botts LLP’s Palo Alto,  California , intellectual property
department, as a partner in the intellectual property practice
in Palo Alto.  “We remain focused on our long-term strategy of building
a market-leading, global IP practice with expertise across the
pharmaceutical, high-tech, software, life science, mobile
telephone and payments system industries,” William Sullivan,
global chairman of the litigation practice, said in a statement.
“Chris’s significant experience with technology and telecom
companies will be a boon to our expanding IP practice and
another important step in executing our strategy.”  Kennerly leads teams in high-profile patent and trade-
secret cases, the firm said. While his practice focuses on
complex IP litigation, Kennerly is also experienced in patent
portfolio development and management, patent and trademark
licensing, and comprehensive IP counseling, among other matters.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia,  Europe  and
the U.S.  Mintz Levin Adds New York Corporate Practice Member  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC has expanded
its New York corporate and securities section with the addition
of Andrew Nagel, who joins as a member. He was formerly a
partner at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  Nagel has experience in mergers and acquisitions, private
equity transactions, restructurings, activist shareholder
matters, capital markets and corporate governance.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and  London .  Energy and Project Partner Andrea N. Satty Joins Stroock,  Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP announced the addition of
Andrea Satty as a partner in the firm’s energy and project
finance practice group. Satty was previously a partner at the
New York office of Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  Satty’s corporate and project finance practice covers
mergers and acquisitions, capital market transactions and
greenfield development. Her recent work includes representing
lenders on the $1.5 billion financing of the $3 billion Ruby
natural gas pipeline and representing  GDF Suez (GSZ)  North America
Inc. on its investment in and on the $1.5 billion construction
club financing of a natural gas-fired power station in Queens,
New York, the firm said.  Stroock & Stroock has lawyers at four offices in New York,
Los Angeles and Miami.  Jackson Lewis Hires Tracey Merwise in San Francisco  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that Tracey K. Merwise joined
the firm’s San Francisco office as partner.  She was previously
co-chairwoman of Severson & Werson PC’s labor and employment
practice group.  She specializes in helping employers de-escalate workplace
conflicts to minimize litigation risk and has provided legal
advice on all aspects of workforce management, including
employee leave, performance management, reasonable
accommodations, workplace violence prevention and wage and hour
compliance, the firm said. She also has experience defending
employers in individual plaintiff and class-action lawsuits.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys in 52 offices nationwide.  Dentons Adds Corporate Partner Stephen Fields in New York  Corporate lawyer Stephen M. Fields joined Dentons as a
partner in the firm’s corporate practice group in New York. He
was previously at McCarter & English LLP.  Fields focuses his practice on investment transactions on
behalf of fund managers in leveraged buyouts, mezzanine
investing and advising small business investment companies on
their formation, licensing and investment transactions.  Fields has formed more than 50 private equity, mezzanine
and venture capital funds in his career and has negotiated
investments by numerous institutional investors, including
business development companies, pension funds, insurance
companies, banks, unions, endowments and family investment
offices, the firm said.  Dentons has more than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79
locations in 52 countries across Africa, Asia Pacific, Asia,
Europe the Middle East and the Americas.  McKenna Long Adds Former New York State Senator Johnson  Craig M. Johnson, a former New York state senator, will
join McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP’s national government affairs
practice as managing director in New York City and  Albany , New
York, offices. He was most recently at Bloomberg Law, a division
of Bloomberg LP.  At Bloomberg, he was responsible for the development of
integrated market strategies for the American legal market. At
MLA, he will work on national, federal, state and local public
policy and government relations matters, the firm said.  He was a member of the New York Senate from 2007 through
2010, representing the 7th Senate District (Northwest Nassau
County). He was elected to the Senate in a February 2007 special
election.  McKenna Long has more than 575 attorneys at 16 offices in
the U.S., Brussels and Seoul.  Baker & McKenzie to Open Seoul Office, 73rd Worldwide  Baker & McKenzie LLP will open a  Seoul  office on May 21,
the firm’s 73rd office globally and 15th in Asia Pacific.  Nam Hung Paik, a Baker & McKenzie lawyer with 25 years of
experience, will be the firm’s representative in the Seoul
office, which will be initially staffed by three lawyers.  “We are delighted to be able to extend our assistance to
our Korean clients through our new office in Seoul,” Eduardo Leite, chairman of Baker & McKenzie’s executive committee said
in a statement. “We have worked with Korean clients for many
years as they have looked for new opportunities and expanded
across the globe.”  During the past two years, Baker & McKenzie has also opened
offices in  Peru ,  Morocco , South  Africa ,  Turkey  and Qatar. It
announced a merger with United Arab Emirates firm Habib Al Mulla
in July.  Video  Yahoo’s $30 Million May Be ‘Underpay’ for Summly’s D’Aloisio  Gregory Gale, partner at Squire Sanders LLP, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his representation of 17-
year-old British programmer Nick D’Aloisio in the recent sale of
his mobile startup Summly to Yahoo! Inc. for a reported $30
million.  Gale, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains why the
biggest U.S. Web portal’s purchase price may be an “underpay”
for the teenage entrepreneur and discusses the reasons for
increased overseas M&A activity by Silicon Valley companies.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  Litigation  Dotcom Accused of Crimes Nonexistent Under U.S. Law, Lawyers Say  The U.S. is accusing Kim Dotcom, the founder of the cloud-
storage service Megaupload.com, of crimes that don’t exist under
U.S. law, his lawyers said.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in January last year in  Virginia 
on charges of racketeering, money laundering, copyright
infringement and wire fraud through the website. The Internet
entrepreneur is scheduled in August to face an extradition
hearing to the U.S. from New Zealand, where he is a resident.  “The U.S. has charged Kim Dotcom with criminal liability
for the acts of his Megaupload cloud storage users, a form of
secondary copyright infringement,” according to a statement
from Dotcom’s attorneys. “But no criminal statute for secondary
copyright infringement exists.”  The statement and a white paper from Dotcom’s lawyers
Robert Amsterdam and Ira Rothken, were released to coincide with
a meeting yesterday in Auckland of attorneys general from the
U.S.,  Canada ,  Australia ,  England  and New Zealand.  Eric Holder, the U.S. attorney general, and his foreign
counterparts are also scheduled to meet with the Strategic
Alliance Group. The group comprises the five countries’ federal
policing agencies: the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Australian Federal Police, the U.K. Serious Organised Crime
Agency, New Zealand Police and Royal Canadian Mounted Police.  The attorneys general and agencies will discuss the
Megaupload case, according to Michael Gillies Smith, a spokesman
for Dotcom.  The U.S. is accusing Dotcom of running the website to
profit from piracy and is fighting Megaupload’s attempt to have
the case thrown out in Virginia.  A dismissal “would harm (perhaps fatally) the government’s
ability to fully prosecute serious criminal conduct of the
corporate defendant Megaupload, the ability of victims to obtain
justice, and the public’s interest in resolving the case
efficiently,” U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride said in a filing
May 2.  Dotcom and Megaupload were indicted in Virginia because
they leased servers in the state. MacBride has said that was
enough to go ahead with a seizure of Megaupload’s servers and
Dotcom’s assets.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928. High Court of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 