-- Women’s Tennis Moves Championships to Singapore From 2014
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-08T10:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/singapore-to-host-season-ending-wta-championships-from-2014.html
The Women’s Tennis Association will
move its season-ending championships to Singapore for five years
starting in 2014, as the organization tries to increase its fan
base in Asia.  Singapore was chosen from a three-city shortlist including
Tianjin,  China , and Monterrey,  Mexico , and the contract will
bring record revenue, WTA Chairman  Stacey Allaster  said today in
an interview. Istanbul currently hosts the event.  “It allows us to move women’s professional tennis to
markets where we can’t go with our regular calendar,” Allaster
said. “It allows us to continue growing our brand, growing our
fan base.”  From 2014, the top eight singles players and top eight
doubles teams will compete for a record prize money pool of $6.5
million at the tournament, which will take place at the 7,500-seat Singapore Indoor Stadium, the WTA said.  The organization opened an office in Beijing in 2008, and
is interested in capitalizing on the success and popularity of
Li Na, the fifth-ranked player from China. Her victory at the
2011 French Open helped boost the sport in the region, with a
gain of 40 to 50 percent in television audiences, Allaster said.  “It’ll take a decade,” Allaster said. “We’ll have more
tournaments in Asia than any other region by 2014.”  The contract with  Singapore  is the first time the WTA has
locked in a city for the year-end event for more than three
years, Allaster said. The last three hosts -- Madrid, Qatar and
Istanbul -- have been for two or three years.  “It’s the one strong asset we can move around the globe
and focus on getting the most out of a region,” she said. “We
want to lay down a real roadmap and seize our opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  