-- Sistema Seeks to Emulate Blackstone, KKR to Boost Stock
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-05-08T12:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sistema-seeks-to-emulate-blackstone-to-kkr-to-boost-stock.html
AFK Sistema (SSA) ,  Russia ’s largest publicly
traded investment company, is seeking to emulate  Blackstone
Group (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and narrow the gap between its value and the
sum of its holdings.  Sistema is modeling itself on the global investment funds
to boost returns to shareholders, moving away from long-term
investments to buy and sell assets in industries ranging from
logistics to fertilizers, President Mikhail Shamolin said in an
interview in Moscow.  Sistema has lost 3.7 percent in  London  trading this year
through yesterday, while gaining 6.6 percent  in Moscow .
Blackstone has surged 42 percent this year and KKR has climbed
35 percent in New York, extending last year’s gains.  Billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s Sistema has a market
value of $9.6 billion, about half of the sum of its largest
assets. Moscow-based Sistema’s 51 percent of Russia’s largest
mobile operator  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  is worth about $10.4
billion and the value of 73 percent of oil producer OAO Bashneft
is about $9 billion.  Sistema’s discount to those assets should narrow to a
“fair” level of “no more than 20 percent” after it boosted
dividends and promised shareholders to generate about $500
million every year from asset sales, said Shamolin, who
previously served as chief executive officer of the mobile
operator known as MTS.  Sistema is set to pay a dividend of 0.96 rubles a share for
2012, tripling the payout from 2011 to about $300 million.  Expansion Plans  Shamolin was promoted to head Sistema two years ago,
seeking to transform it into an Western-style investment fund
after five years of net losses from electronics maker OAO
 Sitronics (SITR)  and selling real-estate developer  Sistema Hals (HALS)  after a
credit squeeze in 2009. Sitronics was delisted in London last
year.  Since Shamolin’s appointment in March 2011, Sistema has
lost 14 percent, compared with a 24 percent drop in Russia’s
benchmark Micex Index. In that time, Sistema has bought rail
cargo carrier SG-Trans for more than $730 million, set up an
agriculture venture with the Louis-Dreyfus family and sold the
Bashkirenergo power generator for $360 million.  The stock gained for a sixth consecutive day today in
London, rising 2.9 percent $20.01 at 1:46 p.m. local time.
Sistema is rated buy by 14 out of 16 analysts, according to data
 compiled  by Bloomberg.  Sistema is seeking to expand in industries where it has
assets and enter areas such as warehouses, seaports and
chemicals, Shamolin said. The company may buy assets on the
market and from the state during planned privatization, he said.  “I prefer so called brick-and-mortar businesses where it’s
clear how and why you’ll make profit under certain macroeconomic
conditions,” Shamolin said. “Agriculture is one example. Land
is set to increase in value as global population is growing and
needs more food.”  Sistema is also interested in real estate in European
countries hit by the financial crisis, and MTS will look at
bidding for Telekom Srbija when the government sets terms for a
sale, Shamolin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  