-- Small Donors May Make Politics Even Worse
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-05-08T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/small-donors-may-make-politics-even-worse.html
Can small money overwhelm big money?
Faced with a hostile  Supreme Court  and a gridlocked Congress
offering little chance of passing legislation, today’s campaign-finance reformers sure hope so.  The notion is alluring. Online fundraising has made it easy
to collect large sums in small increments from thousands,
hundreds of thousands or even millions of people. Soon,
proponents hope, politicians won’t have to go to lobbyists and
corporate bundlers; the Internet will simply disrupt campaign
finance as it has upended so much else.  Freed from corporate money, which always wants something in
return, politicians could instead rely on citizen money, which
merely wants good government. And if by some happy political
accident campaign-finance legislation eventually becomes
possible, it need only reinforce the democratizing tendencies of
the Internet, perhaps by creating a federal matching system for
small donors.  So goes the theory, anyway. Add some transparency rules to
identify the anonymous (and seemingly unlimited) flood of cash
from independent groups facilitated by the Supreme Court’s
Citizens United decision and its sister rulings from lower
courts, and all of a sudden you’ve got a pretty good campaign-finance system.  Begging Lawmakers  This week, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy, a freshman Democrat
from  Connecticut , spoke at a Yale University conference on
money, power and inequality. He described the pathetic spectacle
of elected representatives spending hours each day in warrens at
their political party’s headquarters, acting more like
telemarketers than statesmen. “If it looks bad from the outside
it feels even worse from the inside,” he said.  He argued that American politics now selects people willing
to devote themselves to that soul-crushing task for hours each
day. “Comfortable asking total strangers for money” is not, I
think, a character trait most Americans admire. Now it’s a
prerequisite for running for office -- and thus it distorts who
actually ends up holding office.  But Murphy was also a realist about the prospects of small
donors fixing what ails the system.  “We have to admit that everybody who is giving is giving
for a reason,” Murphy said. “Some of them are your friends and
family and they care about you. But most of the time they care
about an issue, whether they’re a corporation or an individual.
We draw these arbitrary lines, but corporations want things from
the government, and so do individuals.”  That’s the secret of small money. We tend to assume “small
donors” hail from that mythical, much-beloved class of people
known as “ordinary Americans.” They’re not. Even if tens of
millions of Americans are donating, hundreds of millions of
other Americans aren’t. The tiny minority that donates is
different from the vast majority that doesn’t: They’re much,
much more ideologically polarized.  What individual donors tend to want, Murphy said, is
partisanship. “When I send out a fundraising e-mail talking
about how bad Republicans are, I raise three times as much as
when I send out an e-mail talking about how good I am. People
are motivated to give based on their fear of the other side
rather than on their belief in their side.”  According to  OpenSecrets.org , the three top fundraisers in
the  House of Representatives  in the 2012 election were Speaker
 John Boehner  -- makes sense, the guy runs the place -- followed
by former Representative  Allen West  and Representative  Michele Bachmann .  Oy.  West was a one-term Florida congressman famous for pithy
observations such as, “I must confess, when I see anyone with an
Obama 2012 bumper sticker, I recognize them as a threat to the
gene pool.” He raised an extraordinary $19 million. Bachmann
raised $15 million. (Victors in 2012 House races raised about
$1.7 million on  average .) Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , in case
you’re wondering, came in fifth, with a bit over $7 million.  Passionate Activists  The fundraising reports tell the story. Although small-donor contributions of less than $200 accounted for just 5
percent of Cantor’s total, small donations accounted for 48
percent of West’s contributions and 64 percent of Bachmann’s.  On a gut level, I vastly prefer the passionate party
activist who sends $200 to her favorite fire-breather to the
lobbyist who coolly covers his bets by supplying $2,000 to both
candidates in a race. One is acting as an engaged citizen. The
other is a glorified bagman. But both have the potential to
break our political system.  Just as big money is corrupting, small money is polarizing.
And it’s polarization that probably poses the bigger threat to
American politics right now. Big money, for example, generally
wants to raise the debt ceiling. Small money is one reason
Republicans in Congress came close to breaching it. Big money
often wants the two parties more or less to get along; no one
gets a tax break if legislation dies on the floor. Small money
will turn on you if you dare cut a deal with the other side. Big
money erodes what little trust Americans still have in their
political system. Small money attacks the bipartisanship that,
for better and worse, is required for the system to function.  “Internet financing can be a temporary salve on the wound,”
said Murphy, who raised much of his campaign contributions
online. “But ultimately, it needs to be public financing of
elections.”  I agree that public financing is part of the solution. But
it isn’t enough. We also need to change the rules and incentives
to keep polarized parties from undermining the well-being of the
country. That will require disarming some of the procedural
tactics that politicians have weaponized in recent years: making
debt-ceiling increases automatic, for example, rather than an
opportunity for hostage-taking, and ridding the Senate of the
filibuster, or at least making it harder to use.  Partisanship isn’t going away, and campaign-finance reforms
that don’t accommodate that fact could make problems worse. At
some point, we have to adapt to the partisan landscape we have
rather than imagining we can return to the ideologically mixed
parties and bipartisan political system of the mid-20th century.
It’s not coming back. Just ask those small donors.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 