-- SoftBank Says Sprint Merger Will Save $3 Billion a Year
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-05-09T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/softbank-said-to-say-sprint-deal-will-save-3-billion-a-year.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , defending its takeover
bid for  Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp. against a counteroffer from  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) , told investors that its deal will bring about $3
billion in annual operating savings by 2017.  A SoftBank transaction will save more than $2 billion a
year on average from 2014 to 2017, reaching a run rate of $3
billion annually after that, the Tokyo-based company said in  a
filing . The merged companies will also be able to cut Sprint’s
capital spending by 32 percent to 36 percent, SoftBank said.
President Masayoshi Son presented the numbers to Sprint
investors in a meeting in New York, two people familiar with the
matter said.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, is
weighing a $25.5 billion bid from Dish, the nation’s second-largest satellite-TV provider. While the price tops SoftBank’s
$20.1 billion offer, Dish has been less specific about how it
will fund the transaction.  Sprint’s board is concerned about Dish’s ability to obtain
the financing, as well as the debt that would be placed on the
merged company, a person familiar with the deliberations said
this week. Dish has estimated that it could produce $11 billion
in cost savings as the two companies reduce overlap in marketing
staff and other business units, though Sprint’s directors have
questioned how those synergies would be produced, the person
said.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment, nor did
 Scott Sloat  at  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint.  Sprint’s Comeback  SoftBank’s synergy information is based on nine months of
diligence performed before it announced its deal with Sprint in
October. Like Sprint, SoftBank is a wireless carrier, so the
companies could pool their phone and network-equipment
purchasing to buy and bulk.  Dish, meanwhile, aims to use Sprint to expand into the
mobile-phone market -- part of Chairman  Charlie Ergen ’s plan to
decrease his reliance on the slowing satellite-TV market.  SoftBank also is providing $8 billion in cash to Sprint,
helping accelerate its turnaround plan. The U.S. carrier is
angling to return to profitability after the $36 billion
purchase of Nextel Communications Inc. in 2005 saddled the
company with debt and led to tens of billions of dollars in
losses.  Sprint shares rose 0.4 percent to $7.35 at the close in  New
York . They have climbed 30 percent this year, putting them above
the price offered by SoftBank or Dish, suggesting that investors
are expecting a bidding war.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  