-- South Africans Parody Zuma as Wedding Uses Army Base
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-09T13:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/south-africans-parody-zuma-as-wedding-uses-army-base.html
An Indian family is playing monopoly
when one of the brothers exclaims that he has found a place
where you can buy the president and land your airplane at a
military base. The country is South Africa.  The sketch aired May 7 on the Johannesburg-based  YFM radio
station  refers to President  Jacob Zuma ’s ties to the Gupta
family and the landing of an Airbus carrying wedding guests at
the high-security Waterkloof Air Force base near  Pretoria , the
capital. Zuma, whose son Duduzane is a director at the Guptas’
Sahara Computers and  Shiva Uranium , says he had no role in
approving the use of the military facility and lower level
officials were to blame. Many  South Africans  are skeptical.  “Zuma knows how it happened,” said Sipho Radebe, a 42-year-old delivery driver from Johannesburg’s Soweto township.
“He has too close a relationship with this Gupta family.”  The so-called Guptagate controversy has united groups
ranging from opposition parties to the ruling  African National
Congress  in their outrage. The two-million member Congress of
South African Trade Unions, an ANC ally, called it “an absolute
insult to the people of South Africa.”  Zuma, 71, has been tainted by scandals before, including an
illegitimate child with a friend’s daughter, the use of $27
million in state funds to upgrade a private home and rape
charges, of which he was acquitted in 2006. He has survived them
all. In December he strengthened his control over the party
after easily defeating a leadership challenge from Vice
President  Kgalema Motlanthe .  Zuma’s Indecision  At the same time his indecision and the resulting
instability in the ANC has dented investor confidence. Zuma
allowed a debate of whether to nationalize mines to take place
publicly for two years, made legal appointments that were
overturned by the courts and allowed the passing of a law that
critics including opposition parties say will curb freedom of
speech.  Since his inauguration on May 9, 2009, the rand has fallen
7.8 percent against the dollar, the worst performance out of 16
major currencies traded by Bloomberg. The rand strengthened 0.3
percent to 8.9802 as of 2:17 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The ANC agreed to holding a parlimentary debate on the
landing, the party said in an e-mailed statement today.  “As an organization that is concerned with the safety and
sovereignty of  South Africa , we cannot allow a situation whereby
our ports of entry and national key points are penetrated with
impunity,” it said.  Gupta Connection  To limit the political fallout from the wedding scandal,
said Somadoda Fikeni, a political analyst at the Pretoria-based
University of South Africa, Zuma must take “drastic steps to
cut the relationship with the Gupta family.”  Zuma has been a friend of the Guptas for about a decade,
Sahara Computers Managing Director Atul Gupta said in an
interview with the Johannesburg-based Daily Maverick in 2011.  Atul Gupta may be suspended from the ANC, Business Day
reported today, citing a letter sent by a branch secretary to
the chairman of the branch of the party he belongs to.  Duduzane Zuma, besides holding directorship posts at Sahara
Computers and Shiva Uranium, was part of a group including the
Guptas that sought 800 million rand ($90 million) for a mining
right disputed by Anglo American Plc unit Kumba Iron Ore.  Zuma’s Wife  Zuma’s wife, Bongi Ngema-Zuma, works for Gupta-controlled
 JIC Mining Services  as a communications officer. The Gupta
family’s newspaper, the New Age, benefits from regular
advertisements from state-owned companies such as Telkom SA SOC
Ltd. and Transnet SOC Ltd.  After their private jet touched down at Waterkloof on April
30, the wedding guests were driven in black BMWs fitted with
flashing police lights to a three-day ceremony at the Palace of
the Lost City in the Sun City casino and resort 150 kilometers
(90 miles) to the west.  A May 5  cartoon  in the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times
depicts the three Gupta brothers as welcoming bride and groom,
Vega Gupta and Aakash Jahajgarhia, with a fleet of police cars
and saluting officers and saying: “For your wedding gift we
bought you a country and a president.”  ‘Spectacular Chariot’  The wedding, which the couple drove to in a red Maserati,
was supposed to showcase South Africa as a tourist destination,
the Gupta family said. Aakash entered one of the ceremonies,
which was set up in “pink and purple decor adorned with velvet
couches, velvet drapes and chandeliers with a digital screen”
on a “spectacular chariot,” according to a family statement.  Family spokesmen Gary Naidoo and Haranath Ghosh, who
previously said the family obtained all the required approvals
for the event, didn’t return calls to their office seeking
comment.  Minister of Public Enterprises Malusi Gigaba and Trade and
Industry Minister  Rob Davies  attended parts of the celebrations.  In the wake of the controversy, the government arrested 11
police officers and a reservist, and suspended five officials,
including the chief of state protocol, three senior military
officers and a police major general. Initially, it ordered an
investigation into whether the Indian High Commission abused its
diplomatic privilege to secure the landing rights.  Zuma later absolved  India  and said lower level officials
were responsible and “are the people we need to act against.”  High Commissioner Virendra Gupta said his country applied
for permission to land the plane at the base because ministers
and senior political figures were on board. Wedding spokesman
Ghosh said the military facility was used with “with full
permission of the authorities.”  “South Africans need to understand why and how a single
family has come to wield such enormous power and influence over
sections of government and its administration,” said Neeshan
Balton, executive director of the  Ahmed Kathrada Foundation ,
named for an ANC activist who was imprisoned on Robben Island
with  Nelson Mandela .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  