-- SPG Land to Sell Control, Peninsula Stake, Pay Special Dividend
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-08T20:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/spg-land-to-sell-control-peninsula-stake-pay-special-dividend.html
SPG Land Holdings Ltd. (337)  said it will
sell both a controlling stake in itself and its half interest in
 Shanghai ’s Peninsula hotel, raising $561.5 million to repay bank
loans, fund projects and distribute a special dividend.  Greenland Holding Group Co.  will pay HK$3 billion ($386
million), or HK$1.90 a share, for new stock representing a 60
percent stake in the developer, SPG said yesterday in a filing
to the Hong Kong stock exchange. SPG Chairman Wang Weixian will
buy the company’s 50 percent stake in the Peninsula Shanghai for
1.08 billion  yuan  ($175 million), according to the statement.  In March,  China  ordered higher down payments and borrowing
costs for second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively
fast” price gains, as well as stricter enforcement of taxes on
sales. Shanghai-based SPG is among developers with a large
proportion of high-end projects that appeal to speculative
buyers and so are “more exposed” to the new rules, according
to a March 5 Moody’s Investors Service report.  Greenland’s investment “will strengthen the financial
position of the group, raise the profile of the group in  Hong
Kong  and China, and allow the group to benefit from the strong
support and resources of Greenland,” SPG said in the filing.
The company plans to change its name to Greenland Hong Kong
Holdings Ltd.  Investors in the company’s $200 million of 13.5 percent
notes due April 2016 last year agreed to change the terms of its
debt to allow the company more flexibility to sell assets.  SPG shares will resume trading in Hong Kong today after
being suspended on April 19. The  stock  gained 11 percent to
HK$3.82 on April 18 and has almost doubled in value this year,
compared with a 2.6 percent gain in the city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Peninsula Sale  For the Peninsula sale, the company said its joint-venture
agreement gives partner  Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels Ltd. (45)  the
right to buy the company’s stake at a 20 percent discount to
market value if Wang’s holding in SPG falls to less than 50
percent. The disposal avoids this preemption right, SPG said.  SPG said it plans to issue four bonus shares for each share
held to maintain its public float after the stake sale. Wang
will take convertible preference shares in place of bonus stock,
SPG said. After the bonus issue, SPG plans to consolidate every
five shares into one new share.  The company will then pay out HK$1.275 a consolidated
share, or about HK$1.34 billion, as a special dividend. This
will leave the company total  net proceeds  of about HK$2.94
billion from the disposal and share issue with which to pay bank
loans and fund real estate projects, the company said.  Greenland is a state-controlled, Shanghai-based based
company that owns real estate projects in 70 cities in 25
Chinese provinces, SPG said. Greenland also invests in energy
and finance, it said.  The deals are subject to regulatory waivers and shareholder
approval, SPG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  