-- Standard Chartered Profit Falls as Corporate Division Slips
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-08T16:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/stanchart-revenue-grows-slightly-on-gains-in-africa-hong-kong.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the British
lender fined $667 million for breaking sanctions on  Iran , said
first-quarter operating profit declined “slightly” as income
at its wholesale unit shrank.  Growth in income at the consumer bank helped to offset the
“mid single-digit” percentage decline at the wholesale bank,
which provides financing to corporate clients, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The lender is alone among
Britain’s five biggest banks in not reporting full quarterly
figures. The stock fell 4.4 percent to 1,625 pence in London
trading, its steepest drop since August.  The wholesale division, which generates most of the bank’s
profit, includes trade finance, lending to companies and some
investment-banking services. Full-year revenue may still
increase by 8 percent, short of the bank’s annual target of 10
percent, Finance Director Richard Meddings told reporters on a
conference call today, as growth in Hong Kong and  Africa  was
eroded by weaker income in Korea and  Singapore .  “The weakness seen in” the first quarter “was rather
broad based, with both consumer banking and wholesale banking
showing falling profit,” Patrick Lee, an analyst at RBC  Europe 
with a sector perform rating on the stock, wrote in a note to
clients today. “It would take a very robust recovery to deliver
the near-double-digit profit before tax growth after the falling
operating profit in” the first quarter.  ‘Slow Start’  “Stanchart will surely grow this year, but it remains to
be seen whether they can achieve their double-digit targets,”
said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Value Investment
Principals Ltd. in Hong Kong, which doesn’t own shares in the
lender. “The year is off to a slow start so some catch-up will
be required.”  Meddings said he is still comfortable the consensus analyst
estimate for full-year pretax profit of  $8.2 billion . The bank
said it started the second quarter well, with income in April
“back at trend levels,” according to the statement.  “Last year we produced revenue growth of 8 percent and
we’ll see. It may be that we’ll be more likely to be at that
level” for this year, Meddings said. “But at this stage I’d
like to see May and June before we give proscriptive guidance.”
The bank will keep a tight grip on costs after hiring 560 people
in the quarter, he added.  Quantative Easing  Western monetary policy has squeezed profit margins in
Asia, Meddings said. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
has injected more than $2.3 trillion into the financial system
since 2008. The Fed is currently buying $85 billion of debt each
month under a policy of so-called quantitative easing.  There’s “greater pressure on margins and spreads and it
basically comes from the U.S. monetary policy,” Meddings said.
“The key anxiety would be to watch for is the impact of western
monetary policy across Asia.”  “The issue facing all of the strong global banks, such as
Standard Chartered, is how to make more money in poor-to-middling economic times,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who has a buy recommendation on
the shares. The lender “is a very liquid bank, and this gives
Standard Chartered limited ways to invest that excess liquidity
and earn a decent return.”  False Records  In August, Standard Chartered was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the  New York  Department of Financial Services,
of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of
federal laws, keeping false records and handling lucrative wire
transfers for Iranian clients.  Chairman John Peace was forced by U.S. regulators to
apologize for claiming breaches of sanctions on Iran that led to
the fine were unintentional. Peace, who told reporters at a
March 5 press conference that the firm had no “willful”
intention to dodge U.S. rules, said in a statement on March 21
that the earlier claim was “wrong.”  The firm “accepts and acknowledges responsibility for its
misconduct” that led to the fines, Peace told shareholders
today at its annual meeting.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the other U.K. bank that gets most of
its earnings in Asia, yesterday posted a bigger-than-estimated
increase in first-quarter profit after provisions for bad loans
shrank. Pretax profit increased to $8.43 billion from $4.32
billion a year earlier. Standard Chartered’s stock has gained
3.3 percent this year compared with HSBC’s 14 percent increase.  “Standard Chartered has a more coherent franchise
worldwide” and “has been more effectively managed in recent
years,” Antos at Mizuho said. “But this year if you want to
make money on bank stocks, you have to look at HSBC first. The
market loves a recovery story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  