-- Sweden Looks to Africa to Flee Europe’s ‘Tough Neighborhood’
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-08T11:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/sweden-looks-to-africa-to-flee-europe-s-tough-neighborhood-1-.html
Sweden is now targeting  Africa  to
revive trade as the Nordic region’s largest economy adjusts to a
slump in demand from Europe.  Sweden needs to sell to more markets outside Europe to
achieve economic growth of 3 percent, Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said yesterday in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. Borg is
touring Africa, traveling from  Ethiopia  before heading to  South
Africa  for the  World Economic Forum  in Cape Town.  “We’re in a tough neighborhood because the rest of Europe
is growing very slowly, so we are heavily diversifying our trade
toward  Asia , but also I think to Africa and  Latin America ,”
Borg told reporters in Abuja. “We don’t want to be stuck in a
low-growth Europe.”  Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy will expand 5.6 percent this
year and 6.1 percent next year, according to April estimates by
the  International Monetary Fund . The region is outgrowing an
estimated global expansion of 3.3 percent this year and 4
percent next year, according to the IMF.  The 17-nation euro area will shrink 0.4 percent this year,
the European Commission said on May 4.  “A main driver of growth in 2014 will be the strengthening
of activity in South Africa and other middle-income countries,
predicated on improvements in the external environment,”
according to the IMF report. “Similarly, some low-income and
fragile countries are expected to do better, including those
currently experiencing internal conflict.”  Trade Flows  Swedish Trade Minister Ewa Bjoerling has urged exporters to
target markets outside Europe to reduce the country’s reliance
on a region hampered by recession, rising unemployment,
austerity and budget cuts in the wake of the  European debt
crisis . Swedish exports dropped 3.6 percent last year. Of the
nation’s total exports in 2012, 71 percent went to Europe while
11 percent were shipped to Asia and Oceania. Only 3 percent were
sent to Africa.  “Africa’s youthful population, its huge production
potential, its market and its vitality will for the next couple
of decades play a crucial role when it comes to vitalizing the
world economy,” Borg said. Still, “there are many challenges
in terms of infrastructure, ports, roads, railways,
electricity,” he said, also listing “political issues,
openness, democracy, freedom of speech” as concerns.  Africa needs  $93 billion per year  over a decade to improve
infrastructure, with almost half of that required to boost power
supply, according to a 2009 World Bank report. With 7 to 10
million young people entering the  labor force  each year, the
continent has an  annual gap of $48 billion  between
infrastructure needs and investments, the lender said in March
2011.  Export Growth  The Swedish government forecasts that exports to sub-
Saharan Africa will grow 5.2 percent this year, followed by a
9.3 percent expansion in 2014 and growth of 12 percent and 14
percent in 2015 and 2016, respectively. Exports to North Africa
and the  Middle East  are estimated to increase 3.1 percent this
year and 11 percent in 2014, followed by a 10 percent expansion
in 2015 and growth of 8.1 percent in 2016. Exports to Asia are
seen rising 8 percent next year, while exports to the European
Union are projected to advance 4.3 percent.  “I think many of the Swedish companies are reassessing
their perspective on Africa, and actually seeing a lot of
investment opportunities,” Borg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  