-- U.K.’s Landlords Face Fines for Undocumented Immigrants
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-08T13:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/u-k-s-landlords-face-fines-for-undocumented-immigrants.html
U.K. landlords would be fined
thousands of pounds if they fail to check the visa status of
their tenants to ensure they’re legally in the country, under
 planned legislation  as the government tries to win back voters.  Hurt by local-election losses last week at the hands
of the anti-immigration and anti-European Union U.K.
Independence Party, Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg today
offered Parliament a package of measures unlikely to provoke
discord from their own sides. The National Landlords Association
said it welcomed the additional checks, which will affect
thousands of property owners, and called for further action.  Local government “must undertake robust, intelligence-led,
targeted enforcement,” NLA Chief Executive Officer  Richard
Lambert  said in an e-mailed statement. “Otherwise illegal
immigrants who are refused housing by reputable landlords will
face homelessness or be pushed straight back into arms of the
criminals who deliberately exploit vulnerable people.”  The coalition government has been cutting funding for
programs such as housing benefits and aid to families with
children as part of an austerity program aimed at reducing the
 budget deficit . Annual immigration to the U.K. has fallen by a
third to about 160,000 a year since the government was elected
in 2010, Cameron said in a speech in March.  The London-based NLA said tenant background checks should
also include whether the occupant has any county court judgments
and possible aliases as well as references from their employer
and a previous landlord.  About 136,900 so-called buy-to-let loans were provided to
U.K. investors last year alone, according to the  Council of
Mortgage Lenders . The mortgages used to buy rental properties
rose to 11.5 percent of all home loans in 2012, compared with
9.8 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  