-- U.K. House Prices Climb to Highest Since 2010, Halifax Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-08T09:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/u-k-house-prices-increase-to-highest-since-2010-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose to the highest
in almost three years in April as low mortgage repayments helped
support demand, Halifax said.  Home values  increased 1.1 percent from the previous month
to an average 166,094 pounds ($257,200), the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today.
That’s the highest since 2010. From a year earlier, values rose
3.6 percent.  The property market is showing signs of recovery after
officials started the Funding for Lending Scheme in August,
designed to improve mortgage availability. The Bank of England
will probably keep its  stimulus program  on hold tomorrow as
policy makers assess signs growth gained momentum last month
after the economy expanded in the first quarter.  “House prices continue to pick up gradually,” said Martin Ellis, housing economist at Halifax. Still, “weak income growth
and continuing below-trend economic growth are likely to remain
significant constraints on housing demand during the remainder
of 2013.”  The pound was unchanged against the dollar from yesterday,
trading at $1.5484 as of 10:03 a.m.  London  time.  Halifax said the “relatively low” level of mortgage
payments in relation to income is supporting prices. Typical
mortgage payments at the long-term average loan-to-value ratio
have fallen to 28 percent of disposable earnings from a peak of
48 percent in 2007, it said. This is below the average recorded
since 1984 of 36 percent.  FLS Impact  In the three months through April, house prices were 1.3
percent higher than in the previous three months, according to
Halifax. This was the fifth consecutive increase in this
measure. From a year earlier, values were up 2 percent in the
three-month period.  Mortgage approvals  rose in March, and the central bank said
the availability of home loans may increase in the current
quarter as the impact of the FLS is felt. In addition to the
credit-boosting program, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has pledged 3.5 billion pounds to help home buyers.  Hometrack Ltd. said last month that improving sentiment and
a shortage of properties for sale are supporting values. Average
house prices in England and  Wales  increased 0.3 percent in
April, the same as in March, which was the largest gain in three
years, the London-based property researcher said.  The U.K. economy expanded 0.3 percent in the  first quarter ,
avoiding an unprecedented triple-dip recession. The BOE will
probably leave its target for bond purchases at 375 billion
pounds and its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to economists in two Bloomberg News surveys. The bank
will announce the decisions at noon in London tomorrow.  “It is hard to see how any house-price recovery can be
sustained,” Matthew Pointon, property economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, said in a research note. “We expect
that prices will continue to mark time, with record low mortgage
rates helping to prevent significant price falls, but a
weakening labor market weighing down on any gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  