-- U.S. Should Export Natural Gas, Not Coal
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-08T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/u-s-should-export-natural-gas-not-coal.html
President  Barack Obama ’s suggestion
last weekend that  he may favor  greater U.S. exports of liquefied
natural gas is a welcome sign. More exports would spur more
domestic production and help balance U.S. trade.  LNG exports could also help counter the unsettling increase
in American  exports of coal  to  Europe . In 2012, the U.S. sent
about 66.4 million short tons (60.2 million metric tons) of coal
across the Atlantic, 23 percent more than the year before.
Exporting coal works against the progress the U.S. has made in
lowering its own greenhouse-gas emissions by replacing coal
power with cleaner-burning natural gas.  In Europe and Asia, where natural gas sells for $10 to $16
per million British thermal units -- three to four times the
U.S. price -- demand is high. Imports from the U.S. could also
give European countries greater power to bargain on prices with
 Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, now a dominant supplier of natural gas.
All that’s missing are the U.S. facilities to liquefy gas for
export.  Opposition to building these terminals comes mainly from
U.S. manufacturing companies that  don’t want to see  domestic
natural-gas prices go up as some of the supply is sold overseas.
Dow Chemical Co., Alcoa Inc. and other industrial-energy users
argue that by raising domestic prices, exports would slow the
U.S. manufacturing renaissance and hobble economic growth. Paul Cicio, president of the Washington-based trade group Industrial
Energy Consumers of America, has  called for  delaying approvals
for some new export terminals to avoid a domestic price shock.  Individual consumers, too, have reason to wince at the
prospect of electricity and natural-gas bills going up because
of greater exports.  More Production  Yet any increase in prices would be temporary if gas
production rises, too. The low U.S. prices of the past year and
a half (last June, they were less than $2.50 per million Btu,
and have since risen to about $4) led many energy companies to
stop drilling. With more demand from exports, more production is
to be expected. As much as 80 percent of foreign demand for
American natural gas could be met by new drilling,  studies 
suggest.  In  a December report  for the U.S. Energy Department, NERA
Economic Consulting found -- as other  researchers  have before --
that exports would bring a net economic benefit by helping to
balance U.S. trade. The increase in gross domestic product may
amount to $20 billion, or possibly as much as $47 billion if
very large amounts of LNG -- 12 billion cubic feet per day --
are exported, the NERA study found.  Delaying or restricting export terminal permits would not
only negate that benefit. It would also put the U.S. in a new
trade quandary: Because there is no national-security reason to
limit exports of the U.S.’s new surplus of natural gas, doing so
would amount to unfair competition. As Michael Levi of the
Council on Foreign Relations has pointed out, the World Trade
Organization might see limits on U.S. natural-gas exports as no
less unfair than are  China ’s restrictions on exports of rare-earth elements.  The U.S., with its  $38.8 billion  trade deficit, shouldn’t
see its booming oil and gas production as a reason to secede
from global energy markets.  Obama seems to agree; in Costa Rica on May 4, he said he
envisions the U.S. becoming a net natural-gas exporter by 2020.
If so, he has some work to do converting words into action.  Last year, the Energy Department gave a permit to one
facility in Louisiana to sell LNG to countries without trade
agreements with the U.S. -- including sales to  Japan  and
European nations. Nineteen more applications are pending. Given
the expense and time involved in building these plants --
several billion dollars each and at least four years -- only a
few can be expected to come to fruition.  A recent Moody’s Investors Service report predicted that if
three more plants -- in Texas, Maryland and  Louisiana  -- are
soon approved, as expected, it will still take until 2020 for
the U.S. to export significant quantities of natural gas.  On May 4, Obama said, “I’ve got to make an executive
decision broadly about whether or not we export liquefied
natural gas at all.” Though the decision has yet to be made, the
right one is clear, and the approvals of the new plants should
be made without delay.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  