-- Tullow Oil to Seek Partner for Ghana’s TEN Project
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-05-08T15:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/tullow-oil-to-seek-kenya-partners-as-finds-make-exports-viable.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer that
found  Kenya ’s first oil, plans to find more partners in Ghana’s
TEN project, the Chief Executive Officer said.  In Ghana, “it’s never been our intention to stick with 50
percent all the way through,” Heavey said today in London.
“It’s too much for any company, even a major company.”  In  East Africa , Tullow together with partner  Africa Oil
Corp. (AOI)  plans to drill about 10 wells in Kenya and Ethiopia this
year to explore the Turkana Rift Basin that stretches between
the two countries. If local roads were improved, Tullow could
start producing from Kenya now, possibly trucking crude to the
refinery in Mombasa, he said.  Tullow, based in London, has drilled three wells in Kenya
with the first oil discovery at the Ngamia well and the first
commercial flow from the Twiga well in the South Lokichar Basin.
The nation may export its first crude at the same time as
Uganda, where Tullow is working with  Total SA (FP)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  to
develop the Lake Albert fields, Heavey told reporters.  “A few more wells may actually prove it to be a major
development” the CEO said. “If that’s the case, then the
pipeline from Uganda could quite easily go through Lokichar,
pick up the oil there” for exports through an Indian Ocean
port. “What we are trying to do is to bring in the right type
of partners and we get them to come up with financing.”  Unlike landlocked Uganda, Kenya doesn’t require running an
export pipeline across other countries, he said. Tullow will
bring a fourth rig to the region to accelerate drilling later
this year and will increase the Ngamia well resource estimate
“quite significantly” following “encouraging” tests.  In West Africa, the company is looking for partners to sell
part of its largest stakes in exploration licenses in deep
waters off Mauritania, Heavey said.  Tullow global oil and gas producing projects generate
enough cash to spend about $1 billion a year on exploration.  “We are focused on building the biggest exploration
business around,” Heavey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  