-- Turkish Banks Lead Index to Record on Upgrade Bets
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-08T16:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/turkish-banks-lead-stock-index-to-record-on-bets-of-s-p-upgrade.html
(Correct lira conversion in 7th paragraph)  Turkish banks  lifted the benchmark
 stock index  to a record as investors speculated  Standard &
Poor’s  will raise the nation to investment grade and as Kurdish
militants started withdrawing from the country today.  Turkey ’s banking index advanced 2.6 percent to the highest
level since at least May 2001, driving the Borsa Istanbul gauge
of 100 largest  stocks  up 1.6 percent to 90,852.21 at the close
in Istanbul. Financial stocks have a 57 percent weighting in the
benchmark measure, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P will hold a meeting in Turkey on June 4, according to a
statement on the rating company’s website today. Turkey is rated
BB+ at S&P, one level below investment grade. PKK fighters,
whose clashes with the Turkish state have killed about 40,000
people since 1984, began withdrawing under a peace agreement
being negotiated between the government and jailed PKK leader
 Abdullah Ocalan , said Gultan Kisanak, a senior Kurdish lawmaker,
in a telephone interview today.  “Several expectations that support the market have come
together at the same time,” Tunc Obuter, the head of trading at
Garanti Investment, a unit of Turkey’s largest bank by market
value, said by e-mail today from Istanbul. “First is the
expectation of the upgrade, and then we have the PKK
withdrawal.”  The PKK is considered a terrorist organization by Turkey,
the European Union and the U.S.  S&P said in an e-mailed statement today its announcement
about the meeting was no indicator of possible future rating
action. Any decision on ratings will be made on analytic
criteria and in accordance with its policies, it said.  Profit Rises  Turkish banking industry profit rose 16.2 percent in the
first quarter to 6.95 billion liras ($3.9 billion), according to
a statement from the regulator in Ankara today.  Garanti led the move on the stock exchange, rising 2.4
percent to 10.60 liras, an all-time high, with trading volume at
92 percent of the stock’s daily average.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , which is
part-owned by Citigroup Inc., added 1.2 percent to 10.12 liras.
 Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, or Isbank, climbed 2.7 percent to 7.54
liras, also the highest on record.  Turkey received its first investment grade rating in 18
years from  Fitch Ratings  on Nov. 5. Moody’s Investors Service
ranks the nation one level below investment grade at Ba1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  