-- Vivus Is in Talks With Potential Marketing Partners
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-08T20:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/vivus-in-talks-with-potential-marketing-partners-ceo-says.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , maker of the obesity drug
Qsymia, said it’s in talks with large pharmaceutical companies
to explore ways to increase use of the medicine amid investor
unrest over disappointing sales. The shares rose the most in
five months.  Approved in July, Qsymia was the second obesity therapy to
clear the U.S. Food and Drug Administration since 1999. Sales
have lagged behind analysts’  estimates , coming in at $4.1
million in the first quarter, the  Mountain View , California-based company said today. Six analysts had estimated $4.5
million, the average of projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve begun discussions with large pharmaceutical
companies to explore how we can increase efforts with primary
care physicians, which we believe is critical to maximizing the
value of Qsymia,” Vivus Chief Executive Officer Leland Wilson
said today on a conference call.  Vivus is exploring collaborations after the FDA in April
expanded the number of pharmacies where Qsymia can be sold,
Wilson told analysts and investors. Sales that had been
restricted to certain mail-order outlets now also can be offered
through thousands of certified retail pharmacies.  Vivus rose 9.7 percent to $13.21 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day increase since Dec. 17. The shares declined
1.6 percent this year and have lost 50 percent since Qsymia was
approved on July 17.  Activist Shareholders  The move may be a reaction to brewing activism among
shareholders, said Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen & Co.
in New York. The drugmaker also has added a board member and
said yesterday that Richard Fante, former head of  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s North American business, will provide advice on selling
Qsymia.  Talks with larger pharmaceutical companies should have come
earlier, as a partnership can take six months to a year to
materialize, Simeonidis said.  “They put themselves at a disadvantage,” said Simeonidis,
who has a “neutral” rating on Vivus shares. “If they really
want to do a partnership, they can’t just start today and have
one tomorrow.”  Some of Vivus’s largest shareholders have expressed
discontent with the company’s direction, and  short interest , a
gauge of bets against the stock, is at an all-time high,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First  Manhattan  Co., the largest holder of Vivus stock with
more than 9 percent, filed a proxy statement May 1 proposing to
replace six directors on Vivus’s board. With the addition of
 Robert Wilson , a former director of Johnson & Johnson, Vivus’s
board has seven directors.  Sales Failure  “The upside potential of Qsymia, Vivus’ obesity drug, is
enormous, but Vivus’ board and management have repeatedly failed
to successfully execute Qsymia’s launch,” First Manhattan said
in a statement yesterday. Vivus’s annual meeting is scheduled
July 15, according to First Manhattan, which says it manages
more than $14 billion.  QVT Financial LP, the third-largest holder of Vivus stock
with 8.3 percent, said in a November filing that it met with
Wilson, the Vivus CEO, and advocated a sale of the company
because of concerns that Vivus wasn’t effectively marketing
Qsymia. QVT also raised the possibility of its own
representative joining the board, according to the filing.  “When two of the longstanding shareholders that were
believers in this drug have gone activist, that kind of shows
the level of frustration,” Simeonidis said. First Manhattan, he
said, typically doesn’t advocate for change at the companies in
which it invests, preferring to buy and hold stock for five
years or more, he said.  “This is not  Carl Icahn ,” Simeonidis said. “First
Manhattan has a similar mentality to  Warren Buffett . The fact
that a Warren Buffett-like investor went activist, you can tell
there’s a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  