-- Web Company Fines Mulled by U.S. Over Surveillance Laws
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-08T16:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/web-company-fines-mulled-by-u-s-over-surveillance-laws.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration may seek fines and incentives to conduct
surveillance through Internet services offered by companies
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , a Justice Department
official said.  No decisions have been made and efforts to fine companies
that don’t comply with electronic-surveillance requests from law
enforcement agencies are already opposed by industry groups.  Fines are “one of the options” that have been raised by
government officials, Jenny Durkan, U.S. Attorney for the
Western District of Washington, said today in an interview in
Washington.  “There’s no one option right now that is top of the
list,” she said. “We want incentives. We want laws. We want
the ability to make sure as technology advances our capability
to gather evidence keeps up with it. while protecting personal
privacy and industry’s needs to be innovative and competitive.”  The administration is discussing ways for Congress to
update the Communications Assistance for  Law Enforcement  Act, or
CALEA. Law enforcement groups such as the International
Association of Police Chiefs want Congress to revise the law to
compel more companies providing communications services to build
intercept tools that let agencies conduct surveillance with
court orders.  Law Update  “We just don’t have the technology to keep up with what’s
going on,” Peter Modafferi, chairman of the association’s
investigative operations committee, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not just Verizon and phone companies like that, there’s
Twitter and all kinds of methods for people to communicate.”  The administration isn’t seeking any new surveillance
authority, Dean Boyd, a Department of Justice spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The White House has been discussing ways for law
enforcement to keep pace with technological advancements that
suspects use to “go dark” by avoiding online detection, said
spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden, in an e-mail. “DOJ is working with
other agencies on a way forward that protects privacy, preserves
corporate innovation, and provides the tools our law enforcement
and counterterrorism professionals require,” she said.  Industry Concerns  The law was written primarily to ensure that
telecommunications companies have the ability to aid law
enforcement in conducting surveillance.  Groups like the Internet Association and the Computer and
Communications Industry Association have expressed opposition to
fining companies for not complying with surveillance requests
from law enforcement.  Startup companies say being required to have intercept
capabilities in their products could cost them customers, expose
them to liability, open them up to cyber attacks and force them
to reconfigure products that keeps user data anonymous.  Durkan said the debate within the administration includes
trying not to disrupt technology companies.  “What we have to make sure is we get the evidence we need
to address the threat,” she said. “As technology advances we
need solutions but the solutions are not always government-based.”  It also isn’t clear what companies would be fined for,
Gregory Nojeim, a senior lawyer for the Center for Democracy and
Technology, said in an interview today.  “For peer-to-peer communications in particular, what does
it mean to mandate they be wiretap-able by the FBI?” Nojeim
asked. “I think imposing that mandate imposes a vulnerability
that runs directly counter to the cybersecurity efforts that
Congress, industry and the administration have been pursuing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  