-- Weir Sees International Acceleration Amid U.S. Shale Dominance
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-05-08T22:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/weir-sees-international-acceleration-amid-u-s-shale-dominance.html
Demand for hydraulic fracturing
equipment may expand to a third the size of the current North
American market by 2016 as international shale development
accelerates, according to  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the biggest supplier
of pressure pumps.  Countries including Australia,  Russia  and Saudi Arabia are
increasing their use of so-called fracking equipment that sends
water and sand underground to crack rock and release oil and
natural gas from shale formations, said Keith Cochrane, chief
executive officer of the Glasgow, Scotland-based company, in an
interview yesterday in Houston.  The amount of pumping horsepower being used -- a standard
industry measure of demand -- may reach 6 million to 7 million
outside of the U.S. and Canada in the next few years, compared
with about 2 million to 3 million now, Cochrane said. The
current North American market, the largest in the world,
supports 17.5 million horsepower, according to PacWest
Consulting Partners, a Houston-based company that tracks
oilfield servicers.  “People are waking up to the size and the potential of the
shale opportunity that exists in their own countries,” Cochrane
said. “And, bluntly, also the competitive threat that is
developing if they leave it to the U.S.”  Shale projects outside of North America haven’t yet
produced the abundant, predictable output seen in formations
such as Texas’ Eagle Ford Shale and the Marcellus Shale of
 Pennsylvania . In  Poland ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM)  this week joined  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in halting work amid
disappointing results. Wells have been more promising in other
nations that are beginning to explore shale resources, Cochrane
said.  International Market  “We do expect a lot of growth internationally,” said
Chris Robart, a principal at PacWest. The consultant expects the
international market to nearly double in capacity by the end of
next year to about 8.3 million horsepower.  Those estimates could be slightly less after dialing back
growth estimates in Argentina, Robart said. The biggest
international growth market is  China , while other hot areas
include Australia and Mexico, he said.  Countries are looking to replicate economic benefits the
U.S. has seen from its domestic oil and gas production. Chemical
companies and other manufacturers have announced plans for U.S.
projects amid a drop in gas prices, which touched a 10-year low
last year.  Growth areas include the Middle East,  Australia , Russia and
China, Steve Noon, a divisional managing director at Weir, said
in an interview. Countries understand the potential of shale in
terms of jobs, taxes and being self-sufficient in energy,
Cochrane said, and their combined effect may be significant.  “It’s the fact you’re seeing it in four or five different
countries, albeit from a low base, that then starts to add up to
become something more meaningful,” Cochrane said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  