-- West Penn Allegheny Health Soars With Highmark Deal: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/west-penn-allegheny-health-soars-with-highmark-deal-muni-credit.html
Investors betting on the takeover of
Pittsburgh’s West Penn Allegheny Health System, whose 2007 tax-exempt junk deal is the biggest for a U.S. hospital in more than
two decades, are benefiting from a four-year rally in such debt.  In an agreement that steered West Penn away from
bankruptcy, Highmark, a health insurer, offered to buy the
hospital system’s bonds at 87.5 cents on the dollar. Bondholders
sold it $604.2 million worth, or 85 percent. Since the April 29
purchase, investors who held onto the obligations have seen
prices rise as much as 14 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Some bondholders are wagering that the merger will bolster
West Penn’s finances, said Lyle Fitterer, a managing director at
Wells Capital Management. Amid the longest rally in junk-grade
hospital munis in six years, he kept nearly $7 million of West
Penn debt maturing Nov. 15.  The acquisition and the purchases from the majority of
bondholders “gave us comfort to just basically hang on to the
bonds with the view that we would get paid par when they
mature,” said Fitterer, who helps oversee about $31 billion of
munis from  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  Credit Appeal  Investors have been buying lower-rated munis for their
higher relative yields as  interest rates  on local bonds approach
generational  lows . High-yield hospital debt has outpaced the
broader muni market for the past four years, the longest run
since 2006, Barclays Plc data show. Lower-rated hospital bonds
have gained 3 percent this year, compared with 1.3 percent for
the rest of the market.  West Penn, which admitted almost 56,000 patients in fiscal
2012, borrowed $752 million in 2007 to refinance debt. It was
the largest tax-exempt hospital deal rated below investment
grade, according to Bloomberg data starting in 1990.  Bondholders kept $105.5 million of the West Penn
securities, with $70.2 million maturing in November 2040,
Bloomberg data show. Bonds maturing Nov. 15 traded May 1 at 100
cents, 14 percent more than Highmark’s tender price, Bloomberg
data show. That’s still down from the initial 2007 pricing level
of 101.6 cents.  Gains in lower-rated munis may encourage high-yield
investors to hold the West Penn bonds in a bid to profit or
receive full payment at maturity, said Matt Fabian, a managing
director with Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors.  Cushion Effect  For high-yield funds, “it may make sense for them to
speculate a bit more on transactions like this,” Fabian said.
“They have substantial gains acting as a cushion to the
potential downside.”  Consolidation among health-care providers has increased
with rising costs and federal cuts in Medicare, the government
health plan for the elderly and disabled, according to a 2012
Moody’s Investors Service report. Hospitals are addressing more
than $300 billion of cuts in Medicare payments through 2019 and
more reductions will probably be part of strategies to reduce
the federal deficit, Daniel Steingart, an analyst at New York-based Moody’s, wrote in a Jan. 22 report.  Merger Trend  As more hospitals merge with other health-care providers or
insurers, investors need to consider consolidations when buying
hospital debt, said  John Miller , who helps manage about $95
billion of munis as co-head of fixed income at Nuveen Asset
Management in  Chicago . Nuveen was among bondholders that agreed
to sell West Penn bonds to Highmark, which is also based in
Pittsburgh.  “Mergers and acquisitions is a major trend in hospitals
both for profit and nonforprofit, and bondholders or potential
bond investors, they need to be aware of it and to think about
those possibilities,” Miller said.  On the other hand, hospitals stand to benefit from
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, which will be
more broadly implemented next year. The plan would add as many
as 800,000 people to  Pennsylvania ’s Medicaid rolls, Governor Tom Corbett said April 30 at the Bloomberg Link Washington Summit.
The Republican has yet to decide whether to expand Medicaid, the
joint federal-state medical program for the poor.  New Network  Following Highmark’s purchase of West Penn debt and
approval from the state Insurance Department, the insurer
announced the formation of the Allegheny Health Network. It
comprises West Penn’s five hospitals and Highmark-owned health-care providers in the Pittsburgh area as well as in Erie.  “Allegheny Health Network is focused on preserving health-care choice for all consumers and patients in our region,”
William Winkenwerder, president of Highmark, said in a statement
last month.  In addition to buying West Penn debt, Highmark has
committed $450 million in loans and grants to the health-care
system, according to a Moody’s report.  Following the merger, Moody’s cut Highmark’s rating to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade. It also assigned a negative
outlook because of increased financial and operating risks.  Conversely, West Penn’s credit rating improved.  Moody’s raised the system to Caa2, eight levels below
investment grade, with a developing outlook. Its highest rating
was Ba2, two levels below investment grade, when West Penn
borrowed in 2007.  “Highmark’s driving the bus right now,” Fitterer said.
“And if you’re willing to let Highmark drive the bus and you
want them being the one directing, then you take the risk.”  Market Movement  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market, Illinois is set to
sell $300 million of sales-tax bonds in the week’s biggest
offer.  With issuance falling to the least since March, benchmark
munis are beating Treasuries this week. At  1.75 percent , yields
on benchmark 10-year munis compare with 1.78 percent for like-maturity Treasuries.  The  yield ratio  of the two securities, a gauge of relative
value, is about 98 percent, the lowest since March 12 and down
from as high as 113 percent last month. A falling value means
munis are gaining relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  