-- What Do U.S. College Graduates Lack? Professionalism
-- B y   M a r k   B a u e r l e i n
-- 2013-05-08T22:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/what-do-u-s-college-graduates-lack-professionalism.html
I gave an exam last week, and one
student showed up 25 minutes late. When the hour ended and I
 collected  the papers, he looked up from his seat, cast a
pitiable glance and mumbled, “Please, I got here late -- may I
have another 20 minutes?”  I shook my head and said, “Can’t do that.” His request
echoed in my head all the way back to my office. Where in the
world did he get the idea that an exam doesn’t begin and end at
a set time?  Employers call it an “employability skill” -- work ethic,
timeliness, attendance and so on -- and they deal with it every
day. Whenever the  National Association of Manufacturers 
administers its “Skills Gap” surveys to members, failings in
this area are as likely to be cited as complaints about
inadequate technical and verbal skills.  In 2001 and 2005, the association’s members  rated 
employability skills as a crushing deficiency in their
workforce, and more respondents urged schools to instill better
behavior than did those who demanded more training in reading
and math.  Even after the 2008 financial crisis, poor conduct remains
a top complaint. In the  2011 survey , 40 percent of employers
cited “inadequate basic employability skills” as a reason for
why they can’t hire and keep workers.  Employability skills aren’t only a blue-collar failing, as
shown by the “Professionalism in the Workplace”  survey  from York
College of  Pennsylvania  released earlier this year. The
college’s project asked 401 human-resource people about the
professionalism of recent college graduates.  Casual Attitudes  Forty-nine percent of them  stated  that less than half of
new employees “exhibit professionalism in their first year.”
More than half (53 percent) have noticed “a sense of
entitlement” rising among younger workers; almost 45 percent
have seen a “worsening of the work ethic,” including “too casual
of an attitude toward work” and “not understanding what hard
work is.”  Younger workers believe they can multitask and remain
productive, the human-resources people told the York
researchers. Thirty-eight percent of respondents blamed
multitasking for the lack of “focus” among younger workers. The
authors of the study explained that the younger generation
“believes that it is possible to multi-task effectively” and
that using social media, for example, is an efficient way to
communicate. In interviews, the applicants check their phones
for texts and calls, dress inappropriately and overrate their
talents.  “The sad fact is some of these persons probably do not
understand what is wrong with this,” the authors  note .  Older workers have always complained about younger workers,
of course, but there’s a difference: This time they  attribute 
the youthful flaws not to ignorance or waywardness, but to a
“sense of entitlement.”  We might forgive 18-year-olds fresh out of high school for
lacking employability skills (the manufacturing sector hires
many workers lacking undergraduate degrees). But when he or she
reaches 23 and has four years of college, employers expect a
white-collar worker to recognize basic norms of dress and
deportment.  What happened in college, then? The  survey  by York
College’s Center for Professional Excellence assigns colleges
part of the blame, observing that letting students miss
deadlines without penalty and assigning good grades for middling
work only make them form the wrong expectations.  Yet, it turns out, professors don’t coddle students and
overlook youthful flaws. Another survey by York College finds
that professors think the same thing as employers do. It’s the
2012 “Professionalism on Campus” survey, a  questionnaire  about
juniors and seniors answered by 415 college and university
faculty members.  Entitlement Culture  Professors generally agreed that professionalism includes
attentiveness, punctuality and a work ethic, and 37 percent
think it has declined over the past five years, while only 12
percent see an improvement.  Even more than  employers , fully 64 percent of professors
observe an increase in a sense of entitlement in recent years,
while only 5 percent say it has decreased. The students text-message during class, send e-mails to teachers with grammar and
spelling errors, and act “unfocused.” (For the “unfocused” part,
the researchers said they started hearing comments a few years
ago from employers about workers lacking “focus,” so they
included a direct item in the questionnaire on it.) Faculty
members identify parents as the main cause, though American
culture in general and grade inflation in high school also
receive blame.  Let’s agree that everyone is at fault, more or less. The
burden falls heaviest on the workplace. High-school teachers
have few direct incentives to toughen up their classrooms. The
steady drag of uninterested students and school bureaucracy
beats them down to the point where using higher grades and lax
discipline are the easiest ways to make it through the week.  College professors, too, have no direct incentive to raise
the bar on behavior, given the influence of student ratings of
their performance and pressure from administrators and parents.
Most of all, poor behavior by students doesn’t immediately
threaten the livelihood of teachers.  A bad worker, however, jeopardizes a whole unit’s
productivity, and a manager can’t simply pass a low performer to
the next level. Teachers who allow delinquent students to slide
merely compromise their own integrity. Dereliction in the
workplace puts profits at risk.  This, then, is the real  transition  into adulthood in the
U.S. today -- not graduating from high school, leaving home or
learning how to succeed in college, but performing full-time
work for bosses who can’t compromise, and all too often must
say, “Your work isn’t up to par, you’re not as great as you
think, and if you don’t improve, you’re fired.”  As employers and government officials put more pressure on
colleges to produce employable graduates, this message should
reach students before they collect their diploma.  (Mark Bauerlein is a  professor  of English at  Emory
University  and the author of “ The Dumbest Generation .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Bauerlein at  engmb@emory.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  