-- Wheeler Sold Kiwi to Weaken World’s Best-Performing Currency
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-05-08T06:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/wheeler-selling-kiwi-to-weaken-world-s-best-performing-currency.html
The  New Zealand  dollar plunged after
Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the central bank sold
the kiwi and can do so again to protect economic growth.  “There has been some intervention,” Wheeler told
parliament’s finance and expenditure select committee in
Wellington today, driving the New Zealand currency down as much
as 1.1 percent to 83.60 U.S. cents, the lowest level since April
1. The central bank last confirmed a currency intervention in
June 2007, when it sold New Zealand dollars.  “The kiwi has been the flavor of the month and Governor
Wheeler would like the market to choose a new flavor,” said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “There have been a lot of people that have
been caught very long kiwi.” A long position is a bet a
currency will rise in value.  Policy makers from Zurich to  Tel Aviv  and  Tokyo  have sought
to limit currency gains even as the Group of 20 last month
affirmed pledges to avoid deliberately weakening exchange rates.
Wheeler’s action contrasts with Australian counterpart  Glenn Stevens , who has said he’d need to be convinced the Aussie
dollar is “seriously overvalued” before intervening to weaken
it and is using interest rate reductions instead.  The RBNZ publishes  monthly figures  for its net currency
sales that may or may not involve direct intervention, which
show it sold NZ$2 million ($1.7 million) in March, and NZ$199
million in December. It had an intervention capacity of NZ$8.7
billion at March 31, the data shows.  Hands Tied  The so-called kiwi dollar surged 4.2 percent this year
against developed-market peers, the strongest gain among the 10
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
Wheeler is resorting to currency intervention and lending
restrictions to steer the economy as surging  house prices  rule
out interest rate cuts and the kiwi’s strength bars rate
increases.  The currency bought 84.02 cents at 5:39 p.m. in Wellington.  The central bank is “on-the-record that it is prepared to
intervene in the exchange rate,” Wheeler said. The currency,
which he described earlier today as significantly overvalued,
needs to be lower to boost exports, which make up 30 percent of
the economy, he said.  “We’ve also indicated that we would not expect, given the
strength of the flows, that intervention would materially change
the level of the exchange, but we could take potentially the
tops off rallies,” he said. “In terms of activity, there has
been some intervention.”  Wheeler Jawboning  In February, he had said investors should be aware the
local dollar isn’t a “one-way bet.”  “Governor Wheeler has been concerned for a while about the
strong kiwi dollar so this is part of his jawboning to drive the
currency lower,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based Asia-Pacific strategist at TD Securities Inc. “It’s a bit of a
surprise that he said he can intervene to drive the currency
lower. That’s been a shock for the kiwi.”  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  yesterday reduced the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point to a
record low 2.75 percent, with  Governor Stevens  saying in a
statement that the Aussie’s record strength “is unusual given
the decline in export prices and  interest rates .”  The kiwi and Australian dollar have each surged 45 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  since the end of 2008, the biggest
advances among over 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. New
Zealand’s dollar rose to a record last month on a trade-weighted
basis as the  Bank of Japan  joined counterparts from the U.K. and
U.S. by pumping money into the financial system.  Currency ‘Problematic’  “The relative strength of the New Zealand economy, in a
period where the global outlook is quite uncertain, has pushed
the New Zealand dollar to new highs that will be problematic for
some firms that compete in international markets,” the RBNZ
said in its Financial Stability Report released in Wellington
today.  In that report, Wheeler said rising property prices point
to increasing risks to financial stability, and he announced
tighter lending rules. From Sept. 30, the nation’s four biggest
banks must increase the levels of capital they hold to cover
high loan-to-value ratio lending where 80 percent or more of the
purchase price is borrowed, the  Reserve Bank  said.  Home Prices  “This will strengthen the capacity of the banking system
to weather a housing downturn and should also lead the banks to
review the riskiness of the loans they are currently writing,”
Wheeler said in the report.  House prices  rose 6.5 percent in March from a year earlier,
the fastest annual pace since 2008, according to Quotable Value
New Zealand, a government-owned property researcher. Further
gains will worsen the potential damage that could result from a
housing downturn, Wheeler said.  Wheeler later told the parliamentary committee that were
the risk from the housing market taken away, and the exchange
rate continued to appreciate, then he would be able to consider
interest rate cuts.  “If these measures succeed in restraining the housing
market, then they could end up cutting interest rates,” said
Greg Gibbs, a Singapore-based senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “They don’t want the credit-fueled recovery being forced on them by unprecedented monetary
easing from global central banks.”  Holding Rates  Wheeler last month said he expected to keep the  official
cash rate  unchanged at 2.5 percent through the end of the year,
citing benign inflation, the impact of a summer drought and the
strong New Zealand dollar.  New Zealand’s exchange rate is overvalued by about 15
percent and attempts to lower it through intervention would be
futile against rising demand from global investors, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in March.  The intervention “will become evident at the end of the
month” when the central bank publishes balance sheet figures,
deputy Governor Grant Spencer told the parliamentary committee
today. “So we didn’t want to be more specific on it, but we
acknowledge there has been some.”  Finance Minister  Bill English  cautioned in February that
New Zealand wouldn’t join the so-called currency wars because
it’s only armed with a “peashooter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  