-- Two Manhattan Office Towers Sell in $1 Billion Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-08T18:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-08/two-manhattan-office-towers-sell-in-1-billion-deal.html
A unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
American Realty Advisors each agreed to buy a  Manhattan  office
tower from Hines, a Houston-based developer, for a combined
price of more than $1 billion.  An institutional fund managed by Glendale, California-based
American Realty is buying 499 Park Ave., a 300,000-square-foot
(28,000-square-meter) property at East 59th Street designed by
I.M. Pei & Partners, Hines said today in a statement.
Institutional investors advised by JPMorgan Asset Management are
buying 425 Lexington Ave., a 750,000 square-foot skyscraper at
East 43rd Street, across from the Chrysler Building.  Hines put the towers on the market in February. New York
commercial-property transactions are forecast to climb this year
as investors globally see Manhattan as a safe place to buy real
estate. Brokerage Cushman & Wakefield last month projected sales
of $14.6 billion for the first half of 2013, up from $10.8
billion a year earlier.  “You’re not finding global capital and all types of
capital participating in every sale in every major market in
this country, but you are in  New York ,” said Tommy Craig,
senior managing director of Hines’ New York office. “That only
reinforces Hines’ interest in continuing to be very active on
both the investment side and development side of our business”
in the city.  Tenant Lease  Craig said he won’t disclose further price information
until the deals are completed. The JPMorgan unit is paying about
$650 million for 425 Lexington, a person with knowledge of the
purchase said yesterday. Hines expects to finish the
transactions by late September.  The law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 425
Lexington’s primary tenant with 595,000 square feet on 26
floors, renewed its lease through 2033, Hines said last month.  By securing Simpson Thacher for the next 20 years, it
changed the profile of the bidders “in a meaningful way,”
eliminating most of the leasing risk and bringing in
institutional investors looking for reliable returns, Craig
said. Without the agreement, the building might have been fully
vacant in 2018, he said.  At 499 Park, where the bond firm Cantor Fitzgerald LP moved
its headquarters after suffering devastating casualties in the
2001 attack on the World Trade Center, lease terminations are
“staggered” among smaller tenants, Craig said. Investors
responded to the “generational opportunity” to own a modern
Park Avenue office building, he said.  The deals were co-brokered by Douglas Harmon, senior
managing director at Eastdil Secured LLC, and  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) 
Vice Chairman Darcy Stacom, with Stacom taking the lead on 499
Park, and Harmon on 425 Lexington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  