-- M&A Poised for ‘Significant’ Recovery by 2014, Weinberg Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A n j e l i c a   T a n
-- 2012-03-08T22:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/m-a-is-poised-for-significant-recovery-by-2014-perella-s-weinberg-says.html
Mergers and acquisitions are poised
for a “significant recovery” within the next two years as U.S.
companies seek growth internationally, said  Peter Weinberg , co-
founder of Perella Weinberg Partners LP.  “There is a will and a desire to expand globally,”
Weinberg said today at the Tulane University Corporate Law
conference in  New Orleans . “U.S. companies have resources and
currency to make large acquisitions.”  Weinberg is optimistic dealmaking will increase even though
volume has shrunk 30 percent this year from the same period in
2011, which saw M&A slow in the second half as a broadening
European debt crisis damped enthusiasm. Deals probably will
accelerate as U.S. investors get choosier, buying companies that
show the most growth, he said.  Weinberg co-founded the boutique investment bank that bears
his name a half-dozen years ago with Joseph Perella. Before
that, he served as chief executive officer at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  His New York-based firm currently ranks 18th on deals
this year, Bloomberg data show.  Cross-border transactions accounted for almost half of last
year’s $2.3 trillion in deals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was Johnson & Johnson’s offer to buy
Swiss orthopedics maker Synthes Inc., which at the time of the
April announcement was valued at about $21 billion.  Ackman’s Take  “All the seeds for good M&A activity are there,”   William Ackman , the activist hedge-fund manager who runs Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, said at the conference. “You have
limited opportunities for growth here so you need to go acquire
that.”  Corporate CEOs are becoming more acquisitive as markets
recover, Weinberg said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
advanced 8.6 percent this year and reached its highest level in
almost four years last month as global economic prospects
improve.  “CEO confidence is key,” he said. “Companies and CEOs
are sensitive to their stock price, and I think the market is
giving them confidence.”  The largest takeover announced this year is Glencore
International Plc’s $45 billion offer, including debt, for Swiss
miner Xstrata Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
mining and energy industries have been the busiest, with almost
$100 billion in proposed acquisitions.  ‘Something Missing’  The biggest takeover announced last year, AT&T’s $39
billion offer for Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA Inc.,
collapsed after regulators raised antitrust concerns. The first
quarter has yielded $315 billion in announced deals globally,
compared with about $453 billion in the same period a year
earlier.  “There is something missing in M&A,” Weinberg said at the
conference. “Last year the first half was very strong. And then
it stopped.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  leads the banks in underwriting deals
with a 29 percent share of them globally, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs and Barclays Plc follow.
Morgan Stanley has managed the most deals this year and ranks
fifth in market share according to deal size.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  