-- ‘Anonymous’ Hacker Won’t Face Prosecution for Gun, Marijuana
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-09T17:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/-anonymous-hacker-sabu-worked-around-the-clock-to-aid-u-s-crime-probe.html
Hector Xavier Monsegur, a hacker
with the group Anonymous cooperating in a U.S. probe, won’t 
face prosecution on charges including attempted drug-
dealing and illegal gun possesion, according to a plea deal.  The agreement, made public today, stated Monsegur, 28, 
won’t face federal charges for hacking the website of an online
casino, trying to sell five pounds of marijuana, receiving 
stolen property and gun possession.  The U.S. also said Monsegur won’t be prosecuted for using
an employer’s credit card to make $15,000 in unauthorized
charges. The government said Monsegur’s hacking activities date
back to 1999. Some of the alleged criminal acts are too old to
be charged or are outside federal jurisdiction, according to the
agreement.  Monsegur, a former member of the Anonymous, Internet Feds
and LulzSec hacker groups, began secretly cooperating with U.S.
investigators after his arrest on June 7, according to a court
transcript. Monsegur began working “around the clock” to inform 
on his colleagues, prosecutors told a judge.  Prosecutors said in the agreement that Monsegur faces
possible retaliation from the targets of his cooperation and may
require federal witness protection.  Begins Cooperating  Monsegur, who pleaded guilty Aug. 15, began cooperating
with U.S. authorities, including  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents, after his arrest, Assistant U.S. Attorney James Pastore
told U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  at a court hearing in
August, according to a transcript.  Monsegur, who used the nickname Sabu and is described as an
“influential member” of all three hacker groups, admitted to
staging cyber-attacks against the websites of the governments of
Algeria, Yemen and  Zimbabwe , according to a criminal information
unsealed March 6. He also said he conducted hacks on  Tribune Co. (TRB) 
and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox television, prosecutors said.  “Since literally the day he was arrested, the defendant
has been cooperating with the government proactively,” Pastore
told Preska at the Aug. 5 hearing, according to the transcript
made available yesterday. “The defendant has literally worked
around the clock with federal agents. He has been staying up
sometimes all night engaging in conversations with co-
conspirators that are helping the government to build cases
against those co-conspirators.”  Computer Crimes  Monsegur was charged with computer crimes by U.S.
prosecutors in five districts in four states, court records
show. During the two months after his arrest, he provided the
U.S. with valuable information, Pastore said. Monsegur continued
to work with Anonymous until last week,  Barrett Brown , an
informal Anonymous spokesman, said March 6.  He helped identify and “patch” or notify potential
targets about more than 150 cyber-security vulnerabilities. The
FBI had sometimes even been able to alert the would-be victim of
an attack before it occurred, Pastore said.  “The defendant’s information is also helping the
government close in on several prominent cybercriminals,”
Pastore said.  Monsegur, who is cooperating in hopes of leniency, faces
more than 122 years in prison, with a mandatory minimum of two
years, according to prosecutors.  Lives in Manhattan  Monsegur has been unemployed since April 2010, lives in
Manhattan and supports two nieces, ages 7 and 5, the documents
show. He earned $6,000 a month at his previous job, which wasn’t
described, according to court records.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office revealed
Monsegur’s role as a cooperator this week as it announced the
arrest of five other men linked to Anonymous and offshoot groups
in the underground hacking movement.  “Exposure of the defendant’s cooperation would jeopardize
substantial ongoing investigations into the defendant’s former
co-conspirators, several of whom are suspected of carrying out
substantial computer hacks against several businesses,” Pastore
said in a June 8 request to seal his case file.  Monsegur’s “efforts have involved cooperation against
targets of national and international interest,” Pastore told
Preska at the August hearing. “The defendant has already
incurred a significant amount of personal risk by deciding to
cooperate.”  Witness Protection  Prosecutors said in Monsegur’s cooperation agreement that
they will take any necessary steps to protect him from
“individuals who might use violence, force and intimidation
against the defendant, his family and loved ones,” including
their possible relocation under the U.S. Marshals Service
Witness Security Program.  FBI agents arrested Monsegur at 10:15 p.m. on June 7, court
records show. After an initial appearance the next day before
U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott in  New York , he was released on
$50,000 bond and directed to remain under FBI supervision,
records show.  Documents related to his case had been sealed until
yesterday.  Monsegur’s identity as a defendant remained secret because
if hackers learned he had been arrested and was cooperating, he
would be in danger, Pastore said in a June 8 filing.  Hackers monitor federal court dockets for information about
informants and would recognize Monsegur’s name because his
identity was already known to them, the prosecutor said.  Retaliation Methods  Some hackers retaliate against informants through a
“dox,” putting “the personal identification information of a
cooperator and their family members” online, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Stephanie Christensen, a prosecutor in  Los Angeles ,
said in court papers.  Pastore told Preska that hackers had other ways of
retaliating. For example, they might have hundreds of pizzas
delivered to the cooperator’s house or report a hostage
situation and have a SWAT team sent to the cooperator’s home.  “It’s actually called ‘swatting,’” Pastore said.  Ryan Ackroyd, Jake Davis, Darren Martyn and Donncha
O’Cearrbhail were charged in an indictment unsealed March 6 in
Manhattan federal court. They are accused of conspiracy and a
variety of cyber-attacks tied to Monsegur.  A fifth man, Jeremy Hammond, who identified himself as a
member of AntiSec, was arrested in Chicago March 5 and charged
with the December hack of Austin, Texas-based intelligence firm
Stratfor, which the U.S. says might have affected 860,000
victims. Hammond has been transferred to the custody of federal
prosecutors in New York to face the charges.  The hackers charged by Bharara’s office are among the de
facto leadership of Anonymous, the self-professed hacker-
activist group, and LulzSec, or Lulz Security, an affiliated
group, U.S. authorities said.  U.S. authorities said there could be more than 1 million
people who were victimized by the defendants’ activities.  The case is U.S. v. Monsegur, 11-cr-666, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  