-- ‘War Horse,’ ‘Anything’ Fill Seats, Not Coffers of Nonprofits
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/-war-horse-anything-fill-seats-not-coffers-of-nonprofits.html
A year after their ambitious slates
produced hits, flops and budget shortfalls,  New York ’s largest
nonprofit theater companies have cut back on productions.  The  Roundabout Theatre Company , whose three musicals
included the Tony Award winning revival of “Anything Goes,”
ended last season with a $2.1 million deficit, according to
Matt Polk, a spokesman for the company.  Now it’s presenting its first lineup without a new musical
in more than a decade. (Next season the company is planning a
revival of “The Mystery of Edwin Drood,” which won the Tony
for best musical in 1986.)  Lincoln Center Theater ’s current offerings include two
acclaimed plays it introduced last season. They’re in addition
to “ War Horse ,” an import from  London ’s National Theatre that
remains Broadway’s top-grossing nonmusical a year after opening.  “There’s nothing inherently wrong with playing it safe,
especially in an economy as unpredictable as this one,” said
Gregory Mosher, the former director of Lincoln Center Theater.
“As long as you don’t make a habit of it.”  Lincoln Center Theater’s expenses exceeded revenue,
contributions and grants by about $7 million in the 12 months
ending in June 2011, according to its audited  financial
statement . (That excludes gains from $95 million in
investments.)  Costly Shows  Its season, like the Roundabout’s, includes no new musical
productions, which tend to be more expensive to produce than
plays. Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment,
although they did confirm, and in some cases disclose, some
figures.  “Sometimes the artistic ambitions of an organization
outpace the box office potential,” said Teresa Eyring,
executive director of  Theatre Communications Group , an umbrella
group of nonprofit theaters. “These are small businesses that
specialize in an art form that is not economically efficient.”  The fortunes of commercial producers rise and fall a show
at a time. In contrast, nonprofit producers like the  Roundabout
Theatre Company  and  Lincoln Center Theater  use hits to
underwrite other shows that don’t necessarily attract mass
audiences but may fulfill their mission of advancing theater.
The companies develop new work, spotlight forgotten gems and
provide arts education for public school students.  They continue to feel the lingering effects of the
recession. Government and corporate support has plunged.
Roundabout subscription revenue fell 18 percent since 2008-09,
as theatergoers made more last-minute choices rather than commit
up to a year in advance.  The drop is partly to blame for the Roundabout’s deficit in
the 12 months ending in August, said Thomas Tuft, an executive
with the financial services firm  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and chairman of the
Roundabout board.  Third Shortfall  Tuft wrote in the company’s annual report that it budgeted
for a shortfall this season, for a third consecutive deficit.  “We are looking at every part of the organization,” he
wrote, “from how our staff is structured to who removes the
garbage from our theaters.”  The Roundabout has an annual budget of $61 million -- two-
thirds of which is funded by ticket sales. It operates three
Broadway houses and two off-Broadway, totaling about 3,300
seats. Ticket prices range from a high of $252 on Broadway to
$20 in its 62-seat underground black box.  “Anything Goes,” the Cole Porter musical that won three
Tony Awards, had an operating profit of about $2 million,
according to a financial statement. Currently extended until
September, it remains profitable.  Another hit, the revival of “The Importance of Being
Earnest” ran six months including previews, its longest-running
play since “Twelve Angry Men” in 2004.  Flop ‘Picture’  But Studio 54, the former nightclub that the Roundabout
bought in 2003 for $22.5 million, was home to “The People in
the Picture,” which was a box office and critical failure.
Studio 54’s expenses exceeded revenue by $5.2 million, its
biggest season shortfall in four years, according to statements.  The Roundabout’s presenting eight new shows this season,
down from 10 a year earlier.  Lincoln Center Theater’s box office revenue last season
plunged by nearly half, to $20 million.  Following the gleeful Seabees in the smash 30-month “South
Pacific” revival, two expensive Lincoln Center Theater
productions were box office failures: “Women on the Verge of a
Nervous Breakdown” -- a musical adaptation of the Pedro
Almodovar movie -- and “A Free Man of Color,” a historical
epic by John Guare.  New Theater  With a budget last year of $49 million, Lincoln Center
Theater operates the off-Broadway Newhouse Theater and the
Vivian Beaumont, home of “War Horse,” a winner of five Tonys.
Later this year it opens its third and smallest space, the
Claire Tow, built on the roof of the Beaumont for about $41
million.  It has a hit this season at Broadway’s Booth Theatre with
the drama “Other Desert Cities,” which debuted off-Broadway
last season at the Newhouse. Next week, previews begin at the
Newhouse for “4000 Miles,” which debuted last season at the
200-seat Duke Theatre, which Lincoln Center Theatre rented.  It’s also offering members discounted seats to “ Clybourne
Park ,” a Pulitzer Prize-winning play on Broadway that was
staged locally two years earlier at  Playwrights Horizons .  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 