-- La Nina Expected to Fade by Late April, U.S. Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-08T15:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/la-nina-expected-to-fade-by-late-april-u-s-forecasters-say.html
La Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific
Ocean  that can cause drought across the southern U.S., is
expected to fade by the end of April, the national  Climate
Prediction Center  said.  The phenomenon, which also enhances hurricane formation in
the Atlantic, weakened in February, the center said in a monthly
report today. The impact of La Nina may linger through May
because the atmosphere needs time to adjust.  “A majority of models predict neutral conditions to return
during March-May 2012 and to continue through the Northern
Hemisphere summer,” the center said.  La Nina has been blamed for drought that has hit  Texas  and
Georgia particularly hard, according to the  National Drought
Mitigation Center  at the University of  Nebraska , Lincoln. Rain
has eased drought conditions in eastern Texas, including Dallas,
in recent months.  The weather pattern occurs on average every three to five
years and usually lasts from nine to 12 months. It sometimes
occurs in back-to-back years, as happened this year and last.  The current La Nina has parched crops in Argentina and
 Brazil  and flooded plantations in Thailand and Malaysia. It also
contributed to  Australia ’s  wettest two-year period  on record,
the nation’s Bureau of Meteorology said Feb. 7.  Neutral Pacific  The Pacific is expected to return to neutral conditions
between La Nina and the warming phenomenon known as El Nino, in
June, July and August, said the climate center, which is based
in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  La Nina cuts down on wind shear in the Atlantic, which can
inhibit hurricane formation there, according to the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  Neutral conditions usually won’t inhibit hurricane growth.
Only an El Nino, which increases wind shear across the Atlantic,
has been shown to lower the number of hurricanes.  Last year’s Atlantic hurricane season spawned 19 storms
with winds of at least 39 mph, tying it as the third-most active
season in records that go back to 1851. Three other years, 2010,
1995 and 1887, also had 19 storms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 