-- AB InBev Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Bud
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-03-15T13:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ab-inbev-fourth-quarter-earnings-beat-estimates-on-higher-budweiser-sales.html
(Corrects Anheuser-Busch purchase price to $52 billion in
12th paragraph of story published March 8.)  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates aided by an improvement in sales of its
flagship Budweiser brand, sending the stock to a record high.  So-called normalized earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to $4.2 billion from $3.9
billion a year earlier, the Leuven, Belgium-based brewer of
 Stella Artois  said today. The median estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was $4.1 billion.  Fourth-quarter revenue rose to $9.87 billion. Excluding
acquisitions, sales growth was 5.7 percent, less than the 6.2
percent median estimate of 12  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.
Total volumes decreased 0.6 percent in the quarter.  “Like-for-like sales growth was mostly in line, with very
strong pricing and profit margins above expectations, but
volumes disappoint,”  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum
Capital , said in a note to clients. “In general, the company’s
top-line commentary for 2012 sounds positive.”  AB InBev  rose  3.6 percent to close at 52.75 euros.  U.S., Brazil  The brewer gets most of its  sales  from its  North America 
and Latin America North units, encompassing the U.S. and Brazil,
the world’s second- and third-largest beer markets globally by
value. The volume of beer sold in North America slid 4.5 percent
in the quarter as a price increase in October crimped sales.  U.S. sales in the first two months of 2012 have been “very
encouraging,” aided by improving consumer confidence and a
better-than-expected roll out of Bud Light Platinum, Chief
Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said on a conference call today.  Household confidence improved last week to a four-year high
as more Americans said the economy was improving and decided it
was a good time to shop, according to the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index. Another report today showed claims for
 unemployment insurance  rose to a level that’s consistent with an
improving jobs market.  Budweiser’s share of the U.S. market dropped, while the
rate of decline fell 50 percent over the course of the year, the
company said. Dutra declined to predict when Bud’s share losses
would end. Michelob Ultra gained market share, the brewer said.  World Cup Sponsorship  “Bud Light Platinum is on fire, and they want to get that
brand out there, so their attention won’t turn to Bud until
later in the year,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London, said in a phone interview today.  AB InBev said last year it extended its sponsorship of the
soccer  World Cup  through to 2022 as it seeks to push its
Budweiser brand globally. Budweiser volumes increased 3.1
percent globally last year, compared with 1.7 percent growth in
2010, fueled by sales in  China  and  Canada .  The company started selling Budweiser, acquired when InBev
NV bought Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 in a $52 billion
transaction, in Brazil last August as it aims to tap
increasingly wealthy consumers with a taste for international
beers. The company unveiled Bud in  Russia  in 2010.  “We are particularly pleased with Bud’s performance,”
Dutra said on the call.  Volume at the Latin America North unit rose 0.6 percent as
beer grew 1.2 percent and soft drinks fell 0.9 percent. An
increase in  Brazil ’s minimum wage should boost sales this year,
with growth of as much as 5 percent in the first quarter, the
executive said.  China Acquisitions  Dutra also said the company might pursue more bolt-on
acquisitions in China, after  buying  two Chinese brewers last
year. Beer volumes in China increased 6.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, excluding the impact of those acquisitions, helped by
sales of Budweiser and Harbin, the company said.  “The big four breweries still have less than 60 percent of
the total market in China, so there is still lots of room for
consolidation,” Stirling said in the interview.  AB InBev said it will pay a gross dividend of 1.20 euros,
up from 80 cents a year earlier. The company expects to boost
its dividend yield to a range of between 3 percent and 4
percent, compared with its current yield of just under 3
percent, Dutra said. Fourth-quarter net income rose to $1.9
billion from $968 million a year earlier, the company said.  The maker of Beck’s beer cut Chief Executive Officer Carlos Brito’s bonus 58 percent to 1.33 million euros last year,
according to a company  filing . His base salary was unchanged at
1.16 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  