-- Aberdeen’s Revival From ‘Near Death’ Endorsed by FTSE 100
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-03-08T09:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/aberdeen-s-revival-from-near-death-endorsed-by-ftse-100-entry.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ’s
accession to the U.K.’s benchmark stock index this month
completes a turnaround for  Scotland ’s largest money manager
after facing the risk of collapse almost 10 years ago.  The company’s market value fell to about 30 million pounds
($47 million) in October 2002 during a scandal over the sale and
management of some investment funds. At its peak, on Feb. 15
this year, the company was 100 times more valuable. It is
scheduled to join the FTSE 100 Index for the first time on March
19, the  FTSE Group  said in a statement late yesterday.  “Once you have been through a near-death experience, you
are never going to get in that position again,” Chief Executive
Officer Martin Gilbert said from  Singapore  before the decision
was announced. “We are like reformed alcoholics.”  Aberdeen reached its nadir as it was forced to compensate
investors in split-capital trusts, a type of fund sold to
individuals as safe, yet with some ending up worthless. The
revival was driven by  acquisitions  of funds from companies
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   The company, based in the Scottish city of the same name,
has 174 billion pounds under management, making it larger than
Standard Life Investments and Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership in Edinburgh, based on the latest filings. Aberdeen
had less than 24 billion pounds a decade ago.  Winning Respect  “Gilbert has done a good job,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  who has a “sector perform”  rating  on
Aberdeen’s stock, said in an interview. “He almost fell down
and then recovered. The respect he has among the investment
community is high and, in my opinion, deserved.”  He still has some work to do, according to Lenardos and
Sarah Ing, an analyst at Singer Capital Markets.  Aberdeen’s fixed-income business is run from the U.S. and
had net outflows in each of the last 16 quarters for a total of
almost 33 billion pounds. It currently has 39 billion pounds of
bonds under management after acquisitions.  The company is focusing on growing in the U.S., which makes
up 15 percent of Aberdeen’s assets while accounting for about
half the world’s wealth, and managing more emerging market debt,
Gilbert, 56, said on Feb. 23 by telephone.  Last month Aberdeen wrote to investment advisers, in a
letter seen by Bloomberg, saying it is considering closing its
global  emerging markets  funds to new pooled funds and asked them
to stop advertising them from next month.  Fund Performance  “They have got almost too much demand for some of their
own products,” Ing said. “If that demand is satisfied it could
compromise performance.”  Aberdeen is the best-performing independent U.K. fund
manager, with 84 percent of its funds ranked in the top quartile
over the three years to Dec. 31, according to Lipper data.  It was the only U.K. fund manager whose shares rose last
year,  gaining  4.5 percent compared with a 30 percent decline for
Schroders Plc and a 5.6 percent drop in the FTSE 100 Index in
2011. Aberdeen is up 18 percent this year after advancing 1.2
percent to 249.6 pence as of 9:25 a.m. in London trading today.  While the lion’s share of its acquisitions were paid for
with stock, the  company  is now focusing on rebuilding its
finances and increasing dividends, Gilbert said. “The days of
big takeovers are over,” he said.  Good Buys  The purchases of funds enhanced the business, Ing, who
recommends investors buy Aberdeen shares, said in an interview.  “It has left Aberdeen with a focus on global equities and
global emerging markets,” Ing said. “They have been in the
sweet spot of products that investors want to buy.”  Gilbert, the son of a rubber planter from Aberdeen, co-
founded the firm in 1983 in a buyout of a 50 million-pound
closed-end fund from the Aberdeen law firm, Brander &
Cruickshank, where he was working.  By early 2001, the company was worth 1 billion pounds,
before losing 97 percent of its value over the following 21
months as split-capital trusts unraveled after using loans to
invest in each other as the stock market tumbled. Investors lost
millions they had put into the funds, one of which Aberdeen
marketed as “the one-year-old that lets you sleep at night.”  The whole affair cost the company about 150 million pounds
and “huge” reputational damage, said Gilbert, who was called a
“sophisticated snake oil salesman” at the time by the head of
a U.K. parliamentary committee looking into the funds.  “I always thought we would survive,” he said. “But there
were moments of real despair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  