-- Ackman Says He Will Be Patient on J.C. Penney Turnaround
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-03-08T15:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ackman-says-he-will-be-patient-on-j-c-penney-turnaround-1-.html
Pershing Square Capital Management
LP’s  William Ackman , the activist hedge fund manager, said he’s
willing to be patient as J.C. Penney Co. pursues a turnaround.  “It takes time to get new product,” Ackman said today on
CNBC’s “Squawk Box” program. “The question is how quickly is
the customer going to understand the new pricing and the
promotion? That will take some time.”  J.C. Penney, the U.S. department store chain run by Ronald Johnson, the former retail chief of Apple Inc., posted a fourth-
quarter loss last month on charges to revamp the company.
Johnson, who took over as chief executive officer in November,
is overhauling the Plano, Texas-based retailer’s pricing and
store design to revive sales and lure shoppers from Macy’s Inc.
and Target Corp.  Ackman, the chain’s largest shareholder, said he expects
the U.S. economy to “outperform expectations” should
unemployment stabilize, with housing and low home prices
possibly driving a recovery.  Fannie, Freddie  Ackman said  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage giants
that required a taxpayer bailout, should become real estate
investment trusts and stop selling foreclosed homes. Instead,
they should fix up those assets and rent them, he said. Ackman
said Pershing Square sold its shares of  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-
largest U.S. home-improvement retailer, when the hedge fund
needed cash to buy shares of  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) 
Ackman’s New York-based firm is the biggest shareholder of the
Calgary-based company.  Ackman also said he likes the fast-food industry.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain, said
sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 7.5 percent
globally last month, trailing analysts’ estimates for the first
time since August, as consumers cut spending in Europe.  “I like a business when you charge a royalty on other
people’s sales,” said Ackman, who doesn’t own shares of the Oak
Brook, Illinois-based company. “Every time they sell a Coke,
McDonald’s makes 14 cents.”  Ackman called his investment in Borders Group Inc. the
“worst” he’s made.  Pershing Square  owned 31 percent of the
bookseller’s shares when it filed for bankruptcy last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  