-- Active Funds Have Time on Their Side: Lubos Pastor
-- B y   L u b o s   P a s t o r
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/actively-managed-funds-have-time-on-their-side-commentary-by-lubos-pastor.html
It has been another disappointing
year for investors in actively managed funds.  In 2011, about 79 percent of large-cap mutual fund managers
trailed the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , according to
Morningstar Inc. The average equity mutual fund lost almost 3
percent last year, compared with a 2 percent gain for the S&P
500, says Lipper U.S. Fund Flows.  Hedge funds  fared even worse,
with an average loss of 5 percent, according to Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  These weren’t aberrations. Numerous studies show that most
active funds have underperformed passive benchmarks over time,
primarily due to costs and fees. Not surprisingly, most
academics and many market professionals are recommending passive
investing. Even superstar active managers such as  Peter Lynch 
and  Warren Buffett  have advised most investors to hold index
funds.  Investors have been listening.  Exchange-traded funds  are
gaining popularity. Also, the share of assets invested in equity
index funds relative to all equity mutual funds grew to 14.5
percent in 2010, from 5.2 percent in 1996, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  Yet these figures indicate that most money remains invested
actively. Why is the active management industry so large when
its performance has been so poor?  Stupid Investors  Most explanations for this continued dominance suggest that
investors aren’t very smart. For example, they may be fooled by
slick salespeople or are unable to correctly interpret
performance data. Or they may believe they can all pick above-
average fund managers. There is some truth to all these
interpretations.  But investors don’t have to be stupid. In a recent  paper  I
wrote with Robert Stambaugh of the Wharton School of the
 University of Pennsylvania , we argue that the large size of the
active management industry is understandable even if investors
are smart. Our conclusion is based on the realization that this
industry faces decreasing returns to scale: Any fund manager’s
ability to outperform a passive benchmark decreases as the
industry grows.  The idea is simple. As the active industry grows, more
money chases opportunities to outperform passive benchmarks, and
such opportunities become harder for managers to find.
Conversely, if the industry shrinks, less competition among the
remaining active managers makes it easier for them to find
mispriced securities and outperform.  At the extreme, if investors moved all of their money to
index funds, markets would probably be rife with mispricing.
With no active managers searching for mispriced assets, the
first dollar invested actively would earn a high return by
picking low-hanging fruit, tempting investors back into active
funds.  For an analogy, think of active managers as police officers
and of mispricing as a crime. If there were no officers
patrolling the streets, there would probably be some crime. But
as the number of officers increases, the amount of crime is
likely to decline.  Decreasing returns to scale imply that the industry’s
alpha, which is the expected benchmark-adjusted return from
investing in active funds, isn’t constant. Instead, alpha
decreases as the industry grows, and it increases as the
industry shrinks, where industry size is measured in relative
terms as the share of actively managed assets in total assets
under management.  Alpha Revision  This inverse relationship between industry size and alpha
offers an explanation for the continued popularity of active
management. Investors require a small, but positive, alpha to
invest in active funds to compensate for the associated risks.
They don’t know the exact value of alpha, but they learn about
it by observing the funds’ returns. If these returns turn out to
be disappointing, investors revise their beliefs about alpha
downward and reduce their investment in active funds.  Importantly, the reduction in active investment in response
to underperformance is cushioned by the inverse relationship
between industry size and alpha. In such instances, investors
know that alpha is too low at the current industry size, but
they also know that alpha will go up after they reduce their
investment in active funds. As a result, the industry shrinks
only modestly after a period of underperformance.  When returns are decreasing with scale, past
underperformance doesn’t imply future underperformance; it
implies only that investors should shift some money from active
funds to index funds. Following a period of underperformance,
the active industry should shrink in relative terms, but it can
remain large.  Stambaugh and I developed a model of active management
under decreasing returns to scale and applied it to equity
mutual funds. We showed that despite the industry’s poor track
record since 1962, its current size can be rationalized with
decreasing returns to scale.  By contrast, under the more traditional assumption of
constant returns to scale, according to which alpha is unrelated
to industry size, the industry would have disappeared years ago.  We also simulated the industry’s future performance under
decreasing returns to scale. We found that the industry is
likely to remain large for decades even if it continues to
underperform passive benchmarks.  Importantly, the future performance of active managers is
likely to be better than their past performance. Because of the
rapid growth of indexing, the active industry today accounts for
a smaller share of assets under management than ever before. A
smaller industry should perform better in the future.  In addition, the growth of indexing itself creates
opportunities for active investors. Index funds tracking popular
indexes such as the  S&P 500  and  Russell 2000  tend to rebalance
at index reconstitution dates so as to minimize tracking error.
This rebalancing creates price pressure, which leads indexers to
buy high and sell low. Active managers can profit at the expense
of indexers by trading ahead of reconstitutions.  Sooner or later, the effects of smaller scale and index
reconstitutions should improve the active managers’ performance
to attractive levels. But whether that will happen this year or
20 years from now is anybody’s guess. Meanwhile, if you want to
be on the safe side, stick to index funds.  (Lubos Pastor is professor of finance at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor to  Business
Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Lubos Pastor at  Lubos.Pastor@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  