-- AIDS Cure Quest Advances as Cancer Drug Finds Hidden HIV
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-07-25T20:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/aids-cure-quest-advances-as-merck-cancer-medicine-attacks-hidden-hiv.html
A Merck & Co. (MRK)  drug for a rare type
of cancer flushed out hidden deposits of HIV in a study,
according to researchers who say the results provide a hint that
curing AIDS may someday be possible.  The finding on Merck’s Zolinza, reported today in the
 journal  Nature, comes as researchers at the  International AIDS
Conference  in  Washington  this week express optimism a cure is on
the horizon. While current treatments hold the disease at bay,
stopping the drugs can be a death sentence since it allows
infected cells that remain hidden within the immune system to
re-emerge, spreading the virus anew.  A single dose of Zolinza reactivated the hidden cells in
eight infected patients, a first step toward finding and
eliminating all virus traces from the body, according to
investigators at the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill 
and  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck who undertook the
research.  “If we ever have a cure for AIDS, a big part of it will be
this type of strategy,” said Steven Deeks, a professor of
medicine at the  University of California ,  San Francisco , who
wasn’t involved in the study. “It’s all about getting the virus
out of the hiding place and coming up with a way to kill it.”  Over the last few years, drugmakers including  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Merck, and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  have been quietly
building up teams of researchers focused on developing ways to
wipe out hidden reservoirs of the virus, said Romas Geleziunas,
director of clinical virology at Gilead, in an interview at the
conference.  ‘Hottest Topic’  While the research remains years away from large-scale
human testing, curing AIDS “is one of the hottest topics right
now in biomedical research because there are finally ideas,” he
said. “Pharma now is really behind this.”  Gilead has been working on AIDS cure research for three
years, according to Geleziunas. The  Foster City , California-
based company, which makes the HIV treatments Atripla and
Viread, has two approaches in laboratory testing.  In one, Gilead scientists are working with academic
researchers to test a lymphoma drug called Istodax from  Celgene
Corp. (CELG)  in a small HIV patient trial that could begin next year,
said Geleziunas. If the trial shows promise, Gilead would then
try to come up with an improved version. Celgene isn’t pursuing
its own testing of the drug for HIV, spokesman Brian Gill said
in an e-mail.  A record 34.2 million people worldwide are living with HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS, according to UNAIDS, the United
Nation’s division devoted to treating and preventing the
disease. It remains a killer disease globally, with about 4,000
deaths a day attributed to it last year alone, the data shows.  Chronic Disease  Today’s drug cocktails have transformed AIDS into a
chronic disease by preventing the virus from replicating. Yet
they can’t cure the disease because the current medicines don’t
kill HIV-infected cells. If a patient stops taking the drugs,
the virus will eventually come roaring back, thanks to hidden
deposits inside rare dormant blood cells.  In each patient, there are about a million of these
infected cells, Geleziunas said. Finding a way to wake them up
so they can be spotted and eliminated is a main goal of
researchers sleuthing for a cure, he said.  “It is going to be a step by step slow battle, but we can
see a way forward,” said David Margolis of the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who led the Nature study and has
been working for 18 years on ways to eliminate the hidden HIV
virus deposits.  Early Trials  There are now roughly 12 patient trials in early stages
testing various approaches to curing the disease, said Sharon Lewin, a professor at  Monash University  in  Melbourne ,  Australia ,
in an interview. At the AIDS meeting, she said she met with
representatives from about 15 drug companies interested in cure
research.  “There is quite a bit of research and I think that is
new,” said Lewin, who is also conducting a patient trial of the
Merck lymphoma drug in HIV patients.  At J&J, the world’s biggest maker of health care products,
15 researchers in  Belgium  are focused full-time on developing
drugs that could lead to a cure, said Marie-Pierre de Bethune, a
vice president in infectious diseases with J&J.  The researchers have taken 35,000 compounds from J&J’s
library of experimental drugs and tested them against the virus
in the lab to see which activate the dormant virus and make it
reveal itself to the immune system, de Bethune said in an
interview at the AIDS meeting.  Drug Combinations  Researchers will likely have to combine several medications
to kill off the hidden virus deposits -- one group to wake up
the hidden cells and another that would then prompt the immune
system to kill them.  “One drug isn’t going to do the trick to cure the disease
and many approaches will be needed,” de Bethune said.  So far, there is only one person who has ever been cured of
HIV, Timothy Ray Brown -- the so-called Berlin Patient. His HIV
was wiped out after getting a bone marrow transplant in 2007 for
cancer. The donor had a rare gene mutation that made the new
white blood cells resistant to infection with the AIDS virus.  “I am cleared of the AIDS virus,” Brown said at a news
briefing on July 24 in conjunction with the International AIDS
Conference. “It is my hope that my life and my story will
inspire others to follow a path to a cure that will help
everybody.”  Zolinza Study  While a bone marrow transplant isn’t a practical solution
for curing HIV for the masses, Brown “showed that
scientifically it was possible” to cure a patient, said
Margolis, senior author of the study on Merck’s Zolinza.  “Four years ago there was virtually nobody talking about
eradication research publically,” Margolis said in an
interview. Now “a lot of people are jumping in.”  When Margolis started working on hidden HIV reservoirs back
in 1994, researchers weren’t even sure they existed. His first
grant proposal on the subject was rejected, he said.  Margolis’s new study shows that Zolinza, a type of cancer
drug called an HDAC inhibitor, can turn on the dormant immune
system cells infected with the AIDS virus.  All eight patients were controlled on existing drugs, and
remained on their regular therapy. They received one dose of
Zolinza, and then had blood cells removed during a procedure
called leukapheresis.  Laboratory tests of the cells found that the average virus
expression in the dormant cells increased five-fold, indicating
at least some of the virus was being driven out of its hiding
places, the researchers wrote. Initial results of the Margolis
study were presented at a conference in March.  ‘Step Forward’  What isn’t clear from the study is whether the hidden HIV-
infected cells were killed, Margolis said. They also don’t know
what fraction of the hidden virus was activated.  Nonetheless, “this is an important step forward,” said
Daniel Kuritzkes, chief of  infectious diseases  at Brigham &
Women’s Hospital in  Boston . “This is the first compelling
evidence we have that we can induce virus expression from
latently infected cells.”  Kuritzkes is studying additional bone marrow transplant
patients infected with HIV to see if the transplants can
sometimes wipe out virus reservoirs even if they aren’t from
donors with cells resistant to HIV, like the cured patient
Timothy Ray Brown. Initial results from this study are slated to
be presented at the AIDS conference.  Prototype Drug  Merck’s head of infectious disease research, Daria Hazuda,
said she doubts Zolinza itself would be a drug that eradicates
HIV. The strategy behind the trials is to use Zolinza as a
prototype that could pave the way for more potent compounds that
are better at flushing the HIV out.  The company has “dozens” of scientists working in the
early stages of research on the problem, Hazuda said.  The goal is to come up with a combination therapy, much
like current treatments for hepatitis C, that can cure a
significant fraction of HIV patients over a treatment course
that might last a month to a year, she said.  One factor driving the resurgence of interest in cure
research is the failure to come up with an AIDS vaccine,
according to Hazuda. In September 2007, a promising Merck AIDS
vaccine failed in large-scale trials.  “It was a real jolt to the entire field,” when an
experimental Merck AIDS vaccine failed in large patient trials
in 2007, Hazuda said. “I think that woke people up with respect
to thinking more serious about eradication and thinking more
broadly about prevention research.”  Basic Research  Research toward a cure “is still in the very primitive
early basic science stages,” said  Anthony Fauci , director of
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.  He said it was important to pursue the studies aggressively
even though the odds of success aren’t clear. The Bethesda,
Maryland-based NIH has spent $122 million on HIV eradication
research in 2010 and 2011, the agency said.  Other scientists are openly optimistic.  “Right now is probably the most hopeful and optimistic
that we have ever been feeling about the possibility of a cure
for HIV,” said Rowena Johnston, director of research for amfAR,
The Foundation for AIDS Research.  “The chances are pretty good we will have a cure that will
be applied widely in the next couple of decades,” UCSF’s Deeks
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 