-- AIJ Client Human Holdings Seeks Compensation for Losses as Shares Tumble
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-03-08T06:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/aij-client-human-holdings-seeks-compensation-for-losses-as-shares-tumble.html
Human Holdings Co. (2415) , the school and
healthcare company that’s plunged 9 percent since disclosing it
was a client of suspended  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. (0202964D) , pledged
to seek compensation for losses from the Japanese asset manager.  Human Holdings is speaking with its lawyers to see if it
can claim damages for possible losses on the 330 million yen
($4.1 million) that AIJ managed for the company as of Dec. 31,
Yusuke Kawashita, an executive officer, said in an interview.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency suspended AIJ for a month
on Feb. 24 while it finds out what happened to the more than $2
billion of assets managed by the firm. The impact on net income
from any losses on Human Holdings’ investment won’t exceed 330
million yen, Kawashita said, without specifying an amount or
when it would book any charge.  “We find it very regrettable that the reported performance
was unrealistic and untrue,” Kawashita said by telephone today.
“We are now in discussions on how to legally claim as much
compensation as possible.”  Shares of Tokyo-based Human Holdings have fallen for six
days since it disclosed its investment with AIJ on Feb. 29, the
worst losing streak since  Japan ’s record earthquake last March.
They fell 1.8 percent to 32,900 yen at the trading close today,
compared with a 1.6 percent gain in the benchmark Topix Index.
The stock reached a 21-month high of 36,300 yen on Feb. 28.  Phone calls to AIJ today reached an automated recording
that didn’t take messages.  Investing Since 2002  Human Holdings was founded in 2002 and started investing
money through AIJ that year, Kawashita said. The company is one
of the few Japanese clients of AIJ that didn’t invest pension
assets. All except two of AIJ’s 120 domestic contracts were with
pension funds as of Dec. 31, 2010, according to a regulatory
filing submitted by the  fund manager  last March.  In February, Human forecast net income will more than
double to 692 million yen for the year ending March 31, on 50.9
billion yen of revenue. The company, which has about 2,000
employees and 15 subsidiaries in Japan and abroad, listed on the
Jasdaq exchange in 2004.  Kawashita said Human may pursue legal action once the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, the FSA’s
investigative arm, finishes inspecting AIJ.  The regulator may extend its one-month suspension as
investigations into the asset manager expand to  Hong Kong , two
government officials with knowledge of the matter said. Japanese
authorities called on their Hong Kong counterparts to help find
out what happened to the 185.3 billion yen of assets managed by
AIJ and determine any wrongdoing, one of the officials said.  Tokyo-based AIJ told regulators that its assets under
management have dwindled to about 24 billion yen, including 4
billion yen in cash and deposits, one of the officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  