-- Air Canada Lockout Averted as Labor Minister Sends Disputes to Tribunal
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-03-08T21:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/air-canada-to-lock-out-pilots-march-12-as-talks-end-without-deal.html
Air Canada (AC/A) ’s planned lockout of
pilots in a contract dispute was averted after Labor Minister
Lisa Raitt ordered that the case be sent to a government
arbitrator.  Raitt referred the matter to the Canada Industrial
Relations Board today hours after Air Canada said it would lock
out pilots at the nation’s largest airline on March 12. Having a
dispute reviewed by the board prevents a strike or lockout while
it remains under study.  Air Canada’s threat and a union vow to recommend that
pilots vote to reject the latest offer followed the Machinists’
March 6 decision to also strike on March 12. That set the stage
for federal intervention, said David Tyerman, a Canaccord
Genuity Inc. analyst in Toronto.  “The government is not going to allow the Canadian public
to be inconvenienced, particularly since at this point in time,
we have school holidays coming up next week,” Tyerman said in
an interview.  Air  Canada  and its pilots have been negotiating for 18
months, the Montreal-based company said in a statement outlining
plans for the lockout, which was to have taken effect at 12:01
a.m. on March 12. The union represents 3,000 Air Canada pilots.  “We need to bring closure to the ongoing climate of labor
uncertainty at Air Canada, which is affecting our customers,
destabilizing the company and our operations, and damaging the
Air Canada brand,” Chief Operating Officer Duncan Dee said in
the statement.  Air Canada closed unchanged at 93 Canadian cents in
Toronto. The shares have tumbled 65 percent in the past year.  Pilots, Machinists  Pilots are resisting the possible creation of a low-cost
unit to help Air Canada return to profit after the completion of
a cost-cutting plan last year, and Machinists have accused the
carrier of doing too little to bolster its pension program.  The Air Canada Pilots Association said the offer going to
members for a vote wasn’t a tentative agreement, just the
proposal put forward by the airline.  “Air Canada pilots should be given the opportunity to tell
the corporation directly what they think of its offer and its
actions in this round of bargaining,” union President Paul
Strachan said in a statement.  Raitt signaled yesterday that intervention was likely, when
she responded to the Machinists’ strike plan with a
reaffirmation of her previous comments that a strike wouldn’t be
in Canada’ best interests.  In October, she thwarted a potential strike by referring a
dispute between Air Canada and flight attendants to the labor
board. In June, striking Air Canada service workers reached a
tentative agreement minutes after the government introduced
legislation that would have forced an end to the labor action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  