-- Air France-KLM Posts $1.06 Billion Loss on Fuel Spending, Ticket Pricing
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-03-08T12:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/air-france-klm-posts-1-06-billion-loss-on-fuel-spending-ticket-pricing.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, reported a full-year loss as a sluggish economy
and high fuel costs crimped  earnings  and said results for the
current six months will show a further deterioration.  The Paris-based company had a net loss of 809 million euros
($1.06 billion) versus a pro forma 289 million-euro profit in
2010, it said in a statement. Analysts had predicted a loss of
669 million euros, based on 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Jean-Cyril Spinetta, recalled last year as chief executive
officer as slumping profit forced Pierre-Henri Gourgeon’s exit,
froze pay and hiring in January and is in talks with unions over
a 2 billion-euro annual saving he says is needed to secure the
long-term future. The loss comes after German rival  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  yesterday posted a 13 million-euro annual deficit
as its soon-to-be-sold U.K. division BMI clipped earnings.  “2011 was a tough year due to the uncertain operating
environment and high fuel price,” Spinetta told journalists.
“In this context the success of the transformation plan is all
the more crucial. The announced measures are already under way.”  Initial talks with unions will end this month, with details
to be hammered out in the second quarter so that a deal
providing a 20 percent efficiency gain at Air France by 2014 and
stable payroll costs at KLM should be in place by the end of
June, the CEO said in Paris. Alexandre de Juniac, head of the
French unit, said it’s too early to speak of job cuts.  ‘Not Enough’  “This goes in the right direction,” said  Yan Derocles , an
Oddo Securities analyst in Paris with a “buy” rating on the
shares. “But I don’t think it will be sufficient given the
current fuel price increase.” Kerosene costs were 904 million
euros higher in 2011 and will rise by a further 1.1 billion
euros this year, the carrier said today.  Air France-KLM traded 2 percent  higher  at 4.27 euros as of
1:32 a.m. in Paris after earlier falling as much as 2.9 percent.
While the shares have gained 8 percent in 2012, giving a value
of 1.28 billion euros, they’re down 63 percent over the  past 12
months . That’s twice the decline at competitors Lufthansa and
IAG and the worst performance in the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA
Airlines Index, which is 25 percent lower.  Even as revenue at the carrier, which switched to calendar-
year reporting, increased 4.5 percent to 24.4 billion euros and
traffic gained 6.6 percent, unit revenues at the passenger
business slid 1.2 percent, suggesting a slide in ticket prices.  Alitalia, Etihad Ties  For 2012 the economic outlook is uncertain and fuel prices
remain at record euro levels, it said, so that the first-half
operating result will be “well below that of the previous year.”  The second half should begin to show a “positive impact”
from the savings plan, Spinetta said. He declined to give a
specific forecast and said of the outlook that Air France-KLM is
“cautious on that subject,” while predicting short-haul services
should break even in 2013 and post a profit the year after.  Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia said the main
target the carrier has set is to stabilize its net debt.  There are no immediate plans to take a bigger holding in
Alitalia SpA, the CFO said, adding that the Italian company’s
investors will be free to sell shares to anyone from this year.  “If you look at our stock prices it would penalize our
shareholders to do a financial operation at this time,” he said.  Air France-KLM is amendable to talks on cooperation with
Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, which Spinetta said is seeking a
“commercial partnership.” It’s unlikely that there will be a
capital link between the carriers, given the relative lack of an
“internal market” in the Gulf, he added.  Lufthansa Hit  British Airways parent IAG, or  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said Feb. 29 that operating profit doubled to
485 million euros last year following its formation via a merger
of the U.K. carrier with  Spain ’s Iberia, spurred by demand for
business travel on BA’s North Atlantic routes.  Lufthansa (LHA) , the European No. 2, swung to a loss from net
income of 1.1 billion euros a year earlier, according to
yesterday’s posting. Discontinued operations clipped earnings by
285 million euros, reflecting a shortfall at U.K. unit BMI and
valuation effects linked to the division’s planned sale to IAG.  Lufthansa’s operating profit of 820 million euros, while
down 18 percent, beat the 811 million-euro estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, and the Cologne-based carrier said it
will pay investors a 25 cents a share dividend on that basis.  Lufthansa, which boosted sales 8.3 percent to 28.7 billion
euros, traded 0.1 percent higher at 10.04 euros in  Frankfurt  and
has gained 9 percent this year. IAG has added 12 percent.  Capacity Curbs  European airlines have been seeking measures to restore
margins, with Air France slashing summer capacity 6.5 percent on
North Atlantic routes in conjunction with partners  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Alitalia SpA and last week raising 467 million
euros from selling a 7.5 percent stake in Amadeus IT Holding SA.  For 2012 as a whole capacity will increase by about 1.2
percent, CEO Spinetta said today, followed by growth of 2.2
percent in 2013 and 1.1 percent in 2014.  Lufthansa aims to add 1.5 billion euros to annual earnings
by 2014 through a savings plan requiring greater integration of
areas including cargo, engineering and catering. It’s trimming
2012 capacity growth to 3 percent from a planned 9 percent.  At  IAG (IAG) , Iberia weighed on full-year earnings, posting an
operating loss of 61 million euros versus a 592 million-euro
profit at BA. A new unit, Iberia Express, begins operations on
March 25 with the aim of lowering costs for short-haul flights.
The plan prompted strikes by pilots opposed to contract changes.  Air France is introducing a discount of its own in a bid to
restore French regional flights to profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  