-- Taiwan Farmers Protest Plan on Beef Imports With Ractopamine
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-03-08T11:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/taiwanese-farmers-protest-plan-for-beef-imports-with-lean-meat-additive.html
Taiwan (TWGDCONY)  farmers and civic groups
protested today against the government’s plan to lift a ban on
beef imports containing lean meat additives, a move they say was
made for political reasons and poses a health risk.  About 8,000 farmers joined the rally in Taipei against
allowing any type of meat with ractopamine residue to enter
 Taiwan ,  Pan  Lien-chiou, deputy director of the R.O.C. Swine
Association said by phone today.  Taiwan this week said it may allow conditional lifting of a
ban on imports of U.S. beef that contain trace amounts of the
feed additive that promotes lean meat growth. In 2008, Taiwan
was the sixth-largest importer of U.S. beef and beef products,
according to American Institute in Taiwan data. The market is
worth $360 million and imports over $128 million from the U.S.  “If all meat, not just pork, should be safe to eat, why
make an exception for U.S. beef?” the association’s Pan said.
“Even though the ban on pork containing ractopamine remains,
people are concerned about the safety of eating meat, and that
has also affected pork prices, which have been falling.”  The government may use a residue limit of 10 parts per
billion as a reference, Health Minister Chiu Wen-ta said
yesterday. This is similar to the level allowed in  Japan  and
 Canada , while the U.S. allows up to 30ppb. The plan needs
parliamentary approval.  The decision angered opposition lawmakers as Premier Sean Chen said last month the government won’t lift the ban during
the current parliamentary session. Lin Chun-hsien, a spokesman
for the opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  said President
Ma Ying-jeou was lying to the people when he said there wasn’t a
timetable for lifting the ban, and questioned the hastiness of
the decision at a press briefing on March 6.  ‘Bargaining Chips’  “The government can’t use our health as political
bargaining chips,” Lu Mei-luan, director general of the
Homemakers Union and Foundation, said by phone from Taipei. The
group is petitioning lawmakers outside parliament to oppose the
proposed bill.  Taiwan wants to resume trade talks with the U.S. under the
Trade and Investment Framework Agreement framework which have
been stalled since 2007. The U.S. Under Secretary of Commerce
for International Trade Francisco Sanchez postponed a planned
visit to Taiwan from March 4-6, citing “unforeseen
circumstances,” according to the American Institute in Taiwan,
the defacto U.S. embassy on the island.  The deadlock on the U.S. beef import issue will affect the
progress of TIFA talks in the short term, the cabinet said in an
e-mailed statement today. If the U.S. doesn’t see Taiwan as a
trusted trading partner, it will affect the support for Taiwan
to join regional trade groups and hurt its global
competitiveness, the statement said. Taiwan aims to be a member
of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a U.S.-led trade accord,
according to the statement.  Taiwan banned U.S. beef imports in December 2003 on
concerns of mad-cow disease, and in 2006 relaxed rules to allow
the imports of U.S. beef from cattle less than 30 months old.
The American Institute in Taiwan said in a statement earlier
this month the European Union,  China  and Taiwan are the only
major markets that ban domestic use of ractopamine and don’t
allow the imports of meat that contains residue of the additive.  Ractopamine has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and is used by many U.S. beef and pork producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  