-- Majority of California Voters Favor Brown Tax Plan, Poll Shows
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/majority-of-california-voters-favor-brown-tax-plan-poll-shows.html
Just over half of California’s
likely voters support Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposal to boost
income taxes on those making $250,000 or more and raise sales
levies to help balance state spending, according to a new poll.  Fifty-two percent of those surveyed for the  Public Policy
Institute of California  said they backed the governor’s ballot
measure to collect 7.75 percent on retail sales and increase
rates for the top 1 percent of state taxpayers. Those earning $1
million and more would pay 12.3 percent, up from 10.3 percent.  The largest U.S. state by population faces a $9.2 billion
deficit. Support for the plan, which the governor estimates
would raise $6.9 billion a year, has diminished due to
competition from other measures also proposed for the November
ballot, said  Mark Baldassare , president of the nonpartisan
institute.  “There’s been a lot of controversy over which measure to
support,” he said by telephone today. “It’s both the
complexity and wording of the ballot measure and the controversy
over which measure would be best that accounts for the drop in
support.”  In a January survey by the San Francisco-based institute,
68 percent of likely voters supported the tax increases as long
as the revenue was earmarked for education. The new results
aren’t directly comparable because the question was reworded to
reflect the actual language of the ballot question, which said
the taxes would support both education and local public-safety
programs.  Academic Year  The measure would  devote  89 percent of new  tax revenue  to
primary schools and 11 percent to community colleges while
guaranteeing funds to local governments now responsible for some
inmates formerly held in state prisons. If the proposal fails,
Brown has said schools would lose $4.8 billion, the equivalent
of shortening the academic year by three weeks.  Brown’s higher taxes would have applied to about 157,000
returns in 2008, or 1 percent of the total, and 131,000 returns
in 2009, about 0.9 percent, according to estimates tabulated by
the Legislative Analyst’s Office. About 1.1 percent of taxpayers
would incur higher rates in 2012 and 2013, said Justin Garosi,
an analyst in the office.  Brown’s proposal is competing with a measure by attorney
Molly Munger that would raise income taxes on everyone making
$17,346 or more, with the largest increases on higher earners;
and a proposal by the  California  Federation of Teachers to
increase income taxes only on those earning $1 million or more.  Brown’s political adviser, Steve Glazer, said by telephone
that the 73-year-old Democrat hasn’t persuaded backers to drop
the rival measures.  “We’re pleased we’re above 50 percent with the campaign
still to come,” Glazer said.  Kris Vosburgh, executive director of the anti-tax Howard
Jarvis Taxpayers Association, said measures that start with less
than two-thirds support typically fail.  “All of these issues seem to wear down over time,” he
said.  The poll of 859 likely voters, taken Feb. 21-28, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 