-- Alberta Premier Wants Energy Cooperation Within Americas
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-03-08T18:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/alberta-premier-wants-energy-cooperation-within-americas-1-.html
Alberta  Premier Alison Redford wants
 Canada , the U.S. and  Latin America  to share more information and
cooperate on regulation of energy projects like  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Canada and the  U.S. can  benefit from cooperating on
research and development and investment, as well as sharing
intellectual property, Redford said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York  today. That could be expanded to Latin
American nations, she said.  “As we start to think about how energy is going to impact
all of this hemisphere, I think there’s a lot of opportunity for
good conversation,” said Redford, a member of Canada’s
Progressive Conservative Party who is running for re-election
this year. “If there’s work being done in the  United States (UNG) 
around sustainables, renewables,  energy efficiency , it’s not
going to be different work from what’s happening in Canada.”  Canada, home to the world’s third-largest oil reserves, is
seeking new routes to export its crude. TransCanada’s Keystone
XL pipeline, which would bring crude from Alberta’s oil sands to
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries, was rejected by President  Barack Obama  on Jan. 18. Oil is Canada’s most valuable export and has
helped Alberta become the province with the highest per capita
income.  Educating Citizens  “Business just deals with it,” said Terrance McGill,
President of Enbridge Energy Co., in an interview today in New
York, referring to the different regulations in Canada and the
U.S. The two countries’ energy policies “are already tied. It’s
just not formalized,” he said.  The oil and gas industry does needs to do a better job
educating citizens about energy issues, McGill said. Business
and governments are sometimes “detached” from one another on
energy issues, he said.  Alberta yesterday signed a memorandum of understanding with
the  Inter-American Development Bank (ITAD)  to discuss mining
regulations, she said. She has also spoken about international
 energy policy  with think tanks including the Washington-based
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.  More Wind Power  Redford expects the Keystone XL pipeline to be approved by
the U.S. TransCanada, based in Calgary, said March 6 it plans to
submit within weeks a new permit application for the $7.6
billion oil pipeline.  Alberta has 173 billion barrels of recoverable crude in the
 oil sands , a region in the northeast part of the province.
Annual investment in the oil sands is about C$20 billion ($20.2
billion), filling government coffers and driving demand for
engineers, electricians and construction workers, according to
the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Redford’s government is also considering different
renewable-energy strategies and will develop a plan following an
election that has to be held by the end of May.  Alberta will likely triple wind-power capacity through
2020, Redford said. Currently, the province has almost 900
megawatts of wind power capacity, the third-most in Canada after
Ontario and Quebec, according to the Canadian Wind Energy
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  