-- Stanford’s ‘Arrogance’ Spurred Conviction for $7 Billion Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/allen-stanford-is-ordered-to-forfeit-assets-in-u-s-investment-fraud-case.html
R. Allen Stanford, the onetime
Caribbean banking tycoon found guilty of helming a $7 billion
investment fraud, was brought down by his own arrogance and
greed, jurors said.  Billie Wade, 69, a retired hairdresser who described
herself during jury selection in Houston federal court as “the
dumbest person in this room,” said Stanford’s attitude made the
biggest impression on her, more than any evidence or testimony.  “His arrogance, every day,” she said yesterday after the
jury decided that Stanford, 61, must forfeit $330 million in
assets in 29 bank accounts seized by the government. The same
jury of eight men and four women returned guilty verdicts March
6 on 13 of 14 criminal counts against Stanford.  Stanford was found guilty of lying to investors about the
nature and oversight of certificates of deposit issued by
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. and sold in the
U.S. by his Houston-based securities firm, Stanford Group Co.  After a six-week trial, the jury convicted him on four
counts of  wire fraud  and five counts of mail fraud, each of
which carries a top sentence of 20 years in prison. He was also
convicted of conspiracy and obstructing a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission probe. He was found not guilty of one wire
fraud count. U.S. District Judge David Hittner set June 14 for
sentencing. Stanford remains in custody.  Boxes of Evidence  “The jury returned unanimous verdicts and we think they
speak for themselves,” John Wojciak, the jury foreman, said
yesterday after the forfeiture trial. Jurors examined 10 to 12
boxes of evidence, said Wojciak, an environmental engineer. He
refused to answer questions from reporters.  Bruce Forrest, a 47-year-old alternate juror, was dismissed
before deliberations began and returned to the courthouse
yesterday to meet with the other jurors and the judge. Forrest,
an optician, said prosecutors presented “overwhelming
evidence” of Stanford’s guilt.  James Davis, Stanford’s former finance chief, was the most
compelling witness, Forrest said. Davis, who pleaded guilty and
entered into a cooperation agreement with the U.S. in 2009,
testified for five days against Stanford. Forrest said he
believed Davis, “even though he made that deal with the
government.”  Forrest also recalled testimony from Sohil Merchant,
Stanford’s information technology chief, who testified to having
to repeatedly fly in laptops to replace ones the financier had
smashed against walls or dropped into water.  ‘Other People’s Money’  “There’s an arrogance that goes with that,” Forrest said.
“And to find out he used other people’s money in order to
accomplish all this -- along with arrogance comes greed.”  Juror Carlos Anez, a 27-year-old industrial engineer, said
the jury briefly deadlocked on one count, the allegation that
Stanford had bribed Antiguan banking regulator Leroy King with
Super Bowl tickets. They weren’t sure what the rules were in
Antigua, he said. That was the only count they acquitted on.  The jury yesterday granted total forfeiture on 29 bank
accounts in  London , Zurich, Geneva and elsewhere that
prosecutors said are worth $330 million. The money will go to
Stanford’s victims, the U.S. Justice Department said.  “We won’t say it’s what we expected,” Ali Fazel, one of
Stanford’s attorneys, said after the forfeiture verdict.  Before the forfeiture decision was announced, Stanford sat
with his lawyers at the defense table, laughing occasionally. As
the verdict was read, he looked over at his mother, Sammie, and
his daughter Randi. The two women later left the courthouse
carrying the suit and dress shirt Stanford had worn in court.  Maintains Innocence  Stanford, who didn’t testify, maintains his innocence.
Defense lawyers argued that his organization had had enough
assets to honor its commitments until the SEC sued in February
2009 and won a court order freezing his holdings and appointing
a receiver to liquidate them.  Forrest said he was sorry Stanford didn’t testify.  “He might regret that now,” Forrest said. “It’s always
nice to hear from him.”  Anez said it wouldn’t have mattered if Stanford had taken
the witness stand, given the amount of evidence against him.  “It was a lot,” he said. Wade, the retired hairdresser,
said she had no interest in hearing from Stanford.  Robert Scardino, Stanford’s other attorney, said he and
Fazel will ask the court to have lawyers review their work to
see if they made any mistakes or “missed any issues.”  Fazel said there are many grounds for appeal.  Jailhouse Beating  Stanford, who sustained head injuries in a 2009 inmate
assault at a Houston jail, became addicted to prescription anti-
anxiety drugs and spent almost nine months in a federal prison
hospital in  North Carolina . His lawyers tried to delay the
trial, arguing that their client was suicidal and might never
sufficiently recover from the beating to face a jury.  Hittner declared Stanford legally competent and ordered the
trial to go ahead.  “That will be an issue,” Fazel said. “It will be a
lengthy appeal.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  