-- Irish Life Plans to Introduce Sovereign Annuity Via NTMA Bonds
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-08T14:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/allied-irish-may-consider-compulsory-cuts-as-2-500-jobs-to-go.html
Irish Life & Permanent (IPM)  Plc is in
final preparations for the introduction of the country’s first
sovereign annuity product for the pension market.  “The company hopes to launch the new annuity by the summer
subject to final agreement with the National Treasury Management
Agency,” the Dublin-based company said in a statement. “The
new product will be manufactured using new bonds issued by the
NTMA for the Irish pensions industry.”  Defined-benefit retirement plans guarantee their payments
by buying annuities that typically invest in top-rated German
bunds. Irish pension managers have been lobbying the government
to let them switch to annuities tied to lower-rated local
securities that offer high yields in a bid to repair deficits.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating to
junk in July, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates Ireland as BBB+.
Ireland’s October 2020 bonds yield 7 percent, compared with a
yield of 1.81 percent on an equivalent German bond.  “Sovereign annuities will be significantly cheaper than
traditional annuities for pensioners and will have the added
bonus of providing a new source of funds for the state,” David Harney, chief executive officer of Irish Life’s corporate unit,
said in the statement.  Ireland stepped out of bond markets and sought an
international rescue in November 2010 amid concern a banking
crisis would push it into bankruptcy. The National Treasury
Management Agency, which manages Irish debt, was unavailable to
comment on the pension initiative, a spokesman said.  “It’s too early to tell the impact, it depends on how much
demand the product generates,” said  Michael Cummins , an analyst
at Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm. “But any
market funding is positive, so it has to be seen in a positive
light albeit not one that suddenly saves the day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  