-- Man Who Ran Britain’s Biggest Ponzi Scheme Jailed for 14 Years
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-08T18:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/man-who-ran-britain-s-biggest-ponzi-scheme-jailed-for-14-years.html
A man who admitted running the
largest  Ponzi scheme  in British history, defrauding investors of
more than 115 million pounds ($182 million), was sentenced to 14
years and six months in prison, prosecutors said.  Kautilya Nandan Pruthi pleaded guilty to defrauding around
800 investors over a three-year period until November 2008.  His associates,  John Anderson  and Kenneth Peacock, were
today found guilty for their part in the fraud and each jailed
for 18 months, the Press Association reported.  The trio defrauded investors by offering monthly returns of
as much as 13 percent. The scheme was marketed as a fund
investing in high-interest loans to distressed trading companies
involved in importing and exporting goods.  Pruthi spent the proceeds on  London  property, a Jaguar XKR,
three Bentleys, two Ferraris, a Lamborghini, two Mercedes, a
Rolls Royce, a Volkswagen and a motorcycle, according to the
 City of London  Police, which investigated the case after it was
referred to them by the Financial Services Authority in 2009.  Pruthi, Peacock and Anderson were ordered to pay the FSA
115 million pounds in 2010 for unlawfully accepting deposits
while operating as Business Consulting International. The
regulator said it would return any money it receives to
investors.  Pruthi, who used helicopters to travel to meetings with
investors, also owned a private jet that crashed in 2008,
killing all five passengers on board, police said. He was
previously jailed in the U.S. on fraud charges before being
deported to  India . Pruthi then moved to the U.K. from India,
police said.  The prosecution service had no information on the men’s
lawyers to contact for comment on the verdict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  