-- Analyst Kinnucan Ordered Moved to New York for Insider Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-08T00:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/analyst-kinnucan-ordered-to-new-york-for-trial-after-failing-to-make-bail.html
Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan was ordered to be transported to New York to face trial
for  insider trading  after a judge found him unable to meet the
terms of his $5 million bail.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in New York today said
that a lawyer for Kinnucan, 54, who was indicted for insider
trading and  securities fraud , told her that his client was
unable to satisfy the conditions of his bail. The lawyer asked
that Kinnucan be moved to the federal courthouse in Manhattan by
the U.S. Marshals Service, the judge said.  Kinnucan was arrested in Portland, Oregon, on Feb. 16. He
is accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients about
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  Batts ruled on Feb. 23 that Kinnucan could be freed on
$5 million bond secured by $100,000 in cash and property and
with the signatures four financially responsible people. She
rejected prosecution claims that he had engaged in a
“campaign” of threats against the government.  Prosecutors said at a hearing after the arrest that
Kinnucan posed a danger to the community and a threat to
authorities handling his case, citing at least 24 menacing
voice-mail messages he left on the office phones of U.S.
prosecutors and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, and also
at the homes of two cooperating witnesses.  The judge today also moved Kinnucan’s initial court
appearance in  New York  to March 28 from March 12, saying that
the marshals probably wouldn’t be able to get him to New York
from Oregon until at least March 26.  She had previously agreed to push a March 5 initial hearing
back to March 12 after Kinnucan’s lawyer told her his client was
having difficulty meeting the terms of that bond.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 