-- Lance Armstrong’s Former Team Said to Agree to Breakaway Cycling Series
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/lance-armstrong-s-former-team-said-to-agree-to-breakaway-cycling-series.html
Lance Armstrong ’s former team is
among eight elite squads that agreed to race in a series that
cycling’s top official has called a breakaway league, two people
with direct knowledge of the situation said.  Sports  marketing company  Gifted Group Ltd. is seeking
approval from the sport’s ruling body to start its new World
Series Cycling in 2014, according to the people, who were
granted anonymity because the project isn’t public. The 10-race
championship would co-exist with the Tour de  France  and eight
other high-profile races, the people said.  Almost half of the top 18 squads including the one funded
by Radioshack Corp., have signed up for the new series, and
those participating will get 64 percent of the equity, the
people said.  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports business
strategy at the U.K.’s Coventry University, said the teams are
trying to change a model that denies them a share of race
revenue. Those funds now go to organizers like Amaury Sport
Organisation, a family business that has controlled the Tour de
France since World War II.  “This is potentially a real change in the balance of power
in cycling,” Chadwick said in a telephone interview. “The
teams are being driven by the marketplace instead of history.”  The World Series Cycling group approached Hein Verbruggen,
former president of the International Cycling Union, or UCI,
late last month as it seeks reconciliation with the sport’s
ruling body, one of the people said. UCI spokesman Enrico Carpani confirmed there had been contact between the parties. He
declined to comment further. UCI President Pat McQuaid didn’t
return a phone message seeking comment yesterday.  NBA Model  In a Jan. 25 interview, McQuaid said he’d obtained
information about the project and sees it as a “breakaway
league” that would threaten long-standing events like the 79-
year-old Tour of  Switzerland  and  Spain ’s San Sebastian Classic.
The UCI recently started its own company, Global Cycling
Promotion SA, to promote races outside  Europe  and introduced the
Tour of Beijing in October.  The new series won’t clash with the Tour de France, Giro
d’Italia and Vuelta a Espana, the biggest stage races, or six
so-called one-day classics, the people said. It would have four-
day races in the U.S., Europe and  Asia , and possibly in  South
America  and  Australia . The business model, unusual in European
sports, is based on the team franchise plan used in the  National
Basketball Association ,  National Football League  and other U.S.
sports, Chadwick said.  Jonathan Vaughters, the manager of the Boulder, Colorado-
based Garmin squad who heads the teams association, told
reporters at the  Tour de France  in July that teams are too
vulnerable to sponsors pulling out. Elite squads typically have
budgets of about $10 million, and two have folded in the last
six months after mobile phone maker HTC Corp. and shoemaker Geox
SpA withdrew sponsorship.  French Team  The Radioshack-backed team, where Armstrong, the seven-time
Tour de France champion, raced in 2010 is among those that have
agreed to terms, the people said. A French squad, Francaise des
Jeux, backed by a gaming company, is among those that haven’t
signed up, the people said. RadioShack team manager  Johan Bruyneel  and Francaise des Jeux team manager Marc Madiot
declined to comment.  The series would be managed by Gifted Group chairman
Jonathan Price and Thomas Kurth, a former executive of European
soccer’s ruling body, UEFA, according to a 12-page pitch to
potential investors by the U.K. unit of Rothschild bank last
year. They have since met their target of raising 20 million
euros ($27 million) from investors, the people said. The backers
would own 26 percent of the equity and Gifted Group would hold
10 percent.  Price’s former company ran Manchester United’s sponsorship
and hospitality. Kurth has worked as an executive for UEFA and
G14, a now-defunct group that represented elite clubs. Price
declined to comment. Kurth couldn’t be reached for comment.  Champions League  Gifted Group’s series has projected earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 39 million
euros on sales of 140 million euros in 2017, the pitch says.
McQuaid said it would struggle to make money because cycling
isn’t as television-friendly as soccer and production costs are
higher. He said it wouldn’t manage without the UCI’s advanced
anti-doping program.  The backers are seeking to turn the series into a global
brand that competes with soccer’s  Champions League  and Formula
One auto racing, according to the people. It will be a
“difficult sell” in some countries outside cycling’s European
heartland, Chadwick said.  “Cycling has no history, no established market and no big
stars in new and emerging markets,” Chadwick said. “The acid
test is how good they are at packaging this and selling it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  