-- Andreessen Horowitz Invests in Software Startup NationBuilder
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/andreessen-horowitz-invests-in-software-startup-nationbuilder.html
NationBuilder , a creator of software
for organizing political campaigns and grass-roots movements,
received $6.25 million in funding from investors including
Andreessen Horowitz.  Ben Horowitz, who co-founded the venture capital firm with
Internet pioneer  Marc Andreessen , will join the board at
NationBuilder, the Los Angeles-based company said in a
statement. Other investors include early  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
executives  Sean Parker ,  Dustin Moskovitz  and Dave Morin.  Founded in 2009 by documentary film producer Jim Gilliam,
NationBuilder charges campaign organizers, fundraisers and
others $19 per month for tools to manage an online network of
supporters. Joe Green, the startup’s co-founder, who will take
the role of president, is a former political activist and
creator of the online-charity startup Causes.  “We’re entering the age of the individual entrepreneur
because there are so many things that you can get through
outsourced software,” Horowitz said in a March 6 telephone
interview. “NationBuilder lets you organize people, enabling a
potentially tremendous market.”  Green plans to help NationBuilder find an audience with
politicians at many levels, he said in an interview yesterday.  “When the story is written about how social media affected
politics, it’s not going to be who is elected president of the
 United States ,” Green said. “It’s going to be who is elected
to the hundreds of thousands of other offices, like your school
board and city council, which are the people who most directly
affect everyday quality of life.”  Sign Petitions  NationBuilder provides a website where members of a group
or cause can sign petitions, donate and provide feedback while
using their Facebook login credentials. The organizer can
communicate with this group via e-mail, mobile phone text
messages and social networking tools like Twitter.  Previously, this combination of tools was “only available
to folks who have a lot of resources or a lot of technical
background,” Gilliam, the site’s co-founder and chief executive
officer, said in an interview yesterday.  NationBuilder has more than 500 groups, which it calls
“nations,” comprising 2 million supporters. They include the
website for  Newt Gingrich ’s primary campaign in the state of  New
Hampshire  and a site promoting the 2010 documentary film
‘American Meat.’  Last year, NationBuilder received $500,000 from investors
including Chris Hughes, the Facebook co-founder who helped run
Barack Obama’s online campaign in the 2008 presidential
election.  Andreessen Horowitz said in January it had raised $1.5
billion for its third fund, aimed at investing in technology
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  