-- Lennox’s Big WOW, Kusama’s Dots, Women Cooking: London Weekend
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/annie-lennox-s-big-wow-kusama-s-dots-women-chefs-team-up-london-weekend.html
Hard rock takes over  London ’s
Roundhouse tomorrow night, with a show full of punks, aggressive
guitarists dressed in black leather and posters of rats.  It’s part of a drive by  the Stranglers  to chart in five
straight decades. The band is promoting its CD “Giants” and a
greatest-hits CD, which contains the upbeat “No More Heroes”
and “Peaches” as well as the hushed “Golden Brown.”  Roundhouse, Chalk Farm Road, London NW1 8EH. Information:
 http://www.roundhouse.org.uk , +44-844-482-8008 or
 http://www.thestranglers.net/   Saturday  Sinead O’Connor, Annie Lennox, Katy B and Emeli Sande are
some of the stars taking part in the weekend-long “WOW -- Women
of the World” festival at the Southbank Centre.  O’Connor plays the Queen Elizabeth Hall on Saturday, while
the others take part in a joint “Equals Live 2012” concert at
the Royal Festival Hall on Friday.  WOW’s big program, put together by Jude Kelly, also has
talks by  Cherie Blair  on mentoring,  Patrick Stewart  on domestic
violence and Mary Portas on campaigning. There are also debates
about cosmetic surgery,  Margaret Thatcher  as a feminist icon and
sexual inequality in sport. Ruby Wax and Judith Owen are
performing their comedy “Losing It,” while Mary Pickford’s
silent movies are screened to newly created musical soundtracks.  Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX, until March 11.
The festival is supported by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News. See  http://ticketing.southbankcentre.co.uk/wow   Saturday Night  Beg, steal or borrow if you don’t have tickets to “Noises
Off” at the Old Vic. Michael Frayn’s 1982 play tells the story
of a group of touring actors trying to put on a show called
“Nothing On.”  As pants drop, dresses fall off, doors are slammed and
chaos ensues, one character is left gasping “this is getting
farcical” -- when things could hardly be more like an old-
fashioned bedroom farce.  The show was extended after rave reviews and the entire run
sold out: The curtain comes down for the last time on March 10.
Fortunately, the show is set to return March 24 at the Novello
in Aldwych. Information: http:/www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk.  If you can’t get into “Noises Off,” a very different
evening is on offer at the Almeida. March 10 is also its last
night. Bijan Sheibani’s production of Federico Garcia Lorca’s
“The House of Bernarda Alba” is transposed to rural  Iran .
Information:  http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404.  Sunday  View the work of an artist who still lives in the mental
hospital she checked herself into in the late 1970s.  Tate Modern has a big exhibition devoted to Yayoi Kusama,
the Japanese painter-performer-peacenik who took  New York  by
storm in the 1960s and who is now 82, wheelchair-bound and still
fond of polka dots.  The exhibition has lots of dotty installations as well as
two rooms full of soft sculptures of the male organ that reflect
the artist’s low opinion of men.  “Yayoi Kusama” is at Tate Modern, London, through June 5.
Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/modern  or +44-20-7887-8888.  When visiting Tate Modern, it’s worth taking the time to
walk to the Menier Chocolate Factory. The arts venue has a
modern European restaurant. Diners with a sweet tooth may opt
for the Chocolate Platter. The rest of us can just make do with
goat’s cheese, burgers and other cocoa-free options.
Information: https://www.menierchocolatefactory.com/ or +22-020-
7234 9610  Sunday Night  Six of the world’s leading women chefs team up in London
this weekend for a series of three dinners in which a U.K. star
collaborates with an overseas counterpart. On Sunday night, it’s
 Angela Hartnett  of Murano with Gabrielle Hamilton of Prune, in
New York. The following night, Clare Smyth,  Gordon Ramsay ’s head
chef, pairs with Helena Rizzo of Mani in  Sao Paulo . On Tuesday,
it’s  Anna Hansen  of Modern Pantry with Margot Janse of Le
Quartier Francais, Franschhoek,  South Africa .  The evenings have been devised by Hartnett and the food
writer Fiona Sims and will be held at 1 Lombard Street. Tickets
for the five-course meals cost 150 pounds ($236). To make a
booking, contact Elena Leva on 44-20-7929-9511 or
 el@jessen.co.uk .  (Mark Beech and Farah Nayeri write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech ;
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  