-- U.S. Said to Prepare Apple Lawsuit Over E-Book Price-Fixing
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-08T17:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/apple-said-to-be-targeted-with-e-book-publishers-in-u-s-price-fixing-suit.html
The U.S. Justice Department told
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five publishers that it’s preparing to sue them
for allegedly fixing the prices of electronic books, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Some of the companies are in talks with the Justice
Department to reach a settlement to avoid a court battle,
according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak about
the discussions publicly and declined to be identified.  The publishers involved in the case are  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Book Group,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins Publishers,
Macmillan, a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH,
 CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster and  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group
(USA), the person said.  The Justice Department is looking into how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books in early 2010 when it was getting ready to introduce its
first iPad, the person said. European antitrust regulators also
have said they’re probing whether Apple’s pricing deals with
publishers restrict competition. Sharis Pozen, the acting chief
of the antitrust division of the  Justice Department , told
Congress in December the division was probing the possibility of
anticompetitive practices in the e-book industry.  30 Percent Cut  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for
Simon & Schuster, Sophie Cottrell, a spokeswoman for Lagarde’s
Hachette Book Group, Erica Glass, a spokeswomen for Pearson’s
Penguin Group USA and Erin Crum, a spokeswoman for
HarperCollins, all declined to comment.  The U.S. threats to sue publishers over the pricing
practices and the settlement talks were reported earlier in the
Wall Street Journal.  When Apple came out with the iPad, it allowed publishers to
set book prices as long as Apple got a 30 percent cut and
publishers offered their lowest prices through Apple.  This so-called agency model spread throughout the e-book
industry. It overtook  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s wholesale model of
buying books at a discount from publishers and then having
Amazon.com set the price of books being read on its Kindle
tablet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  