-- Apple Loses Attempt to Pursue Patent-Infringement Fights Against Kodak
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-03-08T23:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/apple-can-t-file-patent-complaint-against-kodak-judge-rules.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a bid to file a
patent-infringement complaint against  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  and
restart litigation over ownership of a patent that Kodak intends
to sell while in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  today
denied Apple’s request to file a complaint with the
International Trade Commission and attempt to unfreeze a patent
lawsuit pending between the companies.  The setback for Apple comes as Kodak, which filed for
bankruptcy in January, is planning a sale of its digital imaging
patent portfolio, which it says is worth as much as
$2.6 billion.  The fight over whether Apple owns one of the patents in the
portfolio should be overseen by Gropper, Kodak said in court
papers. Kodak has said Apple’s claims of ownership, which it
calls “baseless,” are potentially damaging to the sale. It has
sought court permission to investigate the matter and obtain
documents from Apple.  “We think the uncertainty it creates is detrimental,”
Andrew Dietderich, a lawyer for Kodak, said at the hearing.  Apple, in seeking to file the ITC complaint, said in court
papers that it owns “a number of valuable patents that Kodak is
infringing in the course of its daily operations.” Apple said
it also planned to seek an injunction against Kodak in federal
court.  Digital Picture Frames  The patents cover technologies used in printers, digital
cameras and digital picture frames, Apple said.  Separately, Apple sought to proceed with a dispute against
Kodak over ownership of the patent in Kodak’s digital imaging
portfolio. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , claimed in
court papers that Kodak obtained the patent “by secretly taking
Apple’s innovations.”  Kodak in January 2010 asked the ITC to investigate whether
Apple’s iPhone infringes the patent and filed a companion
complaint in federal court in Rochester,  New York , where it is
based, according to court papers filed by Apple. Apple later
filed its own claims against Kodak.  The federal court case is stayed, and Apple wanted to ask
the district court to lift the stay and transfer the case to
federal court in Manhattan, it said.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  