-- Apple Bests Wells Fargo in Mutual-Funds: Citi
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-03-08T16:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/apple-bests-wells-fargo-as-favorite-mutual-fund-investment-citigroup-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  took over from Wells
Fargo & Co. as the stock most often in the top 10 holdings of
the 50 largest mutual funds in the fourth quarter, and widened
its lead among the biggest hedge funds, Citigroup Inc. said.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, was a top-10 holding
for 18 of the 50 largest U.S. mutual funds in the period, Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup’s chief U.S. equity strategist, wrote in a
note yesterday. Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are in the top 10 holdings of 17 of the mutual
funds. Apple gained 6.2 percent in the quarter, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 11 percent.  Wells Fargo (WFC)  rose
14 percent and Microsoft added 4.3 percent.  “The 30 most held stocks for hedge funds shifted more
heavily” to technology, Levkovich said in the report. “Apple
remains the most-held stock for both growth and value hedge
funds as well as for growth mutual funds while Wells Fargo
remains the most owned for value oriented mutual funds.”  Apple yesterday introduced a new version of its iPad tablet
computer that has a sharper screen and faster chip. The shares
have continued to rise even after the death of company founder
Steve Jobs, gaining 40 percent from his passing Oct. 5 through
yesterday. Wells Fargo had held the top spot among the largest
mutual funds since the second quarter of 2010, when Citigroup
began using its current methodology.  Apple was in the top 10 holdings of 20 of the 50 largest
hedge funds in the fourth quarter, up from 17 in the period
ended Sept. 30.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  remained second, with a presence in
the top holdings of 12 of the hedge funds -- a gain from 11 in
the prior quarter.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  are the stocks most over-
owned by the largest mutual funds, while  Visa Inc. (V)  and Google
Inc. are over-owned by hedge funds, Levkovich wrote, using a
comparison of the ratio of top-10 holdings to companies’ market
values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  