-- Arbuthnot’s Gilliat Hedges Counterparty Risk for Wealthy Clients
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-03-08T10:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/arbuthnot-s-gilliat-hedges-counterparty-risk-for-wealthy-clients.html
Gilliat Financial Solutions , a unit
of  Arbuthnot Banking Group Plc (ARBB)  that designs and sells structured
products, is offering wealthy depositors the chance to reduce
counterparty risk while receiving a return tied to the stock
market instead of interest payments.  Gilliat places the deposits across five banks to reduce the
risk posed by one going bankrupt, the London-based firm said in
a March 5 statement. Customers stumping up at least 50,000
pounds ($79,000) for five years benefit from increases in the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 up to a maximum 34 percent and don’t lose out if
the index declines.  When Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008 it was
a counterparty in trades across the world, worsening its impact
on the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression.
Mutual-fund manager  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  and SIX Swiss Exchange
Ltd., the operator of the Zurich bourse, also marketed
structured products this year designed to mitigate such risks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of people have been conscious of counterparty
risk,” said Adrian Neave, the managing director of Gilliat in
London. “But we now see product providers catering more for
those concerns.”  Gilliat deposits the money from its high-net-worth clients
equally between Julian Hodge Bank Ltd.,  Kleinwort Benson Group
Ltd. (KBL)  and OneSavings Bank Plc, as well as its own affiliates
Arbuthnot Latham & Co. Ltd. and Secure Trust Bank Plc, the firm
said in the statement.  Main Street  Gilliat said it developed the so-called structured deposits
with  De Montfort Professional Wealth Management LLP  in Rugby,
 England , to give clients the opportunity to diversify deposits
away from typical U.K. Main Street lenders. The five banks
involved in the product are authorized as financial services
firms, meaning customers’ deposits are guaranteed by the British
taxpayer up to a maximum of 85,000 pounds per bank.  Gilliat said the product is designed to appeal to U.K.-
resident clients seeking higher returns than traditional
deposits while wanting to avoid risky investments.  Structured deposits combine a traditional bank account and
an investment product, with the return depending on the
performance of an underlying asset rather than an  interest rate .
The  FTSE 100 index  that backs Gilliat’s offering rose 5 percent
since Dec. 30 and dropped 13 percent in the past five years.  “Investors are currently cautious of equity investment but
are receiving poor returns on monies held on deposit,” John
Boss, a senior partner at De Montfort, said in the statement.
“This plan is hopefully the first in a series trying to address
these concerns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in  London  at 
 Amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  