-- Stocks Advance With Commodities as Greece Moves Closer to Swap; Euro Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-03-08T21:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/asia-stocks-gain-on-japan-gdp-data-greek-debt-swap-while-yen-kiwi-weaken.html
Stocks (MXWD)  rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest back-to-back rally of the year,
while commodities gained and the euro strengthened as  Greece 
moved closer to completing its debt restructuring.  The S&P 500 advanced 1 percent to close at 1,365.91, with
the two-day advance erasing its 1.5 percent drop on March 6. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 70.61 points to
12,907.94. The euro appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.3271, while
the yen weakened against all 16 most-traded peers. Yields on 10-
year  U.S. Treasury  notes increased four basis points to 2.02
percent. The S&P GSCI Index climbed 0.8 percent as 17 of its 24
commodities advanced.  Greece’s government got about 85 percent of bondholders to
swap their holdings of the country’s debt for new securities in
the biggest restructuring in history, a banking official said.
 Stocks (MXWD)  also rallied as German industrial production grew 1.6
percent in January, while U.S. Labor Department data showed
jobless claims remained at a level consistent with an improving
economy. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
surveys confirm signs of stabilization in the euro-area economy.  “There are plenty of things to worry about, but it is hard
for investors to ignore multiple signals of optimism,” Ann Miletti, who helps oversee $209 billion as portfolio manager for
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said
in an e-mail. “News that the Greek bond deal looks close to
being approved is a positive for the global markets and
domestically the data that is coming in continues to show hints
of improving trends,” she said. “The data points make it seem
like we have a good chance to continue to march higher.”  Rebound After Tumble  The  S&P 500  climbed for a second day after slumping 1.5
percent on March 6, its worst drop since Dec. 8. Applications
for  unemployment insurance  increased to 362,000 last week, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists forecast 352,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Labor Department will report monthly jobs data tomorrow, with
economists forecasting an increase of 225,000 private jobs and
total non-farm payrolls growth of 210,000.  Alcoa Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and DuPont Co. rose at least
1.7 percent to lead gains in 26 of 30 stocks in the Dow.
Monsanto Co. and General Electric Co. added at least 1.4 percent
commodity producers and industrial shares led gains among all 10
of the main industry groups in the S&P 500.  The S&P 500, which reached an almost four-year high last
week, has rallied 24 percent from last year’s low in October and
is up 8.6 percent in 2012 in its best start to a year since
1998.  ‘Race Is Still On’  “While we may have stumbled for a day or two, I think the
race is still on,”  Laszlo Birinyi , founder of the Westport,
Connecticut-based firm Birinyi Associates Inc., said on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with Betty Liu.” He
reiterated his call that the S&P 500 has the potential to reach
a record 1,700 this year should economic growth surprise
investors. “Stay with it, don’t try to get too cute, don’t be
defensive, and keep the possibility of a really good market on
the table.”  American International Group Inc. retreated 3.9 percent as
the U.S. Treasury Department said it is selling $6 billion in
shares of the bailed-out insurer.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.6 percent as 10 shares
advanced for each that fell.  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  rallied 11 percent to a five-year high after doubling
its dividend and predicting earnings will climb. Gemalto NV
jumped 8.8 percent as the inventor of the smart chip used in
bank and phone cards forecast revenue and operating profit will
increase this year.  ‘Signs of a Stabilization’  The 17-nation euro rose against 10 of 16 major peers,
appreciating 1.6 percent against the yen. The ECB kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and Draghi said “the risk
environment has improved enormously” as recent surveys
“confirm signs of a stabilization” in the euro-area economy.
The outlook is “still subject to downside risks,” he said.  The pound rose 0.6 percent versus the dollar as the  Bank of
England  kept the benchmark rate at 0.5 percent and maintained
its bond purchase target.  The yen fell the most against the Norwegian krone and
Mexican peso, losing at least 1.8 percent versus each.  Japan ’s
 gross domestic product  shrank an annualized 0.7 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with an earlier estimate for a 2.3
percent contraction.  Italian bonds rallied, with the extra yield investors
demand to hold the nation’s 10-year debt instead of benchmark
German bunds falling 16 basis points to a six-month low of 3.01
percentage points. The Spanish-German yield spread narrowed six
basis points to 3.26 percentage points. The yield on the bund
advanced three basis points, snapping a two-day decline.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt fell for a second day. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
 Europe  Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments dropped
5.8 basis points to 348.5.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will hold a
press conference at 1 p.m. Athens time tomorrow. Preliminary
indications after the deadline for the swap expired at 10 p.m.
in Athens showed that as much as 155 billion euros of the 177
billion-euro Greek-law bonds were offered, according to the
official in Athens, who declined to be identified. Another 12
billion euros of 18 billion euros of debt under non-Greek law
was also tendered, the official said. Another 7 billion euros of
debt from state-owned companies guaranteed by the government was
also offered, the official said.  The goal of the exchange is to reduce the 206 billion euros
of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent and tame the debt
crisis that has roiled Europe for more than two years.  Debt-Swap Rules  Under the rules of the exchange, investors holding at least
50 percent of the eligible bonds must vote on the swap, and 66
percent of those must agree to amend the bonds to enable the
government to impose collective action clauses, said  Christoph
Rieger , Commerzbank’s head of fixed-income strategy.  Oil increased 0.4 percent to $106.58 a barrel. U.S.
lawmakers proposed new measures against  Iran’s nuclear program ,
while  Barclays Capital  said shipments from the Persian Gulf
nation have dropped by up to 400,000 barrels a day.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.7 percent, snapping
a three-day slump.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  led Apple Inc.
suppliers higher after the U.S. company introduced a new version
of its IPad.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index (IFB1)  increased 1.1
percent. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  sank 2.8 percent, the biggest drop
among major stock benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, after the
government raised gasoline prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  