-- Asian Currencies Strengthen on Greek Debt-Swap Outlook, Chinese Policy
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-08T08:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-greek-debt-swap-outlook-chinese-policy.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
 South Korea ’s won, on optimism enough bond holders will accept
 Greece ’s debt exchange before today’s deadline, tempering
concern the nation will default.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks snapped a three-day
decline as forecast slowdowns in inflation and industrial output
for China heightened speculation policy makers will do more to
stimulate growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.
Investors with about 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible for
the nation’s debt-swap have so far indicated they’ll participate
in the exchange, taking the country a step closer to the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  “We don’t see any factors from  Europe  that may
significantly deteriorate risk sentiment,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The basic trend of funds
flowing into regional stocks will probably continue.”  The won closed 0.6 percent stronger at 1,118.28 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s
baht appreciated 0.6 percent to 30.58 as of 3:20 p.m. in Bangkok,
its first gain in a week. Taiwan’s  dollar  rose 0.1 percent to
NT$29.527 and the  Philippine peso  rallied 0.7 percent to 42.575.  Demand for riskier assets revived after a report showed U.S.
companies added more workers in February than the month before.
 Japan ’s economy contracted an annualized 0.7 percent last
quarter, compared with an official estimate of a 2.3 percent
drop, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo today.  Korean Rate Held  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  added 0.14 percent,
after 0.24 percent gain yesterday that marked the gauge’s best
performance in a month. The benchmark’s 60-day historical
 volatility  has dropped to 3.5 percent since reaching 2011’s peak
of 7.2 percent on Nov. 30.  The won extended gains after the Bank of  Korea  kept its
seven-day repurchase rate at  3.25 percent  for a ninth straight
meeting, a decision predicted by all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a press
briefing that the rate decision was unanimous and policy makers
will make efforts to lower inflation.  “The governor’s comments were more hawkish than previously
as he emphasized a willingness to cool consumer-price gains,”
Kong Dong Rak, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co., wrote in a research note.  Taiwan’s dollar rebounded from a one-week low. A government
report yesterday showed the island’s exports rose 10.3 percent
last month from a year earlier, after a 16.8 percent slump in
January.  Chinese Data  China ’s yuan dropped for a fourth day before a government
report tomorrow that may show consumer prices rose 3.4 percent
in February, the slowest pace in 19 months, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Slowing gains would give
Premier Wen Jiabao more room to ease monetary policy.  A separate survey before data tomorrow showed factory
production grew at an annual rate of 12.5 percent last month,
near a two-year low. The yuan slipped 0.10 percent to 6.3165 per
dollar.  “Growth will slide further if the government doesn’t
increase fiscal investment,” said Joy Yang, an economist at
Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. The data “will boost the case
for Wen to step up measures to bolster growth,” she said.  Indonesia ’s rupiah pared the day’s loss after the central
bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.75 percent, a
decision forecast by 15 of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
One predicted a cut to 5.5 percent. The currency weakened 0.2
percent to 9,130 per dollar, having earlier dropped as much as
0.7 percent.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.6 percent to 3.0105
per dollar before a monetary policy meeting tomorrow. Vietnam’s
dong was little changed at 20,835.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 