-- AT&T Said to Hold Talks With Cerberus on Yellow Pages Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-08T21:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/at-t-said-to-talk-with-cerberus-on-yellow-pages-sale-in-1-5-billion-deal.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is in talks to sell a
majority stake in its Yellow Pages unit to Cerberus Capital
Management LP in a transaction that values the entire business
at about $1.5 billion, said two people familiar with the matter.  AT&T would retain a substantial minority stake in the
division, and a deal could be reached this month, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private. Dallas-based AT&T, which is being advised by
 Citigroup Inc. (CITI)  and Bank of America Corp., has held talks with
several buyout firms on the unit, one of the people said. A
final agreement hasn’t been reached and talks could fall apart,
the people said.  The sale would allow AT&T, which hung on to its Yellow
Pages division as competitors fled the business, to reduce its
exposure to a unit facing increasing competition from online
rivals Google Inc.,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and Yelp Inc. To boost sales,
AT&T, the biggest U.S. phone company, is focusing on its mobile-
service unit, a business where it trails  Verizon Wireless .  “There is no real market for yellow pages businesses
anymore,” said  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst in New York, who rates the stock “market perform.”
AT&T “wants to shed the businesses that are shrinking the
fastest to boost its overall growth rate.”  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital was among buyout firms
that looked at the business, though the firm’s interest waned in
recent days, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Spokesmen for AT&T, Cerberus and TPG declined to comment,
as did those for Citigroup and Bank of America.  Slumping Sales  Sales at AT&T’s directory business, which includes Yellow
Pages, fell 16 percent last year to $3.29 billion. The company’s
website says it’s the biggest Yellow Pages publisher in the
world by revenue, with more than 1,250 titles published in 22
states. The company recorded 48 cents a share in asset
impairments on the directory operations in the fourth quarter,
when it reported a loss of $1.12 a share.  The directory businesses “are in a fairly steady
decline,” AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said
in a March 1 investor meeting. “We’re obviously going to have
to look at areas -- look at options in terms of what we do with
those assets.”  Beyond Turning Around  AT&T  rose  0.4 percent to $31 at the close in New York.  The deal under discussion would value the AT&T business at
about 1.5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, Moffett said.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
exited its yellow-pages business at 6 times Ebitda about six
years ago, he said.  “The window has long since closed for divesting yellow-
pages businesses for a meaningful price,” Moffett said.  Because the business is in irreversible decline, a buyer
will just seek to earn a return that exceeds the purchase price
before closing it down, he said.  “For a business like this, you can value it relatively
straightforwardly as the present value of the remaining cash
flows before the business is entirely gone,” Moffett said.
“They’re not forecasting a particularly long life.”  To persuade local businesses to stay with its service and
compete with the Web rivals’ various offerings, AT&T’s  YP.com 
last year started offering daily deals to consumers.  Cerberus, based in  New York , has been raising money,
including a $4 billion flagship private-equity fund. Recent
investments include the $1.02 billion acquisition with Chatham
Lodging Trust of 64 hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust  in October.  Private-equity firms have made several investments in
Yellow Pages businesses in the past decade, drawn by the
traditionally steady  cash flow . KKR & Co. bought France Telecom
SA’s PagesJaunes SA in 2006, while Hicks Muse Tate & Furst Inc.
and Apax Partners LLP agreed to buy BT Group Plc’s Yellow Pages
unit in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  