-- Tata Prefers Clean-Energy Projects Over Coal in Chase for Growth
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-08T00:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/tata-prefers-clean-energy-projects-over-coal-in-chase-for-growth.html
Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , India’s biggest,
said it prefers to invest in wind and solar farms over coal-
fired projects which have become “impossible” to develop.  The unit of  Tata Group  bid for its first overseas wind and
solar farms in South Africa with Pretoria-based  Exxaro Resources
Ltd. (EXX)  this week in a renewable-energy tender whose results will
be  known by May, said Tata Power Executive Director S. Padmanabhan. He declined to say how much capacity their joint
venture Cennergi is seeking, citing auction rules.  Tata Group, which owns Corus Group and Jaguar Land Rover,
is focusing on new clean-energy investments as coal-powered
projects face fuel shortages in India and environmental hurdles
in the U.S. and  Europe , he said.  South Africa , where average
power prices almost tripled in four years, is a “prime market
for development” because of its size and abundant clean-energy
resources, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Why would anyone want to invest at this stage in a coal
project?” Padmanabhan said in a March 6 interview in Mumbai.
“Investment has stopped.”  South Africa’s auction of 3,725 megawatts of renewable-
energy capacity drew  Suzlon Energy Ltd., (SUEL)  India’s largest wind-
turbine maker, in an earlier round. Suzlon Chairman  Tulsi Tanti 
said in November the company may build a factory there if
Africa’s largest economy generates enough demand.  Tata Group accounts for almost 5 percent of India’s gross
domestic product and has built a global business spanning steel,
cars and drinks by acquiring Corus, Jaguar Land Rover and Tetley
Group Plc. Its overseas clean-energy investments include stakes
in two geothermal projects in Australia and  Indonesia  with
Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   Smaller Investment  Renewable projects are a better way to expand into new
power markets because the investment tends to be smaller, the
plants are built faster, and costs are usually more uniform
globally, Padmanabhan said. Cennergi also plans to pursue power
projects in Namibia and Botswana.  “It’s impossible to do a coal-based project in the U.S.
and Europe” because climate-change concerns could potentially
shut plants in the future, he said. “Its longevity for 25 to 30
years isn’t guaranteed.”  In India, the government isn’t supplying enough coal for
Tata Power’s 1,050-megawatt Maithon plant to reach full
capacity, he said.  South Africa, which gets  83 percent  of its power from coal,
aims to raise the proportion of electricity it generates from
clean sources from almost nothing to about 20 percent by 2030,
according to New Energy Finance.  Auction Approach  The continent’s largest economy ditched a program that paid
fixed, preferential rates to renewable-energy projects in favor
of an auction-based process.  India  used a similar approach to
drive down the cost of solar power by 38 percent in a year.  Companies offer discounts to a cap rate proposed by the
government of 2,850 rand ($373) per megawatt-hour for solar
photovoltaic plants and 1,150 rand per megawatt-hour for onshore
wind farms, according to New Energy Finance. Those rates are
about double the global average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government invited bids on Aug. 3 to build 3,725
megawatts of renewable energy by the end of 2016. In December,
the first bidding round awarded 28 projects with 1,416
megawatts. The second round closed March 5, with 79 proposals
submitted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  