-- Atlas Copco Sells First Bonds in Five Years as Yields Drop
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-03-08T17:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/atlas-copco-said-to-sell-first-bonds-in-5-years-as-yields-drop.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, sold its first bonds in five years as
the prospect of  Greece  completing its debt swap helped buoy
fixed-income markets.  The 500 million-euro ($662 million) issue of seven-year
bonds for the Stockholm-based company was priced to yield 75
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average spread
of 111 basis points for securities in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s  EMU Industrials index .  Yields on corporate bonds have dropped to record lows as
holders of about 60 percent of eligible Greek bonds agreed to
participate in the sovereign restructuring that could ease
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Euro-denominated non-financial company
bonds yield 2.5 percent on average, down from 3.2 percent at the
start of the year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “The market is more positive about the Greek situation,
and as spreads have improved it’s a good opportunity to raise
funds,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a credit strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London.  Atlas Copco, rated A by  Standard & Poor’s  and one level
lower at A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, has the equivalent of
1.65 billion euros of bonds outstanding, including 3 billion
Swedish kroner ($446 million) of notes due in May.  The 2.625 percent coupon on the new notes is the lowest-
ever for a seven-year corporate bond in euros, according to
Deutsche Bank AG, which managed the offering with Nordea Markets
and SEB AB.  “There is more positive sentiment today about the Greek
debt swap than there was two days ago,” said Ken Lagerborg,
group treasurer at Atlas Copco. “In the recent past, the market
has been volatile and I don’t rule out that there will be some
volatility going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  