-- Australian Employers Unexpectedly Reduce Payrolls, Sending Currency Lower
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-08T01:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/australian-employers-unexpectedly-reduce-payrolls-sending-currency-lower.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
cut payrolls in February and the  unemployment rate  rose for the
first time since August as a stronger currency hurt tourism and
manufacturing. The local dollar weakened.  The number of people employed fell by 15,400, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That compares with the
median estimate for an increase of 5,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists. The  jobless rate  rose to 5.2 percent
from 5.1 percent.  The local dollar dropped and bonds gained as the data
intensify pressure on the  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  to end a two-month pause in cutting  interest rates 
after the economy slowed last quarter.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  have slashed jobs in Australia this year,
citing the strength of a currency fueled by a mining-investment
bonanza, while banks fired employees as credit growth weakened.  “The labor statistics are suggesting that the economy is
tracking a bit below trend which should leave the door open for
the RBA to consider further rate cuts,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief economist for  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Sydney and a former RBA
official who predicted 10,000 jobs would be lost. “Their next
move will be a cut in the second-quarter of this year.”  The number of  full-time jobs  was steady in February, with
part-time employment accounting for the monthly loss, today’s
report showed. Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the
working-age population, dropped to 65.2 percent in February from
65.3 percent a month earlier, it showed.  Currency Slides  The Australian dollar fell to $1.0558 at 12:18 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0572 before the data were released. Bonds
advanced, with yields on 10-year government debt dropping
to as low as 3.91 percent, five basis points below yesterday’s
close.  Australia ’s economy is driven by a mining boom predicted to
last decades as the urbanization of hundreds of millions of
people in  China  and  India  increases demand for iron ore, coal
and liquefied natural gas. In contrast, construction and
manufacturing have weakened on signs parts of the economy are
buckling and shedding jobs under pressure from the currency.  RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said this week that the
labor market is one of the key indicators the central bank is
monitoring on how the economy is managing the “historically
unusual” structural change.  ‘The Answer’  “It’s hard to be confident how they’re going to work
out,” he said in response to questions after a speech
yesterday. “The labor market is one place that’s going to tell
us the answer.”  Queensland state, the hub of the nation’s tourism industry,
led last month’s employment decline with 17,900 job losses, the
state’s worst result ever. Queensland’s jobless rate jumped to
5.7 percent last month from 5.4 percent, today’s report showed.  “The high dollar has contributed to a decline in travel to
the traditional domestic holiday destinations, with Australians
traveling overseas in ever-increasing numbers,” Lowe said.
“This has created quite difficult conditions for parts of the
industry with, for example, room occupancy rates along the
Queensland coast having fallen over recent years.”  The southern states of Victoria and  South Australia ,
centers of the nation’s manufacturing industry, lost a combined
16,400 in February, the report showed. Gains were led by Western
Australia, the  center of the investment boom, with the state
adding 3,400 jobs.  Investment Pipeline  The Australian dollar has gained about 3.5 percent this
year against its U.S. counterpart as the highest borrowing costs
among major developed nations attract investors. Stevens’s
second straight rate pause at 4.25 percent this week reflects
confidence the  U.S. economy  will maintain momentum and A$456
billion ($481 billion) of resource projects will spur hiring to
meet Chinese demand.  The nation’s services industry declined in February to the
lowest level in almost a year, driven by a drop in new orders as
the gap between resources and other industries widens, a private
survey showed March 5.  Australia’s economy expanded at half the pace economists
forecast last quarter as a housing slump deterred  consumer
spending , a government report showed yesterday. Gross domestic
product advanced 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months. The result was less than economists’
estimates for a 0.8 percent gain.  Weaker Profits  Australian business profits unexpectedly dropped in the
three months through December by the most in two-and-a-half
years as earnings weakened at mining and financial companies,
reflecting weaker commodity prices and the weakest demand for
home lending since 1977.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
reported a 5.5 percent drop in first-half profit, the first
decline since 2009, as rising costs and lower output and prices
halved base metals earnings. Net income was $9.9 billion in the
six months ended Dec. 31, from $10.5 billion, a year earlier,
the Melbourne-based company said Feb. 8.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest bank,
reported first-quarter profit that was lower than a year earlier
as rising funding costs squeezed the profitability of its
lending. Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended Dec.
31 were A$1.5 billion, the Sydney-based bank said Feb. 16. It
posted cash earnings of A$1.55 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  