-- Austria’s Kommunalkredit, KA Finanz Bring 455 Million Euros to Greek Swap
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-08T12:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/austria-s-kommunalkredit-ka-finanz-bring-455-million-euros-to-greek-swap.html
Kommunalkredit Austria AG and KA
Finanz AG, two nationalized Austrian banks, said they will join
 Greece ’s debt swap with a total of 455 million euros ($603
million) to avoid triggering default swaps.  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  will participate with 175 million euros.  Kommunalkredit will tender its 150 million euros of Greek
government bonds in the exchange, while KA Finanz will
participate with 305 million euros of its holdings, Alois Steinbichler, the chief executive officer of both lenders, said
in a telephone interview from Vienna. While Kommunalkredit had
previously said it might join, KA Finanz changed its mind to
help boost the total take-up and avoid it being forced to pay
out credit-default swaps of about 500 million euros, he said.  “We are diverting from our initial intention because of
the developments around the exchange package,” Steinbichler
said. “Due to the introduction of the collective action clauses
it’s in our economic interest to help achieve a rate of
acceptance that’s as high as possible,” keeping in mind KA
Finanz’s CDS risks, he added.  Bad Bank  KA Finanz is the so-called bad bank of Kommunalkredit,
which was nationalized in 2008 when it was owned by Volksbanken
and Dexia SA. While Kommunalkredit continues as a municipal
lender and has to be sold again by  Austria  by mid-2013, KA
Finanz took on securities, loans and credit default swaps that
are not part of that main business and is winding down those
assets.  Steinbichler said Feb. 2 Kommunalkredit won’t ask the
Austrian government for new aid even if it has a loss on its
Greek debt. Kommunalkredit’s net income halved to 866,600 euros
in the six months ended June 30, after writing down 31.3 million
euros on its Greek bonds.  KA Finanz, which had 13.8 billion euros in assets at the
end of June, plus 10 billion euros in contingent liabilities
mainly due to credit-default swaps, probably won’t take part in
the Greek debt swap, Steinbichler said at the time.  The  wind-down bank’s Greek risk  totals 983 million euros,
of which 182 million euros is due to CDS it has written and 303
million euros is due to total return swaps in which KA Finanz
took on the  default risk  for Greek  government bonds , according
to KA Finanz’s mid-year report. The Greek risk also includes
government-backed bonds that don’t participate in the swap.  Capital Injection  The Austrian government may have to provide as much as 1
billion euros in new capital and guarantees for the bank because
it has pledged to keep KA Finanz’s capital ratio at 7 percent
even if losses eat into its reserves, Finance Minister Maria Fekter said March 3.  Volksbanken, in which Austria will take a stake of as much
as 49 percent following a bailout last week, will tender bonds
with a face value of 175 million euros in the debt swap,
spokeswoman Petra Roth said by telephone from Vienna. The bank
won’t have an additional loss because of the swap because it
already wrote the securities down to market value, she said.
Volksbank wrote down its Greek bonds by 101.7 million euros in
the first nine months of last year.  Austria’s biggest lender  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  had 4.4
million euros at risk due to Greek government bonds at the end
of last year, while  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  doesn’t
hold any Greek government debt. Insurer  Uniqa Versicherungen AG (UQA) 
said it sold all of its Greek bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  