-- Aviva Profit Beats Estimates as U.K. Growth Outweighs Europe
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-08T17:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/aviva-full-year-profit-declines-as-revenue-from-europe-shrinks.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , Britain’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, reported full-year profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as earnings in the U.K. outweighed slower
growth in  Europe .  Operating profit fell 2 percent to 2.5 billion pounds ($4
billion) from 2.55 billion pounds a year earlier, the London-
based company said in a statement today. That beat the 2.45
billion-pound median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Profit from U.K. life and pension products rose 8
percent, while sales in the rest of Europe dropped 20 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Moss’s three-year-old plan
to focus on boosting sales in Europe has been hampered by the
sovereign debt crisis, which has also hurt the insurer’s
investment performance. Investors with about 60 percent of the
Greek  government bonds  eligible for the nation’s debt swap have
now indicated they will participate, putting the country on the
verge of the biggest sovereign restructuring in history and
easing the threat of contagion in Europe.  “Aviva’s fortunes are inexplicably tied to Europe because
that’s where all its business is,” said Kevin Ryan, a London-
based analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  with a “buy” rating on the
stock. “Any good news on Europe is good news for Aviva.”  The stock  climbed  1.6 percent to 356.8 pence in  London 
trading, outpacing the benchmark FTSE 100 index’s 1.2 percent
rise. The firm raised its full-year dividend 2 percent to 26
pence, less than the 28.1 pence  estimate  of 21 analysts polled
by Bloomberg.  Realistic Outlook  “We’ve got to be realistic about the outlook for the first
part of this year,” Moss said on a call with reporters.
“People are still nervous in some of those markets and that
will affect sales.”  Aviva U.K.’s profit rose to 1.45 billion pounds as it
gained market share, while the European unit, which excludes the
U.K., had long-term savings sales of 10.9 billion pounds in
2011.  The company’s solvency surplus, measured by the insurance
groups directive, was 3.3 billion pounds at Feb. 29, up from 2.2
billion pounds at the end of last year.  Moss, who took over as CEO in 2007, has exited or sold off
business in countries such as the Netherlands, Australia and
 Hungary  to focus on 12 key markets, down from 30 three years
ago. The insurer, which makes about half its profit in
continental Europe, said in 2009 the region would be the
fastest-growing for life insurance and pension sales over the
following five years.  As the sovereign debt crisis gathered pace last year,
European CEO Andrea Moneta stepped down and the insurer reversed
a decision to place its regional hub in Dublin, moving it to
London instead. Aviva announced the sale of its operations in
 Czech Republic , Hungary and  Romania  to  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in January
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 