-- Axa Private Equity Said to Be Close to Raising $6 Billion Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/axa-private-equity-said-to-be-close-to-raising-6-billion-fund.html
Axa Private Equity, a unit of French
insurer  Axa SA (CS) , has raised almost $6 billion to buy stakes in
buyout funds from existing investors seeking to cut their
commitments, said two people with knowledge of the situation.  The company may reach the $5 billion limit of how much
capital  Axa Secondary Fund V LP (PEF1129)  can collect and has gathered
about $1 billion for co-investments, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.
Separately, Axa Private Equity, based in Paris, is seeking as
much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) for European leveraged
buyouts, the people said.  Axa Private Equity, headed by Dominique Senequier, had
initially targeted $3.5 billion for its so-called secondary
fund, up from its previous $2.9 billion pool raised in 2006.
Last month, faced with growing investor appetite, it requested
that the $4 billion limit be lifted to $5 billion, people with
knowledge of the matter said then. The firm wants to take
advantage of a surge in sellers, including banks and insurers,
disposing of assets. Axa Private Equity, which manages $28
billion, began marketing its latest secondary fund in 2010.  Lexington Partners Inc. manages the largest secondary
fund at $7 billion. Secondary transactions rose to a record
of about $25 billion in 2011 and are projected to stay at
that level this year, according to a January report by Cogent
Partners, a New York-based advisory firm.  Banks and insurers are selling private-equity portfolios
because tighter regulation will make those assets more expensive
to hold. Pension funds, including California Public Employees’
Retirement System and Government of Singapore Investment Corp.,
are also selling private-equity investments as they cut the
number of managers they are willing to invest in following the
financial crisis.  An official for Axa Private Equity declined to comment.  The firm’s recent purchases include the $1.7 billion
acquisition of private-equity funds from  Citigroup Inc. (C)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  