-- Canada Joins ECB Keeping Stimulus as Risks Ease
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-08T22:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bank-of-canada-keeps-1-policy-rate-amid-signs-of-faster-growth-inflation.html
The Bank of  Canada  today joined its
peers in the euro region and U.K. in prolonging monetary
stimulus and said the risks are edging toward quicker inflation
and away from another global recession.  The central bank kept its main interest rate at 1 percent,
extending the longest pause since the 1950s, and said there is
less slack in the economy amid easing global tensions and faster
domestic spending that may lift prices.  The Canadian dollar rose after the announcement, which came
on the same day European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said inflation will probably breach the bank’s 2 percent limit
this year “with upside risks prevailing.” Two Bank of England
policy makers said last week that inflation may be firmer than
the central bank has projected.  The  Bank of Canada  is “trying to bring a broader range of
risks to the attention of financial markets, households and
businesses,” including inflation, said  Dawn Desjardins ,
assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.
“The economy still requires tender loving care of low interest
rates.”  The Bank of Canada said in Ottawa today inflation will be
greater than it forecast in January because of “reduced
economic slack and higher oil prices,” and that growth will be
faster than projected in the January-March period because of
temporary factors that it didn’t specify.  “Recent developments suggest that the outlook for the
Canadian economy is marginally improved” since the decision in
January, policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney , 46, said in
a statement.  ‘Change in Tone’  “Nothing in here signaling a rate hike coming soon, but
markets will pick up on the slightly improved change in tone on
the economy, and might move forward the implied date for the
first rate hike” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.  The currency rose 0.7 percent to 99.02 cents per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday in Toronto. One Canadian dollar purchases
$1.0099.  Government bonds  fell, with the yield on the benchmark
five-year security rising 6 basis points to 1.50 percent.  Elsewhere,  jobless claims  in the U.S. rose to a level that
still shows an improving labor market. First-time filings for
 unemployment benefits  climbed 8,000 last week to 362,000, the
Labor Department said.  Job gains are helping bolster household confidence. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 36.7 in the period
ended March 4, the highest since April 2008, compared with minus
38.8 in the prior period. The buying climate gauge rose to a
level last exceeded in December 2009.  Europe’s Draghi  In  Europe , Draghi said today inflation will probably breach
the bank’s 2 percent limit this year and signaled the worst of
the sovereign debt crisis may be over even as the economy
stalls.  “Inflation rates are now likely to stay above 2 percent in
2012, with upside risks prevailing,” Draghi said in Frankfurt
today after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 1 percent. While the economic outlook remains weaker,
“the risk environment has improved enormously,” he said.  Draghi said the ECB’s latest economic projections show
inflation averaging 2.4 percent in 2012, up from a December
forecast of 2 percent. They show the economy may contract 0.1
percent, down from the previous forecast for 0.3 percent growth.  German industrial output increased more than economists
forecast in January, rebounding from a December slump as
construction activity jumped. Production rose 1.6 percent from
December, when it fell 2.6 percent, which was the steepest
decline in almost three years, the Economy Ministry in Berlin
said today.  Bank of England  The Bank of England today kept its bond-purchase target at
325 billion pounds ($514 billion) after raising it by 50 billion
pounds last month and held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low 0.5 percent. Over the past two weeks, potential
divisions emerged after Martin Weale indicated he may not favor
further purchases after the current round ends in May and David Miles said there’s a case for “aggressively” loosening policy.  In the U.S., which buys about 75 percent of Canada’s
exports, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last week
that an increase in energy costs will boost inflation
“temporarily while reducing consumers’ purchasing power.” He
also said the central bank will adopt a “balanced approach” as
it pursues its twin goals of  price stability  and full
employment.  The Bank of Canada said today that the rise in  oil prices 
could also “dampen the improvement in global economic
momentum” if it persists.  Oil Prices  Oil prices may surpass current records of $147 a barrel in
the first half of this year because of the “smoldering crisis”
in the Persian Gulf, Erste Group Bank AG of Vienna estimated
today. Oil for April delivery rose 66 cents to $106.83 a barrel
at 11:06 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Canada relies on exports for about 33 percent of its
output, and higher interest rates could boost a currency that
has traded around parity with the U.S. dollar, harming the
country’s competitiveness. The bank reiterated today that the
“persistent strength” of the currency is a drag on the
recovery.  Cardboard box and tissue-maker  Cascades Inc. (CAS)  said Feb. 22
it will close a Toronto plant with 36 employees, citing a
“significant reduction in business volume.” The next day the
company said “the strength of the Canadian dollar had a
significant impact on our profit margins.”  The country’s job market has softened, with  unemployment 
reaching a nine-month high of 7.6 percent in January.  Fourth Quarter  Canada’s economic expansion slowed to a 1.8 percent annual
pace in the fourth quarter, according to a March 2  Statistics
Canada  report, even while U.S. growth accelerated to 3 percent.
In January, the Bank of Canada  forecast  growth averaging 1.8
percent in the first half of this year.  Consumers will account for more than half of Canada’s 2
percent economic growth this year, according to the central
bank’s January forecast document. “Private demand is now
expected to be slightly stronger than projected, owing to
improved sentiment and highly-supportive financial conditions,”
the bank said today. “Canadian household spending is expected
to remain high relative to gross domestic product as households
add to their debt burden, which remains the biggest domestic
risk.”  Consumer spending  expanded at a 2.9 percent annual pace in
the fourth quarter, up from 1.8 percent in the third quarter,
Statistics Canada said, while business investment rose 6.3
percent, the eighth consecutive increase.  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, said
last week it will spend C$3 billion on new buildings and
equipment and hire 1,300 people over the next three years in
British Columbia where it’s headquartered.  “They are leaning toward a better outlook” and “they are
not even considering rate cuts” said  Jonathan Basile , a Credit
Suisse economist in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  