-- Banks Shouldn’t Be Both Judge and Jury on Credit Defaults: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-08T00:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/banks-shouldn-t-be-both-judge-and-jury-in-world-of-credit-defaults-view.html
Imagine you bought a house and, to
insure it, you had to purchase coverage from the homebuilder.  Then imagine a fire nearly destroyed the house, but your
ability to collect the insurance depended on a committee of
anonymous homebuilders meeting in secret to vote on whether to
write you a check. If denied, the panel wouldn’t have to provide
an explanation, you wouldn’t be allowed to review the minutes of
closed-door discussions and you’d have no right to appeal.  Not a great system. But not dissimilar to the one that
governs the world of credit-default swaps, the contracts that
insure sovereign- and corporate-debt investors against default.
Panels made up of representatives from large banks,  hedge funds ,
investment firms and other interested parties, formed by the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association , decide whether
payouts will be made to investors.  With the Greek crisis, the group has been busy. It already
ruled March 1 that Greece’s debt restructuring so far wasn’t a
“credit event,” meaning it didn’t trigger payments on credit-
default swaps. It may have been the correct decision. But no
outsiders participated in that meeting. No transcript was made
public. And when the determinations committee, as it’s called,
issued a decision, a terse 300-word explanation was provided. As
for CDS buyers, there was no opportunity for an appeal.  Names Unknown  Although the names of the firms on this committee are
known, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Morgan Stanley and Pacific Investment Management Co., the
individual decision makers are not. What’s more, the financial
stake that the firms have in Greek debt is not disclosed,
although that information is sometimes available in regulatory
filings.  True, only a relatively small amount of money -- about $3.2
billion after netting all parties’ exposures -- is in play. But
there’s a larger issue here: the integrity of the ISDA process,
of which  Greece  offers the first of several potential tests. If
Ireland, Italy,  Portugal ,  Spain  or any other troubled European
Union country sought to restructure its debts like Greece, the
heretofore obscure ISDA could become a household name.  The next test could come as early as Thursday evening, when
private bondholders must decide whether they are willing to swap
existing Greek debt for new bonds, in the process accepting
losses on more than half the face value of their current bonds.
If the Greek government doesn’t get 75 percent acceptance, it
will invoke a legal clause to force all private creditors to
accept the exchange. If that happens, then ISDA may have no
choice but to declare the restructuring coercive, not voluntary,
and trigger the CDS payouts.  Binding Contracts  ISDA defends its procedures, arguing that its panelists
must have market expertise. Five of the 15 members on the Greek
CDS committee are from the buy side, meaning they represent
investors such as mutual funds. A supermajority, 12 of the 15,
is required for a  credit event  decision, meaning that the 10
sell-side panelists -- representing mostly major banks -- can’t
ram through a decision that benefits only them. Furthermore,
ISDA says, a CDS is a binding, legal contract to which all
market participants have agreed. Little is left to the
imagination: Definitions of credit events and other legal terms
are 100 pages long.  The CDS market, thanks to ISDA and pressure from the New
York Fed, already operates far more smoothly than it did just a
few years ago. Until 2009, the question of whether a credit
event had occurred was duked out between each CDS buyer and
seller. A major default could have brought financial disaster.
Still, the CDS market would benefit further if ISDA
deliberations were made public -- minutes could even be released
a week or two after the fact, the way the  Federal Reserve 
publishes its monetary policy deliberations.  More to the point, monumental decisions involving billions
of dollars ideally should be made by an outside, independent
group. ISDA already has such groups in the wings, but it uses
them only in case a determinations committee can’t get agreement
from a supermajority and needs to hand off the matter to a
neutral panel.  In any market, secrecy begets fear. The credit markets must
be supremely confident that judgments about credit events are
made in good faith. And investors must believe they are being
dealt with fairly. If they think default insurance no longer
protects them, they might simply avoid owning the bonds of
Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and Spain, undermining the CDS market
and endangering those countries’ ability to survive the debt
crisis.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 