-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-08T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of  Canada  today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The heightened uncertainty around the global economic
outlook has decreased in the weeks since the Bank released its
January Monetary Policy Report (MPR). With tentative signs of
stabilisation in European bank funding and sovereign debt
markets, conditions in global financial markets have improved and
 risk aversion  has decreased. However, the global economy is still
expected to grow below its trend rate as the deleveraging process
in advanced economies proceeds.  The U.S. expansion is proceeding
at a modest pace, reinforced by recent improvements in the labour
market.  Growth in  China  is moderating to a still-high rate as
expected, in response to past policy tightening and weaker
external demand. Commodity prices are higher than anticipated,
supported by improved global economic conditions and a geo-
political risk premium on oil.  If sustained, the latter could
ultimately dampen the improvement in global economic momentum.  Recent developments suggest that the outlook for the
Canadian economy is marginally improved from the January MPR.
Although the economy will likely grow faster than forecast in the
first quarter due to temporary factors, underlying economic
momentum remains around trend, balancing domestic strength and
external weakness.  Private demand is now expected to be slightly
stronger than projected, owing to improved sentiment and highly-
supportive financial conditions.  Canadian household spending is
expected to remain high relative to GDP as households add to
their debt burden, which remains the biggest domestic risk.  Net
exports have been supported by stronger-than-anticipated U.S.
activity but are expected to contribute little to growth,
reflecting still-moderate foreign demand and ongoing
competitiveness challenges, including the persistent strength of
the Canadian dollar.  The profile for core and total CPI inflation is somewhat
firmer than previously anticipated as a result of reduced
economic slack and higher  oil prices .  After moderating in the
second quarter, total inflation is expected, along with  core
inflation , to be around 2 per cent over the forecast horizon,
reflecting the combination of modest growth of labour
compensation, an economy operating around its potential over
time, and well-anchored inflation expectations.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. With
the target interest rate near historic lows and the financial
system functioning well, there is considerable monetary policy
stimulus in Canada. The Bank will continue to monitor carefully
economic and financial developments in the Canadian and global
economies, together with the evolution of risks, and set monetary
policy consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target
over the medium term.  Information note: The next scheduled date for announcing the
overnight rate target is 17 April 2012. A full update of the
Bank’s outlook for the economy and inflation, including risks to
the projection, will be published in the MPR on 18 April 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  