-- BofA’s Moynihan Expects Progress on Cuts
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-03-08T20:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bank-of-america-s-moynihan-expects-progress-every-quarter-on-expense-cuts.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said profit targets are
still attainable even after shrinking the company, and he vowed
to steadily bring down expenses.  The year-old goal of earning $35 billion to $40 billion
annually before taxes could be met if the U.S. economy recovers,
interest rates rise and Moynihan’s cost-cutting plan works,
Moynihan said today at a conference in  New York .  “The  earnings capability  of this company is there,” said
Moynihan, 52, who runs the second-biggest U.S. lender. “It’s
just that we need to have three things take place: A more
reasonable interest rate environment to help benefit the deposit
cost structure especially, an economy growing at 3 percent, and
third, we have to see our costs come down.”  Bank of America sold $33 billion in assets and announced
30,000  job cuts  last year as part of a plan to build  capital  and
reduce expenses. Moynihan has plans to trim as much as
$8 billion a year from expenses to combat stagnant revenue at
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company.  “You’ll see demonstrable progress every quarter,” he said.
“We can’t carry these costs in the revenue environment we’re
in. Even in an improved revenue environment, we’re still going
to have to be hard on costs.”  Profit Target  In March 2011, Moynihan disclosed targets for profit that
could be generated when the U.S. economy recovers. He said today
that a previous goal for revenue before taxes and provisions of
as much as $50 billion per year was no longer reasonable because
credit-card units were sold.  The CEO also said today it wasn’t “realistic” to expect
 interest rates  to rise before the first half of 2014. Costs will
come down as he cuts employees, closes branches and increases
automation, Moynihan said.  Expenses in a unit managing soured mortgages will peak in
the first half of this year at about $2 billion per quarter and
should decline from there, Moynihan said. The lender has booked
about $42 billion in costs tied to repurchases, litigation and
writedowns from faulty mortgages and foreclosures since 2007.
Moynihan said today the mortgage market is “healing.”  Bank of America rose 1 percent to $8.10 at 2:56 p.m. in New
York trading. The company has  surged  more than 45 percent this
year on signs that the  U.S. economy  is improving.  Countrywide Fallout  The CEO has spent the last two years cleaning up after his
predecessor’s decision to acquire Countrywide Financial Corp.,
the biggest home lender during the U.S. housing bubble.
Investors who buy loans are entitled to ask for refunds or
compensation if they find missing or inaccurate data on home
values or the borrower’s income, and Countrywide has been
criticized by regulators for lax policies and sloppy procedures.  Bank of America agreed last month to contribute almost half
of a $25 billion industry settlement ending probes into abusive
foreclosure practices. The accord, which included 49 state
attorneys general and the U.S. Justice Department, will include
borrower assistance and payments to the government.  Moynihan’s presentation was twice interrupted today by
protesters. The first repeatedly called for the lender to be
broken apart, and another person cited International Women’s Day
before the webcast’s audio was silenced. The CEO resumed his
presentation after a few minutes.  “We have modified a million-plus  mortgage loans , yet the
impressions you might get from people attending today would be
that we’d done nothing,” Moynihan said. “The reality is that
we need more people pulling for us in this thing. It’s a lot of
hard work, and it’s tragic for the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  