-- Bank Stress Eases in Europe as Greek Debt Deal Adds to Cash Boost From ECB
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-03-08T15:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bank-stress-eases-in-europe-as-greek-debt-deal-adds-to-cash-boost-from-ecb.html
A measure of stress in the euro-
region financial system fell below the U.K. for the first time
since July as central-bank funds flood the market and  Greece 
stands poised to get agreement on its debt restructuring.  The difference between the three-month London interbank
offered rate for euros and the overnight indexed swap rate
dropped to a seven-month low of 56 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure for the pound Libor-OIS
spread is 57.5, the first time it’s been above the euro rate
since July 26.  Private investors decide today whether to accept terms of a
Greek bond exchange required for an international bailout to
ease  Europe ’s two-year-old debt crisis. Credit markets have
already rallied after the  European Central Bank  provided lenders
with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of cheap three-
year loans to avert a credit crunch.  “The huge liquidity operation from the ECB has taken the
short-term stress out of the European banking sector, that’s
what we’re seeing reflected here,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an
analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London. “It’s significantly
reduced the chance of banks failing through lack of liquidity.”  The euro Libor-OIS spread has fallen from 97 basis points
at the start of the year. The measure was as high as 100.6 basis
points on Dec. 1 before the Frankfurt-based ECB started its
first round of longer-term refinancing operations.  $360 Trillion  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is generated by a daily survey which asks
banks how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
from periods of overnight to a year and in currencies including
euros, pounds, dollars and Swiss francs.  The cost for banks to convert euro interest payments into
dollars declined for a fourth day today to the lowest since
August. The three-month cross-currency basis swap was 64 basis
points less than the euro interbank offered rate, compared with
64.5 basis points below Euribor yesterday.  Lenders cut  overnight deposits  at the ECB yesterday to 807
billion euros, down from 817 billion euros on March 6.  Three-month Euribor (EUR003M) , the rate banks say they pay for three-
month loans in euros, fell to 0.902 percent from 0.911 percent.
One-week Euribor dropped to 0.319 percent from 0.32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  