-- Bank of Korea Keeps Interest Rate at 3.25% for Ninth Month as Growth Slows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-08T06:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bank-of-korea-keeps-interest-rate-for-ninth-month-as-economic-growth-slows.html
The Bank of  Korea  held off altering
borrowing costs for a ninth straight month as policy makers
balance the risks from Europe’s debt crisis against rising oil
costs that add to price pressures.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent, the central
bank said in a statement in Seoul today. The decision was
predicted by all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Policy makers in Asia are grappling with higher fuel costs
that threaten to elevate inflation pressures amid signs of an
improving U.S. economy and progress in resolving Europe’s debt
crisis. Rising oil prices are one of the biggest concerns for
South Korea, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said yesterday.  The  Bank of Korea  “raised its alert on inflation but also
stressed external risks, signaling that they won’t change the
rate for a while,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst
at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  The nation’s economic slowdown since the third quarter of
last year appears to be pausing with the easing of international
financial market unrest, the Bank of Korea said.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  share index rose 0.9 percent as of 2:31 p.m. in
Seoul. The won traded 0.6 percent higher against the  U.S.
dollar , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Concerns  Korea’s  economic growth  rate will gradually return to its
long-term trend level, although downside risks are still bigger
than the upside due to external uncertainty, the central bank
said. Easing demand-side pressures may help  price stability 
though “high” inflation expectations and unstable oil prices
due will add to inflation pressures, the bank said.  Global oil prices have surged in the past six months amid
concern international tensions with  Iran  will disrupt crude
supplies. Oil for April delivery was at $106.12 in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at noon Seoul time.  South Korea , Asia’s fourth-largest economy, relies entirely
on imported oil. Prices of oil products rose 7.9 percent in
February from a year ago, contributing 0.45 percentage point to
a 3.1 percent gain for the overall  consumer price index ,
according to a Statistics Korea report on March 2.  Oil Prices  “If oil prices rise to $150, inflation will accelerate by
0.5 percentage points and growth will fall by 0.5 percentage
points,” the Bank of Korea’s Kim told reporters today.  The BOK’s decision to hold the rate at 3.25 percent for now
brings the central bank into alignment with others in the region
choosing to hold off on adding monetary stimulus.  Australia ’s central bank reiterated this week it has scope
to cut rates after leaving borrowing costs unchanged as  Europe 
remains a potential source of shocks “for some time yet.” The
central bank of the  Philippines  will consider oil costs in
deciding monetary policy, Governor Amando Tetangco said after
policy makers cut rates for a second straight meeting last week.  Today’s rates decision was unanimous, Kim told reporters.  South Korea, which grew the least last quarter in two
years, is getting some fiscal support from plans for 60 percent
of this year’s government spending to occur in the first six
months. The central bank and government forecast 3.7 percent
growth this year after a 3.6 percent gain last year.  “Even though growth is weak, inflation is a concern for
the” Bank of Korea, Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said.  Inflation Moderates  Samsung Electronics Co.’s senior vice president for
 investor relations , Robert Yi, said on Jan. 27 that he expects
strong momentum going into 2012. Samsung’s fourth-quarter profit
rose 17 percent as surging smartphone sales helped  Asia ’s
largest consumer-electronics company keep pace with Apple Inc.
and overcome a loss at its flat-panel business.  LG Group, whose companies include the world’s third-largest
maker of mobile phones, said in January that it will reduce
spending by 15 percent this year amid concern slowing economic
growth may damp consumer demand.  South Korea’s  inflation  moderated to a 14-month low in
February, within the central bank’s target range. Nonetheless,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last month that oil price
hikes may drive inflation higher than a government forecast of
3.2 percent this year just as the nation’s economic growth is
about to improve.  Despite the recent oil price hikes, “inflation is not
likely to exceed our forecast of 3.3 percent this year,” Kim
said today. “We will make efforts to contain consumer price
gains below it.”  Wait And See  Overseas shipments, equivalent to half of the economy, rose
22.7 percent in February from a year earlier, the biggest gain
in six months and following a 7 percent drop in January.  Japan 
and South Korea reported larger-than-forecast industrial
production in January amid a strengthening U.S. recovery and
signs that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may be contained.  “Central banks may want to wait and see in the near term
given the slightly changing inflation-growth matrix,” said
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “High oil prices could pose some inflation threat,
whereas the seemingly more solid recovery in the U.S. and recent
rebounds in regional purchasing managers indices mean a less-
bearish-than-expected growth outlook. So central banks in
general could turn less dovish for the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  