-- Beware Analysts Torturing Jobs Data to Fit Model: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/beware-analysts-torturing-jobs-data-to-fit-model-caroline-baum.html
Traders, take your mark. Go! The
monthly employment stakes has begun.  At precisely 8:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time tomorrow, the
Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the Employment Situation
report for February. (Note: It is not the “unemployment report,”
a misnomer favored by almost every TV and radio commentator.)
Then the real fun begins: dissecting the numbers and spinning
them to reflect one’s political biases or entrenched view on the
 U.S. economy . In other words, attempting to make reality conform
to the model.  How much of the  job creation  is real? How much of it is the
result of the unseasonably warm winter weather, which boosts
seasonally adjusted employment in industries such as
construction, mining and real estate? (Remember, what the
seasonal adjustment factors add in one month, they take away in
others.) What about the  birth-death model , which uses sample-
based estimates to capture new business formation and the
creative destruction of others?  Last month, the BLS incorporated new data from the 2010
census into its January statistics, which created a break in the
series and a headache for anyone trying to fend off the
 conspiracy theorists .  Hard Data  Those arguing that recent job gains -- an average monthly
increase of 185,000 in private payrolls in the past year -- are
statistical anomalies have an increasingly wobbly leg to stand
on. Start with the plunge in weekly  jobless claims , a tally of
real people lining up at real state unemployment offices to file
real claims. The Labor Department publishes both unadjusted and
seasonally adjusted numbers. Take your pick. Both measures are
near a four-year low, reflecting the improvement in the labor
market.  Then there’s the small matter of income earned from
employment. When the  Bureau of Economic Analysis  took a second
look at fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  last week, it
found an additional $82.4 billion of wage and salary
disbursements in the third quarter for a total increase of
$107.2 billion.  Wages and salaries  are compensation for work
performed, not phantom jobs.  For its  revisions , the BEA uses the BLS’s quarterly census
of employment and wages. The  QCEW , which will be released to the
public on March 28, is a comprehensive count of jobs and wages
derived from tax reports submitted by every employer subject to
unemployment-insurance laws. It covers 99.7 percent of civilian
employers, according to the BLS.  Additional income in the third quarter is no guarantee of
continued increases, but the message is one of a gradually
improving labor market.  Finally, there’s the geeky-but-hot question of the labor-
force participation rate, which peaked at 67.3 percent in 2000
and declined steadily to 63.7 percent in January. (What appears
to be a sharp, 0.3 percentage-point December-January drop is the
result of applying new population controls to January’s
numbers.)  Just as the mass influx of women into the  labor force 
beginning in the mid-1960s boosted the participation rate, so is
the aging and retirement of the  baby boomers  causing a
structural decline. The last recession clearly hastened the
process -- or perhaps the housing bubble masked the decline,
according to a March 1 analysis by economists at Barclays
Capital Plc.  Old Folks’ Home  To the extent that the labor-force participation rate is
mainly a  function of age distribution , the aging population
means more people moving from a high participation age bracket
(45-55 years old) to a lower one (55 and over). Barclays
economists dispute the conventional wisdom that the influx of
jobless workers to the labor force as the economy improves will
prevent further declines in the  unemployment rate . Using 45
years of available data, they failed to turn up a single period
when the jobless rate was driven mainly by re-entrants, rather
than job losers.  Among the skeptics -- not of the data per se but of their
interrelationship -- is Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke .
Last week,  he told  House and Senate oversight committees that
the decline in the unemployment rate this past year from 9.1
percent to 8.3 percent is “somewhat more rapid than might have
been expected, given that the economy appears to have been
growing during that time frame at or below its longer-term
trend.”  No one would take issue with Bernanke’s observation that
1.6 percent real GDP growth in 2011 is below trend. But given
the sluggish-to-nonexistent  labor-force growth  since 2008, it
doesn’t take much to reduce the unemployment rate, as
demonstrated by a new  jobs calculator  created by the Atlanta
Fed.  Assuming a labor-force participation rate of 63.7 percent
and monthly population growth of 0.07 percent, the past year’s
average rate, it would take monthly payroll growth of 242,558 to
reduce the  unemployment rate  to 7 percent in 12 months. Nonfarm
payrolls rose 243,000 in January. And yes, some of that increase
was due to unseasonably warm weather, for which there will be a
giveback this spring. Still, 243,000 net new jobs a month isn’t
out of the realm of possibilities.  All it would take is 152,775 new jobs a month for the
unemployment rate to breach 8 percent by the time voters go to
the polls on Nov. 6, according to the jobs calculator.  The decline might be “somewhat more rapid” than Bernanke
would have expected, but President  Barack Obama  would be
grateful for the surprise.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  