-- Bunker-Buster Bomb Eyed for Possible Iran Use, General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-08T21:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/biggest-bunker-buster-bomb-eyed-for-potential-iran-use-general.html
The Pentagon’s biggest bunker-buster
bomb is among the weapons that could be used in a potential
attack on  Iran ’s nuclear facilities, U.S. Lieutenant General
Herbert Carlisle said.  The 30,000-pound bomb, called a Massive Ordnance
Penetrator, is included along with cyber measures in U.S.
capabilities, Carlisle said today in discussing the conceptual
approach being taken by Pentagon planners for possible military
action in the effort to stop  Iran’s nuclear program .  “Cyber is a domain,” Carlisle, the  Air Force ’s deputy
chief for operations and plans, said at an industry conference
in Arlington, Virginia. “There is offensive cyber operations
and defensive cyber operations,” he said without elaboration.  President  Barack Obama  said March 6 there is a “window of
opportunity” for diplomacy and sanctions to compel Iran to give
up any effort to develop nuclear weapons before military action
might be needed.  Describing an array of U.S. military options, Carlisle
said, “All these things are on the table and being thought
about as we do operational planning.”  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s bomb, designed to used against underground
bunkers, has “great capability and we are continuing to make it
better,” he said. “It is part of our arsenal if it is needed
in that kind of scenario.”  The Pentagon won congressional approval last month to shift
$81.6 million in funds to improve the bunker-buster bomb.  Carlisle made his remarks in explaining how the Air Force
and Navy’s two-year-old Air-Sea Battle concept for conducting
joint combat in heavily defended areas such as the  Middle East 
or near China was relevant to planning for military options in
Iran.  The air-sea concept doesn’t depend solely on naval forces,
he said. “There is space capability. There is cyber
capability” as well as stealthy aircraft and other platforms,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  