-- Billion-Dollar Florida Battle Shows Challenge of Pension Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/billion-dollar-florida-pension-battle-shows-challenge-of-cutting-benefits.html
A court order forcing  Florida (STOFL1)  to
forgo $1 billion it planned to take from state workers to shore
up its budget is the latest sign of how difficult it can be to
reduce government-backed retirement benefits.  Of 41 U.S. states that made significant pension changes in
2010 and 2011, at least 13, or almost 30 percent, have faced
court challenges, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  “It can be very difficult,” said Ron Snell, a senior
fellow at the organization who has studied pensions. “There are
many obstacles in the way of policy makers.”  States such as  Florida (STOFL1) , whose $152 billion retirement fund
is the third-largest of any state, increased employee
contributions and eliminated cost-of-living-adjustments to free
up tax dollars. With 29 states facing a total of $47 billion in
budget shortfalls next year, according to the  Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities , orders to repay workers may create new
obstacles to solvency.  At the same time, some pensions are ailing. Investment
losses left state and local pensions with $3.6 trillion in
unfunded obligations, according to an October 2010 study by
 Joshua Rauh  of  Northwestern University  and Robert Novy-Marx of
the University of Rochester.  State pensions in 2010 had on average only 74.6 percent of
the assets they needed to cover promised benefits, according to
a Bloomberg ranking.  Florida  had 84 percent.  ‘Unconstitutional Taking’  This week, the state appealed Leon County Circuit Judge
Jackie Fulford’s decision that blocked Republican Governor  Rick Scott ’s plan to buoy the budget. The changes to promised
benefits violated collective-bargaining rights and were an
“unconstitutional taking of private property,” the judge
ruled.  The changes were intended to save $1 billion a year by
requiring workers to contribute 3 percent of their pay and
eliminating cost of living adjustments for those retiring after
the law took effect in August.  The state’s appeal put a hold on Fulford’s order to repay
workers, and lawmakers continue to work on their $70 billion
budget for fiscal 2013, a spending package that anticipates
savings from Scott’s plan. It is scheduled for a final vote
tomorrow, the last day of the annual legislative  session .  The judge’s decision “is not going to affect this year’s
budget,” said Representative Will Weatherford, a Wesley Chapel
Republican. “We feel very confident that we’ll win later on
down the road in court.”  Coddling Corporations  Republican Senator J.D. Alexander, his chamber’s budget
chairman, said courts can’t make the Legislature spend money and
suggested lawmakers should ignore Fulford.  “I do not believe any court has the authority to dictate
how the Legislature spends its money,” Alexander said.  Andy Ford , president of the Florida Education Association,
the state’s largest teachers union and a plaintiff in the
lawsuit, said lawmakers “have made their choices.”  “They have decided in this state over and over again to
provide tax relief to big corporations, the people who put
contributions into their campaigns, and it needs to stop,” he
said. “They need to fund the services of the state of
Florida.”  States have run into legal trouble by changing promised
benefits, said Snell of the NCSL.  “That’s the crux of it in many of these issues,” he said.  Breaking a Promise  In  Arizona (STOAZ1) , more than 200,000 teachers and other public
employees are in line for a $277 refund, according to the  Tucson
Citizen , after a Maricopa County judge ruled last month that the
Legislature’s decision to increase existing employees’ payments
into the system was unconstitutional.  In  New Hampshire (STONH1) , Merrimack County Superior Court Judge
Richard McNamara in January rejected an increase in employee
contributions, saying it broke a constitutional guarantee.  “It requires employees, who have already met the requisite
service and age requirements, to pay additional amounts -- which
may be an amount reserved for other expenses, like mortgages,
housing and food -- without receiving additional benefit,”
McNamara wrote.  Meanwhile, judges threw out lawsuits in  Colorado (STOCO1)  and
 Minnesota , ruling pensions may alter some post-retirement terms.  Florida’s law requires workers to contribute to their
pensions for the first time since 1974.  Otherwise, government would have to cut services for
“vulnerable people across the state,” said Senator Don Gaetz,
a Republican from Niceville.  “We went down into the basement of the old Capitol and dug
for Confederate gold, but we couldn’t find any,” Gaetz said.  “That money would have to come in the form of reductions
in funding for the critical services for the people of
Florida,” he said. “And that creates a real problem for the
Legislature as we are ending the session.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  