-- Bini Smaghi Says Weidmann Letter Undermines Bundesbank Chief’s Credibility
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-08T12:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bini-smaghi-says-weidmann-letter-undermines-bundesbank-chief-s-credibility.html
Former European Central Bank
Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  suggested  Germany ’s
Jens Weidmann may have “undermined” his own credibility by
allowing a letter to President  Mario Draghi  to become public.  “It’s a mistake to make these discussions public,” Bini
Smaghi said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Milan
today. “Any public statement of disagreement at the end
undermines the credibility of the person themselves. That is
what we have seen in the past.”  Weidmann, president of the Bundesbank, wrote to Draghi
warning of risks inherent in the expansion of the Eurosystem’s
balance sheet through its program of three-year loans and a
worsening collateral framework, the  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported last week. Neither the German central bank nor
the ECB have confirmed the contents of the letter.  “Any member of the council is there on his personal
capacity,” Bini Smaghi said. “He doesn’t represent any
country, and needs to be protected from pressure from their own
countries, their own institutions and they should take decisions
for the interests of the euro.”  A Bundesbank spokeswoman declined to immediately comment.  Bini Smaghi left the ECB at the end of 2011 to take up
positions at Harvard University’s Center for International
Affairs and as chairman of Italian utility  Snam Rete Gas SpA. (SRG) 
Bini Smaghi had faced pressure to quit to restore the unofficial
balance of nationalities on the ECB’s board after fellow Italian
Draghi became president in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  