-- BMW Posts Record Annual Profit in 2011 on China
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-08T13:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bmw-posts-record-annual-profit-in-2011-on-demand-for-its-x3-sports-vehicle.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
fourth-quarter earnings fell 12 percent as the world’s largest
maker of  luxury vehicles  spent more on new models.  Earnings before interest and taxes fell to 1.54 billion
euros ($2 billion) from 1.75 billion euros a year earlier,
according to calculations based on full-year results the Munich-
based company reported today. Revenue climbed 9.6 percent to
18.3 billion euros.  “The figures are marginally light of expectations,” said
 David Arnold , a sales specialist with Credit Suisse in  London .
“There was no upgrade to the guidance, but management is
traditionally cautious.”  BMW, which is fending off efforts by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz to take the segment’s top sales
spot, spent 500 million euros in the second half to introduce
new versions of the 3-Series sedan and 1-Series compact. The
maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles expects the models
to help it beat last year’s sales record of 1.67 million cars in
2012. Deliveries in 2011 rose 14 percent, as X3 sales more than
doubled on demand in  China  and the U.S.  The carmaker said in November that fourth-quarter margins
would decline as two-thirds of its spending on new models would
be booked in the period.  Shares Rise  BMW  rose  as much as 2.45 euros, or 3.6 percent, to 70.72
euros and was up 1.5 percent as of 1:09 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The company’s shares have risen 20 percent over the
past 12 months, making it the  third-best  performer in the 14-
member Euro Stoxx autos and parts index and valuing the company
at 44.1 billion euros.  To shore up its management ranks, BMW appointed Milagros Caina-Andree as head of personnel. The Spanish-born executive
will join the automaker in July from  Deutsche Bahn AG (DBHN) ’s Schenker
logistics unit, becoming BMW’s first female management board
member.  The appointment expands the board to eight. Current
personnel chief Harald Krueger will take on a new role
overseeing sales and product lines of the Mini and Rolls-Royce
brands as well as BMW’s motorcycle unit. He will also expand
BMW’s after-sales business.  Ian Robertson , previously the
group’s sales chief, will focus on sales and marketing of the
BMW brand as well as the M performance unit and the “i”
electric-vehicle sub-brand.  As part of the reorganization, executives Klaus Draeger and
Herbert Diess will swap roles, with Draeger taking over
purchasing and Diess overseeing development, effective April 1.  Dividend Increase  “We need an organization that can handle the increasing
complexity of the tasks involved to ensure that the BMW Group
maintains its successful course in the future,” Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said in a statement.  BMW proposed a dividend of 2.30 euros per common share, an
increase from last year’s 1.30 euros, after net income surged 51
percent to 4.91 billion euros. The company plans to release full
2011 earnings details on March 13.  “The past year has been the best year in the BMW Group’s
corporate history,” Reithofer said. “We have achieved new
sales volume, revenues and earnings highs, and exceeded our
targets.”  Ebit at BMW’s automotive unit rose to 11.8 percent of  sales 
from 8 percent in 2010 as the company lowered costs by sharing
more parts between models and sales of the high-margin 5-Series
surged 46 percent. BMW’s Ebit margin trailed Audi’s 12.1 percent
return on sales. Mercedes posted a 9 percent 2011 Ebit margin.  Model Expansion  BMW introduced a new four-door version of the 6-Series
coupe at the Geneva International Motor Show this week, while
the Mini brand announced plans to produce the Clubvan cargo
vehicle starting in the second half, adding to the new two-seat
roadster this year. The expansion is part of Reithofer’s plans
to increase sales to 2 million cars by 2020.  To counter Audi and Mercedes, BMW is in talks with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  about a potential technology cooperation, adding to
its existing partnerships with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , Reithofer said March 6.  BMW expects deliveries to grow this year, even as the debt-
crisis in  Europe  makes sales in its home region an “uphill
battle,” Reithofer said this week at the Geneva motor show. The
company expects sales this year to rise by at least 10 percent
in China and by a “high single-digit” rate in  North America ,
offsetting a market decline of as much as 5 percent in Europe.  “BMW will have a good 2012” after revamping the 1-Series
compact late last year and introducing a new generation of the
best-selling 3-Series sedan in February, said  Daniel Schwarz , a
Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank. “Those models will be
more profitable because they share more parts than in the
past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  