-- Boston Scientific to Buy Cameron for New Heart Device in $1.35 Bln Deal
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-03-09T21:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/boston-scientific-to-buy-cameron-health-for-novel-defibrillator.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  agreed to
buy Cameron Health Inc. for as much as $1.35 billion to add a
new type of defibrillator to bolster a shrinking market for the
devices used to shock stopped hearts.  Boston Scientific, the second-biggest cardiac-device maker,
will pay $150 million when the deal closes and another $150
million if Cameron’s technology called the S-ICD System wins
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval, the Natick,
Massachusetts-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Cameron may receive as much as $1.05 billion more based on the
revenue the device generates.  Demand for defibrillators, Boston Scientific’s biggest
products, has plunged since peaking in 2009 amid concerns about
safety and overuse of the devices. Cameron’s defibrillator is
implanted just below the skin and doesn’t attach to the heart or
blood vessel with the thin, insulated wires that caused failures
in other devices.  “This is probably the most major advance in the field in
the last decade,” said Chief Executive Officer Hank Kucheman in
a telephone interview today. “It has the potential to expand
the reach of ICD technology as we know it today,” said
Kucheman, who plans to use the device to increase the $6.2
billion market and take sales from competitors.  Boston Scientific rose less than 1 percent to $5.95 at the
close of  New York  trading. The device maker’s shares have fallen
24 percent in the past 12 months.  Earnings Effect  Boston Scientific plans to pay for the acquisition, which
may close in the second or third quarter of 2012, from current
 cash  flow. The purchase will reduce earnings per share by about
1 cent a share on an adjusted basis in 2012 and will break even
in 2013, the year Boston Scientific expects the technology to
win U.S. approval, the company said.  “The weak link of defibrillator systems to date has been
the lead that goes into the heart,” Ken Stein, chief medical
officer for Boston Scientific’s cardiac rhythm management group,
said today. “The heart beats approximately 100,000 times a day.
That’s a lot of mechanical stress. If you are a young patient,
you may need that wire to function normally for 30 years.”  The S-ICD system is approved in  Europe  and sold in several
countries around the world, with more than 1,000 patients
getting the devices. Closely held Cameron, based in San
Clemente,  California , applied for U.S. approval in December.  Niche Product  While the technology will bolster Boston Scientific’s
defibrillator portfolio, the first version may be a niche
product because of physical and technical limitations, said
 Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New
York, in a note to clients. The defibrillator itself is larger
than rival models and it doesn’t provide pacing for the heart,
something many older patients need, he said.  “Many younger patients do not require these therapies and
therefore we see this being the primary initial target patient
population,” he said. “This device will improve the company’s
visibility in many U.S. accounts and will be valuable product in
 emerging markets  because of its relative ease of implant.”  Boston Scientific has made 13 acquisitions in the last 5
years, with an average disclosed size of $81.5 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest during this
period was its 2010 purchase of Asthmatx Inc. for $193.5
million, the data show.  The Cameron defibrillator “represents a new category of
rhythm management devices that is unlike anything available
today,” Kenneth Ellenbogen, director of the electrophysiology
Laboratory at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, said
in the statement. “This system provides physicians with a new
alternative in the treatment of patients at risk for sudden
cardiac arrest and should become first-line therapy for patients
who may benefit from not having a lead in the heart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  