-- Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Brazil Unexpectedly Speeds Up Rate Cuts
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-08T22:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bovespa-index-futures-advance-as-brazil-unexpectedly-speeds-up-rate-cuts.html
The Bovespa stock index advanced for
a second day as homebuilders and retailers rallied after
 Brazil ’s central bank unexpectedly accelerated the pace of
interest-rate cuts.  Shopping-mall owner  Aliansce Shopping Centers SA (ALSC3)  advanced
after saying its fourth-quarter net income increased 49 percent
from a year before. Retailer  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  gained the most
since October.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  was the best performer on
the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV) , which rose to the highest
since June.  Brazil’s benchmark stock measure added 1.4 percent to
66,908.39. Fifty-two stocks gained, while 17 dropped. The yield
on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 plunged 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 8.67
percent. The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7607 per  U.S. dollar .  “The lower  interest rates  get, the better for stocks,
especially those linked to domestic consumption,” said Marcio Cardoso, a partner at Titulo Corretora de Valores, in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “There’s also a lot of liquidity in
the world right now. If at some point things in Europe get more
stable, all this money will start looking for riskier assets,
and then we’ll have a party over here.”  In a split vote yesterday, policy makers led by central
bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark Selic rate 75
basis points to 9.75 percent, surprising 59 of 62 economists who
expected it would be lowered by a half point. Two dissenting
members voted to lower the rate by a half point for a fifth
straight meeting.  Tombini began reducing the benchmark rate in August, saying
in each of the meetings before yesterday that “moderate”
reductions in borrowing costs would shield the economy from the
euro debt crisis.  Santander Rate Forecast  After yesterday’s cut, Banco Santander Brasil SA lowered
its forecast for the Selic rate this year to 8.5 percent, from
9.5 percent previously, the bank’s senior economist Tatiana Pinheiro said by phone from  Sao Paulo  today.  Rossi Residencial SA, a Brazilian homebuilder, rose 7.1
percent to 11.73 reais. Pao de Acucar, the country’s biggest
retailer, jumped 7.4 percent to 86.28 reais.  Global stocks and commodities gained as  Greece  moved closer
to reaching an accord with bondholders. Private investors agreed
to swap about 85 percent of their Greek  government bonds  for new
securities in the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, according to a banker briefed on the results.
Preliminary indications showed that as much as 155 billion euros
($206 billion) of the 177 billion euros of Greek-law bonds were
offered, said the banker, who declined to be identified.  MMX Rises  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the iron-ore mining company
controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, rose 6.1 percent to 9.45
reais. The  Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index (CMDIBAS3) 
climbed 0.7 percent.  Real-estate developer  Multiplan Empreendimentos
Imobiliarios SA (MULT3)  advanced 2.3 percent to 42.40 reais after saying
its board approved a plan to buy back as many as 3.6 million
voting shares over the next year, according to a regulatory
filing today.  Separately, Multiplan reported fourth-quarter net income of
108.1 million reais ($61.4 million), which compares with the
average estimate of 89.4 million reais in a Bloomberg survey of
eight analysts.  The Bovespa has advanced 18 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
10.85 times analysts’ earnings estimates, compared with a 10.7
ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders moved 7.75 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.22 billion reais this year through March 1,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  