-- Brady Introduces Bill Focusing Fed on Price Stability With 23 Co-Sponsors
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-08T18:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/brady-introduces-bill-focusing-fed-on-prices-with-23-co-sponsors.html
Representative  Kevin Brady , the top
Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, introduced a bill
that would narrow the  Federal Reserve ’s focus to  price
stability , eliminating its mandate to promote full employment.  “Except in the very short term, monetary policy can’t
boost the economy and  job creation ,” Brady of Texas said in a
statement today. “It makes no sense for Congress to charge the
Federal Reserve to control what it cannot. Let’s give the Fed a
clear mandate, focus it on the mission of stable prices and hold
it accountable for the results.”  The legislation, with 23 co-sponsors, would also restrict
the central bank’s balance sheet to  Treasury securities , speed
the release of transcripts from Federal Open Market Committee
meetings and give the Fed’s 12 regional bank presidents
permanent votes on monetary policy.  Known as the Sound Dollar Act, the bill has sparked a
partisan reaction. Its co-sponsors are Republicans, with most of
them members of the Republican Study Committee, a group of
fiscal conservatives.  Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the senior
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, and the
panel’s 26 other Democrats yesterday opposed the legislation in
a letter to the committee chairman. They also requested a
hearing on the bill.  “We believe strongly that the dual mandate should be
maintained, and we believe that the Federal Reserve’s actions in
pursuit of that mandate have been helpful in dealing with our
unemployment problem,” the Democrats said in a letter to
Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and the
committee chairman.  ‘Extensive Oversight’  “We have not scheduled any committee action on the bill
yet,” said Jeff Emerson, a spokesman for Republicans on the
committee. “The committee has conducted extensive oversight of
the Federal Reserve and has much more planned for the rest of
this year, not just on the dual mandate but also on
transparency, accountability, the Fed’s role in the Eurozone
crisis response, and its implementation of Dodd-Frank.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues on the FOMC
in January formally adopted a 2 percent goal for the rate of
inflation and also pledged to move the economy toward maximum
employment, which they currently estimate as a jobless rate
between 5.2 percent and 6 percent.  Bernanke defended the inflation goal on Feb. 2 after
Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  suggested the
Fed might be willing to tolerate higher inflation to fulfill its
other mandate to bring about maximum employment.  ‘Bring Inflation Back’  “Over a period of time we want to move inflation always
back toward 2 percent,” Bernanke said in Washington in response
to a question from Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee.
“We’re always trying to bring inflation back to the target.”  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican
and one of the bill’s co-sponsors, asked Bernanke in an Oct. 4
congressional hearing whether the Fed would be “better
positioned to provide clarity and stability” if it were focused
on one mandate instead of two.  Bernanke said central banks with a single mandate also pay
close attention to broader economic conditions. Also, the Fed
does have “some ability” to reduce unemployment, he said.  “My bottom line is I think we can make the dual mandate
work,” Bernanke said in the Oct. 4 hearing before the Joint
Economic Committee. “I think it’s worked pretty well. But, of
course, it’s up to Congress. If you want to change to a single
mandate, we will do whatever you assign us to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
NI FX
NI FED
NI BANKS
NI CNG
NI GOV
NI ECO
NI US
NI INF
NI DRV
NI CEN
NI CNG
NI EXE 