-- Brazilian Futures Yields Plunge After Bigger-Than-Forecast Rate Reduction
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-08T21:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/brazilian-futures-yields-plunge-after-tombini-speeds-cycle-of-rate-cuts.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures plunged on speculation the central bank’s bigger-than-
expected reduction to the benchmark target marks the beginning
of a quicker pace of cuts.  The yield on the contract due in January tumbled 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 8.67 percent. The move was
the biggest one-day decline since September.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark overnight rate 75 basis points to 9.75
percent yesterday, topping the 50 basis-point estimate from 59
out of 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Tombini opted for a
bigger reduction than the 50 basis-point moves implemented in
the four prior meetings after a report yesterday showed
industrial production in January fell the most in three years.  “It wasn’t expected, but nobody completely discounted the
possibility of a bigger cut, especially after the weak
industrial production,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco West LB, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The market will
now begin to price in another 75 basis-point cut.”  Banco Santander Brasil SA today lowered its forecast for
benchmark Selic interest rate this year to 8.5 percent, from its
previous forecast of 9.5 percent. The central bank is expected
to cut the Selic by 0.75 percentage point in April and 0.5
percent in May, economist Tatiana Pinheiro said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  Real’s Rally  The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7607 per dollar after
earlier falling as much as 0.8 percent. It has climbed 6 percent
this year, following an 11 percent drop in 2011, renewing policy
makers’ concerns the currency’s strength will erode exports and
add to a slowdown in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Yesterday’s 75 basis-point cut was in part an effort to
curb foreign investment into Brazil’s fixed-income market and
contain the real’s gains, said Italo Lombardi, a Latin America
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New York . Inflows from
investors seeking alternatives to near-zero benchmark rates in
the U.S. and  Europe  drove the real to a 12-year high of 1.5290
per dollar in July.  To accelerate cuts “right now seems to be a concern with
domestic demand but also a response to this monetary easing all
over the place, in Europe, in the U.S.,” Lombardi said in a
telephone interview. “Obviously it has to do with their concern
with the carry trade.”  Real Rates  At 4.28 percent, Brazil’s inflation-adjusted rate, or the
real rate, is the second-highest in the Group of 20 richest
nations after  Russia , according to data compared by Bloomberg.
That compared with 0.45 percent in  Mexico . In the U.S., U.K. and
the euro-region, real-rates are below zero, meaning that the key
borrowing costs are lower than inflation.  Brazil  started lowering the benchmark overnight lending
rate in August, following  Turkey  as the second country among the
G-20 nations to cut borrowing costs amid the intensifying
European debt crisis. In yesterday’s decision, two of the seven
central bank board members voted for keeping the pace of the
rate cut at 50 basis points. It was the first split vote since
the August cut when two members opted to keep the rate unchanged
at 12.5 percent.  While almost all economists were surprised by yesterday’s
reduction, money market traders were split between a move of 50
basis points and 75 yesterday, according to yields on futures
contracts. Traders had boosted wagers on a bigger cut as
evidence mounted the economy was slowing was more than they had
expected.  Growth Outlook  The 2.1 percent decline in industrial output in January,
the biggest drop since December 2008, followed a report this
week showing Brazil’s $2.3 trillion economy expanded last year
at the second-weakest pace since 2003. Gross domestic product
grew 2.7 percent, less than Brazil’s neighbors and below the 3
percent growth by  Germany  amid the euro debt crisis.  It was only the second time that Brazil’s central bank
lowered the benchmark Selic rate below 10 percent since it began
targeting inflation in 1999. In the six months through July
2009, central bankers led by Tombini’s precedent Henrique Meirelles cut the benchmark 5 percentage points to a record low
of 8.75 percent in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis.  Yields on longer-maturity rate futures fell less than the
shorter-term securities, indicating that the central bank may
have to raise interest rates later to keep inflation in check.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017 dropped 11
basis points to 10.56 percent. The gap between the contracts due
in January 2013 and January 2017 surged 13 basis points today to
a record 1.89 percentage points. The gap was at 91 basis points
at the beginning of the year.  Inflation Target  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of lower borrowing costs, tax cuts on  consumer goods  and an
increase of public investments to ensure the economy will grow
4.5 percent in 2012.  Latin America ’s second largest economy
expanded 2.7 percent in 2011, its second-worst performance since
2003.  Even as the economy picks up, inflation will decline
towards the central bank’s 4.5 percent target this year, Tombini
said in a statement on March 6.  While slowing, inflation remains above the mid-point of the
central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent and 6.5 percent.
Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose 5.98
percent in the year through mid-February, compared with a six-
year high of 7.33 percent in September. Annual inflation
quickened to 6.5 percent last year, the highest level since
2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  