-- Brazil Accelerates Interest Rate Cuts Amid Signs of Lackluster Growth
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-03-08T15:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/brazil-cuts-benchmark-rate-greater-than-estimated-0-75-as-economy-slows.html
Brazil’s central bank surprised
analysts by accelerating the pace of interest rate cuts,
bringing borrowing costs below 10 percent for only the second
time amid signs of lackluster growth in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy.  In a split vote yesterday, policy makers led by bank
President Alexandre Tombini cut the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by 75 basis
points to 9.75 percent. Two dissenting members voted to lower
the rate by a half point for a fifth straight meeting.  “They just lost patience,” said Nomura Securities’  Tony Volpon , one of just two economists who anticipated the move in a
Bloomberg survey of 62 analysts. “The government clearly is
afraid, given what they know up to now, that 2012 could be
another weak growth year, and they want to buy insurance against
that.”  A report yesterday showing industrial  production  in January
fell by the most in three years may have tipped the balance in
favor of a deeper cut.  The government believes that “drastically” reducing real
 interest rates  that are the second-highest in the Group of 20
richest nations after  Russia  will also help fight currency
gains, said Volpon, the chief emerging markets economist for the
Americas at Nomura, in a telephone interview. The real has
gained 31 percent since 2008, the second-biggest gainer of the
25 most-traded emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Chilean peso.  Bank Strategy  The bank’s one-sentence statement didn’t explain why it was
acting more aggressively, though Volpon expects another 75 basis
point cut in April followed by a half point reduction to 8.5
percent in May.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to
8.68 percent at 11:40 a.m. Brasilia time, its biggest drop since
Sept. 1, the day after the central bank began its rate cutting
cycle.  The real weakened 0.7 percent to 1.7781 per dollar.  The bank’s strategy may heighten  inflation  concern. Even
after the pace of price increases has slowed in recent months,
economists are doubtful that Tombini can fulfill his pledge to
lower inflation to the government’s 4.5 percent target as
unemployment hovers near a record low and credit growth of 18
percent fuels consumer demand.  Forecasts for 2013 inflation have risen in each of the
three previous weekly central bank surveys of economists, to 5.2
percent. In January inflation was 6.22 percent, down from 7.31
percent in September.  Tombini began lowering the benchmark rate in August, saying
in each of the meetings before yesterday that “moderate”
reductions in borrowing costs would shield the economy from the
euro debt crisis. In January the bank said there was a “high
probability” the rate would drop to less than 10 percent as
inflation concerns subside.  Traders Less Surprised  Traders boosted bets for a bigger rate cut this month as
evidence mounted that the economy is growing at a level weaker
than was previously expected.  The 2.1 percent decline in industrial output in January,
the biggest drop since December 2008, followed a report this
week showing that  Brazil ’s economy last year had its second-
worst performance since 2003. Gross domestic product expanded
2.7 percent in 2011, less than Brazil’s neighbors and below the
3 percent growth by Germany amid the euro debt crisis.  Besides lowering borrowing costs, Rousseff’s government has
cut taxes on  consumer goods  and is boosting public investments
to ensure 4.5 percent growth this year. Economists expect weaker
growth of 3.3 percent, according to the most recent bank survey.  ‘Single Digit’  “They knew that they wanted to get to a single digit and
they saw a window of opportunity to accelerate,” said  Alberto Ramos , chief Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs & Co.
Still, Ramos cautioned against predicting a deeper easing cycle
than the market was anticipating, saying that policy makers may
simply be frontloading already-planned cuts.  “It could be that the growth and inflation picture will
change by May, and then it’s not as easy to continue to cut,”
he said in a telephone interview from  New York  yesterday.  Since Brazil began targeting inflation in 1999, the Selic
has only once before fallen below 10 percent, in the wake of the
2008 global financial crisis.  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Corretora,
said the bank’s strategy will depend increasingly on non-
monetary tools such as tighter banking regulations to contain
inflation.  “Economists have to understand they’ve changed their
instrument,” Padovani said yesterday in a phone interview from
 Sao Paulo , adding the Selic may fall to 8.5 percent during the
current easing cycle.  Roberto Setubal, chief executive officer of  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s biggest bank by market value, said
Brazil has room to cut interest rates further amid weak growth
and inflation globally.  “Without a doubt people have to understand well that the
world is going through a moment with very low interest rates,”
Setubal told reporters in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  A rally in the currency that is hurting manufacturers that
compete with cheaper imports is also a top concern. Brazil’s
benchmark rate is a magnet for investors borrowing at near-zero
rates abroad. So far this year, $15.5 billion has entered the
country, compared with investment outflows of $3 billion in the
last quarter of 2011.  Rousseff, on a trip to  Germany  this week, said her
government would spare no effort to protect manufacturers from a
“monetary tsunami” triggered by loose credit conditions in
 Europe  and the U.S. The real has strengthened 5.2 percent
against the dollar this year, the fifth-biggest gainer among the
16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  