-- Bruce Donner Gets 18 Months in Prison for $80 Million Leasing Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-08T18:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/bruce-donner-gets-18-months-in-prison-for-80-million-leasing-ponzi-scheme.html
Bruce Donner, the owner of a medical
equipment company, was sentenced to 18 months in prison for his
role in a medical equipment-leasing  Ponzi scheme  that cost
investors $80 million and that he exposed to prosecutors.  Donner, 52, blew the whistle in July 2010 on a fraud run by
Allied Health Care Services Inc. founder Charles K. Schwartz,
who later pleaded guilty. Schwartz was sentenced in November in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, to 16 years in prison.  Donner, who owns Donner Medical Marketing Inc., provided
phony invoices that helped Schwartz bilk lenders who put up
$135 million, prosecutors said. Lenders were defrauded of
$80 million, including Sun Bancorp Inc., which lost $13 million.
The judge agreed to a request by Donner and prosecutors for
leniency.  “You should be commended for turning yourself in and
allowing the government to proceed with their criminal
investigation,” U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton said today.
“It’s puzzling to me, and I’m sure it’s puzzling to others, why
you would even get involved in an eight-year conspiracy when you
were successful in business.”  Donner, of Berkeley Heights,  New Jersey , pleaded guilty in
October to mail fraud. He admitted that he generated invoices
that falsely said Donner Medical was providing medical equipment
to Allied, based in Orange, New Jersey.  ‘Terribly Remorseful’  “I’m terribly remorseful, obviously, for what I’ve done,
and especially for what I’ve done to my friends and family,”
Donner told the judge before she imposed his sentence.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Mack said that Donner’s
cooperation was “substantial, it was swift, it was immediate.”
After revealing the fraud, Donner made recordings of Schwartz
for authorities that helped lead to his guilty plea, Mack said.  Mack said Donner made $4 million to $5 million as a result
of the fraud. Wigenton said she will impose restitution later,
and hold a hearing by May 14.  Donner attorney Keith Biebelberg said his client wanted to
atone for his “grievously poor judgment.” He said Donner had
liquidated a retirement account and was selling real estate to
help pay for his restitution.  Biebelberg said Donner had feared for his safety because
Schwartz had an arsenal of firearms and a tray of ammunition.  “Those bullets were labeled with the names of various
individuals for which Mr. Schwartz bore ill will,” the lawyer
said. Donner’s name wasn’t on the bullets, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Donner, 11-cr-671, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, federal court
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 