-- Carlyle Said to Add IPO Banks Including Barclays, UBS
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-08T21:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/carlyle-group-said-to-add-banks-including-morgan-stanley-to-help-with-ipo.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private equity
firm planning an initial public offering this year, added banks
including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to
help with the sale, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  also will work on the
offering, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the process is private. Carlyle earlier hired  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to lead the IPO,
according to regulatory filings.  Carlyle, whose assets under management have more than
tripled to almost $150 billion since 2006, joins major buyout
firms such as  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Blackstone Group LP in seeking a
public listing. Adding banks to pitch the IPO may help Carlyle
win over investors disappointed after offerings from rival
buyout firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC, said Richard
Sichel of Philadelphia Trust Co.  “There is some doubt possibly on deals from private equity
firms,” said Sichel, who helps oversee $1.6 billion as chief
investment officer. “It sounds as though they need the extra
distribution, that maybe the market out there isn’t ready to
pounce on the deal.”  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment.
Apollo, which raised $565 million in an IPO last March, had slid
26 percent since the IPO. Fortress Investment Group LLC, which
went public in 2007, has declined 80 percent since its offering.  Citigroup’s Lead  Citigroup has won the biggest share of U.S. IPO business
this year, selling shares worth an estimated $356 million for
companies such as Yelp Inc. and Caesars Entertainment Corp.,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Co-founded in 1987 by David Rubenstein, William Conway and
Daniel D’Aniello, Washington-based Carlyle would be at least the
fifth buyout firm to go public since Fortress. Carlyle will
begin marketing shares to investors as soon as April, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Carlyle’s stock will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol CG. The company’s original IPO filing indicated the
firm planned to raise as much as $100 million, a placeholder
amount used to determine fees. Carlyle hasn’t set a price range
or the number of shares it plans to offer.  The firm has lowered fees for big investors as it seeks $10
billion for its next flagship buyout fund, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. Competitors such as
 Blackstone (BX)  and KKR have also lowered fees or cut special deals
to entice larger clients as buyout firms vie for a shrinking
pool of investor dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  