-- Carney to Extend Bank of Canada’s Interest Rate Pause Amid Global Weakness
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/carney-to-extend-canada-interest-rate-pause-on-global-weakness.html
The Bank of Canada will probably
keep its main  interest rate  at 1 percent today to prolong the
longest pause since the 1950s, joining global peers in signaling
that extended stimulus is needed amid a weak global recovery.  The decision to keep policy rates unchanged, due at 9 a.m.
today in Ottawa, is forecast by all 28 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. Governor  Mark Carney  said in a Feb. 24 speech
that he has “flexibility” in setting interest rates to meet
his inflation target, while central banks from the U.S. to
 Indonesia  have extended stimulus on signs of a European
recession and global slowdown.  “We can expect low interest rates for an extended period
of time, whether it’s 1 1/2, two years,” Gord Nixon, chief
executive officer of Royal Bank of  Canada , the country’s largest
by assets, said March 1. “Global growth is slowing and Canada
is part of that.”  Canada relies on exports for about 33 percent of its
output, and higher interest rates could boost a currency that’s
trading around parity with the U.S. dollar, harming the
country’s competitiveness. Carney has cited the “persistent
strength” of the currency as a drag on a recovery that he says
won’t be complete until the third quarter of next year.  The world’s 10th largest economy has been supported by
global demand for commodities, such as crude oil, and low
interest rates that have fed  consumer spending , while
manufacturing stumbled. The country’s job market has softened,
with  unemployment  reaching a nine-month high of 7.6 percent in
January.  Labor Costs  Canadian labor costs in U.S. dollars have doubled since
2002 because of weak productivity gains and an increase in the
currency, which traded just above parity yesterday.  Cardboard box and tissue-maker Cascades Inc. said Feb. 22
it will close a Toronto plant with 36 employees, citing a
“significant reduction in business volume.” The next day the
company said “the strength of the Canadian dollar had a
significant impact on our profit margins.”  Canada’s economic expansion slowed to a 1.8 percent annual
pace in the fourth quarter, according to a March 2 Statistics
Canada report, even as U.S. growth accelerated to 3 percent. In
January, the  Bank of Canada   forecast  growth averaging 1.8
percent in the first half of this year.  Consumers will account for more than half of Canada’s 2
percent economic growth this year, according to the central
bank’s forecast document, which also called for a “gradual
reduction in monetary stimulus” through 2013.  Fed Rates  Since then, Federal Reserve policy makers said they expect
to keep U.S. interest rates low through at least late 2014. If
the Bank of Canada gives any indication its policy rate may move
higher much before then, it would mark “a significant
divergence in policy between the two banks,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Carney has said in past speeches the global recovery will
take longer than previous ones because it was sparked by a
financial crisis. He’s also said he won’t be guided by
mechanical rules in setting rates.  “Equipped with this flexibility, the Bank will continue to
monitor carefully economic and financial developments in the
Canadian and global economies, together with the evolution of
risks, and set monetary policy consistent with achieving the 2
percent inflation target over the medium term,” Carney said in
 New York  last month.  The central bank forecasts that inflation will accelerate
to its target in the third quarter of next year.  Fiscal Plan  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said he may use a March
29 fiscal plan to impose government spending cuts so he can
eliminate the country’s budget deficit by the year beginning
April 2015. He’s also said any cuts won’t be “draconian” and
won’t have a large impact on economic growth.  Canada is still being boosted by domestic demand. Consumer
spending expanded at a 2.9 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, up from 1.8 percent in the third quarter, while
business investment rose 6.3 percent, the eighth consecutive
increase.  Telus Corp., Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, said
March 2 it will spend C$3 billion over the next three years on
new buildings and equipment and the hiring of 1,300 people in
British Columbia, where it’s headquartered.  There is evidence the economy may return to full capacity
faster than the central bank is predicting, said  Derek Holt ,
 Scotia Capital ’s vice president of economics in Toronto.  “In a normal cycle that would signal the bank was shifting
towards tightening,” Holt said. This time “the bank will use
its flexibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  