-- Carrefour Cuts Dividend as Profit Drops, Superstore Conversions Held Back
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-03-08T16:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/carrefour-cuts-dividend-scales-down-superstore-conversions.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, cut its dividend by more than 50 percent and
said it would “significantly scale down” superstore
conversions as annual profit declined.  The payout for 2011 will be 52 euro cents (69 cents) a
share, down from 1.08 euros in 2010, the Boulogne-Billancourt,
France-based retailer said today in a statement. The average
 estimate  of 31 analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for a dividend
of 80 cents. Current operating income fell 19 percent to 2.18
billion euros, the grocer said, meeting its own forecast.  Revamped superstores, while performing better than non-
converted outlets, haven’t met expectations, Carrefour said,
citing “unprecedented macroeconomic conditions in southern
Europe” and “operational hurdles in France.” Eleven outlets
will be converted in 2012, bringing the total to 92, according
to the retailer, which in 2010 announced plans to change about
half of 500 superstores in western  Europe  to the Planet model.  “Cash-flow preservation will be the clear priority for the
foreseeable future,”  James Grzinic , an analyst at Jefferies in
 London , wrote today in a note to clients. The retailer had “a
tough 2011,” said the analyst who recommends holding the stock.  Carrefour rose 0.5 percent to 17.72 euros in Paris, giving
the grocer a market value of 12 billion euros.  Planet Failure  The revamp of Carrefour’s superstores, which are its least
profitable format, has failed to improve the retailer’s image in
terms of price and the non-food offer needs adjusting, outgoing
Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said at a presentation.
Carrefour’s total market share in  France  declined 0.5 percentage
point to 21.3 percent in 2011, he said.  Further conversions are on hold and modification costs will
be reduced before the program resumes, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Jean Sivignon said. The grocer said it has spent 369
million euros of 1.5 billion euros earmarked for the upgrades,
with each Carrefour Planet store costing about 4 million euros.
Still, the format “has a future,” Olofsson said.  Scaling back the store conversions is “not surprising”
ahead of the arrival of a new CEO, said Arnaud Joly, an analyst
at CA Cheuvreux who has an “underperform” recommendation on
the stock, in a note to clients.  Biggest Task  Carrefour this year named Georges Plassat as its fourth CEO
in eight years after forecasting lower profit five times in the
past 18 months. Plassat will join the grocer on April 2 as chief
operating officer and become chairman and CEO after a June 18
shareholders meeting, replacing Olofsson.  The retailer has been slow to adapt to shifting consumer
behavior in Europe, where shoppers are favoring local stores and
online to out-of-town superstores, which account for about 40
percent of sales. Plassat has the biggest task in retail this
year to turn round the company, according to Natalie Berg,
global research director at  Planet Retail .  To address the challenging economic environment in Europe,
the grocer said it will reduce prices, including matching the
lowest price on 500 branded items, offer fewer promotions and
boost the number of Carrefour-branded products on shelves. In
France, it will also add more so-called drive pick-up points and
develop e-commerce, it said.  ‘Severe Recession-Mode’  Carrefour is in “severe recession-mode” in  Greece , where
it’s cutting rental, personnel and operational costs, Olofsson
said. The country was the retailer’s only unprofitable market in
2011, the CEO said.  Carrefour said it will cut capital expenditure this year to
between 1.6 billion euros and 1.7 billion euros from 2.3 billion
euros in 2011. Spending levels will remain unchanged in  emerging
markets , where the grocer maintains its “strong commitment” to
expanding in  China ,  Brazil  and  Indonesia , Carrefour said.  The company will target cost savings of 400 million euros
in 2012 as well as a planned two-day reduction in inventories,
according to the statement.  The retailer also proposed a new dividend payout policy of
about 45 percent of net earnings, adjusted for one-time items.  Carrefour said in January that full-year earnings declined
by closer to 20 percent than 15 percent. The retailer uses
current operating profit, which takes into account last year’s
spinoff of the discount chain  Distribuidora Internacional de
Alimentacion SA  as well as other items. Analysts had expected
profit on that basis of 2.19 billion euros, the average of six
estimates gathered by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  