-- McDonald’s Falls as Sales Trail Estimates on Slower Growth in Europe, Asia
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-08T14:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mcdonald-s-february-sales-trail-analysts-estimates-as-europe-growth-slows.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, fell the most in more than five months
after reporting February sales that trailed analysts’ estimates
as consumers cut spending in Europe.  McDonald’s  slid  3 percent to $97.18 at 9:51 a.m. in  New
York , after declining as much as 3.4 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Sept. 9.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 7.5 percent
globally last month, trailing analysts’ projections for a gain
of 8.2 percent, the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News. Sales in Europe advanced 4 percent, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts estimated a gain of 6.4 percent.  Sales rose 11.1 percent in the U.S. and 2.4 percent in Asia
Pacific,  Africa  and the  Middle East . Analysts projected growth
of 8.8 percent for McDonald’s stores in the U.S. and 8.2 percent
in Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.  “It gives people a little bit of pause that maybe the U.S.
is OK, but the rest of the world is not,” Peter Saleh, a New
York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an
interview. Investors may be concerned by the European and Asia
Pacific sales numbers because McDonald’s gets a significant
portion of its operating income from those markets, he said.  McDonald’s, which has more than 7,100 European locations,
is facing restrained  consumer spending  because of the debt
crisis and austerity measures. Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner has sought to boost sales in the region by remodeling
stores, with the company planning to revamp 900 European
restaurants this year. McDonald’s got 40 percent of its $27
billion in revenue from  Europe  in 2011.  Severe Weather  In Europe, “severe winter weather in certain markets
negatively impacted the segment’s overall February results,”
McDonald’s said in the statement.  Japan ’s comparable-store sales
fell 1.2 percent last month, hurting results in the Asia
Pacific, Middle East and Africa region.  Economic uncertainty, austerity measures in Europe and
commodity and labor cost pressures “are expected to impact the
company’s first-quarter operating income growth,” McDonald’s
said.  McDonald’s, along with other restaurant operators, has
boosted menu prices because of commodity inflation. Food costs
may rise as much as 5.5 percent in the U.S. and 3.5 percent in
Europe this year, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said
during a conference call on Jan. 24.  January comparable-store sales increased 6.7 percent
globally at McDonald’s. Comparable, or same-store, sales are
considered an indicator of a company’s growth because they
include only older locations.  There are about 33,500 McDonald’s restaurants worldwide,
including more than 14,000 in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  