-- China’s Stocks Advance for First Time in Four Days Before Economic Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-03-08T07:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-stock-index-futures-rise-before-release-of-inflation-economic-data.html
China ’s stocks rose for the first
time in four days on speculation the government will increase
efforts to stimulate the economy as the country’s industrial-
production growth slows and inflation cools.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837)  led gains by brokerages after the
Shanghai Securities News said the central bank is considering
raising the quota for qualified foreign institutional investors.
 Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  rose 1.9 percent, pacing an advance by raw-
materials producers, as commodity prices rebounded. Economists
predict China may report tomorrow the slowest  inflation  in 19
months and industrial-output growth near a two-year low.  “Investors are watching for any new government measures to
boost the economy,” Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai
Securities Co. in Shanghai, said by phone today. “The global
economy has improved recently. That’s good for sentiment but we
need more long-term concrete data to increase overall
confidence.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 25.48 points, or 1.1
percent, to 2,420.28 at the close. The gauge sank 2.7 percent
the past three days. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 1.3 percent to
2,635.79. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 index  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 104.85 in  New
York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has rallied 10 percent in 2012
following two years of losses on speculation the central bank
will add to a Feb. 18 cut in  reserve requirements  to halt a
slowdown in economic growth. Stocks in the index trade at 10
times estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times
on Jan. 6,  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  China cut its 2012 economic growth target to 7.5 percent on
March 5, down from 8 percent over the past seven years, as the
European debt crisis and sluggish U.S. recovery crimp demand for
goods from the world’s largest exporter.  Investment Quota  A gauge of the CSI 300’s financial companies including
brokerages rose 1.4 percent, the second-biggest increase among
10 industry groups. Haitong Securities climbed 3.1 percent to
9.67 yuan. GF Securities Co. surged 2.6 percent to 30.60 yuan.  People’s Bank of China Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said the
monetary authority is assessing raising the individual
investment quota for each qualified foreign institutional
investor, Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing an
interview. China in 2009 raised individual quotas for foreign
investors under the so-called QFII program to $1 billion from
$800 million.  “The impact would be great on the market and brokerages
would definitely benefit from this,” said Zhang Yanbin, an
analyst with Zheshang Securities Co. “It would attract new
funds and increase liquidity to the market, bringing more
confidence to stocks.”  Policy Measures  Consumer prices probably rose 3.4 percent in February from
a year before, after a 4.5 percent increase in January, while
output growth eased to 12.5 percent, Bloomberg News surveys of
economists indicate. Commerce Minister Chen Deming yesterday
signaled that export gains were less than analysts forecast.  “Growth will slide further if the government doesn’t
increase fiscal investment,” said Joy Yang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. who previously
worked at the  International Monetary Fund . The data “will boost
the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to step up policy measures to
bolster growth,” she said.  Jiangxi Copper rose 1.9 percent to 26.09 yuan. Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. jumped 8.1 percent
to 58.69 yuan. Copper rebounded from a three-week low in London
trading on data showing U.S. hiring increased and stockpiles of
the metal fell.  China Options  Copper inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange are
at the lowest level since July 2009. Prices have gained 9.5
percent this year as an improving U.S. growth outlook signaled
rising commodity demand. U.S. companies added 216,000 workers
last month, according to data based on payrolls from ADP
Employer Services.  China’s (SHCOMP)  shrinking dominance over global economic growth is
driving trading in the options market, where the cost to protect
against losses in the nation’s biggest companies is the highest
compared with the U.S. since 2008.  Options on the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of 40
companies from PetroChina Co. to China Construction Bank Corp.
cost the most since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. when compared with contracts on U.S. stocks. The
difference, or skew, shows investors are increasingly bearish on
the index of Hong Kong-traded China shares after it surged as
much as 46 percent since October.  Net new lending by China’s four biggest banks may have
dropped by about 30 billion yuan in the first four days of
March, the  Shanghai  Securities News reported, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  