-- China Hard Landing Concerns Vastly Overblown, Yale’s Roach Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T03:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-hard-landing-concerns-vastly-overblown-yale-s-roach-says.html
Concerns that China will enter a so-
called hard landing are “vastly overblown” even as economic
growth becomes more unbalanced, according to Yale University
Professor  Stephen Roach .  China’s government has done a terrific job in controlling
inflation, Roach, former non-executive chairman for Morgan
Stanley in  Asia  and chief economist, said at a conference in
Shanghai yesterday. The greatest risk to economic growth is the
increasing reliance on fixed-asset investment and the declining
contribution of private consumption, he said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, pared the
nation’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent
goal in place since 2005, according to a state-of-the-nation
speech that Premier  Wen Jiabao  delivered to about 3,000
lawmakers at the annual meeting of the National People’s
Congress that started on March 5 in Beijing. Officials will also
aim for inflation of about 4 percent this year, unchanged from
the 2011 goal, it said.  “I don’t think the banking system will collapse and the
property bubble will burst,” Roach said in  Shanghai . “These
are all exaggerations.”  This year’s reduced growth target signals that the nation’s
ruling Communist Party is determined to shift the makeup of
growth toward consumption and away from exports and investment.
 Gross domestic product  expanded 8.9 percent in the last three
months of 2011, the least in 10 quarters.  Consuming Need  China needs to boost jobs and increase wages in order to
stoke consumption, Roach said yesterday. The nation’s property
bubble and banking issues also remain problematic for its
economy, he said.  The government reported today consumer prices rose 3.2
percent in February from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 20
months and lower than the median estimate of 3.4 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The government is also
scheduled to release fixed-asset investment and retail sales
figures later today.  The yuan strengthened 0.13 percent, the most since Feb. 8,
to 6.3080 per dollar today, after the inflation data suggested
 China  has room to support growth in the economy.  The currency may continue to appreciate 3 percent to 5
percent over the next couple of years, Roach also said, adding
that he doesn’t think it’s undervalued.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Shiyin Chen, Joshua Fellman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  