-- China’s Developers to Face More Downgrades on Refinancing Risks, S&P Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-08T08:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-s-developers-to-face-more-downgrades-on-refinancing-risks-s-p-says.html
Chinese developers  will probably to
face more credit rating downgrades over the next six months as
refinancing risks increase, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The nation’s home prices may decline 10 percent by June
from a year earlier, while sales volume is expected to be little
changed or may even slip in 2012, S&P said. More developers,
including the biggest real estate companies, are offering
discounts, the credit rating company said.  “The worst is yet to come for Chinese developers,” S&P
analysts led by Bei Fu said in the report today. “Many
developers in China may be at increased risk of refinancing due
to weaker property sales, high funding costs, and tightened
liquidity. And that will increase the pressure on ratings.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that regulation of the real estate
market is at a “crucial stage” in his work report to the
National People’s Congress on March 5. The government is
targeting a 7.5 percent expansion in gross domestic product this
year, down from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  said March 6 that the nation may
expand property-tax trials as the government prolongs efforts to
cool the real-estate market. The country imposed property taxes
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing last year.  Brokerages including UBS AG predict a loosening of property
curbs as early as the middle of the year. Jing Ulrich, managing
director and chairman of global markets for  China  at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said yesterday the “worst is behind us” for the
nation’s real-estate market, adding that property prices and
transaction volumes will begin to improve in the second half.  Falling Home Prices  China’s February home prices posted the biggest decline in
19 months as the government pledged to maintain curbs on
property, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s
biggest real-estate website owner. Home prices dropped 0.3
percent last month from January, according to SouFun, which
began compiling the figures in July 2010 when housing values
fell 1.3 percent. Residential prices slid in 72 of 100 cities
tracked by the company last month, 12 more than in January, it
said on March 1.  The central government isn’t likely to reverse its policy
direction this year, while it could relax some of its property
tightening in the second half of this year if the economy is
weaker than expected and inflation continues to ease, S&P said.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s largest publicly traded
developer, said contracted sales in the first two months fell 27
percent from last year to 19.05 billion yuan ($3 billion).  S&P cut Chinese developers’ outlook from “stable” to
“negative” in June, citing tighter credit and a slowdown in
sales that may lead to price cuts because of government curbs to
prevent asset bubbles.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Bonnie Cao in
Shanghai at   bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  