-- China’s Repo Rate Falls for 10th Day as Cash Supply Increases
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-08T08:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-s-repo-rate-falls-for-10th-day-as-cash-supply-increases.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rates
slid for a 10th day, the longest run of declines in four years,
as a reduction in banks’  reserve requirements  flooded the
banking system with cash.  The People’s Bank of China will sell 30 billion yuan ($4.7
billion) of 91-day  repurchase agreements  today and won’t offer
bills, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions. Premier  Wen Jiabao  on March 5 pledged pre-
emptive fine-tuning of economic policy, setting this year’s
growth target at 7.5 percent, the least since 2004.  “The impact of the reserve cut is so huge, but the down
move is temporary,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The growth target of 7.5 percent
means China is willing to sacrifice a bit of growth for less
risk of a bubble. There may not be very aggressive monetary
easing in the coming months.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, fell 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 2.94 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
reached last month’s peak of 7.00 percent on Feb. 23, the day
before the latest reduction in lenders’ reserve requirements
sparked the current run of declines in the rate.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo, declined four basis points to 3.19 percent. It’s
headed for the lowest close since Feb. 3.  Government data tomorrow is forecast to show the slowest
inflation in 19 months and industrial-production growth near a
two-year low. Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in February from
a year earlier, after a 4.5 percent increase in January, while
output increased 12.5 percent, Bloomberg News surveys of
economists indicate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  