-- China Must Shift Spending Toward Encouraging Consumption, Lawmaker He Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-08T07:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-must-shift-spending-toward-encouraging-consumption-lawmaker-he-says.html
China  can achieve a shift to a
consumption-driven economy within five to 10 years by scaling
back its reliance on capital spending, a senior lawmaker said,
urging changes to policies that have fueled decades of growth.  Expansionary fiscal policy geared toward construction has
helped push down consumption’s share of the economy to 47
percent, He Keng, a deputy director of the Financial and
Economic Affairs Committee of the National People’s Congress,
said in an interview yesterday. That compares with a global
average of 65 percent, he said.  “China may need five to 10 years to bring consumption back
to the level in 1978, and that may happen only when policies are
properly shifted,” said He, a former deputy director of the
National Bureau of Statistics. Stimulating investment by running
a large budget deficit “will further derail the economic
structure.”  Consumption accounted for about 62 percent of  China’s
economy  in 1978, when the country began opening up its markets,
according to the statistics bureau.  Investment pouring into building roads, railways and real
estate helped keep China’s average annual growth above 10
percent over the last decade. At the same time, the spending has
turned the country into the world’s biggest emitter of
 greenhouse gases . He said it’s also crowded out resources for
boosting consumption.  He’s committee is one of nine under the National People’s
Congress. It reviews laws and regulations on financial and
economic issues, provides advice and suggestions to the
government and supervises the implementation of laws.  Lower Budget Deficit  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government plans to run a budget
deficit of 800 billion yuan ($127 billion) in 2012, about 1.5
percent of gross domestic product, according to his annual work
report issued March 5. The gap, which would be the smallest in
four years, is narrower than last year’s deficit of 850 billion
yuan, even as the government pledged to keep an “active”
fiscal policy.  Wen pared the nation’s economic growth target to 7.5
percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, signaling
leaders are prepared to cut reliance on exports and  capital
spending . A weaker global economic recovery has added to the
urgency of boosting domestic demand.  China’s  economy  can grow 8.5 percent this year if risks
from local government debt and the  property market  are well
controlled, He said. Exports may grow 8 percent to 8.5 percent
this year, he said, compared with last year’s increase of 20.3
percent.  Economic Plans  The country can expand at an 8.5 percent to 9 percent pace
“for a long, long time” if it boosts productivity and
innovation while increasing incomes and consumption, He said.  About 3,000 lawmakers are gathered in Beijing this week and
next week to discuss the year’s economic and political plans.
Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan proposed at a panel discussion on
March 5 that the government raise the deficit target to 1
trillion yuan to maintain “fast” economic growth.  Huang wasn’t alone among National People’s Congress
delegates in calling for looser fiscal policy, He said. “Many
provincial and city leaders haven’t altered their thinking,” he
said. “They keep on lobbying to add investments and start new
projects and chase high GDP growth.”  The government also needs to expand property taxes
nationwide from trials in Shanghai and Chongqing to curb
speculation and give ordinary citizens more opportunity to buy
homes, He said.  “I hope a general proposal about how to implement a
property tax can be rolled out as soon as possible,” He said.
His NPC committee has yet to see such a plan, He said.  Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  said on March 6 that the nation
may expand property-tax trials to guide housing demand as the
government prolongs efforts to cool the real-estate market. Xie
didn’t elaborate.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  