-- China Says Car Sales Growth Forecast Will Be Difficult to Meet This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-08T07:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-says-car-sales-growth-forecast-will-be-difficult-to-meet-this-year.html
China ’s industry minister said the
nation’s car sales may fail to meet this year’s growth forecast
as the slowing economy discourages consumers from dealerships in
the world’s largest vehicle market.  Automakers will find “big difficulties” delivering as
many cars as the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
projected for this year, Minister of Industry and Information
Technology Miao Wei told reporters in Beijing today. The state-
backed auto association in January predicted passenger-vehicle
sales would rise 9.5 percent in 2012.  A  slowing  economy and record gasoline prices probably led
car sales to fall an estimated 3 percent during the first two
months of 2011, the worst start in seven years, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Worse-than-expected deliveries
would be a further blow to global carmakers such as  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as they brace for falling demand in
 Europe .  The government should take measures to help support
domestic automakers because of the state’s obligation to help in
any industry where the homegrown companies are early in their
development cycle, Miao said.  China is set to announce its alternative-energy vehicle
plan after all the relevant ministries involved in drafting the
proposal reached a consensus on development of such vehicles, he
said.  Electric Vehicles  Total auto  sales , including those of commercial vehicles,
will probably accelerate to 8 percent in China this year after
slowing to 2.5 percent in 2011, according to CAAM.  Separately, Li Yizhong, China’s former industry minister,
said the government will focus its efforts on developing the
electric-car industry over hybrids and other fuel-efficient
vehicles. The plan will be announced after approval from the
State Council, he said.  “Everyone has come to the conclusion that electric
vehicles will be the way forward for new-energy vehicles and
China’s automobile industry,” Li said on the sidelines of the
National People’s Congress meetings.  Electric-car sales in China, the world’s largest polluter,
are forecast to exceed those in the U.S. by 2020 as Chinese
consumers are more receptive to the technology than their U.S.
and European counterparts, according to the  Boston Consulting
Group  in a June 14 report.  China needs raise technology levels for auto assemblers and
companies that make batteries for electric cars, he said. That,
coupled with the installation of charging stations, will bring
down the costs of such vehicles and encourage adoption, he said.
The government aims to have 1 million electric-powered vehicles
on the road by 2015, according to the Ministry of Science.  Li also said that China’s recent decision to strike foreign
brands off the list of cars allowable for government use only
applies to vehicles costing less than 180,000 yuan and with
engines smaller than 1.8 liters, Li said. The rule doesn’t apply
to cars used by high-level government officials, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  