-- China Advances Cyber Skills to Thwart U.S. Military, Report Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/china-advances-cyber-skills-to-thwart-u-s-military-report-says.html
China ’s cyber capabilities are
advanced enough to disrupt U.S. military operations in case of a
conflict over  Taiwan , according to a report today by a panel
created by the  U.S. Congress .  A few weeks before a potential conflict over Taiwan, the
 People’s Liberation Army  of China may mount a computer network
attack on systems operated by the U.S. Pacific Command and
Transportation Command “to confuse the U.S. command and control
picture,” the report from the U.S.-China Economic and Security
Review Commission found.  Networks of U.S. defense contractors working for the two
military commands may also be targeted by China to prevent the
U.S. from coming to Taiwan’s aid, according to the report
compiled for the panel by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , itself a
defense contractor.  China’s “doctrinal writing indicates that cyber warfare
and cyber reconnaissance are important components of their
effort” to challenge conventional U.S. military superiority,
Michael Wessel, a commissioner on the U.S.-China panel said in
an interview. In the event of a conflict “they would be able to
address our superiority” that’s based on satellites, the
Internet and telecommunications systems, he said.  More than 90 percent of the Transportation Command’s
distribution and deployment transactions are handled through
unclassified commercial and Defense Department networks, the
report found. The command is responsible for moving military
equipment and personnel to war zones.  Attempts Increased  Outside attempts to get into the command’s networks rose 30
percent in 2011 compared with the previous year, General William
Fraser, head of the command, told the Senate Armed Services
Committee on Feb. 28.  China’s military also is funding academic and commercial
research to boost its computer-network attack and espionage
skills, according to the report titled “Occupying the
Information High Ground: Chinese Capabilities for Computer
Network Operations and Cyber Espionage.”  China’s Army-run Wuhan Communications Academy is
collaborating with  Tsinghua University , Huazhong University of
Science and Technology and Wuhan University of Technology among
others to beef up information-warfare research, the report said.  “When one connects the doctrine with funding, it paints
the picture of a web of activities, sponsored, directed and
supported by the state that should raise real concerns among
policy makers,” Wessel said.  U.S. officials and lawmakers should speed action to pass
cybersecurity legislation that will close gaps in computer
security for government and commercial entities, Wessel said.
“The time is overripe for action.”  The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, an
independent panel created by Congress, generally issues reports
critical of China. It has warned that the U.S. risks “great
harm” from China’s economic and trade policies and that the
expansion of Chinese telecommunications companies poses dilemmas
for national security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ; 