-- Christie Lacked Power to Abolish Housing Agency, Court Rules
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-03-08T20:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/christie-lacks-power-to-kill-housing-agency-new-jersey-appeals-court-says.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
didn’t have the right to abolish a housing agency created by the
state’s legislature, an appeals court ruled.  The Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court
said today that Christie exceeded his authority under an
executive reorganization plan by eliminating the Council on
Affordable Housing and transferring its duties to the
Commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs.  The framers of the state constitution “acknowledged the
principle that the power to create and abolish such agencies and
to alter such functions resided within the legislative
process,” Presiding Judge Philip Carchman said in the opinion.  Christie argued that the Reorganization Act gave him the
power to get rid of an independent agency created by the
legislature as long as it was “in but not of” a department of
the state’s executive branch, according to court papers.  “We are obviously disappointed with the court decision,
which only perpetuates the nightmare  New Jersey  has endured for
decades with the COAH bureaucracy,”  Michael Drewniak , a
spokesman for Christie, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
administration will appeal the decision.”  Christie created a  task force  in January 2010 to review the
housing agency. In June 2011, he issued the reorganization plan,
which called for the abolition of the group. The state said that
the transfer of the council’s duties would cut costs and
“reduce the unnecessary complexity of affordable housing
administration in New Jersey,” according to court papers.  ‘Extraordinary Steps’  The council was created under the state 1985 Fair Housing
Act, which required municipalities to provide for the
development of affordable housing. The state legislature set the
council, which helped develop and implement affordable housing
policies, at 12 members and said no more than six could be of
the same political party.  “The legislature took extraordinary steps to insulate COAH
from the control of a single political party,” Carchman stated
in the opinion.  The court challenge was brought by the  Cherry Hill , New
Jersey-based  Fair Share Housing Center , founded to protect
housing rights of the state’s poor. An appeal of a governor’s
order in New Jersey is made directly to the appellate court.  “The governor’s role under the constitution is to enforce
the laws, not make them,”  Kevin Walsh , the associate director
of Fair Share Housing Center, said in a statement. “Governor
Christie simply does not have the power to unilaterally abolish
independent agencies he doesn’t like.”  The case is In re Plan for the Abolition of the Council on
Affordable Housing, A-6301-10T4, Superior Court of New Jersey,
Appellate Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  