-- CIBC First-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates on Consumer Lending
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-08T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/cibc-exploring-sale-of-broker-mortgage-brand-as-earnings-exceed-estimates.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the country’s fifth-biggest lender, said first-quarter profit
topped analysts’ estimates, led by consumer lending and  wealth
management . The company may sell its FirstLine Mortgages broker.  Net income for the quarter ended Jan. 31 rose 9.4 percent
to C$835 million ($839 million), or C$1.93 a share, compared
with C$763 million, or C$1.80, a year earlier, the Toronto-based
bank said today in a  statement . Revenue rose 2 percent to C$3.16
billion.  CIBC, the last Canadian lender to report quarterly results,
joins the country’s five other big banks in posting profit that
met or beat analysts’ expectations.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  reported record
profit from domestic consumer and business lending.  “I was impressed with how well the banks have done in
terms of being in a relatively poor environment,”  David Cockfield , who helps oversee C$200 million including banks at
Northland Wealth Management in Toronto. “It’s a nice place to
park money.”  CIBC said adjusted earnings were C$1.97 a share, beating
the C$1.93 average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Earnings benefited from a lift in trading revenue and a
lower-than-expected  tax rate , according to Barclays Capital Inc.
analyst  John Aiken .  ‘Dim View’  “Although CIBC’s earnings notionally came in ahead of
expectations, the market took a dim view of its quality,” Aiken
said today in a note. “Weaker retail banking earnings
disappointed against what had been reported by its peers.”  CIBC  declined  16 cents to C$76.11 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
only Canadian bank to fall.  CIBC had slower earnings growth from Canadian  consumer
lending  than larger rivals Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion and
Scotiabank, which benefited as mortgages, loans and deposits
grew. CIBC’s deposits fell 2 percent from a year ago, and the
lender set aside C$338 million for bad loans, 20 percent more
than the year-earlier period.  Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey said today in a
conference call that a goal set in 2010 to reach C$3 billion of
annual profit in three years from consumer lending and wealth
management remains “intact” though “somewhat stressed” and
depends on further wealth management acquisitions.  Canadian consumer lending and business-banking earnings
rose 5 percent to C$567 million on higher revenue from business
lending. CIBC said today it will spend C$50 million this year on
projects to better serve retail and business-banking clients.  ‘Exploring Options’  The bank, which said in January it’s shifting away from
using mortgage brokers in favor of selling home loans through
branches, said it’s “exploring options” including a sale of
its FirstLine brand.  “Over the past number of years, we have invested in our
branch-based mortgage business, including a substantial build of
our mortgage advisers,” David Williamson, head of retail and
business banking, said in the statement.  CIBC bought FirstLine Trust in 1995, and expanded its
mortgage origination business to C$10 billion from C$500 million
in 10 years, according to its  website .  “CIBC has made no secret of the fact that it is not happy
with returns from this channel,”  Darko Mihelic , an analyst at
Cormark Securities Inc., said of FirstLine in a Feb. 17 note. He
estimates FirstLine holds about C$50 billion in mortgages.  Mutual Funds  Wealth-management profit, which includes mutual fund sales,
rose 52 percent to C$100 million from C$66 million after adding
earnings from the purchase of a 41 percent stake in American
Century Investments from JPMorgan Chase & Co. in August.  The CIBC World Markets business earned C$133 million,
compared with C$140 million a year earlier. Underwriting and
advisory fees fell by a third to C$107 million. Trading revenue
rose 9.9 percent to C$167 million, led by trading of  interest
rates  and foreign exchange.  The corporate unit, which includes Caribbean banking, had
profit of C$35 million, double that of a year earlier, the bank
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  