-- Citigroup, Olympus, ING, Madoff, News Corp. in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-08T12:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/citigroup-olympus-ing-madoff-news-corp-j-j-in-court-news.html
Inong Malinda Dee, a former
relationship manager at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Indonesia unit, was
convicted by a three-judge panel of stealing from clients and
sentenced to eight years in jail.  Dee, who denied the charges, was also fined 10 billion
rupiah ($1.1 million), according to a ruling delivered by Judge
Gusrizal at the South Jakarta district court yesterday.  Prosecutors had accused Dee, 49, of wrongfully transferring
more than $5 million from her clients’ accounts from 2007 to
February 2011. Dee made the clients sign blank transfer forms or
forged their signatures, according to prosecutors, who sought a
13-year jail term and a 10 billion rupiah fine.  Dee’s case and a separate probe into the death of a
Citigroup credit card customer at one of its Jakarta offices led
Indonesia’s central bank to impose sanctions on the New York-
based bank.  Bank Indonesia (BI)  is also taking steps to improve anti-
fraud measures at lenders in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  “From the time we first identified the suspicious
transactions in our customers’ accounts, we have worked closely
with our regulators and the police to ensure the responsible
persons were held accountable,” Citigroup spokesman Richard
Tesvich said. The lender has compensated clients for the related
losses, he said.  Batara Simbolon, one of Dee’s 17 lawyers, said his client
will consider appealing yesterday’s ruling. He said the 8-year
jail term was “fair” as prosecutors had asked for 13 years.  For more, click here.  Wal-Mart $13.5 Million Retirement-Suit Accord Is Approved  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest U.S. private employer,
and  Merrill Lynch (MER)  won a judge’s final approval to pay $13.5
million to settle claims the retailer’s employees were charged
excessive 401(k) fees.  U.S. District Judge Gary A. Fenner in Missouri approved the
accord at a hearing yesterday, according to the court docket.
Merrill Lynch, the plan’s trustee now part of  Bank of America
Corp. , will pay $10 million and Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart will pay $3.5 million.  The docket entry said the “court orally grants motion for
approval of class action settlement” and “written order to be
issued.”  In 2009, a U.S. appeals court overturned Fenner’s decision
the previous year throwing out the suit. Wal-Mart was accused in
the suit of failing to offer retirement plans that limit the
amount of fees and expenses that are charged when employees make
investments.  The complaint also included an allegation that the improper
administration of the plans cost participants more than $60
million. The class-action, or group, lawsuit was filed by Wal-
Mart employee Jeremy Braden.  “We’re pleased to have settled the matter,” Greg
Rossiter, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in a phone interview.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the bank was pleased to resolve the
case “and continue to provide a high-quality plan for Wal-Mart
employees.”  Gretchen Obrist, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Braden v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 08-cv-3109,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Pfizer, Abbott, Glaxo Sued Over Brand-Drug Co-Pay Discounts  Affiliates of a consumer group sued eight drugmakers
including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) , accusing the companies of illegally offering coupons to
reduce copayments for brand name drugs.  Affiliates of Boston-based  Community Catalyst  contend that
cutting co-pays for the drugs destroys the incentive to use
cheaper generic drugs, in a suit filed yesterday in federal
court in Newark, New Jersey, against  Merck & Co. (MRK)  Identical cases
were filed in  New York , Philadelphia and Chicago.  “A recent study estimated that these kickbacks will
increase health benefit providers’ prescription drug costs by
$32 billion over the next 10 years,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Lisa J.
Rodriguez of Haddonfield, New Jersey, said in one complaint.  Also sued were  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Bristol-Meyers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Novartis AG. (NOV)   “Given the larger cost-sharing burden being placed on
patients, Pfizer supports the use of company-sponsored programs
which help patients with out-of-pocket expenses for the
medicines prescribed by their physician,”  Christopher Loder , a
Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The company
will fight the claim, he said.  The lawsuits were filed by the AFSCME District Council 37
Health & Security Plan Trust, the Sergeants Benevolent
Association Health and Welfare Fund, the New England Carpenters
Health and Welfare Fund and the Plumbers and Pipefitters Local
572 Health and Welfare Fund.  “Our lawyers still have not received the brief; we won’t
comment before we’ve had an opportunity to review the brief,”
said Mary Klem, an Amgen spokeswoman.  Sarah Lindgreen , an AstraZeneca spokeswoman;  Ron Rogers , a
spokesman for Merck; Sabrina Oei, a Novartis spokeswoman; Adelle
Infante of Abbott; Laura Hortas of Bristol-Meyers; and officials
of Glaxo didn’t respond to voice and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the lawsuits.  The first Newark case is Plumbers and Pipefitters Local 572
Health and Welfare Fund, 3:12-cv-01379, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  Olympus, Former Executives Indicted by Japanese Prosecutors  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera and endoscope maker that
admitted a 13-year accounting fraud, and six individuals were
indicted by prosecutors for falsifying securities reports,
increasing concern the  probe  may widen.  Former chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, former executive vice
president Hisashi Mori and ex-auditing officer Hideo Yamada,
were prosecuted, according to a faxed statement from the  Tokyo 
District Public Prosecutor’s office yesterday. The three were
arrested last month for suspected violation of  Japan ’s Financial
Instruments and Exchange Act.  The endoscope maker’s market value has tumbled 48 percent
since the Oct. 14 dismissal of former chief executive officer
Michael Woodford, who had challenged Kikukawa and the board over
inflated takeover payments. Olympus’s Tokyo headquarters and its
affiliated offices were raided in December by prosecutors after
the company said the three former officials colluded to hide
investment losses from the 1990s.  “The company’s indictment could lead to more concerns that
the fraud was organizational,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. in Tokyo. “Investors won’t be wanting to buy a stock like
this.”  “We take the indictment seriously and will try to
strengthen our  corporate governance ,” the company said in a
statement yesterday. The company’s shareholders are due to meet
next month to select a new management.  The prosecutors also indicted Akio Nakagawa, Nobumasa Yokoo
-- both cited in a December panel report as having aided Olympus
in structuring its loss-hiding proposals -- and Taku Hada, who
was arrested last month.  For more, click here.  ING Groep Ex-Trader Arrested After Alleged Fraud, Dagblad Says  A former  ING Groep NV (INGA)  trader was arrested for cheating the
company through options transactions, Dutch newspaper Het
Financieele Dagblad reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t
name.  The country’s public prosecutor said March 6 that the Dutch
Fiscal Information and Investigation Service, or Fiod, arrested
a 43-year-old man from Amsterdam on suspicion of swindling
600,000 euros ($788,000) between 2009 and 2011 from a listed
company. The agency didn’t identify the company.  The suspect sold illiquid options on behalf of the company
to himself, then bought the options back on behalf of the
company at a higher price, the prosecutor said. The man is
suspected of pocketing the difference, at least 300,000 euros,
according to the prosecutor.  Authorities searched the suspect’s home and confiscated
computers, the prosecutor said. The unidentified company, which
isn’t suspected of any wrongdoing, fired the man and notified
financial markets regulator AFM, it said.  Marieke van der Molen, a spokeswoman for the public
prosecutor’s office in The Hague, and Raymond Vermeulen, a
spokesman for Amsterdam-based ING, both declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Analyst Kinnucan Ordered Moved to New York for Insider Trial  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan was ordered to
be transported to New York to face trial for insider trading
after a judge found him unable to meet the terms of his $5
million bail.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in New York yesterday
said that a lawyer for Kinnucan, 54, who was indicted for
insider trading and securities fraud, told her that his client
was unable to satisfy the conditions of his bail. The lawyer
asked that Kinnucan be moved to the federal courthouse in
Manhattan by the U.S. Marshals Service, the judge said.  Kinnucan was arrested in Portland, Oregon, on Feb. 16. He
is accused of passing inside tips to hedge fund clients about
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  Batts ruled on Feb. 23 that Kinnucan could be freed on $5
million bond secured by $100,000 in cash and property and with
the signatures of four financially responsible people. She
rejected prosecution claims that he had engaged in a
“campaign” of threats against the government.  Prosecutors said at a hearing after the arrest that
Kinnucan posed a danger to the community and a threat to
authorities handling his case, citing at least 24 menacing
voice-mail messages he left on the office phones of U.S.
prosecutors and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, and also
at the homes of two cooperating witnesses.  The judge yesterday also moved Kinnucan’s initial court
appearance in New York to March 28 from March 12, saying that
the marshals probably wouldn’t be able to get him to New York
from Oregon until at least March 26.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Liquidators Can Share Details on Kohn Assets, Court Rules  The liquidators of  Bernard Madoff ’s English unit can share
information with their counterparts in the U.S. about the
finances of the convicted fraudster’s former business partner
Sonja Kohn, a London court ruled.  It is “overwhelmingly in the public interest” for U.K.
administrators to hand over details of Kohn’s assets to New York
trustee  Irving Picard  as part of efforts to return money to
victims of the fraud, Judge Julian Flaux said.  Liquidators of Madoff’s estate are trying to recover at
least $80 million from the directors of his firm’s U.K. unit and
others who profited from the Ponzi scheme. Madoff, 73, is
serving 150 years in prison in  North Carolina  for the fraud that
caused his New York-based firm to collapse in December 2008
sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits.  Kohn, the former chairwoman of Bank Medici AG, made about
$56 million introducing clients to Madoff, according to a prior
ruling from Flaux. She is also the subject of lawsuits in the
U.S. and Gibraltar, he said.  Her lawyer, Trevor Asserson, declined to comment after the
hearing.  Madoff’s sons Mark, who committed suicide in 2010, and
Andrew are also being sued by U.K. liquidators because of their
role as directors of Madoff Securities International Ltd. Their
lawyer Clare Reffin this morning asked the judge for more time
to plan a defense.  “We don’t know what’s going to be said against us,” she
said. “The case against us seems to depend on rather vague
allegations,” linked to the fact they are related to Madoff,
she said.  A London trial is scheduled for April of next year.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v. Stephen Ernest John Raven, 10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London)  News Corp. Obstruction Evidence Mounts Amid Murdoch Resignation  Before Rebekah Brooks was arrested last year over her role
in the  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-hacking scandal, she staved off a police
threat of obstruction charges related to the company unit she
headed, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Based on a perceived lack of cooperation last April,
Scotland Yard officials warned they would arrest Ian Burton, the
lawyer Brooks retained to handle all police interactions with
her unit, News International. Brooks, then the unit’s chief
executive, defused the threat by sending two emissaries to Sue
Akers, the director in charge of the police probe. They assured
Akers the company would cooperate fully, the people said.  Court records and interviews with people briefed on the
hacking investigation indicate the showdown between Brooks and
Scotland Yard is just one episode in a persistent, five-year
effort to contain the scandal in a manner the police and a U.K.
judge have called obstructive.  The latest disclosure in a series, made last week, involved
a 2006 e-mail that detailed hacking at News of the World, the
Sunday tabloid the company shut in response to the scandal. It
showed Brooks, while editor of another News Corp. tabloid, The
Sun, had been told by police that hacking victims were more
widespread than the New York-based media company had admitted --
and included Brooks herself.  The e-mail, sent between two News of the World managers,
suggests that from the beginning of the phone-hacking scandal,
there was a conspiracy among senior executives to deceive the
police and a separate, parliamentary probe into phone hacking.  The most significant of the revelations involves James
Murdoch, the former News International executive chairman who,
until last August, was widely considered to be the heir apparent
to his father, Rupert Murdoch, as chief executive of News Corp.  The younger Murdoch, currently deputy chief operating
officer of News Corp., gave up his title as executive chairman
of News International last week.  For more, click here.  Renault Luxembourg Departures Reviewed in False-Spying Inquiry  An investigation into false spying claims against three
 Renault SA (RNO)  executives fired last year was expanded to include
three more departures from the French automaker’s Luxembourg
retail group in 2009, the company said.  “The judge is investigating the circumstances of the
departures, in 2009, of three employees of RRG Luxembourg,” as
part of a probe opened in March 2011, the company said in an e-
mailed statement March 6. Renault, which said it was a victim of
the fraud, said it is continuing to cooperate.  Renault fired the French workers after receiving an
anonymous tip that they hid money paid to them for spying on the
automaker’s electric-car program in bank accounts in Switzerland
and Liechtenstein. Investigators found the accounts didn’t exist
and the men hadn’t spied on the company, and Renault apologized,
saying it was a victim of manipulation.  Renault’s Luxembourg unit fired two employees, including
its then-chief financial officer, and forced its head of
technical services to resign in 2009 after receiving information
they also hid money in bank accounts in Switzerland and
Liechtenstein,  L’Essentiel , a Luxembourg publication, said
yesterday citing Antonio Dorego, the man forced to resign.  Dorego won a wrongful-termination suit against Renault in
Luxembourg and he and the two others have joined the French
investigation, L’Essentiel said. He met with French police in
September and was told that Renault had based their decision on
falsified information about the bank accounts, similar to the
three French employees fired last year, L’Essentiel said.  Calls to the lawyer representing the three former
Luxembourg employees and to Renault’s lawyer for comment on the
reports weren’t immediately returned.  Etienne Mars, the Luxembourg unit CFO fired in 2009, told
French investigators in September that invoices had been
falsified to evade taxes,  Liberation  said yesterday, citing an
internal report by the Paris prosecutor from November.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Jury Weighs $300 Million Forfeiture After Verdict  R. Allen Stanford’s jury, a day after finding the Texas
financier guilty of leading a $7 billion international fraud,
heard evidence on federal prosecutors’ request that he forfeit
$300 million in assets.  The jury of eight men and four women convicted Stanford
March 6 on 13 of 14 charges including four wire fraud counts and
five mail fraud counts carrying maximum penalties of 20 years in
prison. No sentencing date has been set.  The forfeiture trial that continued yesterday started about
2 1/2 hours after jurors rendered their verdict. Prosecutors
want the panel to decide how much money Stanford must give up
now that they’ve said he is guilty.  Stanford, the founder of Houston-based Stanford Financial
Group, denied federal government allegations that he lied to
investors about the nature and oversight of the certificates of
deposit issued by the bank and sold in U.S. by his securities
firm, Stanford Group Co.  U.S. Postal Inspector Clayton Gerber yesterday traced the
flow of money from Stanford investors to accounts in Switzerland
and, ultimately, to a bank in the Cook Islands near New Zealand,
where they were held in what Gerber identified as the Baby Mama
Trust.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  J&J Hip Distributor Drops Sanctions Bid Against Atlanta Firm  A distributor of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  hip implants and a
former sales representative dropped a request for legal
sanctions against an Atlanta law firm that they said used
confidential patient data to solicit clients improperly.  The request stemmed from one of more than 4,500 lawsuits
over the recall in 2010 by J&J’s DePuy unit of its ASR hips in
2010. The firm,  Childers, Schlueter & Smith LLC , filed five
lawsuits against the ASR distributor and sales representative on
behalf of patients including Candace and Gordon Hershberger of
Georgia.  Candace Hershberger had her hips replaced with ASR devices,
and both need replacement again, according to a February 2011
complaint against DC Medical LLC, an ASR distributor; MJW
Orthopedics, a former ASR sales representative; and Michael J.
Wright, the sole MJW shareholder.  In the pretrial exchange of evidence, the firm got 130,000
pages of documents, including one with patient-identifying
information that the defendants failed to black out. DC Medical
and MJW claimed Childers Schlueter used the information to
solicit new clients, violating federal law protecting patient
privacy. They sought sanctions against the law firm.  The firm denied the claim at a Feb. 9 hearing in state
court in Decatur, Georgia. On March 2, State Judge Alvin T. Wong
signed a consent order saying both sides “resolved all
outstanding issues” and dismissing the sanctions motion.  “We are pleased that the defendants’ motion has been
dismissed,” said attorney C. Andrew Childers in an e-mail.
“The court’s order cements what we have known all along -- that
all of our efforts have been above board and proper.”  An attorney for the DC Medical and MJW, N. Karen Deming of
Troutman Sanders LLP, said in an e-mail, “The motion was
withdrawn only after plaintiff lawyers agreed to return the
documents and not to solicit new clients based on information
they should not have had -- which is the primary relief we had
requested.”  The case is Hershberger v. DC Medical LLC, 11A34982-2,
State Court of DeKalb County, Georgia (Decatur).  Jones Day Hires Ex-Kirkland Partner for Mass-Tort Trial Practice  Jones Day (1113L) , the Washington-based law firm, hired Barbara M.
Harding, a former partner at  Kirkland & Ellis LLP (1132L) , as the firm
expands its mass-tort litigation practice.  Harding, 48, has experience in litigation related to
asbestos liability, tobacco cost recovery and products
liability, Jones Day said in a statement. She previously served
as trial counsel for  W.R. Grace & Co. (GRA)  in its asbestos personal-
injury lawsuits in 2008, and represented the company in
bankruptcy court that year, the firm said.  Harding will join the firm as a partner in the business and
tort litigation practice in  Washington .  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 