-- Co-Operative Bank Falls as Net Misses Estimates: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-03-08T12:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/co-operative-bank-falls-as-net-misses-estimates-nairobi-mover.html
Co-operative Bank of  Kenya  Ltd. fell
the most in more than three months after the East African
nation’s fifth-biggest lender by market value reported full-year
profit that missed estimates.  The stock declined 3.4 percent, the most since Nov. 25, to
12.75 shillings by the close of trading, after earlier
retreating as much as 8.7 percent.  Net income increased 17 percent to 5.36 billion shillings
($65 million), or 1.53 shillings a share from a year earlier,
Managing Director Gideon Muriuki told reporters today in
Nairobi, the capital. That compares with a median estimate of
1.7 shillings a share by six analysts by Bloomberg  “The numbers were below our projections; we expected a
pretax profit of 7.1 billion shillings,” George Bodo, an equity
strategist at Nairobi-based Apex Africa Capital Ltd., said in an
interview today. “Clearly the operating environment in the
second half of the year was very challenging.”  Kenyan lenders raised  interest rates  to as high as 25
percent in the last quarter of 2011 after the central bank
increased Kenya’s  benchmark rate  to a record 18 percent to rein
in surging inflation as the shilling dropped to a record low
against the dollar.  Expansion Plans  Net interest income, the money banks make from loans, rose
to 11.9 billion shillings from 9.19 billion shillings a year
earlier while the number of outlets increased to 94 from 87,
Muriuki said. The bank has opened 8 branches this year with
plans to add as many as 30 more, he said. The customer base
increased to 2.3 million from 1.6 million, he said.  “Growth in the customer base ensured increased transaction
volumes,” Muriuki said. “We remain focused on fees and
commissions.”  The cabinet of  Southern Sudan (COOP)  has approved a joint venture
with Co-op Bank and the two parties are currently finalizing the
shareholding structure, he said. The government of  South Sudan 
will hold shares in the lender in trust for co-operative
societies in the nation for five years, Muriuki said.  Co-op Bank increased its stake in Co-Operative Insurance
Co. to 26.75 percent during the year, he said. In October 2010,
the lender increased its holding in the insurer to 21 percent
from 2 percent.  “For us it is diversification of our income streams,”
Muriuki said. “For CIC it is diversification of their customer
base.”  The lender announced a bonus offer of one share for every
five held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  