-- Cocoa Processing Ghana Fiscal First-Quarter Net Loss Widens
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2012-03-08T14:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/cocoa-processing-ghana-fiscal-first-quarter-net-loss-widens-1-.html
Cocoa Processing Co. (CPC) , a Ghanaian
chocolate maker, said its net loss widened in the fiscal first
quarter through December as costs rose amid high prices for its
main ingredient, cocoa.  The loss swelled to 5.3 million cedis ($3.1 million) from
4.5 million cedis a year earlier, while sales costs rose 21
percent to 25.3 million cedis, the company said in a statement
e-mailed by the  Ghana  Stock Exchange today.  “Cost of sales really was affected by the high cocoa
prices,” Randy Mensah, a stock trader at Databank Financial
Services Ltd. in Accra, said in an e-mailed note. The company
buys beans during Ghana’s light, or mid, crop, harvested from
June to September, he said.  “That is raw material for their processing and they are
not able to increase the price of their products because of
competition from other producers,” Mensah said.  The company, known by its acronym CPC, said revenue grew to
23.9 million cedis from 19.8 million cedis the year before. A
9.8 percent increase in finance costs “hurt the accounts
badly,” Mensah said.  CPC’s share price has been unchanged for six weeks and
traded at 2 pesewas by 1:40 p.m. in Accra.  “Management must give investors indications of strategies
to turn around the fortunes of the company in order to boost
activity in CPC shares,” Derrick Mensah, a research analyst at
Accra-based SIC Financial Services Ltd., said by phone. “The
top 10 shareholders that include government, Cocoa Board and the
state pension fund must provide more equity funds to help reduce
the debt burden on the company.”  Stephen Ofori-Adjei, CPC’s spokesman and board secretary,
didn’t answer a call made to his office today. Chief Accountant
Timothy Godfrey Essandoh also didn’t answer a call made to his
office.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 