-- Colombia Peso Gains to Seven-Month High on Greece, Global Growth
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-03-08T19:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/colombia-peso-gains-to-seven-month-high-on-greece-global-growth.html
Colombia’s peso rose to a seven-
month high as  Greece  moved closer to completing its debt swap
and optimism about global growth buoyed demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The peso climbed 0.2 percent to 1,765 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,768.80 yesterday. Earlier it touched 1,761.40, the strongest
since Aug. 2. The currency has jumped 9.4 percent in the past
three months, the second-best performance after the South
African rand among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Risk appetite is driving gains in the peso today,” said
Julian Marquez, an analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s largest
brokerage.  U.S. jobless claims remained at a level consistent with an
improving economy, Labor Department data showed today, while
separate reports showed  Germany ’s industrial output increased
more than forecast and  Japan ’s economy shrank less than
initially estimated. Investors with about 60 percent of the
Greek bonds eligible for the nation’s debt swap have so far
indicated they’ll participate, putting the country on the verge
of the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  The peso will likely strengthen to 1,750 by the end of
March amid rising portfolio and foreign direct investment,
Marquez said.  In a bid to ease gains in the peso, Banco de la Republica
said Feb. 24 it will extend a program of daily purchases of a
minimum of $20 million to at least Aug. 4, from the initially
announced minimum three-month period.  “I don’t see the peso strengthening much more beyond
1,750,” Marquez said. “As it reaches that level we start to
see more verbal intervention from the government and talk of
more measures which helps create a resistance level.”  The yield on  Colombia ’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
was little changed at 7.22 percent, according to the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  