-- Congo Rescue Blocked by Explosives Threat for Two More Days
-- B y   R o b e r t   M b a k o u   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-03-08T13:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/congo-rescue-blocked-by-explosives-threat-for-two-more-days.html
Unexploded ordnance in Republic of
Congo’s capital, Brazzaville, will block the recovery of bodies
from the March 4 explosion of an arms depot for two more days, a
de-mining group said.  Scattered bombs and fires have prevented aid groups,
including the  Red Cross , from entering the area around Camp
Blinde in the Mpila neighborhood since the blast.  “The area is extremely contaminated with explosive
materials,” Lionel Cattaneo, the team leader for the  U.K.-
based  Mines Advisory Group , which is leading the cleanup, said
by phone today from Brazzaville. It will take “about 48 hours”
for MAG workers and the Congolese army to set up a secure zone
so that aid groups can enter, he said.  At least 250 people died and about 1,500 people were
injured in the blast, according to the government and the
municipal morgue. The explosion occurred when a short circuit
set alight a cache of armaments, some of which were slated for
destruction, according to the government.  More than 5,000 people are homeless and temporary shelters
have been set up in churches and sporting centers in the
capital, which is home to about 1.3 million people.  “We’re working with those who’ve been displaced, those
who’ve survived, but we can’t access the site to bring aid and
to see if there are more dead,” Delphin Kibakidi, spokesman for
the  Congolese Red Cross , said by phone today from Brazzaville.  Cleanup Operation  Although the last pockets of fire around the camp are now
under control, people shouldn’t enter Mpila until the cleanup
operation is complete, army spokesman Jean Robert Obargui said
on state-owned Radio Congo today. The fires no longer threaten
other arms depots in the neighborhood, Cattaneo said.  Six Chinese workers were killed and 19 wounded in the
blast, the Chinese ambassador to Congo, Li Shu Li, told
reporters in Brazzaville yesterday. The workers were building a
housing site across from the camp when it exploded, he said.  In 2009, mortars from the same camp exploded in Mpila,
though no one was killed. The country is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s
fourth-biggest oil producer and experienced a civil war from
1997 to 1999 that left at least 10,000 people dead and forced
800,000 people to flee their homes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  Robert Mbakou in Johannesburg at 
 rmbakouo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 