-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Decrease for Second Consecutive Day
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-08T23:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-decrease-for-second-consecutive-day.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell for a second straight day as Greece moved
closer to completing its debt swap, easing concern  Europe ’s
sovereign turmoil will slow the global economic recovery.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
dropped 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 96 basis points at
5:46 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
on Radian Group Inc. eased after the second-biggest U.S.
mortgage guarantor reported a tender offer.  The swaps gauge decreased as private investors agreed to
swap about 85 percent of their Greek  government bonds  for new
securities in the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, according to a banker briefed on the results. In the
U.S., the Labor Department is expected to report tomorrow that
employers added more than 200,000 jobs for a third straight
month in February, according to the median forecast of 91
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The market senses that it’s going to be OK,” Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed credit group at DoubleLine
Capital LP, said of  Greece ’s private-sector involvement
exchange. While a participation rate of more than 90 percent
would be a positive for the market, “it ain’t over till it’s
over,” she said in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles .  The index of credit-default swaps, which typically falls as
investor confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates,
touched 98.3 basis points on March 6, the highest since Feb. 22.  Radian Swaps  Credit-default swaps tied to Radian fell 2.6 percentage
points to 32.1 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA.
That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost
$3.21 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of Radian’s debt. Radian said $146 million of principal
of its 2013 5.625 percent notes was tendered as of yesterday.  Contracts on American International Group Inc. fell 12.2
basis points to 217.8, the data show. The U.S. Treasury
Department agreed to sell 206.9 million shares to cut its stake
in the bailed-out insurer to about 70 percent. Swaps on MGIC
Investment Corp. eased for a second day, decreasing two
percentage points to 24.8 percent.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its forecast for the rate
at which the world’s least creditworthy companies will default
on their debt in 2012.  Default Rate  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default rate
will rise to 2.6 percent by year-end from a 2 percent rate last
month, the New York-based ratings company said in a report
distributed by e-mail today. In February, Moody’s had forecast
the rate to increase to 2.8 percent at year-end. The global
default rate in February was unchanged from a month earlier,
with two companies rated by Moody’s defaulting in February.  “Default rates are holding steady at historically low
levels,” Moody’s said in a statement today. “We expect this to
continue over the near term while recognizing that significant
risks remain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  