-- Crude Oil Rises a Second Day on Signs Sanctions Are Cutting Iran Exports
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-08T13:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/crude-oil-rises-a-second-day-on-signs-sanctions-are-cutting-iran-exports.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on signs that sanctions on Iran are succeeding in cutting
the nation’s crude exports.  Futures climbed as much as 0.9 percent, adding to
yesterday’s 1.4 percent increase. U.S. lawmakers proposed new
measures against Iran’s nuclear program, while Barclays Capital
said shipments from the Persian Gulf nation have dropped by
300,000 to 400,000 barrels a day. The European Union offered on
March 6 to restart negotiations with the Islamic Republic.  “The consensus is that the EU embargo and U.S. sanctions
are having a higher-than-expected impact,” said  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland . “On
Iran now we have to wait a little bit to see the feeling coming
out of the pre-negotiations.”  Oil for April delivery gained as much as $1 to $107.16 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $106.76 at 12:56 p.m.  London  time. Prices are 8
percent higher this year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $125.16, up $1.04 on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate increased to as much as $18.50, the most since Feb.
13, after U.S. gasoline demand weakened and crude stockpiles at
Cushing, Oklahoma, climbed to the highest level since July. The
spread advanced to $17.96 yesterday, the widest gap based on
closing prices since Feb. 10.  Iran Conflict  Oil has climbed this year amid concern European and U.S.
sanctions against Iran will lead to military conflict in the
Middle East, home to more than half the world’s oil.  Shipments from Iran have declined because sanctions are
preventing the Islamic Republic from selling oil, Amrita Sen, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, said yesterday by e-mail.
Half of the tankers booked to load at the country’s largest
terminal last month didn’t complete the voyages, according to
brokers, company officials and ship-tracking data.  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day
last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in
2010, accounting for about 50 percent of government revenue and
80 percent of exports, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  Saudi Arabia  is the biggest OPEC producer, with output of
9.7 million barrels a day last month.  Draft Legislation  Proposed legislation by U.S. Representative Brad Sherman, a
California Democrat, and Senator Mark Kirk, an Illinois
Republican, would penalize underwriters that insure or reinsure
any deals with  Iran  banned under U.S. law, including oil and gas
investments. The draft bill, obtained yesterday, would mostly
affect Asia-Pacific or Russian underwriters as European insurers
have scaled back coverage of Iran-related deals.  U.S.  crude oil  stockpiles  gained 832,000 barrels  last week,
data from the Energy Department showed. They were forecast to
increase 1.5 million barrels, according to the median of 10
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Supplies at
Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded oil, rose 2.4
million barrels to 36.2 million.  Gasoline supplied by refiners, a proxy for demand, fell 1.2
percent to 8.3 million barrels a day, the Energy Department
report showed. Inventories of the motor fuel decreased 396,000
barrels, compared with a forecast drop of 1.6 million.
Distillate supplies, which include heating oil and diesel,
declined 1.94 million barrels. They were estimated to fall 1.65
million barrels.  Oil may decline in the second quarter on weakening seasonal
demand, an economic slowdown in  China  and an easing in  Middle
East  tension, according to  Gordon Kwan , Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd.’s head of energy research in  Hong Kong . Brent will average
$115 this year, he said. Kwan was the most accurate forecaster
of New York crude out of 26 analysts ranked by Bloomberg in the
eight quarters ended June 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  