-- Crude Rises a Third Day on Fuel-Demand Outlook Amid Greek Swap, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-09T12:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/crude-oil-rises-a-third-day-in-new-york-trading-little-changed-on-week.html
Oil gained for a third day in  New
York  on speculation that rising U.S. payroll numbers and an
easing European debt crisis will spur demand for crude.  Futures climbed as much as 0.7 percent after Greece reached
its target in the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history. The U.S. probably added 210,000 jobs in February,
according to a Bloomberg survey before a report today. Oil has
increased this year on concern sanctions against Iran will lead
to military conflict in the  Middle East , where more than half
the world’s crude reserves are located.  “We have a wait-and-see for payrolls; that really is going
to be the decider into the weekend,” said Ole Hansen, a senior
manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“With  Greece  out of the way, the tension will turn toward
Portugal and  Spain  in the next few weeks.”  Crude for April delivery advanced as much as 74 cents to
$107.32 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $106.85 at 12:50 a.m. in London.
The contract yesterday rose 0.4 percent to $106.58, the highest
settlement since March 5. Prices are up 8.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $125.14 a barrel, down 30 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $18.26 to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread
settled at $18.86 yesterday, the widest since Feb. 6.  U.S. Jobs  The Labor Department is forecast today to report the
strongest three-month stretch of job growth in almost a year in
the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of crude. Unemployment
probably held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent, according to
the Bloomberg survey.  Greece said it achieved a 95.7 percent participation rate
among investors after the government received approval to
activate collective-action clauses. Bondholders tendered 152
billion euros of Greek-law bonds, or 85.8 percent, in exchange
for new securities. The 27 member states of the European Union
accounted for 16 percent of global oil demand last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  Today is the three-year anniversary of the beginning of a
global  bull market  for stocks that began after the U.S. housing
crisis in 2008.  Oil prices  closed at $47.07 a barrel on March 9,
2009 in New York, capping a 39 percent rally from Dec. 19, 2008,
crude’s low during the financial crisis.  OPEC Reduces Forecast  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries cut its
global oil demand forecast for 2012, warning that growth risks
may cut consumption as the group pumps the most in three years.  OPEC, supplier of more than 40 percent of the world’s oil,
reduced its demand estimate for this year by 130,000 barrels a
day to 88.63 million, according to the group’s Vienna-based
secretariat. That means growth will slow to 860,000 barrels
compared with 940,000 barrels previously.  The group’s 12 members produced 30.97 million barrels a day
in February, or the highest since at least 2008, according to
the group’s estimates based on secondary sources. That exceeds
the 30 million-barrel-a-day production quota the group agreed at
its December meeting. Libya, Angola and Iraq raised output,
while  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and  Iran  reduced supplies.  Oil may decline in New York next week as negotiations
between nuclear powers and Iran reduce tension, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Fourteen of 28 analysts and traders, or 50
percent, forecast futures will fall through March 16. Ten
respondents, or 36 percent, predicted prices will rise and four
estimated there will be little change.  Discussions With Iran  Nuclear powers want sustained discussions with Iran and for
the Persian Gulf nation to let United Nations inspectors into
its secret Parchin military installation, the UN’s five
permanent Security Council members plus  Germany  said in a
statement yesterday in Vienna.  Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said comments
by U.S. President  Barack Obama  that there is room for diplomacy
in the international community’s standoff with the nation are
“good words,” according to Iranian state television. Obama
told reporters at the White House March 7 that there is a
“window of opportunity where this can still be resolved
diplomatically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  