-- Danish Banks Attack Impairment Rules Amid Credit Crisis
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-03-08T08:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/danish-banks-attack-impairment-rules-they-say-choke-lending.html
Danish banks are lashing out at the
country’s financial regulator for imposing stricter impairment
requirements that the industry warns will choke lending and
hamper an  economic recovery .  The rules will inflate the financial industry’s loan losses
and prompt banks to retrench to protect capital buffers, said
Poul Kjaer, head of regulation at the Danish Bankers Association
in Copenhagen. The Financial Supervisory Authority argues
tighter rules are needed to restore confidence in the industry.  “Banks won’t be able to loan as much,” Kjaer said in an
interview. “That is something the government and members of
parliament have to be aware of and look very closely at.”  Denmark last week presented its fifth bank rescue bill
since 2008 as lawmakers struggle to end a crisis that claimed
three lenders last year and forced losses on senior creditors.
The bank regulator has tightened standards in an effort to
restore credibility to an industry burnt by a property bubble
that burst in 2007. Banks and business groups say regulatory
measures now risk exacerbating the crisis rather than ending it.  The Danish Bankers Association has taken its case to
Business Minister Ole Sohn in an effort to prevent the FSA from
implementing its proposal.  The FSA says more stringent rules will help prevent a
repeat of the accounting abuses that spurred Denmark’s regional
banking crisis. The proposal requires lenders to write down the
value of their property portfolios to match market declines, the
FSA said Feb. 6.  Housing Collapse  Danish  house prices  slumped an annual 8.7 percent in
December, the statistics office said on Feb. 29. Property values
will have lost 25 percent by 2013 since the crisis started in
2007, the government-backed Economic Council said in November.  Still, writing down loan portfolios to match sliding market
values will deplete balance sheets just as businesses are crying
out for loans to fund investment needed for growth, Kjaer said.  “They say we have to stimulate the economy on the one hand
and then say something else on the other hand,” Kjaer said.
“We have talked with banks, and they say that impairments will
increase and when impairments increase, that means they won’t
have as much liquidity -- they can’t make loans to companies,
farmers, private people.”  Job Cuts  In a December survey, two thirds of the Confederation of
Industry’s 10,000 members said they had limited access to
financing, and one in five said an absence of funds is the main
obstacle to growth. The situation has deteriorated since then,
the confederation’s head Karsten Dybvad said in February.  A total of 29 Danish companies last month announced 1,433
job cuts, according to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  data. Adjusting for
seasonal swings, the number reached about 1,770 in February
compared with 1,100 in January, according to Danske analyst Jens Naervig Pedersen.  “This is evidence that there continue to be a lot of
companies that are struggling to make ends meet,” Pedersen said
in a note to clients today.  The government said last week it will create an agency to
handle bad farm loans and also set up a unit under  Denmark ’s
bank resolution agency to take over some property loans. The
measures are designed to free up bank capital and encourage the
industry to provide more credit to businesses.  The FSA is seeking responses from the industry before it
adopts the new rules. The financial regulator won parliamentary
approval last year to clamp down on writedown practices after a
series of audits found lenders took what FSA Director General
Ulrik Noedgaard has called an “optimistic approach.”  Bank Failures  International Financial Reporting Standards gave banks too
much leeway, leading small and medium-sized lenders in
particular to understate loan losses and paving the way for the
collapse of Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S, Noedgaard
said in August. Those failures closed funding markets to most of
Denmark’s 120 banks and triggered a swath of ratings downgrades
by Moody’s Investors Service.  “We are now processing the comments from the industry and
other stakeholders, so right now the FSA won’t comment,” said
Soeren Christensen, a spokesman for the regulator.  Noedgaard said in January he wants lenders to get their
“risks on the table” to get rid of “zombie banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  