-- Dendreon Falls on Rival J&J Prostate Cancer Data: Seattle Mover
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-08T21:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/dendreon-falls-after-rival-j-j-prostate-cancer-drug-beats-placebo-in-trial.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the
prostate cancer drug Provenge, fell 7 percent after Johnson &
Johnson said its rival product, Zytiga, performed better than a
placebo in a trial.  Dendreon dropped to $10.12 at the close of New York
trading, its biggest one-day decline since Feb. 27.  An independent monitoring committee recommended halting the
study on Zytiga, made by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  J&J, (JNJ) 
after an interim analysis showed patients taking it were less
likely to die or have the cancer worsen. All the patients, who
hadn’t yet started chemotherapy, should be switched to Zytiga,
the safety board said. The results may make Zytiga more of a
threat to Seattle-based Dendreon’s Provenge, wrote  Joseph Pantginis , from  Roth Capital Partners , in a note to today.  “This news represents a major, at least, headline blow to
the Provenge franchise,” Pantginis wrote. “Expansion of
Zytiga’s label, which currently includes post-chemotherapy
castrate resistant prostate cancer patients, may be perceived as
a significant threat to Provenge’s market share.”  Zytiga blocks an enzyme called CYP17 that helps make
androgen, the hormone that fuels prostate cancer.  Medivation
Inc. (MDVN)  and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. are developing similar drugs.
Eventually, men with spreading prostate cancer may rely on a
mixture of the medications to stop the tumors, analysts said.  Johnson & Johnson plans to file Zytiga for Food and Drug
Administration approval in the second half of 2012 for men who
haven’t yet received chemotherapy, the same group now approved
for Dendreon’s Provenge.  Medivation rose 14 percent to $72.91, while J&J gained less
than 1 percent to $64.85 in New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  