-- Denham Capital to Invest $190 Million in Solar With Fotowatio
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-03-08T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/denham-capital-to-invest-190-million-in-solar-with-fotowatio.html
Denham Capital Management LP  agreed
to invest $190 million in a solar-plant venture with  Spain ’s
Fotowatio SL as falling component prices lure funds to the
industry.  Denham, a U.S.-based energy investor overseeing $6.5
billion, will have a majority stake in the venture that will
develop solar plants in  Australia ,  South Africa  and  Latin
America , Managing Partner Scott Mackin said today by telephone.
The company aims to build a portfolio of several 100 megawatts
over about five years, he said.  Developers such as Madrid-based Fotowatio are attracting
investment after solar-panel costs fell 47 percent in 2011,
making the industry more competitive. Installing photovoltaic,
or PV, panels may be cheaper than buying power from national
grids in Brazil, Australia and much of southern  Europe  this year
for consumers with access to affordable funding, according to
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “We want to have the right team to go to the right
locations and be there at the right time,” Mackin said. The
joint venture “is a franchise that can show up in any geography
in the world, and be successful.”  Confidence Boost  For  Fotowatio , whose biggest shareholder is Madrid-based
private-equity fund Qualitas Equity Partners, the deal signals
renewed confidence in the company after it built up an
international business to weather subsidy cuts at home. Some
investors have steered clear of Spain since the government’s
2010 decision to scale back support for solar PV plants.  “Within a certain time horizon, PV will operate without
subsidies everywhere,” Mackin said. “In  California  today, for
example, PV can operate competitively with retail rates.”  Fotowatio, which previously gained funding from  General
Electric Co. (GE) , is already building a 150-megawatt plant in
Australia with a group of developers. The company has helped
construct more than 350 megawatts of solar plants in Spain,
 Italy  and the U.S. since it was founded in 2006 and has more
than 1,500 megawatts of projects under consideration.  The Denham-Fotowatio venture, which will take over all of
Fotowatio’s developments, will concentrate on markets where the
solar-power industry is “relatively new,” according to Mackin.
“That’s where I think Fotowatio is a tremendous value-add,
because they know how to do it. They’ve already done it in
different jurisdictions.”  BioTherm, Gradient  Denham also owns stakes in Johannesburg-based  BioTherm
Energy Ltd. , a wind and solar developer, GNPower, building a
Philippine coal-fired power plant, and Reno, Nevada-based
 Gradient Resources , which has leased 170,000 acres in the
western U.S. to drill for geothermal power, its website shows.  Global investment in renewable-energy capacity exceeded
spending on fossil-fuel-fired power plants for the first time in
2010, even as a sovereign debt crisis curbed financing for some
projects. Solar, wind and biomass-fed generators drew $187
billion, compared with $157 billion for natural gas, oil and
coal, according to London-based New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 