-- Detroit Mayor Bing Says Agreement With State Will Resolve Fiscal Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/detroit-mayor-bing-says-agreement-with-state-will-resolve-fiscal-crisis.html
Detroit (9845MF)  Mayor Dave Bing said he’s in
agreement with  Michigan (STOMI1)  Governor  Rick Snyder  on a plan to
restructure city government without a state-appointed emergency
manager.  Bing said union concessions awaiting ratification, city
downsizing and “tangible” help from the state will resolve
what a recent city report said is a $270 million deficit by June
30.  “We need financial and operational support,” Bing said
yesterday in his State of the City speech. “We need changes in
legislation to support our overall plan. We need tangible
support.”  Detroit  may face a takeover if a review team appointed by
Snyder finds that the city is in a financial emergency. A
takeover would give a state-appointed emergency manager sweeping
authority over finances, such as selling assets and voiding
union contracts. The team must recommend a course of action by
March 28.  Bing has complained that the state has reneged on $200
million in revenue-sharing for the city, and his call for
assistance appeared to suggest that he wants state money to help
overcome deficits and at least $12 billion in long-term debt.  State Treasurer Andy Dillon said  Michigan  is helping the
city of 714,000 -- home of  General Motors Co. (GM)  -- avoid running
out of cash by May. Dillon, who attended the speech in downtown
Detroit, said the state is working toward a consent agreement
with the city, rather than imposing an emergency manager.  A consent agreement would give the mayor more authority to
impose spending cuts, without bestowing as much power as an
emergency manager.  Other Assistance  Asked how much state money Bing might request, Dillon said
there are other ways to provide assistance, such as helping
collect city income taxes.  “We’ve got to complete the work of the review team, so I’m
not going to get ahead of that process,” said Dillon, who leads
the state audit.  Bing has begun dismissing 1,000 of 11,000 municipal
workers, and negotiated tentative contract concessions with
unions. The agreements haven’t been ratified by the  labor
organizations , and the City Council has questioned whether the
savings proposed with the unions will achieve Bing’s goal of
cutting $360 million in spending by June 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  