-- Draghi Says Inflation to Exceed 2% in 2012
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-08T14:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/draghi-sees-europe-inflation-rate-above-2-with-economic-growth-stalling.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said inflation will probably breach the bank’s 2
percent limit this year and signaled the worst of the sovereign
debt crisis may be over even as the economy stalls.  “Inflation rates are now likely to stay above 2 percent in
2012, with upside risks prevailing,” Draghi said in Frankfurt
today after the ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record-low 1 percent. While risks to the economic outlook remain
on the downside, “the risk environment has improved
enormously,” he said. “We see many signs of returning
confidence in the euro.”  Draghi’s comments are “certainly hawkish,” said  James Nixon , an economist at Societe Generale SA in London.
“Basically, the ECB is confident that the crisis has been
averted and the focus is now back on inflation.”  The debt crisis is damping growth across the euro region
and making banks reluctant to lend. Having flooded the banking
sector with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.31 trillion) to avert
a credit crunch, the ECB is now confronted with an oil-price
increase that’s propping up inflation at a time when at least
six of the 17 euro nations are in recession.  The euro rose on Draghi’s inflation comments before
retreating to trade little changed at $1.3235 as of 3:30 p.m. in
 Frankfurt .  ECB Projections  Draghi said the ECB’s latest economic projections show
inflation averaging 2.4 percent in 2012, up from a December
forecast of 2 percent. They show the economy may contract 0.1
percent, down from the previous forecast for 0.3 percent growth.  Latest data “confirm signs of a stabilization in the euro-
area economy,” though the outlook “is still subject to
downside risks,” Draghi said. “Looking ahead, we expect the
euro-area economy to recover gradually in the course of this
year.”  Growth will accelerate to 1.1 percent in 2013 and  inflation 
will slow to 1.6 percent, according to the ECB’s projections.  “Risks to projected HICP inflation rates in the coming
years are seen to be still broadly balanced, with upside risks
in the near term mainly stemming from higher-than-expected  oil
prices  and indirect tax increases,” Draghi said. “However,
downside risks continue to exist owing to weaker than expected
developments in economic activity.”  With widening economic divergences making it harder for the
ECB to set a common monetary policy, its response may be to do
nothing. It will keep rates on hold at least through the third
quarter of 2013, the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
shows.  Policy makers didn’t discuss changing interest rates at
their meeting today, Draghi said.  “We expect the ECB to keep interest rates on hold for the
foreseeable future,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. The ECB is signaling that “it has
done enough,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  