-- Draghi Lays Groundwork for ECB Stimulus Exit as Inflation Takes Spotlight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-09T15:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/draghi-lays-groundwork-for-ecb-stimulus-exit-as-inflation-takes-spotlight.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  signaled he’s done enough to battle the sovereign
debt crisis, laying the groundwork for an eventual exit from
record-low  interest rates  and emergency lending measures.  Declaring that the environment “has improved enormously”
and there are “many signs of returning confidence in the
euro,” Draghi yesterday turned the spotlight on “upside
risks” to  inflation , which is now forecast to remain above the
ECB’s 2 percent limit this year. That suggests policy makers
don’t plan to cut rates further or add to their 1 trillion euros
($1.32 trillion) of long-term loans to banks, economists said.  “The ECB adopted a significantly less dovish tone,
dropping anything that could hint at any additional non-standard
measure or a further rate cut to come,” said  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “Instead, the tone
suggests that the ECB expects its eventual next move to be a
reversal of some non-standard measures or even a rate hike.”  The ECB’s unprecedented crisis-fighting measures have
swelled its balance sheet to more than 3 trillion euros,
prompting Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann to write a letter
to Draghi warning that the central bank may be taking on too
much risk. While the ECB has repeatedly been forced to retreat
from exit plans as the debt crisis spread, Draghi indicated he
may share Weidmann’s desire for a return to more conventional
policy settings.  The Frankfurt-based ECB must “go back to normal, classical
central bank policy,” he said.  ‘Primary Remit’  The euro rose after Draghi’s press conference and yields on
Italian and Spanish bonds dropped. The single currency fell 1
percent today to $1.3130 at 4 p.m. in Frankfurt.  The ECB left its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent yesterday and
issued new forecasts showing inflation will average 2.4 percent
this year rather than the 2 percent projected in December.
Policy makers didn’t discuss cutting interest rates, Draghi
said. “What we have to have our eyes squarely on is our primary
remit --  price stability  in the medium term,” he said.  “The new anti-inflation rhetoric is probably rather lip
service to soothe the Bundesbank than a serious intention to
hike rates anytime soon,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. However, “further rate cuts
seem to be off the table.”  Oil Prices  The ECB is confronted with an oil-price increase that’s
propping up inflation at a time when at least six of the 17 euro
nations are in recession. The region’s economy will contract 0.1
percent this year, the ECB’s projections show, down from the
previous forecast for 0.3 percent growth.  While the outlook “is still subject to downside risks,”
latest data “confirm signs of a stabilization in the euro-area
economy,” Draghi said, adding the ECB expects a gradual
recovery in the course of this year.  Growth will accelerate to 1.1 percent in 2013 and  inflation 
will slow to 1.6 percent, according to the ECB’s forecasts.  Greece  today pushed through the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history, cajoling private investors to forgive
more than 100 billion euros of debt.  Euro-region finance ministers subsequently agreed Greece
has met the conditions for a second rescue package worth 130
billion euros that’s designed to prevent a collapse of the  Greek
economy  and contain the debt crisis.  If the crisis flares again or the euro-area economy is
weaker than expected, the ECB would be pressed back into action,
said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies
International in London.  ‘Addicted’ to Stimulus  “Clearly the ECB does not want to get the markets addicted
to the stimulus measures, but if growth disappoints and the
forecasts are revised lower still,  interest rates  will be cut
below 1 percent,” he said. “It is wrong to think that Draghi
will now simply sit back and hope that the ECB’s injections of
liquidity will do the trick.”  Draghi said the ECB’s two tranches of three-year loans to
banks, which have helped fuel a bond-market rally, have had “a
powerful effect” and been an “unquestionable success” in
terms of unlocking credit markets.  “We have to see exactly how the economic and financial
landscape has changed following these two operations,” he said,
adding that it’s now up to governments and banks “to continue
their reforms, to repair their balance sheets” so that they can
“support the recovery.”  “Draghi stressed very clearly that ECB liquidity alone
cannot solve the crisis, and now it is up to governments to
build on this improved market mood by adopting the needed
structural reforms,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Bank AG in Milan. “In other words, the
ECB has done enough to support the recovery, and the ball is now
back in politicians’ court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  