-- Draghi Says Euro-Area 2012 Inflation Rate to Stay Above 2%
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-08T14:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/draghi-says-euro-area-inflation-rate-to-stay-above-2-in-2012.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the region’s debt
crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after the ECB kept interest rates unchanged at a record
low of 1 percent.  On the EU fiscal compact:  “I’m absolutely confident that the fiscal compact will be
implemented. The reason I give for that is there is a general
sense shared by all the countries and their heads of state that
this monetary union to continue needs for all the countries to
be subject to a discipline that cannot be changed by a
government.”  “It’s clear to everybody that if countries don’t release
some of their national sovereignty there’s no way we can be
together.”  “There is no way we can have one or two countries that pay
for everybody else.”  “These rules are the pillars of trust between countries.
This trust is essential for monetary union.”  On European firewalls:  “Some members of the IMF have made quite clear that they
would be ready to commit more resources from the IMF general
resource account only if an adequate firewall were in place.”  “At the same time, the building of an adequate firewall
has to take into consideration that many different budget
situations. That’s why it is taking so long.”  “All in all one has to be confident that the adequate
efforts will bring fruit, that there will be an adequate
firewall in place.”  On Greece’s debt swap:  “The operation is unfolding, so it would be completely
inappropriate for me to make any comment on that.”  “ Markets were nervous yesterday, two days ago.”  The markets “certainly know better what’s going on than I
do.”  On the possibility of a country leaving the euro:  “We don’t prepare. We don’t have any plan B. To have plan
B means to admit defeat. It is equivalent to conceiving a
reality which goes beyond the treaty.”  “The ECB staff knows how to manage risks, but that’s not
something we foresee.”  On risks for the ECB’s balance sheet:  “At the present time to say that the risks for the ECB
balance sheet is higher than for the Fed and the  Bank of England 
is not correct.”  “The euro system has a very large volume of assets that
have nothing to do with monetary policy.”  On the Securities Markets Program:  “The SMP is neither eternal nor infinite.”  On Ireland:  “I really am confident that the referendum will pass and
the fiscal compact will be approved.”  “Ireland is probably one of the program countries that
made the most progress.”  “The past experience is reassuring in terms of
delivering.”  On the ECB’s Governing Council:  “Nobody is isolated in the Governing Council, and
especially the Bundesbank isn’t isolated.”  “My personal and professional relationship with Jens is
excellent,” he said, referring to Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann.  “We owe a lot of what we have learned about stability
culture to the Bundesbank and to  Germany .”  “Now, we are all custodians of stability. There isn’t one
specific custodian of stability culture.”  “I think there’s nothing to gain in fighting and arguing
publicly outside the Governing Council.”  “Even when there are differences of views, it’s not just
Germany against everyone else.”  On confidence:  “The risk environment has improved enormously. Markets
have reopened.”  “Even the  interbank market , although limited to short term
and to national boundaries, has begun to work a little better.”  “Certainly, we see many signs of returning confidence in
the euro.”  “Real-money investors to some extent have come back. We
see again pension funds, investment funds.”  “All in all we see great progress has been achieved.”  On inflation:  “We see upward risks coming from higher-than-expected  oil
prices . We also see downside risks to the price level coming
from an environment that remains weak.”  “Available survey indicators confirm signs of
stabilization in the euro area economy. However, the economic
outlook is still subject to downside risks. Owing to rises in
energy prices and indirect taxes, inflation rates are now likely
to stay above 2 percent in 2012, with upside risks prevailing.
Nevertheless, we expect price developments to remain in line
with price stability over the policy-relevant horizon. The
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued,
consistent with contained inflationary pressures over the medium
term.”  “Looking ahead, we are firmly committed to maintaining
price stability in the euro area, in line with our mandate. To
this end, the continued firm anchoring of inflation expectations
-- in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to, 2 percent over the medium term -- is of the
essence.”  On non-standard measures:  “The one big difference between first and second LTRO: 5he
number of participation went up from 500 to 800, of which 460
are German banks.”  “The overall amount by the German banks is much lower than
the overall amount borrowed by other countries.”  “This money is now closer to the small and medium-sized
enterprises than it was before.”  “We have not discussed tightening collateral rules, and
they could be much looser.”  “We never pre-commit. We have done the LTROs. We want to
see what the effects are.”  “Over recent months, a wide range of additional non-
standard monetary policy measures has been implemented by the
euro system. These measures, including in particular two three-
year longer-term refinancing operations, were decided upon
against the background of exceptional circumstances in the last
quarter of 2011. The first impact of these measures has been
positive. Together with fiscal consolidation and stepped-up
structural reforms in several euro area countries, as well as
progress towards a stronger euro area economic governance
framework, they have contributed to a significant improvement in
the financial environment over recent months. We expect that the
three-year longer-term refinancing operations will provide
further support for the ongoing stabilization in financial
markets and, in particular, for lending activity in the euro
area. All our non-standard monetary policy measures are
temporary in nature. Furthermore, all the necessary tools to
address potential upside risks to medium-term  price stability 
are fully available.”  On monetary policy:  “We don’t run our monetary policies for exchange rate
objectives.”  “We didn’t discuss interest rate changes.”  “Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. The
information that has become available since the beginning of
February has confirmed our previous assessment of the outlook
for economic activity.”  On the euro economy:  “Real GDP contracted by 0.3 percent in the euro area in
the fourth quarter of 2011. According to recent survey data,
there are signs of a stabilization in economic activity, albeit
still at a low level. Looking ahead, we expect the euro-area
economy to recover gradually in the course of this year. The
outlook for economic activity should be supported by foreign
demand, the very low short-term  interest rates  in the euro area,
and all the measures taken to foster the proper functioning of
the euro area financial sector. However, the remaining tensions
in euro area sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit
conditions, as well as the process of balance sheet adjustment
in the financial and non-financial sectors, are expected to
continue to dampen the underlying growth momentum.  “This assessment is also reflected in the March 2012 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP growth in a range between minus 0.5 percent and
0.3 percent in 2012 and between 0.0 percent and 2.2 percent in
2013. Compared with the December 2011 euro-system staff
macroeconomic projections, the ranges have been shifted slightly
downwards.  “This outlook remains subject to downside risks. They
notably relate to a renewed intensification of tensions in euro
area debt markets and their potential spillover to the euro area
real economy. Downside risks also relate to further increases in
commodity prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  