-- Drought Tightens Corn Supply Before Biggest Harvest on Record: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-08T22:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/drought-tightens-corn-supply-before-biggest-harvest-on-record-commodities.html
Droughts from Mexico to Argentina
are shrinking corn stockpiles to a five-year low, raising the
prospect of a  bull market  before U.S. farmers start reaping the
biggest crop ever.  Global reserves will drop 4.2 percent to 123.43 million
metric tons by Oct. 1, according to the average of 21 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s equal to 52 days of
consumption, the fewest since 1974. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
expects prices to rise 10 percent to $7 a bushel before the U.S.
harvest starts in September, 21 percent above the one-year
closing low reached on the Chicago Board of Trade in December.  Prices fell 16 percent in the last four months of 2011 as
the USDA predicted  Brazil  and Argentina, accounting for almost
10 percent of global supply, would produce their biggest crops
ever. Futures then rallied as drought spread across Central and
 South America , spurring the USDA to cut its forecasts twice in
as many months. While prices may keep rising for now, analysts
anticipate declines by the end of the year as U.S. growers
harvest the most acres planted since at least 1944.  “There is no doubt that crops in South America were hurt
by the hot, dry weather and that means more demand for U.S.
supplies,” said Alberto Alvarez, the managing director of
Chicago-based grains brokerage Fintec Group Inc. “There is an
imminent explosion in corn prices.”  Brazilian Crop  Corn has risen 7.3 percent to $6.355 in Chicago since
touching this year’s low on Jan. 18, exceeding the 4 percent
advance in the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Agriculture Index (SPGSAG)  of eight
commodities. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained
5.8 percent, and Treasuries lost 0.3 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  The USDA probably will report tomorrow that U.S. reserves
on Sept. 1 will drop to about 19.7 million tons (776.5 million
bushels), the smallest since 1996, according to the Bloomberg
survey of analysts. It will also forecast a combined Argentine
and Brazilian crop of 81.3 million tons in the harvest that
began this month, compared with a December forecast of 90
million tons, the survey showed.  Production will drop 6.2 percent to 21.1 million tons in
 Argentina , the world’s largest exporter after the U.S., the
survey showed. In December, the USDA had forecast a 29 percent
increase. Brazil’s  output  will rise 4.7 percent, down from a
December estimate of 6.1 percent, the survey showed.  Futures markets are anticipating declines from September on
record global supplies, with the December contract trading at a
12 percent discount to grain for delivery in May. U.S. output
will jump 15 percent to a record 362.5 million tons, the USDA
said Feb. 24. That will contribute to a 6.4 percent gain in
worldwide production to an all-time high of 920.3 million tons,
Informa Economics Inc., a Memphis, Tennessee-based research
company, said March 2.  Wen Jiabao  Demand in  China , the biggest corn consumer after the U.S.,
may decline after Premier  Wen Jiabao  lowered the annual growth
target to 7.5 percent, the lowest since 2004, in a state-of-the-
nation speech on March 5. The country won’t need “large
imports” this year because it has ample supply, the State
Administration of Grain said March 6. The government body
manages grain reserves.  Rising gasoline costs will curb fuel consumption, in turn
reducing demand for ethanol derived from corn, said Randy Mittelstaedt, the director of research at R.J. O’Brien and
Associates in  Chicago . It may also spur U.S. consumers to cut
back on costlier groceries including grain-fed beef, pork and
chicken, he said.  Pump Prices  The average pump price of gasoline in the U.S. rose 15
percent this year and reached a nine-month high of $3.767 a
gallon on March 4, data from the American Automobile Association
show. About 40 percent of the domestic corn crop last year went
into ethanol refining, which also results in an animal-feed
byproduct, according to the USDA.  For now, analysts are anticipating that demand will outpace
supply for a second year. Consumption is forecast to rise to a
record for a 16th consecutive year, according to data from the
USDA, which begins surveying U.S. farmers later this month to
update its planting forecast on March 30.  Wilting South American crops mean rising demand for U.S.
grain, making corn Morgan Stanley’s top pick after gold at least
through early 2012, the bank’s analysts, led by New York-based
Hussein Allidina, said in a March 5 report. Goldman’s New York-
based analysts Lindsay Drucker Mann and  Robert Koort  said in a
note the same day they are “increasingly comfortable that
prices will approach $7.”  U.S. Harvest  Hedge funds  and other speculators are the most  bullish 
since mid-January and raised bets on higher prices by the most
in almost two months in the week ended Feb. 28, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. The most widely held
options on grain for delivery before the U.S. harvest gives
owners the right to buy at $7 by April and June, CBOT data show.  Temperatures were as much as 3 degrees Celsius above normal
during January and February in most of Argentina, said Joel Widenor, the director of agricultural services at the Commodity
Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland . Some areas received less
than 50 percent of normal rainfall from Dec. 1 to Feb. 8, when
crops were developing, he said.  Brazilian temperatures were 1 degree Celsius above normal
in the past two months, with much of the southern and central
growing regions receiving about 60 percent of normal rainfall,
Widenor said. It was the driest and warmest growing season since
2009, when corn output fell 30 percent in Argentina and 13
percent in Brazil.  The government in  Mexico , the world’s largest corn importer
after  Japan , said Jan. 25 that last year’s drought was the worst
ever and led to the smallest crop since 2005.  Grain Traders  Prices may rise 12 percent to $7.20 by July 1 as Mexico and
Asian importers boost purchases, said Alvarez of Fintec, whose
clients include two of the largest grain traders in Argentina
and the biggest in the Brazilian state of Parana.  Imports (CNIVCORN)  by China rose to the highest since at least 2005 in
December and January, customs data show. The nation may buy a
record 7 million tons in the year that will start Oct. 1, up
from 4 million tons a year earlier, Rabobank International said
in a December report.  The  premium  that exporters are paying for corn delivered
this month at terminals near  New Orleans  is the highest in at
least five years and almost double the average from 2007-2011,
USDA data show. The premium in Decatur,  Illinois , the
headquarters for corn processor  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , is
the highest for March since at least 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The cash markets are saying that corn supplies are going
to get very tight this year,” said Kent Jessen, the director of
grain merchandising for  Des Moines , Iowa-based Heartland Co-Op,
which stores crops at 52 locations in the state. “We have been
selling corn as fast as we can buy it from producers. It’s a big
demand monster, and it just never seems to go away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  