-- Drydocks World Seeks 5-Year Loan Plan in Debt Restructuring
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-03-08T17:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/drydocks-world-seeks-5-year-loan-plan-in-debt-restructuring-1-.html
Drydocks World LLC, the  Middle
East ’s biggest ship repair company, said it’s proposing to repay
loans over five years as part of a plan to restructure $2.2
billion of debt.  Drydocks World presented the terms of its proposal and the
steps required to implement it along with the associated
timeline to all its syndicated lenders in Dubai today. The
company said it’s confident it can get support for the plan.  “It is a restructuring of the debt for five years,”
Chairman Khamis Juma Buamim said in Dubai today. “We continue
to pay interest on the loans.”  Drydocks World is one several companies in Dubai seeking to
restructure debt after property prices and asset values slumped
in the Persian Gulf business hub and credit markets froze. Dubai
World, one of the three main state-controlled holding companies
and Drydocks’ parent, reached a deal last March with about 80
banks to delay payments on $25 billion of debt, while Dubai
Group LLC is seeking to restructure $6 billion of bank debt.  Drydocks World borrowed $2.2 billion to finance two
acquisitions in  Singapore  in 2008 to gain ships and Asian
shipbuilding sites. The company borrowed $1.7 billion for three
years at 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, over the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It borrowed another $500 million for five years at
190 basis points over Libor, the data shows.  Asia Options  “We would be looking to explore all options” for the
South East Asian business, Buamim said. “We have an exit
strategy in the  Far East , part of which is redefining our
capacity there, our efficiencies and looking at what is core and
non-core.”  Drydocks World expects its debt restructuring will be
completed by the middle of the year, the company said in a
statement today.  BNP Paribas SA, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , ING Groep NV, Lloyds TSB Group Plc,
 Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  and Standard Chartered Plc were helping Drydocks
World get the loans, the company said in 2008. Drydocks World
hasn’t asked for government support on its debt, Buamim said in
December.  Dubai Profit  Drydocks World’s Dubai unit, the Middle East’s largest
shipyard, will post a profit of $116 million in 2011 that may
rise by 15 percent this year, Buamim said in December. It
reduced losses from its southeast Asian business to 5 percent of
revenue in 2011 from more than 20 percent in the previous year
and is looking for joint venture partners for its contracting
and manpower businesses as well as to add capacity, he said.  The Dubai unit  carries out vessel conversions , ship
building and offshore construction, apart from ship repairs,
mainly of ultra and very large crude carriers. The company has
yards operating in Singapore and  Indonesia , in Graha, Pertama
and Nanindah. It also operates a fleet of 158 vessels,
comprising tankers, bulk cargo vessels and tugs.  Dubai World, which reached a debt deal in March last year,
owed $14.7 billion to financial institutions and about $10
billion to the Dubai government. It plans to return $4.4 billion
to bank creditors in five years and $10.3 billion in eight
years. It will pay an average fixed interest rate of 2.4 percent
on the loans, the company said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  