-- Dubai Builder Arabtec Slumps on Investor Speculation, Dividend Reduction
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-03-08T11:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/dubai-builder-arabtec-posts-15-drop-in-full-year-profit-beats-estimates.html
     March 8 (Bloomberg) -- Arabtec Holding PJSC slumped to the
lowest in a month on speculation a strategic investor stopped
buying the stock after a recent surge and as the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest construction company cut its stock dividend.  The shares dropped 8.9 percent to 2.67 dirhams, the lowest
level since Feb. 8, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The board
proposed 5 percent bonus shares and cash dividend of 5 fils a
share, Arabtec said in a statement today. That compares with 25
percent  stock dividend  in 2010.  “We are seeing some profit-taking that is correcting the
recent surge, as the shares have to equalize with the price-to-
earnings ratio,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, senior finance manager
at Dubai-based Daman Securities. “We also guess that the
strategic investor in the stock has now stopped buying.”  Shares of Arabtec, a builder of the world’s tallest tower
in Dubai, have  surged 68 percent this year  on speculation
investors are accumulating the stock on bets the company will
benefit from regional infrastructure spending.  Aabar Investments
PJSC (AABAR) , the  Abu Dhabi  government company which owns stakes in
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , raised its ownership in Arabtec to
5.28 percent.  Arabtec shares are trading at 22 times  estimated earnings 
compared with 10 times for the benchmark  Dubai Financial Market
General Index (DFMGI) , which has advanced 19 percent this year.  Profit Tops Estimates  Full-year profit fell 15 percent 260.5 million dirhams ($71
million), while revenue declined 8 percent to 5 billion dirhams,
the company said in the statement today. The  average estimate  of
12 analysts was for a profit of 133 million dirhams, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Arabtec has been eying opportunities outside its home
market after construction work slowed in Dubai. The company said
in November the value of a contract it won in  Saudi Arabia  may
rise to 1.5 billion riyals ($400 million). A unit of Arabtec in
January won a 561 million-dirham contract for the Dubai
International Airport’s expansion. One of its units also won 256
million dirhams in contracts in Abu Dhabi this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  