-- DZ Bank Sells 100 Million Euros of Notes Tied to Daimler Credit
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-03-08T16:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/dz-bank-sells-100-million-euros-of-notes-tied-to-daimler-credit.html
DZ Bank AG (DZBK) , the biggest underwriter
of structured notes in 2011, sold 100 million euros ($132
million) of notes tied to the  credit quality  of Mercedes-Benz
maker  Daimler AG. (DAI)   Germany ’s fourth-largest lender issued two five-year
credit-linked notes of 50 million euros each -- one paying a
fixed rate of 2.73 percent and the other 143 basis points more
than the euro interbank offered rate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The notes generate payments from income generated
by credit-default swaps on  Daimler debt .  Default swaps on Daimler have plunged 69 basis points this
year to 105 basis points, according to CMA. A decline in the
debt-insurance contracts indicates improvement in perceptions of
credit quality.  DZ Bank sold the notes in response to a request from a
German institutional investor, said Rainer Overbeck, the bank’s
head of structured credit trading. The investor didn’t buy the
full amount and  DZ Bank  intends to sell the remainder to other
clients, he said.  The Frankfurt-based lender is one of two clearing
organizations for Germany’s cooperative banks, allowing it to
provide structured products directly to approximately 1,000
local lenders. DZ Bank also sold credit-linked notes in 2012 on
the debt of RWE AG, Volkswagen AG, Deutsche Telekom AG,
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and ArcelorMittal SA.  “There is most interest for well-rated investment-grade
corporates among our client base,” Overbeck said.  CLNs are debt securities that use bonds or credit-default
swaps to tied to the performance of a company or country’s
underlying debt. Investors use CLNs rather than underlying bonds
to enhance yields or get tailored maturities that may not be
available in the  bond market .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 Amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  