-- EADS Doubles Dividend; Profit to Surge on Airbus Deliveries
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-08T11:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/eads-doubles-dividend-profit-to-surge-on-airbus-deliveries-1-.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. doubled its dividend payout and predicted earnings will
surge this year as its Airbus SAS aircraft division lifts output
and demand for commercial helicopters rebounds.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items will rise
above 2.5 billion euros ($3.29 billion) in 2012, from 1.8
billion euros last year, EADS said in a statement today. Sales
gained 7 percent to 49.1 billion euros in 2011, with the company
projecting an increase of more than 6 percent this year.  Airbus, the source of two-thirds of EADS revenue, delivered
534 planes last year and is targeting 570 handovers in 2012 as
airlines seek newer, more-fuel efficient planes to counter
rising fuel prices. EADS said 2012 will bring challenges such as
maintaining a “tightening” schedule on its new A350 wide-body
aircraft, as Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  prepares to
hand the reins to Airbus Chief  Tom Enders .  “It’s clear profits at Airbus will be much higher two to
three years from now,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at
Agency Partners  in  London , who recommends investors buy EADS
shares. “It’s pretty mechanical; A380 costs drop off, and as
revenues rise steeply, research and development costs won’t go
up so sharply, so margins will expand.”  Stock Jumps  EADS jumped as much as 2.6 euros, or 9.8 percent, to 29.48
euros in Paris, and traded at 29.22 euros as of 12:27 p.m. The
shares have gained 21 percent this year, compared with an
advance of less than 1 percent for  Boeing Co. (BA)   The company agreed to pay a dividend of 45 cents, more than
doubling the pay-out from last year and exceeding analyst
estimates of a 30-cent dividend. Chief Financial Officer Hans Peter Ring, who is also due to retire, said the dividend “shall
serve as the orientation for the future.”  Airbus had an operating margin of about 1.7 percent at its
commercial subsidiary, a figure Ring said is not
“satisfactory.” The company has a mid-term aspiration of
bolstering the margin to about 10 percent, he said.  Airbus announced plans today to raise production rates of
its wide-body A330 to 11 a month from 9 as the model benefits
from slower-than-anticipated deliveries of Boeing’s 787.  ‘Turn the Corner’  The company, based in Paris and Munich, said profit growth
in 2012 will be sustained by volume increases and better pricing
at Airbus and the Eurocopter chopper division, and as costs for
producing the A380 super-jumbo plane come under better control.
Airbus delivered 26 of the world’s largest passenger jet in 2011
and aims to lift that number to about 30 in 2012.  “The stage is set for EADS to turn the corner toward
increased profitability,” Gallois said in the statement.
Gallois told journalists that opening an assembly line in the
U.S. to serve local Airbus customers there is “worthwhile
studying.”  The A380 has had to grapple with wing cracks in recent
weeks that stemmed from a manufacturing defect. Airbus is in the
process of fixing the components and changing future production
methods of the wings, as it devotes “maximum attention” to
solving the issue, the company said.  The cost of repairing aircraft already in service will be
about 105 million euros, Ring today said at a briefing in Paris.
There are 71 A380s operating in airline fleets today. Airbus
will also need to invest in changes to manufacturing processes
and materials to avoid similar cracks in future, though the
company hasn’t yet come up with an estimate for any costs
involved, Ring said.  Tight Schedule  The A350 jet, which incorporates cutting-edge composite
materials, remains “challenging,” EADS said. The company
reiterated that it plans to enter the jet into service in the
first half of 2014, saying the “schedule is tightening.”  Airbus CEO Enders had said late in 2011 that final assembly
of the first A350 would begin in the first quarter of 2012.
Today, Gallois said that assembly of the first A350, a model to
be used in static tests and not flown, will begin in April, with
assembly on the first flying model to start “in summer.” He
didn’t give a specific date.  EADS, created a decade ago from aerospace and defense
assets in  Europe , maintains a shareholder structure that
balances French and German control, and  Germany  aims to buy a
7.5 percent stake from  Daimler AG (DAI)  through a state-owned
 development bank .  Gallois said outside “interference” won’t affect the way
EADS is run. He called a letter sent by German Deputy Economy
Minister Peter Hintze demanding greater balance between German
and French interests “not appropriate.”  “It’s a natural behavior for governments to try and
attract jobs and technologies, especially when they’re
customers, and are supporting research,” Gallois said. “We are
working without flags on our table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  