-- EBA Rejects Bid to Alter Stress-Test Rule for Austrian Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-08T13:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/eba-rejects-bid-to-alter-stress-test-rule-for-austrian-banks-1-.html
The European Banking Authority will
continue to disqualify in its stress-test calculations some
forms of non-voting capital Austrian lenders have sold to
investors, according to the country’s financial regulator.  The EBA’s board of supervisors rejected a proposal to count
so-called participation capital toward the requirement for
banks to hold reserves of 9 percent of risk-weighted assets,
Klaus Grubelnik, a spokesman for  Austria ’s Finanzmarktaufsicht
regulator FMA said by phone from Vienna.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA)  were among lenders told by the EBA to boost their capital
to shield against losses amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. Both
banks’ shortfall would be smaller if the EBA counted against
that target participation capital that was sold to private
investors in 2009 in a combined deal together with state aid,
which is allowed by the EBA.  Erste, which narrowed its shortfall to 166 million euros
($220 million) at the end of 2011, from 743 million euros three
months earlier, sold 540 million euros to private investors in
2009 in the same period that it got 1.2 billion euros of state
aid.  RZB, the majority owner of listed  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , sold 750 million euros to investors and also
got 1.75 billion euros of state aid. After an internal revamp,
500 million euros of that was disqualified by the EBA when it
found a 2.1 billion-euro shortfall at RZB. The company said Jan.
25 that it completed measures narrowing the gap by 1.4 billion
euros.  The FMA remains confident that the banks will reach the 9
percent capital threshold required by the EBA, Grubelnik said.
The EBA board’s decision was made by 13 to 12 votes, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  