-- ECB’s Inflation Radar Complicates Growth
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-08T11:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ecb-s-inflation-radar-may-limit-scope-to-lower-rates-as-recession-looms.html
Inflation is back on the  European
Central Bank ’s radar, complicating efforts to bolster growth as
the sovereign debt crisis pushes the economy toward recession.  The ECB will lift its 2012 inflation forecast above the 2
percent price-stability threshold today, limiting its ability to
cut interest rates further even as it lowers the outlook for
growth, economists said. Policy makers in Frankfurt will keep
the  benchmark rate  at a record low of 1 percent, 55 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predict. The decision is
due at 1:45 p.m. and ECB President  Mario Draghi  will unveil the
bank’s new economic projections at a 2:30 p.m. press conference.  “Draghi’s message won’t be a particularly pleasant one,”
said  Klaus Baader , chief euro-area economist at Societe Generale
SA in London. “The ECB will breach its inflation limit for
another year and the economic outlook hasn’t brightened
significantly. That’s tying their hands on rates for now.”  Having flooded the banking sector with more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.31 trillion) to avert a credit crunch, the ECB is now
confronted with an oil-price spike that’s propping up inflation
at a time when at least six of the 17 euro nations are in
recession. Greece is waiting for private creditors to agree to
the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history, which
should reduce its burden by about 100 billion euros. The
deadline for acceptances is 10 p.m. in  Athens  today.  Divergences  With widening economic divergences already making it harder
for the ECB to set a common monetary policy, its response may be
to do nothing. It will keep rates on hold at least through the
third quarter of 2013, the median forecast in another Bloomberg
survey shows.  Central banks are pausing to take stock of the economic
outlook after a round of monetary easing that Bank of America
Merrill Lynch calculates has included about 30 rate cuts in the
past four months and $1 trillion of asset-buying in the last
seven.  The  Bank of England  will today hold its key rate at 0.5
percent and maintain its commitment to buy an additional 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) of bonds by May after lifting its
target for asset purchases to 325 billion pounds last month.
That decision is due at noon in  London . The  Bank of Canada  will
probably keep its main rate at 1 percent at 9 a.m. in Ottawa.
The U.S. Federal Reserve has committed to low rates through
2014.  Oil Prices  Indonesia’s central bank held its reference rate at 5.75
percent today and the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  signaled it
may leave its official cash rate at a record low of 2.5 percent
for much of 2012.  Oil prices have climbed 8 percent this year to $107 a
barrel amid concern European and U.S. sanctions against  Iran 
will lead to military conflict in the Persian Gulf, home to more
than half the world’s crude. That’s feeding through into higher
consumer prices.  Euro-area  inflation  unexpectedly accelerated to 2.7 percent
in February; the ECB aims to keep it just below 2 percent.  In  Germany , where  unemployment  is at a two-decade low,
unions are demanding a 6.5 percent wage increase for 2 million
public-sector workers. That contrasts with employees in nations
from Ireland to  Greece  whose pay is being cut as governments try
to reduce debt.  German Confidence  German inflation quickened to 2.5 percent last month and
business, consumer and investor confidence jumped as  Europe ’s
largest economy showed signs of weathering the debt crisis.  “The rebound in confidence in combination with short-term
inflationary pressure from the higher oil price will make most
ECB members wary of another rate cut,” said  Christian Schulz ,
an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “We do not expect
another rate cut this year. Instead, once the euro-zone economy
returns to healthier growth, the ECB is likely to be the first
major central bank to raise rates again, in early 2013.”  Former ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told
Bloomberg Television today that inflation pressures from oil and
other commodities have often been underestimated in the past.
“That is a risk that I don’t think the ECB will want to
generate,” he said in an interview.  The ECB, which cut rates in November and December, will
probably increase its 2012 inflation projection to 2.3 percent
from 2 percent, said  Marco Valli , an economist at UniCredit in
Milan.  ‘Wait and See’  “The probability of a further reduction in the policy rate
has decreased appreciably over the last couple of months,”
Valli said, adding there’s a good chance the ECB has entered a
prolonged “wait-and-see posture, both on conventional and
unconventional policy.”  The ECB’s unprecedented 1.02 trillion euros of three-year
loans to banks has helped ease tensions on financial markets,
fueling bond and equity-market rallies. That’s reduced pressure
on the ECB to cut rates again, giving policy makers time to
assess whether the flood of money is flowing through to
households and businesses.  Still, economists including Schulz at Berenberg expect the
ECB to predict a 0.3 percent economic contraction this year,
revising its forecast from 0.3 percent growth.  Euro-area  unemployment  is at 10.7 percent, a 14-year high,
and services and manufacturing output is contracting as
companies postpone investments. Furthermore, the ECB is likely
to project 2013 inflation of 1.6 percent, said  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in London.  Rate-Cut Door ‘Open’  “The ECB is probably not too concerned about the
inflationary impact from higher oil prices,” he said. “More
news about prolonged economic weakness and further increases in
unemployment should keep the door open for lower  interest rates 
in the course of 2012.”  The ECB raised rates in April and July last year to quell
inflation, only to go into reverse as the debt crisis escalated.
While the economy’s fragility may have tempered the bank’s
enthusiasm for higher rates, its previous behavior suggests a
readiness to combat oil-driven inflation, said  Nick Kounis , head
of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.  “If you look at the last two times that oil prices spiked,
in March last year and in 2008, the ECB followed up with a rate
hike,” he said. “We don’t see rate hikes now, but we assume
the ECB will take this quite seriously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  