-- Hedge Fund Tax Break May Come in Cantor Small Business Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-08T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/hedge-funds-could-get-break-in-republican-small-business-20-tax-cut-plan.html
A Republican proposal to give small
businesses an extra 20 percent tax deduction may yield cuts for
some multibillion-dollar hedge funds, law firms and other
enterprises that create significant profits with few employees.  Republicans hope to release details of the bill during the
week of March 19, said Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for
Representative  Eric Cantor , the House majority leader. Cantor
told House members in a memo last month his plan would let
“every” business with fewer than 500 employees deduct 20
percent of its profits.  That approach would depart from restrictions in an earlier
version. Legislation introduced when Republicans were
campaigning to take over the House majority in 2010 would have
prevented companies in health, law, finance, architecture and
other industries from qualifying for the break.  Abandoning those limits would make professional sports
teams, liquor stores and hedge funds including Renaissance
Technologies LLC, Paulson & Co. and  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC (OZM)  eligible to claim the tax break.  “It’s never simple with  tax policy ,” said Representative
 Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee. Camp and Fallon said the latest version of
the proposal hasn’t been completed.  “I don’t want to enumerate what that might be,” Camp said
in a March 6 interview when asked what limits Republicans might
include. “One of the considerations you have to have as you
look at any tax bill is how far-reaching it’s going to be.”  Campaign Agenda  The deduction proposal was part of Republicans’ 2009
alternative to the Democrats’ economic stimulus, and in 2010 it
became part of House Republicans’ campaign agenda. The House has
passed other parts of that plan, including bills to repeal the
2010 health-care law and require congressional approval of major
regulations.  The small-business  tax cut  hasn’t advanced. Republicans
want to pass it before the April 17 tax filing deadline for
individuals.  “That’s what we want to do to make it easier for these
small businesses to start up,” Cantor said Feb. 19 on “Fox
News Sunday.”  The proposal would be a giveaway to people who make tens of
millions of dollars a year, said Bob McIntyre, director of
Citizens for Tax Justice.  “They’re just trying to cut taxes for people with a lot of
money,” said McIntyre, whose Washington-based group favors
higher taxes on top earners and corporations. “That’s what they
always do. That’s what they are.”  Contributions to Cantor  In the 2012 election cycle, Cantor has received more than
$1 million in campaign contributions from the finance, insurance
and real estate industries, the  second-most  of sitting House
members, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington group that tracks political spending.  A broader version of the tax cut would be welcome, said
Andrew Goldberg, managing director of government relations and
outreach for the  American Institute of Architects . In the
previous version of the measure, architects wouldn’t have been
eligible.  “Anything that provides some relief, especially as things
are struggling to get back to a good point, is something
worthwhile,” Goldberg said. “If one of the goals of this
process is really to create jobs and help small business create
jobs, then there are few better job creators than the design and
construction industry.”  U.S. Tax Code  The previous bill, sponsored by Cantor and Camp, prohibited
some industries and businesses from qualifying for the tax break
by referencing other sections of the U.S.  tax code  that had
similar restrictions.  The list of excluded businesses included golf courses,
massage parlors, gambling operations, farms, hotels,
restaurants, engineering firms, accounting firms and producers
of pornography.  The 500-employee threshold is used in some circumstances by
the U.S. Small Business Administration. The federal government
and lawmakers have multiple definitions of small business.  According to 2008 figures from the  U.S. Census Bureau , of
the 5.9 million companies that weren’t sole proprietorships,
18,469, or 0.3 percent, had 500 or more workers. Those larger
companies employed 50.6 percent of the nation’s work force.  Och-Ziff had 434 employees as of Dec. 31, according to the
fund’s website. Renaissance reports having 275 employees. In its
2011 year-end letter to investors, Paulson said it had 120
employees.  Other  hedge funds , such as DE Shaw & Co. LP and Bridgewater
Associates LP, report having more than 1,000 employees.  Steve Hinkson, a spokesman for the Managed Funds
Association, the Washington-based trade group for the hedge fund
industry, declined to comment on the plan because details aren’t
available. Representatives of Och-Ziff, Paulson and Renaissance
declined to comment on the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  