-- Tehran Housing Boom Is Last Resort for Iran’s Savers Squeezed by Sanctions
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-08T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/tehran-housing-boom-is-last-resort-for-iran-s-savers-squeezed-by-sanctions.html
Mehdi Eslamipour stands amid piles
of bricks and abandoned furniture at a Tehran building site
where his company just knocked down a three-story villa to
build an apartment block. “Everyone’s looking to build,” he
says, pointing to three similar projects on the same street.  Iranians are turning to real estate to protect savings,
helping fuel a building boom in the capital, as international
sanctions weaken the rial and the government curbs foreign-
currency and gold purchases. Eslamipour is planning a nine-
storey block of 15 apartments on the 700 square-meter plot
(7,500 square feet) of land in northern Tehran. He says it will
cost 100 billion rials ($8.1 million.)  Iran ’s economy is being squeezed by tougher sanctions
imposed this year by the U.S. and European Union, which say they
are needed to restrain the Islamic republic’s nuclear program.
Iranians stepped up purchases of gold, dollars and euros as
hedges against the threat to stability. Those avenues were
closed off as authorities banned currency trades outside
official venues and made investors wait months to buy gold --
leaving the real estate market as an alternative.  Building permits issued in Tehran jumped 87 percent in the
June-August period from a year earlier, statistics from the
mayor’s office show. Prices have risen at least 15 percent in
the past three months, according to three real estate agents
based in the capital. Tehran is more than twice as expensive as
Istanbul, a similar-size city in wealthier neighboring  Turkey .  Ten Times Richer  “After the fluctuations in the gold and  currency markets ,
the real-estate market has started to move again, and this shows
the direction of liquidity,” said Mousa Ghaninejad, an
independent Tehran-based economist. “People feel the value of
their money is dropping, so they want to switch to something
that is a fixed asset.”  The average cost of residential property per square meter
in Tehran is about 20 million rials ($1,600) and about 120,000
transactions on average are made every year, according to the
Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper, citing official data. In affluent
 northern Tehran  where Eslamipour is building, prices can rise to
about 150 million rials per square meter.  The average city-wide price in Istanbul as of January this
year was $771 per square meter, while in Dubai -- whose per-
capita income is about 10 times Iran’s -- it was $2,441,
according to  ReidIn , a real estate company that compiles price
indexes and has offices in both cities.  ‘Directed to Property’  “When there is devaluation, money is usually directed to
property,” said Ramin Rabii, the managing director of Turquoise
Partners, a Tehran-based investment firm. He predicts further
gains in property prices this year.  The last boom in Tehran house prices was in 2007 and early
2008, when high  oil prices  spread liquidity through Iran’s
economy and banks offered cheap loans, according to Rabii.
Prices plunged more than 30 percent from the summer of 2008,
when the global economic crisis sparked a slump in oil prices,
to mid-2009, according to a  July report  by the  International
Monetary Fund  that tracked data through the end of 2010.  Iran has a state-owned lender, Bank Maskan, that
specializes in housing loans, which account for 28 percent of
credit in the banking system, according to the IMF. State home
loans are capped at about 180 million rials ($15,000), so
Iranians typically use savings and money borrowed from friends
and family to pay for homes mostly in cash, Rabii said.  The latest U.S. and European sanctions are targeting Iran’s
oil industry and transactions with its central bank. One result
was a plunge in the rial’s value early this year, as Iranians
concerned about the economy’s stability rushed to protect their
savings by buying foreign currency.  ‘Everything Has Increased’  The central bank raised  interest rates  on  savings accounts 
and on Jan. 28 announced a fixed rate of 12,260 rials per
dollar, a devaluation of about 8.5 percent. Authorities barred
transactions in unofficial currency markets where the rate had
soared to almost twice that level.  The currency squeeze has pushed prices higher throughout
the economy, adding to inflationary pressures caused by the
removal of government subsidies. Inflation is above 20 percent,
according to central bank figures.  “Raw material, labor, transport, the cost of everything
has increased,” said Raymond Vartanian, director of the
Robinson real-estate agency in the Mirdamad suburb of Tehran.
“Owners of property are revising their prices upward. They’re
afraid that if they sell today for the purpose of getting a
bigger space tomorrow, they may still be short of cash in their
next transactions because of inflation.”  No Italian Tiles  For builders, the costs of many of the goods they need are
rising, while others aren’t available. Eslamipour said he can’t
get hold of Italian ceramics for apartments, and is forced to
buy lower-quality substitutes from  China . “These days, goods
that are available are mostly from  Asia ,” he said.  Looking down the road at the potential rivals to his own
apartment block, Eslamipour forecasts that in two years, when
current projects are all on the market, supply may exceed
demand. Still, Iran’s youthful population, growing at 1.24
percent a year according to the country’s statistics office,
supports the construction surge.  The government has taken measures to prevent speculation in
property, barring the resale of homes within fixed time limits.
That means demand is now coming from long-term buyers instead of
speculators who pushed prices up before 2008, according to Delta
real-estate agency, one of Tehran’s largest.  Still, expectations that prices will continue to rise are
rooted in the culture, economist Ghaninejad said. “When it
comes to property, there’s always been a saying that land is
gold,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 