-- Power Theft Spurs Demand for Smart Meters at Brazilian Utilities
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/electricity-theft-driving-demand-for-smart-meters-at-brazilian-utilities.html
Reading electricity meters isn’t
typically a dangerous profession -- unless you happen to be
employed by  AES Eletropaulo .  Robson Dourado said residents of Sao Paulo’s Morro do Indio
slum watch him warily as he makes his rounds, worried he’ll
detect rogue wires siphoning away power illegally. Some co-
workers have lost teeth in encounters with angry customers.  To avoid confrontations with the street toughs who walk
around with guns tucked into their trousers, Dourado, 28,
practices a studied indifference, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its March 12 issue. “I just keep on doing what I’m doing
until they come speak to me,” he said. “If there’s trouble, I
leave.”  Electricity theft is rampant across much of  Latin America ,
so much so that statisticians have devised a formula that uses
the purloined wattage to measure the size of a country’s
informal economy. In some parts of Brazil, power losses reach as
high as 20 percent.  To combat the problem and avoid violent encounters,
utilities are turning to smart meters. The devices, which cost
about $150 to $400 each, including hardware, communications
software and installation, let power companies monitor
customers’ usage remotely and in real time.  The meters can detect unusually heavy demand, which may
signal an illegal hookup. They can also be used to shut off
service to households and businesses that don’t pay their bills.
The devices remove the human factor from the equation, so
customers can no longer collude with dishonest meter readers to
cheat the power company.  ‘Perfect Solution’  Smart meters “are the perfect solution,” said Fabio de
Oliveira Toledo, chief technology officer for the distribution
unit of  Light SA (LIGT3) , a Rio de Janeiro-based utility that has
installed more than 150,000 of them. “They save you money,
they’re easy to install, and they require little maintenance.”  Andre Pepitone da Nobrega, director of the national
electricity regulator, Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica ,
said the meters may save utilities as much as 8 billion reais
($4.5 billion) a year.  Makers of the wireless gadgets, including  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
 Landis + Gyr AG (LGYZ) ,  Echelon (ELON)  Corp. and  Elster Group SE (ELT) , are
increasingly counting on developing markets to offset shrinking
revenue in the U.S., where government funding to support smart
meter deployment has dried up.  Sales of smart meters in Latin America are expected to
generate $24 billion in revenue through 2020, two-thirds of it
in  Brazil , according to Northeast Group LLC, a Washington-based
research company.  “Lots of U.S. companies are excited about Latin America
and Brazil,” said Jeff Lund, vice president of business
development at  San Jose , California-based Echelon.  Latin American Demand  Brazilian utilities may install as many as 63.5 million
smart meters by the end of the decade, at a cost of
approximately $15.2 billion, according to Northeast Group. The
company estimates that  Mexico  will deploy 22.4 million,
Argentina 4.9 million and Chile 3.2 million over the same
period.  “Brazil is a clear regional leader,” in smart grid
development, said Ben Gardner, president of Northeast Group.
“Mexico is next in line.”  Elster, based in Essen,  Germany , has retooled its factory
in southern Brazil to produce smart meters as well as the
regular variety. Hong Kong-based ATC International Group is
considering teaming up with a local partner to open a facility
in the country by 2013.  “Brazil will become one of the world’s top five markets,”
for smart meters, predicts ATC’s chief executive officer, David
Liang.  Making Preparations  In  Rio de Janeiro , utilities are taking advantage of
preparations for the 2014 World Cup soccer championship and  2016
Olympic Games  to deploy the meters.  Before August about 80 percent of electricity in Tabajara
and Morro dos Cabritos, two of the city’s more violent slums,
was stolen through illegal connections, said Geraldo Guimaraes,
vice president for Latin America at Elster’s Integrated
Solutions division.  After police established a constant presence in the favelas
last year, Light began installing 50,000 of Elster’s meters.
Theft has dropped to zero since, Guimaraes said. “Now everyone
receives invoices, and if they don’t pay them, they’re
disconnected.”  Companies like Elster are anticipating a substantial
payday. Brazil may require utilities to replace all of the
country’s 67 million existing power meters with smart devices
under a program expected to be introduced by year-end, said
Brazil’s electricity regulator.  If that happens, Landis + Gyr will be ready. The company
has added three salespeople in Brazil over the past year, said
Eduardo Casagrande, South America sales director. “I have no
doubt the market will explode,” he said. “The only question is
when.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  