-- TeliaSonera Leads Telenor in Nordic Clients for Faster 4G Wireless Service
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-08T13:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/teliasonera-leads-telenor-in-nordic-clients-for-faster-4g-wireless-service.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  said it has about
100,000 customers on its faster fourth-generation networks in
the Nordic region, giving Sweden’s largest wireless operator a
lead over competitors such as  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  and  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   TeliaSonera began offering 4G in  Stockholm and Oslo  in
December 2009, knowing that devices for users would be slow to
arrive, Haakan Dahlstroem, head of mobility services, said in an
interview at the company’s Stockholm headquarters. After being
late to market with 3G mobile broadband, the provider wanted to
signal to business customers that it would invest to have the
most advanced network for their laptops and tablets, he said.  “When we took the decision to be early with 4G it was
based more on image than on network offload,” Dahlstroem said.
“We said we will never be late again and that gives the
situation that we have a larger network than if you let the
chief financial officer run it.”  Fourth-generation networks offer speeds as much as 10 times
faster than third-generation networks, permitting customers to
watch movies and access databases without noticeable delays as
long as their devices are fast enough. Phone companies are
developing such high-speed services to offset declining sales
from traditional landline offerings.  “Changes will happen over a long time,” Haakan said.
“The majority of terminals on our network are 3G but we still
have a lot of 2G out there.” The operator’s first Samsung
Electronics Co. 4G handset arrived in stores in  Sweden  this week
and will accelerate uptake, he said without giving a specific
forecast.  3 Scandinavia  Competitors Tele2 and Telenor each sell services on the
same shared 4G network in Sweden. Tele2 has accumulated about
40,000 4G subscribers since starting its 4G service in November
2010 in Sweden, spokeswoman Pernilla Oldmark said. The company’s
most popular 4G product is a home router that creates a WiFi
wireless field linked to the network, she said.  Telenor currently has subscriptions in “five figures,”
spokesman Andreas Hamrin said. More than 50 percent of the plug-
in wireless modems, or dongles, sold during the Christmas season
were for 4G, he said. Telenor hasn’t yet introduced a 4G
handset. Tele2 offered the Samsung Galaxy S II LTE handset
before TeliaSonera.  3 Scandinavia plans to start a 4G service in Sweden by
July, spokesman Erik Hornfeldt said by phone. The company
probably won’t sell 4G handsets immediately, he said, citing
battery-life problems with early models.  Network Growth  TeliaSonera’s 4G network in Sweden covers more than 40
percent of the population and will expand to more than 90
percent by the end of 2013. Customers pay  standard monthly
charges  for medium or large data packages of 249 kronor ($36.63)
and 349 kronor, respectively.  The majority of Nordic 4G customers are in Sweden,
Dahlstroem said.  TeliaSonera (TLSN)  also offers 4G in Finland and
 Denmark , and has very small numbers of 4G customers in the
Baltics, he said.  Problems with low data throughput, dropped calls and poor
coverage in the Danish network have been remedied, Dahlstroem
said. TeliaSonera has  16.5 million wireless customers  total in
the Nordic and Baltic countries, and 3 million in  Spain , where
it hasn’t announced a 4G network.  Capabilities for voice calls with 4G are likely to be added
in 2013, Dahlstroem said. TeliaSonera is continuing to increase
capacity in the 3G network while it expands coverage in the 4G
network, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  