-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in a Month on Economy, Greece Nearing Debt Deal
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-08T23:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/emerging-market-stocks-advance-most-in-a-week-as-suppliers-to-apple-climb.html
Emerging-market stocks gained the
most in more than a month as Greece moved closer to completing a
debt-swap deal and data signaled that the global economy may be
improving.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.4 percent to
1,052.69 by the close of trading in New York, the biggest one-
day advance since Jan. 26. Homebuilders led a rally in  Brazil  as
the central bank unexpectedly cut the key rate below 10 percent.
 Cia Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao De Acucar , Brazil’s
biggest retailer, reached a record high and  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) 
jumped the most since Dec. 21 in  Mexico  as consumer companies
led gains on the MSCI Index.  Greece got about 85 percent of bondholders to swap holdings
of the nation’s debt for new securities in the biggest
restructuring in history, according to a banker briefed on the
results who declined to be identified.  Germany ’s industrial
output increased more than analysts predicted and  Japan ’s
economy shrank less than initially estimated, data today showed.  “ Greece  is increasingly the story of yesterday,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said in a phone interview. “We’re pretty much
priced for everything bad coming out of the PSI, and some of the
correction we saw was about that.”  The MSCI gauge of developing nations tumbled 3.9 percent in
the past three days, the biggest slump for such a period since
November. The index has jumped 15 percent this year, compared
with a 9.2 percent advance for stocks in developed markets.
Emerging-market shares remain cheaper than developed-country
stocks,  trading  for 10.7 times estimated earnings compared with
12.9 times.  ETF Gains  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index , an exchange-traded
fund of developing-nation stocks, climbed 2.1 percent to $43.81
yesterday, the biggest one-day increase since Feb. 1.  The number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits
rose by 8,000 to 362,000 last week, Labor Department figures
showed today, remaining at a level consistent with an improving
labor market.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed
0.8 percent as oil and some industrial metals advanced, boosting
earnings prospects for producers.  Brazil (MXBR) ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  jumped 1.4 percent, rising for a
second day.  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA, (BISA3)  Brazil’s third-largest
homebuilder, reached the highest level in six months, and the
MSCI Brazil/Consumer Discretionary Index advanced the most among
10 industry groups.  Rate Cut  The Latin American nation’s central bank cut its target
Selic rate by 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 9.75
percent at a meeting yesterday. Two of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg anticipated the size of the cut, which was steeper
than the median estimate for a 50 basis-point reduction.  Pao de Acucar jumped 7.4 percent and Coca-Cola Femsa gained
2 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper miner that has  Europe ’s
biggest output, jumped 1.9 percent in Warsaw. New World
Resources Plc, the biggest Czech coking-coal producer, rose 1.5
percent, the first advance in six days.  Brazilian iron-ore producer  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3) 
jumped 6.1 percent, and  Tenaris SA (TS) , the world’s largest producer
of seamless steel tubes used in the oil industry, gained 4.4
percent in  Buenos Aires .  Vietnam Slide  China’s Shanghai Composite Index (IFB1)  increased 1.1 percent
today, ending a three-day slide, and the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks gained 1.8
percent.  China  may report the slowest  inflation  in 19 months
tomorrow and industrial-production growth near a two-year low,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  sank 2.8 percent, the biggest drop among
major stock benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, after the
government raised the prices of petroleum products yesterday.  Markets in Russia and  India  were closed for public
holidays.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points to 344 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  