-- Encore Capital Units Sued by West Virginia Over Practices
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-09T00:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/encore-capital-units-sued-by-west-virginia-over-debt-collection-practices.html
West Virginia sued two units of debt
buyer  Encore Capital Group Inc. (ECPG) , claiming the firms used false
affidavits in lawsuits and took part in fraudulent debt-
collection practices.  State Attorney General Darrell McGraw said in a statement
he sued Midland Funding LLC and sister company Midland Credit
Management, both part of  San Diego , California-based Encore
Capital. The suit, filed today in state court in Charleston,
alleges that the two firms robo-signed affidavits when obtaining
default judgments against West Virginia consumers.  “Many consumers are frightened or unaware of their rights
when they are sued and fail to respond to these groundless
lawsuits, leaving them subject to judgments on debts that cannot
be proved,” McGraw said in the statement.  Last month, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
proposed a regulation that would let it examine the books of
debt collectors such as Encore Capital as part of its program to
supervise nonbank financial companies.  “Encore is confident in the integrity and accuracy of its
collections processes and in the validity of the data supporting
the underlying debts it owns,” the company said in a statement.
“The Midland defendants feel strongly that the allegations in
the  West Virginia  suit inaccurately portray both Midland’s
practices and the applicable legal standards.”  Debt Buyers  McGraw said Midland is one of the oldest debt purchasers,
having bought about $54.7 billion in old consumer debt in recent
years. It pays about $3 for every $100 in debt it buys, he said.
The National Consumer Law Center estimates that one out of 10
lawsuits filed by debt buyers is based on incorrect information,
he said.  The state wants the court to force the companies to repay
money they got from West Virginia consumers and $5,000 to the
state for every violation of its consumer-protection law. It
also wants to halt the companies from making collections in the
state until the case is resolved.  Encore Capital in a Feb. 9 statement said its gross
collections were $761.2 million last year, up 26 percent from
2010. Its net income for the year was $61 million on $467.4
million in revenue. Its market capitalization is $543 million.  The case is State of West Virginia v. Midland Funding LLC,
12C-4-33, Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia
(Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 