-- Mercedes Dealer Is Among Potential Investors in Jacoby & Meyers Law Firm
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-08T21:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mercedes-salesman-among-potential-investors-in-jacoby-meyers-law-firm.html
Three directors of a small  New York 
bank, including one who also sells new and used Mercedes-Benzes,
want to be the first nonlawyer investors in Jacoby & Meyers, the
discount law firm with storefront offices across the U.S.  Jacoby & Meyers , saying it needs capital to expand into
communities with working-class and immigrant families, asked
federal judges in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut to throw
out state laws barring nonlawyers from owning interests in law
firms. A judge New York in today dismissed the suit there. One
in Trenton, New Jersey, yesterday let that case proceed.  In a court filing in January, Jacoby & Meyers identified
its potential investors as Anthony Costa, Philip Guarnieri and
Michael Ostrow. The three are directors of  ES Bancshares Inc. (ESBS) ,
the holding company for Empire State Bank, according to
regulatory filings.  The three “have expressed their commitment to invest
significant sums of money in Jacoby & Meyers in exchange for
owning an interest,” the law firm said in court papers in New
York. Also seeking stakes are institutional investors whose
names it has been asked to keep confidential, the firm said.  Jacoby & Meyers is seeking to sue on behalf of other law
firms in the three states.  The firm opened its first office in 1972 in a storefront in
 Van Nuys ,  California , and was an early advocate of attorney
advertising. It said it has opened branches in shopping centers,
maintained Saturday hours and became the first  law firm  to let
clients pay with credit cards.  ‘High Net-Worth’  The January filing doesn’t identify the occupations of
Ostrow, Costa and Guarnieri, describing them only as “high net-
worth individuals.” Nor does it name Newburgh, New York-based
ES Bancshares, which has a market value of about $7.9 million,
or Empire State Bank, which has two branches in New York’s mid-
Hudson region and one on  Staten Island .  Jeffrey Carton, a lawyer for Jacoby & Meyers in the case,
said the investment would come from the individuals and not the
bank. Costa is chairman and co-chief executive officer of ES
Bancshares, Guarnieri is president and co-CEO, and Ostrow is a
director.  Costa and Guarnieri didn’t reply to phone messages left at
the bank. Ostrow, president of  Mercedes-Benz  of Wappingers
Falls, New York, declined to comment on his potential
investment. Carton wouldn’t say how much the investors want to
put up.  Three Cases  In all three states, Jacoby & Myers is seeking to
invalidate laws barring nonlawyers from sharing fees or joining
partnerships and corporations that practice law.  “This restriction has been around for a long time,” said
Ted Schneyer, an emeritus law professor at the  University of
Arizona  who serves as co-chairman of an American Bar Association
group studying alternative law firm structures.  Similar rules exist in every U.S. state. The  District of
Columbia  permits nonlawyers to join law firms in limited
instances, Schneyer said. Australia and  England  allow nonlawyers
to own parts of law firms, he said.  “The main concern has been that we don’t want lawyers
having their independent judgment on behalf of clients being
interfered with by nonlawyers,” he said in an interview.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York today granted
a request to dismiss the suit by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman .  Basis of Ruling  He ruled on technical grounds, saying several provisions of
state law bar nonlawyer investments and it made no sense to rule
on just the one Jacoby & Meyers attacked. Kaplan said the issue
might best be decided by legislatures and professional
associations.  U.S. District Judge Peter Sheridan in Trenton yesterday
denied the state’s dismissal bid and asked the state  Supreme
Court  to decide if the investment is permissible.  “The ruling is disappointing as it seeks to send us back
to the very body that enacted the rule in the first place,”
Carton said of the  New Jersey  decision.  David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the New York state court
system, whose judges are being sued, and Lee Moore, a spokesman
for Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa in New Jersey, declined to
comment. In Connecticut, state judges who were sued filed papers
urging a dismissal.  Jacoby & Meyers claimed the bans run afoul of the Commerce
Clause of the U.S. Constitution and the firm’s rights of free
speech and due process.  ‘Numerous Offers’  If Jacoby & Meyers ultimately prevails, the investors may
receive a share of anticipated profits in the entity through
which Jacoby & Meyers practices law, the firm said in court
papers. They’ll have no say in legal decisions.  Because of the ban on outside investment, Jacoby & Meyers
said it must obtain capital from contributions of partners,
earnings on fees or commercial bank loans that come with high
 interest rates . The rule has blocked the firm from entertaining
“numerous offers” from prospective nonlawyer investors,
according to court papers.  Jacoby & Meyers said in court papers that its bid to allow
nonlawyer investment furthers its effort to bring legal services
to “the masses.”  Opponents of lifting the ban say they fear that investors
wanting to maximize profit will interfere with lawyers who are
bound by ethical rules that may conflict.  The ban “ensures that the ownership structure does not
diminish the lawyer’s duty of undivided loyalty to the client,”
lawyers for New Jersey said last year in court papers.  Profit and Duty  “Efforts to maximize the returns on equity or other
economic interests of outside nonlawyer investors could threaten
lawyers’ primary duties to the client.”  Jacoby & Meyers called this a “false choice” and said
safeguards may be enacted to protect the integrity of attorneys.
They might include limits on the percentage of nonlawyer
ownership or the creation of firm compliance officers, it said.  An American Bar Association commission voted last year to
circulate a proposed change to its rule barring outside
investment. The change would allow nonattorney minority
ownership as long the firm’s focus is solely on the practice of
law, and the services provided by nonlawyers would be consistent
with the firm’s mission. For instance, lawyers focusing on  land
use  might team with engineers owning a minority interest.  The ABA continues to debate the proposal, Schneyer said.  The New York case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Presiding Justices,
11-cv-3387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The New Jersey case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Justices
of the Supreme Court, 11-cv-2866, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Trenton). The  Connecticut  case is Jacoby & Meyers
v. Judges of the Connecticut Superior Court, 11-cv-817, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut ( New Haven ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  