-- EU Carbon Market Has Become ‘Residual’ in Power, IHS CERA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-08T12:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/eu-carbon-market-has-become-residual-in-power-ihs-cera-says.html
The European Union carbon market,
the world’s biggest by traded volume, has become “residual” in
power generation because of national renewable energy policies
in the bloc, said IHS CERA, the energy adviser.  “The emissions trading system has become a residual market
for carbon abatement in the power sector,” Fabien Roques,
director at the unit of Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS Inc. (IHS) , said
yesterday in a  CDC Climat publication . “Policies in support of
renewables or nuclear have been the prime drivers of power
sector investments over the past decade in  Europe .”  Emissions standards for pollutants will prompt retirement
of more than 30 gigawatts of coal and oil power capacity by
2015, cutting demand for emission permits, he said. That
capacity is enough to supply about 60 million EU homes. The
European Commission, the Brussels regulator, said March 6 it may
create a temporary set-aside of carbon permits to deal with an
oversupply by amending its regulations on auctions, assuming
nations in the bloc decide to go down that route.  The set-aside plan may be an “ad-hoc fix” that increases
the chance of intervention when carbon prices rise and lawmakers
should instead install a permanent solution that allows the
market’s supply to adjust on a more predictable basis, Roques
said.  “Member states could for instance be required to estimate
the amount of additional or avoided carbon emissions in an
impact assessment of any new environmental policy that overlaps
with the emissions trading system,” he said.  Those policies may include mandatory nuclear closures or a
change in support levels for renewables, Roques said.  “The ETS cap could then be adjusted accordingly so that
the supply-demand balance and therefore price level would not
modified by these broader policy changes,” Roques said. The EU
could also appoint an independent authority to manage supply, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  