-- Euro Weakens as Greece Forces Investors to Take Part in Swap; Dollar Gains
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-09T12:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/euro-set-for-weekly-gain-before-german-exports-french-industrial-output.html
The euro weakened for the first time
in three days against the dollar after  Greece  said it triggered
an option compelling investors to take part in its debt
restructuring, damping demand for the region’s assets.  The common currency fell versus 11 of its 16 major peers
before the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association  meets
to consider a “potential credit event” relating to Greece,
following the results of the nation’s private-sector involvement
plan. The Dollar Index rose as economists said a U.S. report
today will show employers hired more than 200,000 workers for a
third month. Norway’s krone slid after the trade minister said
its recent strength was a “concern.”  “The euro has failed to gather any further support from
the Greek news,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “The market was fully
expecting a successful PSI. The rebound we’ve seen in the euro
may be running out of steam.”  The euro declined 0.4 percent to $1.3219 at 7:11 a.m. in
 New York  after appreciating 1.2 percent over the previous two
days. The single currency fell 0.1 percent to 108.17 yen. The
dollar advanced 0.3 percent to 81.83 yen after reaching 81.89,
the strongest level since May 26.  Higher-yielding currencies have led gains in foreign-
exchange markets since global stocks bottomed three years ago
today. The Australian dollar has surged 68 percent against the
greenback,  New Zealand ’s currency jumped 67 percent and  South
Africa ’s rand gained 41 percent. The euro has risen 4.8 percent.
The MSCI All Country  World Index (MXWD)  of stocks has climbed about 90
percent since March 9, 2009.  Greek Swap  Greece said today that 95.7 percent of bondholders would
participate in its debt swap after it used an option to force
investors to participate. The government said holders tendered
152 billion euros of Greek-law bonds, or 85.8 percent, in
response to the offer to swap their holdings.  The ISDA’s determinations committee will meet at 1 p.m.
London time to determine whether a  credit event  has occurred,
according to a statement posted on the group’s website. Euro-
region finance ministers held a teleconference today to decide
whether the swap was successful enough to warrant going ahead
with a 130 billion-euro bailout package for Greece.  “The focus now is on  what the ISDA will have to say,”
said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “It appears that the activation of
collective action clauses may be considered as an event” that
triggers Greek credit-default swaps.  U.S. Payrolls  The dollar climbed versus all except three of its major
counterparts on speculation today’s payrolls report will reduce
the likelihood that the  Federal Reserve  will embark on a third
round of quantitative easing to cap borrowing costs.  U.S. employers added 210,000 jobs in February, after hiring
243,000 the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s report.  A good payrolls outcome “may be positive for the dollar,
especially against the yen,” Morgan Stanley’s Stannard said.
“The market is expecting a good number, so it is, to a certain
extent, priced in.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, gained 0.4 percent to 79.440.  Implied volatility of one-month options on the euro-dollar
 currency pair  has fallen to 9.8 percent from 10.6 percent a week
ago. The gauge declined to a 10-month low of 9.79 percent on
Feb. 24. Lower volatility encourages purchases of higher-
yielding assets as the main risk in such trades is that foreign-
exchange moves will erase profits.  Krone Declines  The krone weakened the most among the 16 major currencies
against the dollar after Trade Minister Trond Giske said its
strength was hurting exports.  The government and central bank have stepped up verbal
interventions to contain the krone’s ascent after the currency
climbed to a nine-year high of 7.3884 per euro this month.  The krone tumbled 1 percent to 5.6432 per dollar, and sank
0.5 percent to 7.4581 versus the euro.  The dollar may extend gains versus  Japan ’s currency to as
high as 83.80 yen, Commerzbank AG said, citing trading patterns.  A 240-minute chart shows the U.S. currency is staying above
a key area of support, particularly the level of 80.76 yen,
 Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and currency
technical analysis at the bank in  London , wrote in a note to
clients. “While this holds, a positive bias is maintained.
Resistance is now the 82.23 May 2011 high and we continue to
target 83.80 short-term,” she wrote.  The yen has declined 6.7 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
fell 1.1 percent, and euro slid 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  