-- Ex-Coca-Cola Executive Sued by SEC Over Insider Trading Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-08T22:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ex-coca-cola-executive-sued-by-sec-over-insider-trading-claims.html
A former  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) 
executive was sued by U.S. regulators for buying his company’s
shares based on confidential information about an acquisition of
bottling operations in Norway and  Sweden .  Steven Harrold, who was a vice president in  London  for the
Atlanta-based bottling company, bought the stock through his
wife’s brokerage account one day before the February 2010
acquisition was announced, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a lawsuit filed at U.S. District Court for
the Central District of  California  today. Harrold made $86,850
in illegal profits on the trades, the SEC said.  “Harrold deliberately flouted the federal securities laws
and specific company restrictions in his purchases and trades of
Coca-Cola Enterprises stock,” Rosalind Tyson, head of the SEC’s
regional office in Los Angeles, said in a statement. “His
employer entrusted him with critical nonpublic information, and
Harrold shattered that trust.”  Coca-Cola Enterprises bought the Scandinavian bottling
operations in February 2010 from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s
biggest soft-drink maker. The deal was announced as part of a
larger transaction, valued at $12.3 billion, in which Coca-Cola
Co. agreed to buy the North American operations of Coca-Cola
Enterprises.  Harrold, 53, according to the SEC, was informed in early
January 2010 that his firm was considering the acquisition and
signed a non-disclosure agreement that he would keep the
potential transaction confidential, the SEC said.  The SEC said it is seeking disgorgement of illicit profits,
unspecified financial penalties and to bar Harrold from serving
as an officer or director of a public company.  A phone call to Jean Nelson, Harrold’s attorney at Scheper
Kim & Harris LLP in  Los Angeles , wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  