-- Ex-DuPont Employee Pleads Not Guilty in Trade Secrets Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-08T23:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ex-dupont-employee-to-plead-not-guilty-in-trade-secrets-case.html
Ex- DuPont Co. (DD)  worker Robert J.
Maegerle pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to steal trade secrets
from his former employer in an economic espionage case alleging
he and others gave the information to China’s  Pangang Group Co. (000629)   Maegerle, 76, a process engineer for DuPont from 1956 to
1991, had detailed knowledge of the company’s titanium dioxide
technology and expertise in building production lines for the
substance, a white pigment widely used in paints, plastics and
coatings, according to a revised indictment filed Feb. 7.  At the center of the case is Walter Liew, the owner of an
now-defunct Oakland, California-based company who had contracts
with state-owned Pangang. Prosecutors said in court papers that
documents they obtained from Liew’s safety deposit box show Liew
claimed he was directed by a Chinese government official in 1991
to obtain technology needed for  China  to build pigment
factories.  As far back as 1998, Maegerle gave Liew secret information
from Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, including trade secrets
about the process and equipment needed to design a plant to make
titanium dioxide, known as Ti02, prosecutors said in the
indictment. DuPont is the world’s largest maker of Ti02 and
won’t sell or license its technology to other companies.  In 2005, Maegerle e-mailed Liew photographs from DuPont
plants containing secret information about the company’s
inventions for a cost-efficient process to develop the substance
using chloride, according to the indictment.  New Plant  Maegerle, Liew and a former DuPont employee, Tze Chao,
provided information to Pangang in 2008 for the design and
construction of a new plant in China to make 100,000 metric tons
of titanium dioxide a year, prosecutors said. After DuPont filed
a trade-secret lawsuit against Liew, Maegerle gave the
Californian information for responding to the case which falsely
stated that nothing from DuPont was used by Liew, according to
prosecutors.  In addition to the conspiracy count, Maegerle is charged
with attempted theft of  trade secrets , aiding and abetting and
conspiring to tamper with witnesses and evidence. The most
serious charge, tampering, carries a maximum penalty of 20 years
in prison and at least a $250,000 fine.  Jerome Froelich, Maegerle’s attorney, appeared with his
client and entered his not guilty plea.  Liew, his wife, Christina, Pangang and three subsidiaries
have also been charged. Liew’s arraignment is scheduled for
March 21. He has been in prison in Oakland since his arrest in
July.  Liew Denies Allegations  Liew has denied stealing trade secrets and allegations
about his connections to Chinese government officials aren’t
accurate, his lawyer, Tom Nolan, said in court filings.  Christina Liew, charged with conspiracy, possession of
trade secrets and witness tampering, pleaded not guilty today.
She has been free on $100,000 bond since July, when she and
Walter Liew were first charged.  Pangang plans to seek dismissal of the charges against it
on grounds that the U.S. government can’t serve the company or
its units in China,  Robert Feldman , an attorney for the company,
said in a court filing. A hearing on that matter was scheduled
for June 7.  The other U.S. defendant in the case, Chao, 77, who was
with DuPont from 1996 to 2002, pleaded guilty March 1 to one
count of conspiracy to commit economic espionage and is
cooperating with the government.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 