-- Annan Heading to Syria Seeking Solution Assad’s Opponents Say Won’t Work
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-09T14:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ex-un-chief-annan-heads-to-syria-to-press-assad-to-end-attack-on-opponents.html
Kofi Annan  is heading to Syria to
seek a political solution that the opposition says isn’t
possible.  Annan, a former United Nations secretary general, is set
to return to Damascus tomorrow, almost six years after persuading
President Bashar al-Assad to back a cease-fire between  Israel 
and his Hezbollah militia allies in Lebanon. This time, Annan is
traveling as a UN special envoy seeking to negotiate an end to 
Assad's deadly crackdown on protesters, which has claimed more
than 7,500 lives in the past year.  Annan, who is also representing the Arab League in his
visit, told reporters yesterday in Cairo that he wanted to be
“realistic” about his proposals and that he hoped “no one was
thinking seriously” of using force to solve the conflict. His
comments drew criticism from the Syrian National Council, the
leading opposition alliance.  Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the SNC, called Annan “an
international envoy who disappointed the Syrians with his first
statement on the matter,” in an interview with  Al Jazeera 
television. “I fear that the international committee is trying
to buy time, and this is also what the Syrian people fear,”
Ghalioun said. The council has “no hope” of a political
solution, member Haitham al-Maleh told Al Jazeera.  Rising Death Toll  As special envoy appointed by the UN and the Arab League,
Annan has the challenge of pressing Assad to stop the regime’s
deadly crackdown on opponents as a prelude to negotiations on a
political transition.  Syrian security forces attacked protesters at mosques in
Damascus and the central city of Homs today, Al Arabiya
television reported. Forty people were killed nationwide, the
Local Coordination Committees of Syria said on its website.  Valerie Amos , the UN’s emergency relief coordinator, this
week became the first envoy to visit the Baba Amr district of
Homs after a monthlong siege by Assad’s forces.  “I was horrified by the destruction I saw,” Amos said in
an e-mailed statement today. She said aid organizations must be
given “unhindered access to evacuate the wounded and deliver
desperately needed supplies.”  Four Syrian generals were among a group of army officers
and civilians who arrived at a refugee camp in southern  Turkey 
today, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency reported. Deputy
Oil Minister Abdo Hussameldin became the highest-level civilian
official to defect, according to a statement he posted on
YouTube that accused the government of atrocities.  UN Resolutions  Annan is scheduled to meet with the Syrian leader tomorrow.
He will be accompanied by a deputy, Nasser Al-Kidwa, a
Palestinian diplomat whose uncle was Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.  The dispatch of the Ghanaian diplomat, who served as UN
chief between 1997 and 2006, coincides with circulation this
week of a third draft resolution to hold Assad accountable after
two failed attempts by the UN Security Council to compel Assad
to stop the killings.  The last top diplomat to see Assad in person was Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  on Feb. 7, days after  Russia  and
 China  blocked for a second time a Council resolution to condemn
Assad as his forces were shelling the Homs.  Being ‘Realistic’  Stopping off in Cairo to discuss his plan with  Arab League 
Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi, Annan told reporters yesterday
that military intervention would worsen the Syrian crisis.  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar have said they favor providing arms to the
Syrian opposition.  Annan is signaling to Assad that he seeks a political
solution while also warning him about how the landscape is
shaping up, according to  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations in  Washington .  “The pressing question is whether he will next go to
Washington and Moscow as he pieces together the elements of a
deal,” Danin said in a telephone interview. “The key to ending
the bloodshed rests more in Moscow because it is giving the
critical support that allows the Syrian dictator to survive.”  Russia, which sells weapons to  Syria , is facing growing
international pressure to sever ties with a Soviet-era ally.
Russia’s only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  is a
naval maintenance and supply center in the Syrian port of Tartus
on the Mediterranean Sea.  Seeking a breakthrough, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Lavrov are set to meet on March 12 at the UN.  For his part, the former UN chief sounded a cautious note
about whether his past relationship with Assad could help him be
an effective peace broker.  “We haven’t been in touch for a couple of years, and so I
will not presume anything,” Annan told reporters on Feb. 2.
“We will make the demarches and time will tell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  