-- Texas Instruments Cuts First-Quarter Sales, Profit Forecasts
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-03-08T23:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/texas-instruments-cuts-forecasts-on-lower-demand-for-its-wireless-products.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the world’s
largest maker of analog semiconductors, reduced its first-
quarter sales and profit forecasts, citing lower demand for
products that let wireless devices connect and run applications.  Revenue will be $2.99 billion to $3.11 billion, the Dallas-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts on average had
estimated $3.16 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income will be 15 cents to 19 cents a share,
Texas Instruments said, compared with projections of 21 cents.  Texas Instruments is the top supplier of chips that provide
key functions in electronic devices ranging from missiles to
mobile phones, making the company’s earnings an indicator of
demand across the economy. Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said the
weakness in wireless was in connectivity products and OMAP
processors, which run programs in smartphones and tablets. Some
clients have cut their expectations for demand and reduced
inventory, he said on a conference call.  “Everybody in the tablet and handset market will
overestimate the success they’re having, then end up eating
inventory,” said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial
Group in  Dallas .  Slaymaker declined to identify which Texas Instruments
customers, or how many, had cut back orders.  Wireless Customers  Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
Texas Instruments may be indicating that Amazon.com Inc.’s
Kindle Fire tablet hasn’t sold as well as Amazon had projected.
The device uses a Texas Instruments processor and its
connectivity chips, he said.  “It does seem like everything else is tracking apart from
a few customers in wireless,” said Svanberg. He recommends
buying Texas Instruments stock, which he owns himself.  Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, didn’t immediately
return messages left seeking comment.  Texas Instruments  stock  slipped as low as $31 after the
forecast. It had fallen less than 1 percent to $32.60 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 12 percent so far this
year.  In January, Texas Instruments had projected first-quarter
revenue would be $3.02 billion to $3.28 billion, with profit of
16 cents to 24 cents a share.  Avnet Inc. (AVT) ,  Arrow Electronics Inc. (3020)  and  WPG Holdings Ltd. (3702) ,
three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers, are all
distributors of electronic components. They account for a
combined 18 percent of the company’s sales, according to supply-
chain data  compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  