-- Mexican Peso Gains as Investors Signal Agreement on Greece Bonds
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-08T23:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mexican-peso-gains-as-investors-signal-agreement-on-greece-bonds.html
Mexico ’s peso gained the most in two
months as the Greek government’s deadline for the biggest
sovereign restructuring in history passed with a majority of
investors signaling their readiness to participate in the swap.  The peso climbed 1.5 percent to 12.6785 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. in Mexico City, from 12.8732 yesterday. It was the
biggest gain since Jan. 3. The peso is up 9.9 percent this year,
the most among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The peso gained on speculation  Greece  would meet a target
for investor participation in a debt swap, according to  Eduardo Suarez , a senior currency strategist at Scotia Capital Inc. The
goal of the exchange is to reduce the 206 billion euros ($273
billion) of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent, easing a
debt crisis that helped make the peso  Latin America ’s worst
performing currency last year.  The currency gained “on the broad appetite” for higher-
yielding assets amid increased confidence Greece would secure
the participation needed for the swap, Suarez said by phone from
Toronto. “It reduces the uncertainty of an unforeseen outcome.
We know kind of what’s going to happen. If there were no
voluntary swap, then uncertainty once again rises.”  Greece’s government got about 85 percent of bondholders to
tender their holdings of the country’s debt for new securities,
a Greek banking official said. Preliminary indications after the
deadline for the swap expired today showed that as much as 155
billion euros of the 177 billion-euro Greek-law bonds were
offered, according to the official in  Athens , who declined to be
identified.  Debt Swap  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told his Cabinet
ministers that Greece had made “an appropriate framework with
significant incentives” for bondholders.  Mexico’s consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in February from
the previous month, the national statistics agency said today on
its website. Economists projected that prices increased 0.30
percent, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 19 analysts. The annual inflation rate in February fell to
3.87 percent from 4.05 percent a month earlier.  Slower inflation benefits the peso because it boosts
speculation that central bank policy makers won’t adjust the
country’s 4.5 percent benchmark rate, making fixed-rate bonds
attractive to investors, Suarez said.  The yield on the country’s peso-denominated debt due in
2024, known as Mbonos, fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 6.36 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price rose 0.75 centavo to 131.77 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  