-- Export-Import Bank Is U.S. Engine That Can Do More: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/export-import-bank-is-u-s-economic-growth-engine-that-can-do-more-view.html
(Corrects Delta’s position on the Export-Import Bank’s
reauthorization in paragraphs 10 and 11 of article published
March 8.)  U.S. exports  have been a rare bright
spot in an otherwise sluggish economy, increasing by about 20
percent over the last two years and driving about half of all
economic growth.  It’s curious, then, that some U.S. companies, conservative
groups and lawmakers are arguing against reauthorizing the
Export-Import Bank of the  United States , whose sole purpose is
to help strengthen the economy and create jobs by supporting the
nation’s exports.  The  bank , little known outside  Washington , provides direct
loans, loan guarantees and insurance to help finance sales of
American goods and services overseas. So-called trade finance
has long been used by developed and developing countries to
boost exports by assisting foreign buyers and domestic companies
that want to sell into a global market.  The bank makes direct loans at low  interest rates ,
guarantees loans made by private banks and offers insurance to
protect exporters and lenders against the risk of nonpayment for
commercial or political reasons. Its role seems small: Out of $2
trillion in U.S. exports last year, it provided $32 billion in
loans, loan guarantees and other support for about $41 billion
worth of sales. But it helps enable deals that might not happen
otherwise, including the purchase of  General Electric Co. (GE) 
locomotives in  Pakistan  and decorative wall coverings made by
Wallquest Inc., a small, family-owned Pennsylvania company
looking to expand overseas.  Obama’s Goal  President  Barack Obama , who has called for doubling U.S.
exports by 2014, recently asked Congress to reauthorize the bank
and raise its lending cap 40 percent to $140 billion. Emerging
markets such as Brazil, India and  Mexico  are prime targets --
they are growing, and a weak dollar makes U.S. products cheaper
overseas. About 55 percent of U.S. merchandise exports are to
emerging economies.  Equipping the bank with the tools it needs to help  U.S.
exporters (USTBTOT)  has long made sense, but it’s even more critical now,
as  emerging markets  begin making aggressive use of trade
financing. Rather than adhering to international standards set
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
countries such as Brazil and  China  are offering much more
generous terms to give their own exporters an advantage. China
has begun offering lower interest rates or longer repayment
terms than international guidelines allow. In 2010, China
supplied $45 billion in long-term export loans and loan
guarantees, while the U.S. provided just $13 billion, according
to a Bloomberg Government analysis. Last year, the U.S. for the
first time agreed to match China’s cheaper financing terms to
get the Pakistani government to buy those GE trains.  In normal times, reauthorization would happen without
controversy. But these aren’t normal times, and the bank is
falling victim to a larger fight over budgets, subsidies and
globalization.  Some conservative lawmakers and a few companies say the
bank distorts markets by giving a leg up to selected U.S.
companies, displacing private-sector banks and risking taxpayer
money. The bank is drawing comparisons with  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , the mortgage giants that required a taxpayer
bailout, and failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, a
beneficiary of government loans.  The  Air Transport Association  of America even  sued  over
$3.4 billion in loan guarantees the bank provided to support the
sale of 30  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft to  Air India .  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) , a party to the lawsuit, said it was forced to abandon its
 New York  to Mumbai route after Air India -- with an abundance of
aircraft -- cut ticket prices by 33 percent.  Delta Lobbyists  Delta has engaged lobbyists to persuade Congress to limit
the bank’s support to projects that benefit U.S. companies and
employees. Otherwise, Delta argues, the bank’s assistance
reduces the capital costs of overseas competitors and
contributes to a glut of aircraft that will hurt an already
beleaguered  airline industry . Some lawmakers seem inclined to
agree, and the conservative  Club for Growth  this week issued an
alert, urging members to vote no.  The airline, which says it doesn’t oppose reauthorizing the
bank as long as certain conditions are met, makes some valid
points. Financing too many planes may lower fares in the short
run but will ultimately make it uneconomical for airlines to
operate. Ex-Im officials, however, say Delta’s proposal would be
impractical, leaving the bank unable to assist overseas carriers
looking to purchase Boeing jets.  The U.S., however, can’t unilaterally withdraw from trade
finance without harming many other exporters and handing rival
countries an advantage.  Canada ,  Germany , the U.K. and many
others have state-backed credit agencies. Even Delta has
benefited from billions in export assistance from Brazil and
Canada, which helped finance the carrier’s purchase of regional
jets made by Embraer SA and Bombardier Inc.  Rather than trying to stifle the Export-Import Bank, Delta
should focus on diplomatic efforts seeking broader agreement
among countries on rules for aircraft financing. For instance,
the European Union and the U.S. honor an  unwritten  “home market
rule,” under which they refrain from providing credit for
purchases by their carriers of Boeing or Airbus SAS aircraft.
That rule, however, isn’t followed by other countries, tilting
the field in their favor.  There is something unsettling about the U.S. taxpayer
underwriting a foreign company’s purchase of U.S. equipment. But
Ex-Im helps create U.S. jobs (288,000 in 2011, by the bank’s
count) and it has taken precautions to protect taxpayers,
including a reserve account to cover loans that implode. Its
historic default rate is about 2 percent, and the bank is self-
financed through fees paid on its loans, guarantees and
insurance. Last year it returned $275 million to the  U.S.
Treasury . (And though Fannie and Freddie make an eye-catching
comparison, their $5.2 trillion in obligations in 2008 were for
real-estate assets only. The  Export-Import  Bank’s obligations
are about $90 billion, diversified among a multitude of asset
types.)  Given the weak recovery and the need for exports to power
economic growth, it would be irresponsible to pull the plug on
the Export-Import Bank.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 