-- Fracking Failing to Crack China, Europe Shale, Exxon Says
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-03-08T21:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/exxon-estimates-oil-and-gas-production-will-decline-3-in-2012.html
Some shale formations in Europe and
 China  are impervious to drilling techniques that opened vast
reserves of natural gas and oil from  Texas  to  Pennsylvania , said
 Rex Tillerson ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s chief executive officer.  New methods and tools will need to be invented to tap many
of the shale fields that energy companies and governments expect
eventually to yield a bonanza of fuel, Tillerson said during a
meeting with analysts in New York today.  Exxon, the largest U.S. gas producer after its 2010
acquisition of shale driller  XTO Energy (XTO) , failed in its first two
efforts to crack gas-rich shale fields in  Poland . Gas discovered
in a pair of wells finished during the final three months of
last year didn’t flow, even after the company used high-pressure
jets of water and sand to create fissures in the rocks.  “Some of the shales don’t respond as well to hydraulic
fracturing,” Tillerson said during a meeting with reporters
after his presentation to analysts. “It’s going to take
research and time in the lab to understand that.”  Some parts of U.S. shale formations also have proven
impervious to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, he said. The
company is studying whether using different fluids, proppants or
pumping techniques will be successful, Tillerson said. Proppants
are tiny granules of sand or ceramic used to hold open fissures
that allow oil and gas to flow through rock.  ‘Cash Cow’  “Parts of some of these well-known shale plays everyone’s
all excited about don’t work,” Tillerson said. The geologic
obstacles may stem from the depositional history of the
formations and factors such as high temperatures deep under
ground, he said.  Yet-to-be developed fields in shale rock and
under deep seas are expected to contribute 1 million barrels a
day of new oil production by 2025, Yves-Louis Darricarrere,
president of exploration and production for Paris-based  Total
SA (FP) , said on March 6 at the CERAWeek conference in Houston.  Exxon’s U.S. shale holdings include 400,000 acres in the
Bakken region of  North Dakota  and Montana, 800,000 acres in the
Permian Basin in west Texas and  New Mexico , and 170,000 acres in
the Oklahoma’s Woodford Shale, Tillerson said.  Argentina, China  Despite the Polish setback, Tillerson said shale and other
so-called unconventional geologic formations will become a
“cash cow” for Exxon.  Exxon agreed last year to explore shale fields in China
with  China Petrochemical Corp. (1314)  The company also has shale
projects under way in Argentina’s Vaca Muerta formation.  Tillerson is spending $37 billion this year to find and
produce oil, gas, chemicals and motor fuels. Spending on capital
projects will continue at that pace through 2016, he said today.  Oil and gas production will fall 3 percent this year
because of surging  oil prices  that will curb the company’s share
of output from wells in some nations. The production forecast is
based on a $111 a barrel average price for  Brent crude .  The output decline stems from contracts in countries such
as Nigeria that reduce the company’s share of production as
crude prices escalate.  Tillerson plans 21 major oil and gas projects that will
begin production between 2012 and 2014. This year and next, the
company expects to start up nine major projects and anticipates
adding the equivalent of more than 1 million net barrels a day
by 2016.  “An unprecedented level of investment will be needed to
develop new energy technologies to expand supply of traditional
fuels and advance new energy sources,” Tillerson said in
remarks prepared for today’s meeting.  The company’s 2012 exploration portfolio includes projects
in Tanzania, Guyana and Ireland, according to the presentation
materials.  Exxon fell 1.2 percent to $84.83 at the close in  New York .
The shares are little changed in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in New York at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  