-- MF Global Customers Call Trustee’s Demands ‘Unwarranted’
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-08T18:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mf-global-customers-call-trustee-s-demands-unwarranted-.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s trustee asked
futures customers to release claims on the defunct brokerage in
return for money they are owed, demanding an “unwarranted”
transfer of legal rights, a group of customers said.  The customers, including William Fleckenstein, Thomas
Wacker and Summit Trust Co., said in a court filing yesterday
that they were notifying the judge supervising the firm’s
liquidation of their “concern” in case he wasn’t aware that
trustee James Giddens had mailed his demands to some customers
along with his determination of their claims. One of Giddens’s
demands may require customers to release claims made in class-
action lawsuits, they said.  “It may be interpreted to release claims being asserted in
the numerous class action lawsuits filed by aggrieved
customers,” the customers said in the filing. “It could also
potentially be asserted as a bar to recovery by some or all of
the defendants joined in these lawsuits, including claims in the
suits against parties alleged to be responsible for the
misappropriation of customer funds.”  MF Global futures customers including Fleckenstein, a
Seattle money manager, have filed at least seven separate suits
against  Jon Corzine , the parent company’s former chief executive
officer, over the alleged theft of their assets, according to
filings in federal court in  Manhattan . Giddens has said there is
a gap of at least $1.6 billion between funds he can obtain and
commodity customers’ claims.  Detailed Objections  Kent Jarrell , a Giddens spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on yesterday’s filing. The
futures customers will publish a detailed account of their
objections to Giddens’s request later, they said in the filing
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with debt of almost
$40 billion after making bets on sovereign debt and getting
margin calls. Corzine, a former governor of  New Jersey  and
former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has said he
didn’t authorize any misuse of customer money that may have
occurred.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The main investor
case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  