-- Falcon Seeks Second North Australia Shale Partner After Hess
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-03-08T04:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/falcon-seeks-second-northern-australia-shale-partner-after-hess.html
Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. (FO) , an explorer
planning to drill shale prospects in  Australia  with Hess Corp.,
said it is in negotiations to form a second partnership to
develop about 10 percent of its acreage in the country.  Falcon is seeking a shale specialist to fund exploration in
two areas spanning about 700,000 acres of the Beetaloo Basin,
Chief Executive Officer Robert Macaulay said today in a
telephone interview from the company’s headquarters in Denver.
The company owns permits covering 7 million acres in the basin
in the Northern Territory, according to its website.  The oil and gas explorer, which holds almost 15 million
acres in three projects in Australia, Hungary and  South Africa ,
agreed to a venture with New York-based  Hess (HES)  last year to
develop three blocks in Beetaloo. Hess,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BG Group
Plc (BG/)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  have agreed to fund shale gas
exploration campaigns through ventures in Australia.  Before the Hess transaction, “we had every major in the
world active in shale, all the serious players, come by to look
at our data,” Macaulay said. “The opportunities in Australia
are tremendous. It’s going to become more attractive.”  Hess plans to make a decision by the year-end on whether to
fund a five-well drilling program that’s expected to start in
2013, he said. Any partnership accord to develop Falcon’s
additional holdings in the Beetaloo region, about 600 kilometers
(373 miles) south of Darwin, would probably be reached after
Hess commits to the drilling plans, he said.  The five wells may cost about $50 million, Macaulay
estimated, saying those expenses have yet to be determined. Hess
has  paid  the company $20 million and agreed to fund $40 million
of initial work that started last year, Falcon said in July.  Shale Potential  Falcon advanced 5.3 percent to 10 Canadian cents in Toronto
trading yesterday. The shares have slumped 39 percent in the
past 12 months.  Santos (STO)  Ltd., Beach Energy Ltd., Senex Energy Ltd. and AWE
Ltd. are among explorers with shale-gas projects in Australia.
Santos is planning to drill four unconventional wells in the
second half in the  Cooper Basin , the country’s main source of
onshore gas.  With almost 400 trillion cubic feet of estimated shale gas
that may be recoverable, Australia has “major” potential in
four regions, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said in
April. The areas consist of the Cooper Basin straddling the
South Australia and Queensland border, the Maryborough Basin in
Queensland, and the Perth and Canning basins in Western
Australia, according to the  EIA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 