-- FCC Wants More Data About Verizon Agreements With Comcast
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-08T22:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/fcc-wants-more-data-on-verizon-s-airwave-purchase-from-comcast.html
Regulators will consider marketing
agreements that link the biggest U.S. mobile carrier Verizon
Wireless and cable operators led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  as officials
judge the companies’ proposed $3.6 billion airwaves deal.  Parts of the marketing agreements are “inseparable” from
Verizon’s proposal announced in December to buy unused airwaves
from the cable companies, Neil Grace, a spokesman for the
Federal Communications Commission, said in an e-mail.  The agency  posted  on its website queries to Verizon,
largest U.S. cable company Comcast, and No. 2 operator  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The FCC has no deadline to approve or deny the
airwaves sale. It sets an informal 180-day target for deciding.  The marketing deals were announced in December along with
the airwaves transfer. The accords make allies of cable
companies pushing into the phone business and Verizon Wireless,
whose corporate parent is gaining market share in the video
business.  “The commission is following an aggressive course in
asking for more information for a deal that could create a new
communications cartel in this country,”  Gigi Sohn , president of
Public Knowledge, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Washington-based policy group joined  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. on March 6 in seeking more
information about the marketing deals.  Smartphone Demand  Verizon says the spectrum purchase will bring it airwaves
needed to meet demand that is soaring as consumers turn
increasingly to smartphones and data-hungry tablet computers
such as Apple Inc.’s iPad.  “We will continue to respond completely and rapidly to the
questions about both the spectrum transfer and the separate
cross-marketing agreements,” Ed McFadden, a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail. “We believe getting previously
unused spectrum into the hands of consumers is strongly in the
public interest.”  The commercial agreements “provide substantial consumer
benefits without any reduction in competition,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for Comcast, said in an e-mail.  The  Justice Department  separately is looking into the
marketing deals.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge,  New Jersey , is 55
percent owned by Verizon Communications, with the remainder held
by Newbury, United Kingdom-based  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Limited Review Sought  The FCC’s review should be confined to analysis of the
airwaves sale, Verizon’s top Washington official,  Tom Tauke , an
executive vice president, said in a Feb. 16 meeting with FCC
officials.  Since the airwaves sale announcement, Comcast has begun
cooperative marketing with Verizon Wireless in Seattle, San
Francisco and Portland, Oregon. Some new customers in those
areas can get a $300 gift card when they enroll with both
companies.  The cable companies, through their joint venture SpectrumCo
LLC, are selling airwaves in 120 markets that they purchased in
2006 and never developed. Closely held Bright House Networks
LLC, which calls itself the sixth-largest U.S. cable operator,
is a member of the three-company selling group.  Verizon Wireless  in December reached a similar deal with
Cox Communications Inc. FCC requests for information today also
went to Cox and Bright House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  