-- U.S. Probes Resuming Painkiller Trials Tied to Joint Failure
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-08T14:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/fda-asks-advisory-panel-whether-anti-ngf-trials-should-proceed.html
U.S. regulators asked an advisory
panel whether  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the two biggest
U.S. makers of health-care products, should resume human trials
on a class of experimental painkillers linked to joint failure.  Studies on the class of drugs known as anti-nerve growth
factor drugs, designed to treat osteoarthritis and chronic back
pain, were halted in 2010 after the joint problems were
reported. All trials are stopped except those in cancer pain.  The medicines, once expected by analysts to generate as
much as $11 billion a year, will be considered by the  Food and
Drug Administration ’s outside advisers on March 12. The FDA
staff also asked the panel to weigh whether plans are needed to
monitor risks during the trials, and if nonclinical studies
should be conducted, according to a  document  posted on the
agency website today.  “Having a public discussion of this topic at an advisory
committee meeting is unusual in that these products are still in
the investigational new drug phase of development and are not
already approved or under review as new drug applications,” Bob Rappaport, director of FDA’s division of anesthesia, analgesia
and addiction products, wrote in the staff report.  In contrast to other FDA staff documents, today’s report
doesn’t contain detailed analyses of the safety signals that
patients experienced during clinical trials.  Bone Death  At issue is whether the adverse events were evidence of
osteonecrosis, or bone death caused by poor blood supply, or if
patients’ osteoarthritis naturally progressed to a point where
bone and cartilage deteriorated.  The FDA conducted an adjudication of the safety reports and
determined both osteonecrosis and osteoarthritis are associated
with the drugs’ use, according to a separate  document  posted on
the agency’s website.  Pfizer, poised to be the frontrunner in osteoarthritis
applications, halted trials in June 2010 for its compound
tanezumab, and stopped remaining studies for other conditions a
few weeks later.  The agency next asked  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
and Tarrytown, New York-based  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  to
halt development of the painkillers fulranumab and
REGN475/SAR164877, respectively, in December 2010. Regeneron is
working with Paris-based  Sanofi. (SAN)   Other Experimental Painkillers  London-based  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  voluntarily ended early-stage
research on a similar medicine, medi578, at the same time.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ anti-NGF painkiller, ABT-110,
completed a phase 1 trial. The  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
company won’t participate in the advisory panel meeting and is
following developments, said Raquel Powers, a spokeswoman, in an
e-mail.  New York-based Pfizer wants to begin a final-phase
osteoarthritis study by late this year or early 2013.  A company study of 450 patients with osteoarthritis of the
knee found tanezumab reduced pain 45 percent to 62 percent
compared to a 22 percent reduction with placebo, according to an
Oct. 2010 article in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  “The treatment options for patients with painful
osteoarthritis of the knee are inadequate,” Nancy Lane, the
study’s lead author and director of the Center for Aging at the
 University of California , Davis School of Medicine in
 Sacramento , wrote in the journal article.  Commonly used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory painkillers
and narcotics have side effects affecting the gastrointestinal
tract, heart and kidneys, Lane said.  Pfizer, J&J and Regeneron have suggested risk plans to
resume studies that include limiting or excluding NSAID use and
possibly capping the dose at a lower amount than the highest one
used in clinical trials or limiting dosing if a joint-related
event occurs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  