-- FDA Weighing Non-Prescription Status for Chronic Disease Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/fda-weighing-non-prescription-status-for-chronic-disease-drugs.html
The  Food and Drug Administration  is
weighing whether to let consumers buy medicines for some chronic
conditions without a prescription while speeding approvals of
drugs for infection,  Alzheimer’s disease  and rare conditions.  FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  and the agency’s director
of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research yesterday
outlined ways to get drugs in patients’ hands faster. The House
Energy and Commerce health subcommittee today will hold a
hearing on ways to expand the agency’s accelerated approval
program and encourage drugmakers to develop antibiotics.  The FDA plans to expand its accelerated approval program
based on relaxed standards for effectiveness, which is now
largely limited to AIDS and cancer drugs, said  Janet Woodcock ,
the agency’s top drug evaluator. The agency will also hold a
two-day public meeting this month to evaluate whether to
reclassify drugs for high  blood pressure , cholesterol, migraines
and asthma so patients can get them without a prescription.  “This is obviously a time when there is a lot of
discussion about different kinds of strategies and approaches
and we want to participate in those discussions and provide the
kind of expertise and perspective the team has to offer,”
Hamburg said. “Particularly, as the science is unfolding in new
and exciting ways that will give us new tools, I think we are in
a position to do things differently than we have historically.”  The accelerated approval system, which requires further
testing after products are on the market, would benefit
treatments for rare diseases and Alzheimer’s, Hamburg and
Woodcock said.  Congressional Republicans  have criticized the agency for
squelching innovation with last-minute requests for more safety
information and conflict-of-interest rules that discourage
scientists from sitting on advisory panels.  Without Prescription Proposal  The proposal to make some prescription medicines available
over the counter could help reduce medical spending by reducing
doctor visits and the amount insurers pay on pharmaceuticals,
said Robert Goldberg, vice president of the Center for Medicine
in the Public Interest in  New York .  “There’s a convergence of interests here,” Goldberg said.
“Health plans would love to see this happen. It means people
won’t go to the doctor as much for stuff.”  Pharmacists can help patients assess their conditions with
the aid of digital tools and kiosks.  Cholesterol and blood pressure medicines shouldn’t be made
available without a prescription, said  Sidney Wolfe , director of
health research for the consumer group  Public Citizen  in
Washington. Reclassification should only occur if patients can
diagnose their illnesses themselves and the medicine doesn’t
require a physician’s supervision, he said by phone.  Speeding Antibiotics  The FDA also wants to allow makers of antibiotics to test
the drugs on smaller groups of patients. Woodcock said she
envisions labels for such products that would keep doctors and
hospitals from overprescribing the treatments, limiting their
use to help combat antibiotic resistance.  “It basically has reached crisis proportions,” Woodcock
said.  The FDA is weighing a similar label for obesity drugs as
well to limit overprescribing, she said.  Lawmakers have proposals that also would expand the
accelerated approval program and give drugmakers incentives to
develop new antibiotics. Woodcock and Hamburg said they’re
working with Congress and didn’t endorse either bill.  The agency can use its administrative powers to make many
of the changes, though it might need clarifying language on
accelerated approvals, Hamburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 