-- Fender To Bring More Clapton to China with IPO
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-03-08T17:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/fender-stratocaster-guitar-maker-files-for-ipo.html
Fender Musical Instruments Corp.,
the largest seller of guitars in the U.S., plans to sell as much
as $200 million worth of shares in an initial public offering in
a bid to bring more  Eric Clapton  to  China .  The guitar maker and its investors will sell shares, the
Scottsdale, Arizona-based company said today in a regulatory
filing. JPMorgan Securities LLC and William Blair & Co. LLC are
advising on the proposed offering. No further details were
announced. San Francisco-based  Weston Presidio Capital  is the
largest investor with 43 percent of the shares.  Fender, which traces its roots to 1946, makes the
Stratocaster, or “Strat,” one of the most popular electric
guitars and models inspired by musicians such as Clapton and
John Mayer. The company, which increased sales 13 percent to
$700.6 million last year, sees growth coming from  emerging
markets  such as China and  India  as guitar-based music becomes
more popular in those nations.  “We intend to extend our reach to a broader global
consumer base,” Fender said. The brand is “closely associated
with the birth of rock 'n' roll and has a strong legacy in music
and in popular culture.”  Clapton Stratocaster  The global market for musical instruments and accessories
totaled $15.8 billion in 2010, according to the filing. Fender
gets about 47 percent of its sales from outside the U.S. and
sells products in 85 countries. Many of its models, including an
 Eric Clapton Stratocaster , sell for more than $2,000. Clapton is
a three-time inductee into the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .  Founder Leo Fender sold the company to Columbia Records
Distribution Corp., a division of Columbia Broadcasting System,
Inc., in 1965, according to the filing. The late William Schultz
and current board member William Mendello then purchased Fender
in 1985.  Michael Lazarus, a managing partner at Weston Presidio, is
on Fender’s eight-member board, which also includes Servco
Pacific Inc. Chief Executive Officer Mark Fukunaga. Weston
Presidio also has investments in  Guitar Center Inc. (GTRC)  and AMC
Entertainment Holdings Inc.  Fender’s competition includes online sellers of new and
used instruments such as  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and guitar makers such as
Gibson Guitar Corp., according to the filing.  The company will use $100 million from the offering to
repay a portion of a senior credit facility.  Fender’s net income was $19 million last year compared to a
net loss of $1.69 million in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  