-- Logic of Finance Can Banish Corruption (Part 4): Robert Shiller
-- B y   R o b e r t   S h i l l e r
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/finance-logic-can-banish-corruption-part-4-commentary-by-robert-shiller.html
The economic power that some in the
financial community attain bothers many people deeply. It
offends our ideal of a society that aspires to respect,
appreciate and support everyone. The pursuit of power that often
drives financial capitalism seems contrary to the concept that
finance should be about the stewardship of society’s assets.  Yet successful societies develop elites partly because they
need leaders with the power to get things done. We have to make
it possible for a relatively small number of people to use their
personal judgment to direct our major activities. A system of
financial capitalism will eventually imbue those in possession
of such faculties with wealth and power.  Still, there is a reason that the level of resentment of
the wealthy and powerful is so high: A free capitalist system
can support an equilibrium in which some kinds of social
conspiracy pay off.  George Akerlof , in his 1976 article, “The
Economics of Caste and of the Rat Race and Other Woeful Tales,”
explains the tendency of certain social groups to form a sort of
business conspiracy against outsiders. He uses the caste system,
most notorious in traditional India, to examine the phenomenon
of power elites in business and finance.  Castes in Finance  Those in the world of finance who belong to a higher caste
-- because they are graduates of an elite college or are
connected to a specific business culture -- realize an immense
economic advantage. Fearful of compromising that advantage, they
adhere to the caste’s social norms. They favor their own caste
in business and reject those who don’t belong -- or who don’t
respect the social norms. This promotes stability of the caste.  The financial tools themselves don’t create the caste
structure, though their mechanisms are part of the equilibrium.
The same financial tools can also, if suitably designed and
democratized, become a means to break free from the grip of
caste equilibrium. Truly democratic finance can enable citizens
to escape outcast status.  Financial capitalism is a work in progress, not yet
perfected but gradually improving. It is defined by a long list
of practices and, within them, specific roles and
responsibilities for people. Watching these people in operation
day to day, one can easily observe that, in our society, caste-
like behavior has been on the decline.  India ’s caste system has never been accepted by the
Buddhist, Christian and Muslim religions, and it was deplored by
 Mahatma Gandhi  and other spiritual leaders.  Vladimir Lenin  in
 Russia , Kemal Ataturk in  Turkey , Yukichi Fukuzawa in  Japan , Sun Yat-sen and  Mao Zedong  in China, Eva Peron in  Argentina  and
 Nelson Mandela  in  South Africa  had the same distaste for castes
or their analogues. Just as their beliefs represent a worldwide
20th-century trend toward greater social enlightenment, a
parallel trend exists in the business world.  The concept of an aristocracy or “high society,” so strong
in the 19th century, is fading around the world. No longer is a
listing in the Social Register a coveted status symbol for
prominent U.S. families. Burke’s Peerage has likewise fallen
from importance in the U.K. In  China , the national records of
degree-holding literati and the local gazetteers died out before
the end of the Qing dynasty in 1912. A more egalitarian spirit
is abroad in the world, and it is supported by democratized
finance.  Regarding the Rich  President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  once said, “I am delighted
to show any courtesy to Pierpont Morgan or  Andrew Carnegie  or
James Hill, but as for regarding any of them as, for instance, I
regard … Peary, the Arctic explorer or Rhodes the historian --
why I could not force myself to do it even if I wanted it, which
I don’t.”  Most of us might think Roosevelt himself was rich. After
all, in the 1940s his family was the most prominent of all in
the Social Register, with no less than a page and a half of
entries. But he was not among the extremely rich, and he seems
to have considered himself at the same distance from them that
most of us do. This mindset must have been a factor in his New
Deal policies, which helped democratize U.S. financial markets.  Further democratization of finance entails relying more on
effective institutions of risk management that prevent random
redistributions of power and wealth. We have to further develop
the financial system’s inherent logic, its own ways of making
deals among independent and free people -- deals that leave them
all better off.  We also have to improve the nature and extent of
participation in the financial system, including by distributing
to everyone fundamental information about its workings. When
people get reliable information, they come to feel less
dominated by a power elite. At present, most people have little
or no such information. Instead they are routinely confronted by
salespeople for financial products who have inadequate incentive
to tell them what they really need to know.  An enlightened system of financial capitalism requires some
government interventions, including a progressive income tax.
There also needs to be a social safety net, and it has to be
continually improved and reworked.  Make Finance Humane  The democratization of finance works hand in hand with the
humanization of finance. To that end, it is important that
finance be humane, and that its models incorporate our
increasingly sophisticated understanding of the human mind. The
rise of behavioral economics and neuroeconomics in recent
decades provides a foundation for such an approach, for
understanding how people really think and act. People aren’t
inherently and uniformly loving to their neighbors, but our
institutions can be changed to reward the better side of human
nature.  One of these better sides is the charitable impulse, and
the tendency, at least in the right social environment, for
wealthy people to give much of their wealth away constructively.
Such a tendency ought to be considered central to financial
capitalism.  One other singularly important human impulse was emphasized
by  Adam Smith  in his 1759 book, “The Theory of Moral
Sentiments.” This is the desire for praise. We see this plainly
in the behavior of the youngest children and the oldest and
weakest people, those with no hope of attaining power over
others.  An enormous literature in modern psychology confirms the
importance of self-esteem. But Smith put a different slant on
the desire for praise. In mature people, he wrote, it is
transformed into a desire for praiseworthiness. Further, he
believed that our desire for praise can be truly satisfied only
if we deserve it. No one is satisfied merely to look
praiseworthy; one wants to be praiseworthy.  This aspect of human nature is essential to the success of
our economic system. Economic development is, in substantial
measure, the development of a social milieu in which few people
find corrupt behavior worthy of praise.  Achieving such a system requires innovations to humanize
finance. Regulations are like rules of war; they work to lessen
the unnecessary damage of human aggression and encourage the
expression of other, more charitable, impulses.  Many of our hopes for the future should be pinned on
further development of the institutions representing financial
capitalism. We are easily dazzled today by advances in
 information technology , and these advances can certainly
interact positively with financial innovations. But advances in
our economic institutions may ultimately be more important than
those in our hardware and software. The financial system is
itself an information-processing system -- one built with human,
rather than electronic, units.  We need a system that allows people to make constructive
deals to further their goals, and one that allows an outlet for
our aggressions and lust for power. It must redirect inevitable
human conflicts into a manageable arena, one that makes room for
those who are happy to commit themselves to a life of
stewardship and the protection of others.  (Robert Shiller is a  professor  of economics and finance at
 Yale University , where he teaches financial markets in the  Open
Yale Courses  program. He is the author of “ Irrational
Exuberance ” and “The Subprime Solution.” This is the last in a
series of four excerpts from his new book, “ Finance and the Good
Society ,” to be published April 4 by  Princeton University Press .
The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part
3 .)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Robert Shiller  at  Robert.Shiller@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  