-- Fix the Inequality Gap: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   K e n n y
-- 2012-03-08T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/fix-the-inequality-gap-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
On Feb. 29 the World Bank announced
that the proportion of the planet’s population living in
absolute poverty  -- on less than $1.25 a day -- had halved from
1990 to 2010. That rate of poverty reduction is unprecedented,
driven by rapid rates of economic growth in poor countries from
 China  to  Ghana .  Yet despite the huge progress against poverty worldwide,
inequality -- the gap between rich and poor within countries --
has been expanding. Recent analysis by economists Isabel Ortiz
and Matthew Cummins at Unicef suggests about two-thirds of all
countries have become more unequal over the past two decades.  Income inequality  has become a preoccupation of voters in
America and  Europe , where the poverty line is more than 10 times
higher than the $1.25-a-day standard used by international
organizations. Governments in the U.S. and U.K. have proposed a
range of measures targeting the incomes of the top 1 percent of
earners, from limits on executive bonuses to the Buffett Rule,
which would require Americans making more than $1 million to pay
at least 30 percent in federal income tax.  Yet the example of all those rapidly growing poor countries
suggests that the developed world’s emphasis on soaking the rich
is misplaced -- or at least inadequate. To make real progress in
closing the gap between rich and poor, countries like the U.S.
would be better off lifting the quality of life for their least
advantaged citizens -- and stopping the obsession with lowering
the boom on the most privileged.  Equal Paychecks  Before we start harking back to a golden age of more equal
paychecks, it’s worth examining some of the factors that have
contributed to inequality in rich countries. Greater use of
computers and other technology has played a big role in
increasing demand for the well-educated over the past 20 years,
a process economists call “skill-biased technological change.”  “Skill premiums” - in which people with more education
earn higher salaries than those with less -- have risen across
the world since the 1980s. In  Mexico , to cite one example, the
gap between the pay of skilled and unskilled workers grew by
almost 70 percent between 1980 and 2000. Short of banning cell
phones and laptops, however, it’s unclear what the direct policy
response to such trends should be.  Tax policies and financial regulation have also fueled
inequality -- especially in the  United States . A 2011 paper by
Anthony Atkinson, Thomas Piketty, and Emmanuel Saez of the
London and Paris Schools of Economics and University of
California at Berkeley, respectively, found that since 1985,
changes in the  tax code  helped bolster the 1 percent’s share of
national income from 9 percent to 15 percent.  Richest Americans  Given that those changes were followed by a period of
particularly sluggish growth for the U.S., it is clear that the
gains for the richest Americans have not created a rising tide
for all.  Nonetheless, taxation and regulatory policy are only part
of the story and thus only part of the solution. The policies
that have done the most to improve the lives of the world’s poor
have often taken decades to do so.  Americans can look at the East Asian “miracle” economies,
like those of China,  South Korea , and  Thailand , to see how
expanding opportunities for the underclass can promote broad
economic growth.  Land reform (which gave small farmers a larger share of
property) and wider access to health and education gave the poor
greater economic security and allowed parents to invest more in
their children’s education and well-being, which in turn made
them more productive workers. That’s a big reason why a number
of Asian countries have catapulted from mass poverty to
membership in the group of high income economies.  Brazil Gap Narrows  In Brazil, meanwhile, the top fifth of the population saw
their share of total income decline from 65 percent to
59 percent from 1990 to 2008, while the bottom two-fifths saw
their share increase from 8 percent to 10 percent.  Part of that is due to an innovative program called Bolsa
Família, introduced by former President Luiz Inácio Lula da
Silva. The program provides government cash transfers to
12 million poor families, with part of the money conditional on
parents getting their kids vaccinated and sending them to
school.  The payments add as much as 40 percent to household
incomes, and most of the money is used to buy food, school
supplies, and clothes for the children. Among recipient
families, vaccination rates and school enrollment have soared.
And far from hurting growth,  Brazil ’s war on poverty has
coincided with stronger economic performance. In the seven years
after Bolsa Família was introduced in 2003, the country’s
average gross domestic product growth was 4.3 percent. That
compares with 1.9 percent in the seven years before.  Focus on Poor  Both the East Asian and Latin American experiences
demonstrate that the priority for policy makers concerned about
inequality shouldn’t be middle-class people who can’t afford to
renovate their master bathroom. A more effective approach is to
focus on poor people -- and in particular poor kids -- who can’t
compete on anything like a level playing field because they are
excluded from the social, health, and learning opportunities
that underpin success.  Education can play a huge role in leveling that field.
Miles Corak of  Statistics Canada  has found that kids of low-
income parents are far more likely to become low-income adults
in the U.S. than in other countries. In the U.S., fully half of
what a person earns can be predicted by how much his father made
-- compared with less than 20 percent in Canada or Scandinavia.  Education and Earnings  Rich parents ensure their kids go to school and stay there,
and in countries where education produces high returns, that
means rich kids go on to earn a lot more. Among OECD countries,
the strongest correlations between education and future earnings
are in  France , the U.S., and the U.K. -- which are also the
countries with the highest correlation between parents’ income
and their children’s.  The answer is not necessarily “more money for education”
-- after all, the U.S. is already a big spender on schools, and
there’s little desire in  Washington  to spend more. But ensuring
that more young children have access to environments that
stimulate learning could yield outsize returns. Corak argues
that universal day care is a significant factor in explaining
both low child poverty and higher rates of mobility in
Scandinavia compared with the U.S.  Making a serious dent in inequality, in other words,
requires more focused investment in the future. That might well
mean higher taxes on the 1 percent: providing opportunity for
more people to attain a better quality of life entails the very
richest paying their fair share. But that revenue shouldn’t
simply go toward propping up middle-class subsidies like the
home office tax deduction or mortgage interest relief. The
solution to inequality isn’t just to bring the 1 percent back
down to earth. It’s to ensure that everyone has the potential to
reach the top 1 percent themselves.  (Kenny, an economist on leave from the  World Bank , is a
senior fellow at the Center for Global Development and a
Schwartz Fellow at the  New America Foundation .)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at   rratnesar@bloomberg.net  