-- Gasoline Futures Advance as Brent Crude Gains on Greek Debt Deal
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-08T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/gasoline-rises-as-brent-european-fuel-gain-on-greek-debt-deal.html
Gasoline advanced a second day,
following  Brent crude  higher on optimism that  Greece  will be
able to restructure without jeopardizing the region’s economic
recovery and fuel demand.  Futures rose as Brent surged 1.1 percent. Investors with at
least 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible for the nation’s
debt swap have so far indicated they’ll participate in the
exchange. Economists in a survey by Bloomberg News forecast the
U.S. Labor Department will report that employers boosted
February payrolls.  “The products are being dragged up with Brent, which is up
because of optimism about the Greek debt swap, as well as the
perception that the job market in the U.S. is improving,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for April delivery rose 2.66 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $3.314 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 23 percent this year, making
gasoline the best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 commodities.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who was in
Frankfurt today after the ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record-low 1 percent, said “the risk environment has
improved enormously. We see many signs of returning confidence
in the euro.”  Dollar Drops  The dollar fell 1 percent against the euro at 3:23 p.m. in
 New York , increasing the investment appeal of commodities. Brent
for April settlement on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange
rose $1.32 to $125.44 a barrel. Brent’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate crude on Nymex widened to $18.86 a barrel from
$17.96.  “Products are following the oil market and it looks like
Greece may have passed the threshold for the debt swap to go
through,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “Now, the market is
waiting on tomorrow’s jobs report, which could bring speculative
longs back into the market.”  The Labor Department will probably report tomorrow that
payrolls, including government workers, rose by 210,000 in
February and the  unemployment rate  held at 8.3 percent, based on
the median forecast of economists in the survey.  The number of Americans filing claims for  jobless benefits 
increased 8,000 to 362,000 last week, Labor Department figures
showed today. The average over the past four weeks held close to
a four-year low.  Consumer Confidence  Household confidence rose to a four-year high last week as
more Americans said the economy was improving. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index was minus 36.7 in the week ended March 4,
the highest level since April 2008, up from minus 38.8 in the
prior period.  April-delivery heating oil rose 5.01 cents, or 1.6 percent,
to settle at $3.2695 a gallon on the exchange. Prices are up 11
percent this year.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell for
a third day yesterday, slipping 0.3 cent to $3.758 a gallon,
according to AAA data. Prices have increased 15 percent this
year, and are 6.9 percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  