-- Gasoline Price Rise Seen in Refiner Yields at Six-Month Low: India Credit
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-03-09T05:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/gasoline-price-rise-seen-in-refiner-yields-at-six-month-low-india-credit.html
Bonds of Indian Oil Corp. are
rallying, driving yields to the lowest in almost six months, on
speculation the government will reduce subsidies and allow fuel
prices to rise.  The yield on the Mumbai-based company’s 4.75 percent dollar
notes due January 2015 touched 3.51 percent on March 5, the
least since Sept. 14, and has slid 85 basis points this year.
Those for similar-dated debt of Reliance Industries Ltd., which
operates the world’s biggest refinery, fell 24 basis points and
those on Valero Energy Corp., the largest independent U.S.
refiner, declined 34 basis points.  Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum
Corp., the nation’s state-run refiners, may lose a combined 1.3
trillion rupees ($26 billion) in revenue from selling fuels
below cost in the current fiscal year, according to the
government.  Indian Railways  raised charges to move commodities
by as much as 20 percent this week, triggering speculation that
 oil companies  will also raise gasoline prices.  “Raising fuel prices is absolutely the need of the hour,”
said Gopal Agrawal, the Mumbai-based chief investment officer at
the local unit of  South Korea ’s Mirae Asset Financial Group that
oversees $2.5 billion, said in an interview on March 6.
“Increasing gasoline prices is the bare minimum, and the
government will probably bite the bullet and do it for other
fuels too. This will benefit the companies by improving their
cash flows.”  Net Income  The three refiners depend on government subsidies and
discounts on purchases from state-run explorers to make up for
losses from selling fuels below cost, which is aimed at curbing
inflation. They are losing 4.7 billion rupees every day on the
sale of fuels, 21 percent higher than at the end of 2011,
according to Oil Ministry data.  Brent crude , the benchmark for
almost all of India’s fuel imports, has surged about 17 percent
this year to $125.57 a barrel.  Indian Oil reported its first profit in three quarters in
the three months ended December as the government gave the
nation’s biggest refiner 164.2 billion rupees as a subsidy. The
company didn’t get any compensation in the two preceding
quarters, pushing it into losses.  ‘Staying Invested’  The yield on the 4.75 percent bonds of Indian Oil has
dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.56
percent since the company reported its results on Feb. 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am staying invested in Indian Oil bonds since currently
the global  risk assessment  is fine,” Sergey Dergachev, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt-based Union Investment that oversees $8.5
billion of emerging-market debt, said in an e-mailed reply on
Feb. 29. “Indian Oil is very well in demand for its good credit
profile, strong state support and relatively cheap valuation.”  The yield on Reliance Industries’ 10.375 percent dollar
notes due June 2016 rose three basis points to 4.85 percent
today, taking its increase for this month to 13 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The refiner, controlled
by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , reported its first quarterly drop
in more than two years in the three months ended December.  ‘Long-Term Story’  The government’s benchmark 8.79 percent notes due November
2021 fell for a fourth straight day, rising one basis point from
March 7 to 8.25 percent, on speculation any increase in fuel
prices will stoke inflation.  India ’s financial markets were
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  The difference in yields between rupee-denominated debt due
in a decade and similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries  has  widened  190
basis points from a year ago to 621 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar-based bond investors earned 7.2 percent this year
from Indian securities, the highest in  Asia  after Vietnamese
notes that returned 8.9 percent, according to regional debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Clariden Leu AG, which oversees about $100 billion in
assets, isn’t looking to add to its holdings of Indian Oil
bonds. Dollar notes issued by Reliance Industries are more
attractive as the company doesn’t need to sell fuels at
government-set prices, according to the Swiss private bank.  “A hike in gasoline prices would be positive for Indian
Oil, but it doesn’t change the long-term story,” Dorothea Froehlich, a Zurich-based fund manager at Clariden Leu, said in
an interview on March 7. “I would still prefer Reliance at the
same price.”  Bond Risk  Shares (IOCL)  of Indian Oil have climbed 8.6 percent this year,
compared with a 12.4 percent increase in Reliance Industries and
a 13.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The rupee advanced 0.7 percent to 49.93 per dollar today,
taking its appreciation for the year to 6.3 percent, the most
among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies.  India’s bond risk is falling on speculation a cut in
subsidies will help narrow the government’s budget deficit. The
cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India using credit-
default swaps was 321 basis points on March 8, compared with 395
basis points at the end of last year, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets. Some investors consider the lender
a proxy for the sovereign. The swaps pay face value should a
company fail to adhere to its agreements.  The government may allow state-owned refiners to raise fuel
prices following the conclusion of elections in five states this
week, according to ICRA Ltd., the local affiliate of Moody’s
Investors Service, and Kokusai Asset Management Co., which sold
 Japan ’s first India-dedicated bond fund in August.  “The government may decide to cut its heavy subsidy burden
and raise retail prices,” Takahide Irimura, the head of
emerging-market research in  Tokyo  at Kokusai Asset Management
Co. that oversees $51 billion, said March 6. “It decision may
also be influenced by the end of elections this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 