-- Bunds Fall Before ECB Meet as Italy-German Spread Shrinks to Six-Month Low
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-08T09:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/german-bonds-decline-before-production-report-as-ecb-rates-decision-looms.html
Germany’s bonds fell for the first
time in three days on bets European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will signal the region’s economy is improving when he
speaks today after policy makers review  interest rates .  Two-year  German yields  were two basis points from a record
low as investors with about 60 percent of the Greek bonds
eligible for a proposed debt swap indicated a willingness to
take part. Italian bonds advanced, reducing the extra yield on
10-year securities over bunds to the lowest since September. The
ECB will leave its refinancing rate at 1 percent, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  “The most interesting thing today is how much positive
spin Draghi puts on the developments, particularly on growth,”
said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate strategy a
Royal Bank of Canada in  London . “If Draghi spins the story more
positively it might not be good for bunds.” I see potential for
longer-maturity Italian and Spanish bonds to gain, he said.  The German 10-year bund yield rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 9:42 a.m. London time.
The 2 percent bond due January 2022 dropped 0.43, or 4.30 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount to 101.625. The two-year yield was
little changed at 0.15 percent after dropping to a record 0.13
percent on Jan. 12.  The 10-year yield climbed three basis points on the day of
the previous ECB meeting Feb. 9, when Draghi said recent surveys
showed “signs of stabilization” in the region.  German Output  Germany ’s  industrial output  climbed 1.1 percent in January
from December, when it slipped 2.9 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists before the report today. The
country’s services industries expanded last month, a report
showed on March 5.  German bonds have returned 0.4 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian debt gained 13 percent,
and Spanish securities rose 2.6 percent.  Demand for German bonds, which gained 9.7 percent last
year, is waning as  Europe ’s leaders make progress in resolving a
debt crisis that has forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
financial aid.  Banks and insurers including BNP Paribas SA,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
and  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  have agreed to participate in
Greece’s debt exchange, bringing the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history closer. Greece’s six largest banks,
cumulatively the biggest private holders of the country’s debt,
plan to accept the offer, the  Finance Ministry  said March 6.  Italian Yield  Italy’s  10-year yield  fell 19 basis points to 4.75 percent,
the lowest since June 8. The difference in yield over similar-
maturity German bunds narrowed 23 basis points to 2.94
percentage points, the least since Sept. 1.  The Spanish 10-year yield declined seven basis points to
5.02 percent.  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since the ECB
offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s financial
institutions in so-called longer-term refinancing operations in
December and February to avoid a credit crunch. The securities
advanced amid speculation banks are buying them to take
advantage of higher yields after borrowing from the central bank
at its 1 percent benchmark rate.  Volatility in Irish government debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today, followed by  France , according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps.  Greek 2022 bonds were little changed at a yield of 39.36
percent, leaving the price at 19 percent of face value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  