-- German Industrial Output Rises More Than Forecast on Construction: Economy
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-08T12:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/german-industrial-output-rises-more-than-forecast.html
German  industrial output  increased
more than economists forecast in January, rebounding from a
December slump as construction activity jumped.  Production (GRIPIMOM)  rose 1.6 percent from December, when it fell 2.6
percent, which was the steepest decline in almost three years,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a
January increase of 1.1 percent, according to the median of 39
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year, production
advanced 1.8 percent when adjusted for working days.  Today’s report is the latest to suggest that Europe’s
largest economy is weathering the region’s debt crisis and may
avoid a recession even as euro-area demand for its exports
weakens. Business and investor confidence both jumped last month
as Greece secured a second bailout and the  European Central Bank 
flooded the banking system with cash.  “This is the first hard evidence of a tender rebound in
the economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at  ING Group (ILF) 
in Brussels. “While next month’s data may disappoint because of
the harsh winter, the economy is robust enough to offset any
negative impact from higher  oil prices  and weaker demand from
other euro-zone countries.”  Unusually mild weather at the start of the year may have
boosted construction before temperatures plummeted. Construction
jumped 4.3 in January, today’s report showed. Production of
investment goods rose 3.5 percent and energy output gained 1.7
percent. The ministry revised December output from an initially
reported drop of 2.9 percent.  Austerity Measures  German 10-year bund yields and the euro stayed higher after
the report, with the single currency trading at $1.3242 at 1:05
p.m. Frankfurt time.  Austerity measures across  Europe  are clouding growth
prospects and curbing foreign sales. The 17-nation euro-area
economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year, driven by
contractions of 1.3 percent in  Italy  and 1 percent in Spain, the
European Commission said on Feb. 23. Euro-area services output
shrank more than estimated in February, a survey of purchasing
managers showed March 5.  French  business sentiment  declined in February, the Bank of
France said in Paris today. In Germany, factory orders fell 2.7
percent in January, led by a 5.5 percent slump in export demand,
the ministry said yesterday.  Global Headwinds  Shares in  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the German adhesives maker, declined
in Frankfurt trading today after the company reported fourth-
quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates.  Continental AG (CON) ,
Europe’s second-largest tire maker, on March 1 scaled back its
revenue forecast for 2012.  The global economy may also struggle to regain momentum.
Australian employers unexpectedly cut jobs last month, South
Korea’s central bank warned of “downside” risks to growth and
 Japan  reported an increasing reliance on energy imports that
threatens to damp its economic rebound.  Those reports highlighted headwinds for the Asia-Pacific
region’s expansion as policy makers evaluate whether to add to
stimulus implemented in recent months. With inflation pressures
remaining, South Korean,  New Zealand  and Indonesian officials
kept benchmark  interest rates  unchanged.  The European Central Bank and the Bank of Canada are also
projected to keep borrowing costs on hold today to retain some
firepower, Bloomberg surveys show. The Bank of England held its
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent today.  Still,  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX share index  is up 15 percent
this year, outperforming its main European counterparts.  The Bundesbank said on Feb. 20 the outlook for the economy
has “improved perceptibly,” even though “risks relating to
the sovereign-debt crisis remain.”  Economic growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year from 3
percent in 2011 before accelerating to 1.8 percent in 2013,
according to a December forecast from the central bank.  “Germany’s economy is robust and has diversified enough to
help offset a dependence on the euro area as the main export
market,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,
Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  