-- Give Employers a Break on Pensions: Charles E.F. Millard
-- B y   C h a r l e s   E . F .   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/give-private-employers-a-break-on-pensions-charles-e-f-millard.html
Defined-benefit pension plans are
under threat from two powerful forces: the 2006 legislation that
was supposed to strengthen them, and the historically low
 interest rates  that are crushing them.  The  Pension Protection Act  of 2006 was intended to make
private-sector plans safer. The law made some improvements. But
the pressure it is putting on U.S. corporations is having
unintended consequences. Companies are rapidly closing pension
plans because of the  heavy funding requirements  that have only
become heavier with low interest rates.  The  Society of Actuaries  estimates that required
contributions from employers will double over the next decade,
from the average of $45 billion annually from 2000 to 2009 to an
average of $90 billion from 2010 through 2019. If the law is not
fixed, the corporate defined-benefit plan will soon be a thing
of the past. Provisions were attached to the current Senate
 highway bill  to make some needed changes, but they have to go
further.  The 2006 legislation was prompted by the devastating
collapse of Bethlehem Steel Corp. and the subsequent
bankruptcies of  United Airlines  and  US Airways . Those failures
led to tremendous job losses, reduced pensions and multibillion-
dollar increases in the deficit of the  Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp .  Law of Worst Cases  Bethlehem Steel’s  pension plan  had been considered “fully
funded” under the law at the time. This meant the company made
all the required contributions. It didn’t mean the plan was
fully funded. The law permitted aggressive valuation of
corporate assets and relaxed funding standards. It turned out
that Bethlehem Steel’s assets were sufficient to meet only 45
percent of its obligations.  United Airlines  and  US Airways (LCC)  faced
similar gaps.  George W. Bush ’s administration and Congress -- Republicans
and Democrats alike -- tried to address this problem.
Unfortunately, the legislation was written to cover the worst
situations of the past without anticipating those of the present
-- in particular  the burden  that pensions face as a result of
interest rates that are at historic and abnormal lows.  To relieve those pressures and make it more attractive for
employers to maintain their pension plans intact, Congress
should make two changes. It should allow companies to use a
multiyear average of bond yields, instead of a two-year average,
to calculate their pension contributions, and it should reduce
funding requirements from 100 percent of liabilities to
something more reasonable.  The law requires that corporations use the rate on high-
quality  corporate bonds  to compute the present value of their
pension obligations. The lower those rates are, the higher the
stated value of the future liabilities will be. Current low
rates are wreaking havoc on pensions’ funded status and
corporations’ required contributions. In 2011, the  Citigroup
Pension Liability Index  fell from 5.54 percent to 4.40 percent.
That change alone increased pension deficits in the  S&P 500  by
far more than $200 billion.  This approach is inconsistent with the long-term nature of
pension liabilities.  Imagine that a company will owe a retiree $35,000 annually,
starting in the year 2030. It can actuarially predict with a
high degree of reliability the dollar amount it will owe to the
cohort of employees who will retire 18 years from now. Interest
rates may rise or fall -- as they surely will -- between now and
2030, but the important thing is whether the corporation and the
pension plan will be in a position to meet those liabilities in
2030 and beyond.  Interest-Rate Drag  The Pension Protection Act doesn’t focus on the likelihood
that a corporation can pay those liabilities 18 years from today
and in ensuing decades. It focuses on now. It looks at a
snapshot when it should be looking at a movie. It doesn’t allow
for reasonable smoothing of interest rates, even in today’s
extraordinary environment.  I arrived at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. shortly
after Congress passed the 2006 act. It was clear to me that the
law had been driven by a desire to protect against absolute
worst-case scenarios (though it had not anticipated the current
one). Sponsors of defined-benefit plans complained to me that
the new law would result in the demise of the private-sector
pension.  The effects from the rigid rules on interest rates became
so severe in late 2008 that Congress gave some temporary relief,
but that reprieve lasted only a couple of years. Now, in a low-
rate environment even more severe than in late 2008, no relief
is available.  The law needs a permanent fix. Besides changing the rules
affecting interest rates, Congress should reduce funding targets
-- at least for healthy corporations -- to a range of 80 percent
to 85 percent, not the 100 percent required today. The real
threat to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. and to the
recipients isn’t an underfunded  pension plan  -- it is an
underfunded pension plan in a company that goes bankrupt.  By comparison, an individual retirement account isn’t fully
funded until the day the individual retires. At that point, it
is by definition fully funded -- individual-retirement-account
contributions cease and withdrawals begin. But a healthy
corporation’s pension plan exists long after the individual has
retired. In such a situation, “full funding” is a false target
that simply makes it harder for corporations to keep their
pension plans going.  A defined-benefit pension plan keeps retirees more
financially secure in old age and can help corporations attract
employees. To preserve private-sector pension plans, Congress
has to act while there is still time.  (Charles E.F. Millard is a managing director for pension
relations at Citigroup Inc. He was director of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. from 2007 to 2009. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Charles E.F. Millard at  Charles.millard@citi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 