-- Gol Advances Most in a Week After Rate Cut: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-03-08T19:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/gol-advances-most-in-a-week-after-rate-cut-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-largest airline by market share, rose the most
in a week after the central bank cut interest rates, helping
lower the company’s borrowing costs.  Gol (GOLL$)  gained 3.6 percent to 14.61 reais at 4:14 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. Earlier it rose 4.9 percent, the biggest intraday advance
since Feb. 28. The benchmark Bovespa  index  gained 1.3 percent.  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate , known as
Selic, by 75 basis points to 9.75 percent yesterday, bringing
borrowing costs below 10 percent for only the second time amid
signs of lackluster growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  “The rate cut does help, both due to the prospect of
faster economic growth and for making it cheaper for Gol to
service about a quarter of its debt, which is linked to the
Selic,” Luiz Otavio Campos, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  Gol had 24 percent of its 4.72 billion reais ($2.66
billion) total debt linked to the Selic in the third quarter,
according to its latest earnings report, disclosed Nov. 10. With
the rate cut, the airline’s interest payments to creditors
become cheaper, Campos said.  Banco BTG Pactual SA, in an e-mailed note to clients today,
listed Gol among four Brazilian companies that will benefit most
from an accelerated pace of rate cuts because of their
relatively high debt. The others are  Suzano Papel e Celulose SA ,
 Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  and  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) .  Gol rose 13 percent this year through yesterday, while the
Bovespa index gained 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho, at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  