-- Goldman Sachs, Bank of America Documents on Overstock Ordered Unsealed
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-08T16:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/goldman-sachs-bank-of-america-documents-on-overstock-ordered-unsealed.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of
America Corp . documents that were deemed confidential in a
lawsuit filed against them by  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  must be made
public, a state court judge in  San Francisco  ruled.  The case involves a 2007 lawsuit by Overstock, an online
retailer, claiming that the banks manipulated its stock from
2005 to 2007, causing its shares to fall. State Court Judge John
Munter dismissed the case on Jan. 10, ruling that the conduct
took place outside of  California . Overstock appealed, and also
asked Munter to make public those documents he put under seal.  Munter granted Overstock’s request to make public a large
chunk of documents, ruling Goldman Sachs and Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. “failed to demonstrate an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
records.” He said the transactions are at least four years old,
and much of the material was discussed at a Jan. 5 hearing.  “The subject matter of this action is of substantial
public interest,” Munter ruled. “This case concerns publicly
traded securities and the operation of the national securities
markets, and those are of great public interest.”  Financial Data  Munter also ruled that other documents dealing with a
“staggering amount of financial data,” should remain under
court seal. Those exhibits to court filings are “laced with
identifying information about hundreds of thousands of financial
transactions of third parties” not connected to the litigation.  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on the ruling.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed statement that the
bank is reviewing the decision.  “Our primary goal has been to ensure that the
confidentiality of sensitive client information be protected,”
Halldin said.  Salt Lake City-based Overstock claims that large portions
of its stock was the subject of naked shorting, where investors
sell shares they don’t own in anticipation of making a profit by
paying for the stock after its price has fallen.  The clearing operations at Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch,
the brokerage acquired by Bank of America in 2009, intentionally
failed to locate and deliver borrowed shares for clients,
allowing the firms to earn fees and interest on phantom
securities transactions, lawyers for Overstock said in court
filings. Overstock sought millions of dollars in damages against
Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch.  Market ‘Flaws’  Overstock Chief Executive Officer Patrick Byrne was
“thrilled” with the judge’s ruling, he said in a statement.  “I could not imagine that a post-2008 public would be
denied access to this evidence, which displays in living color
the flaws in our  capital markets  and in the regulatory structure
that governs them,” he said.  “Now the public will have a window through which to view
this evidence and judge for itself the fraudulent and
systematically risky behavior at issue in this case,” he said.  Four media organizations, including Bloomberg LP, the New
York Times, Wenner Media and The Economist, intervened in the
case and joined Overstock’s motion for the unsealing.  The case is Overstock.com v. Morgan Stanley, CGC-07-460147,
Superior Court of California, San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 