-- Gold Futures Advance Most in Two Weeks as Greece Rescue Spurs Metal Demand
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-03-08T19:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/gold-may-climb-for-second-day-after-etp-holdings-advance-to-all-time-high.html
Gold jumped the most in two weeks as
the improved prospects for a debt swap in  Greece  sent the euro
higher against the dollar, boosting the appeal of the precious
metal as an alternative to the U.S. currency.  The euro strengthened the most against the dollar in two
weeks as Greece moved closer to completing its debt swap.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said inflation will
probably breach the bank’s 2 percent limit this year even as the
economy stalls. The ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  jumped
as much as 1.5 percent  “It finally looks as if Greece will pull through, and the
sentiment overall is positive,” Rick Trotman, a senior research
analyst at MLV & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“The risk-on mentality seems to be back for now.”  Gold futures for delivery in April rose 0.9 percent to
settle at $1,698.70 an ounce at 1:42 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices advanced 0.7 percent yesterday.  Bullion assets in  exchange-traded products  expanded for a
sixth straight session yesterday to a record 2,407.021 metric
tons, now valued at about $131 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The possibility of a third economic stimulus from the
 Federal Reserve  is the key to determining gold’s next move, UBS
AG said in an e-mailed report today.  Silver futures for May delivery increased 0.7 percent to
$33.831 an ounce on the Comex. The commodity’s 21 percent gain
this year is the biggest among precious metals.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
June delivery advanced 2.1 percent to $699.45 an ounce. Platinum
futures for April delivery climbed 1.8 percent to $1,656.70 an
ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  