-- Greece Needs Extra Debt Relief in 12 Months, Merkel Adviser Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r k   B a r t o n
-- 2012-03-08T09:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greece-needs-extra-debt-relief-in-12-months-merkel-adviser-says.html
Greece  will require additional debt
relief within the next 12 months even after the bond-swap offer
that ends today, said  Peter Bofinger , an economic adviser to the
German government.  Given that Greece’s debt load will remain at “very high
levels” after the writedown, policy makers will have to begin
thinking about further debt relief in the next “half a year”
that could involve cuts among “official bondholders.”  “What will have to be achieved is a real debt relief for
Greece -- and it will have to come in the next 12 months,”
Bofinger said in an interview from Berlin today with Bloomberg
Television.  The Greek government’s offer to private bondholders to
exchange 206 billion euros ($271 billion) of debt, the biggest
sovereign restructuring in history, ends at 10 p.m. Athens time.
Euro-area finance ministers are due to discuss the results at 2
p.m. tomorrow Brussels time.  Investors holding about 60 percent of the bonds eligible
for the swap have so far indicated they’ll participate. The
Greek government has said it wants participation above 90
percent and is seeking a minimum level of 75 percent, including
with use of so-called collective-action clauses forcing holders
of bonds under Greek law into swapping.  The swap “will go through,” and markets won’t be jarred
should a majority fall short of the targeted amount, Bofinger
said.  “I think that the markets are aware of the risk that a
majority for voluntary restructuring is not available, and so I
think the surprise won’t be too big if tonight when they realize
the collective action clauses will have to be applied,” he
said.  Greece’s situation will remain “very difficult,” with the
swap trimming the country’s outstanding debt to 161 percent of
gross domestic product from 164 percent, Bofinger said. European
leaders aim to reduce the figure to 120.5 percent in 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Barton  in  London  at 
 barton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  