-- Greek Credit-Default Swap Volumes Drop to Record Low Before Bond Exchange
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-08T08:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greek-default-swap-trades-dwindle-to-record-low-before-debt-swap-deadline.html
Investors cut Greek credit-default
swap trades ahead of today’s debt exchange, pushing the amount
of bonds insured to a record low $3.16 billion.  That’s down from a net $5.6 billion of securities protected
last year, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp,
and compares with a swaps settlement of about $5.2 billion on
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Five-year Greek contracts
now signal a 97 percent chance of default, CMA data show.  Investors who bought debt insurance at lower levels may
prefer to book profits now, rather than take their chances on a
credit event and auction settlement, according to Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London . Greece has
said it may use collective action clauses, or CACs, to force
bondholders to write down their holdings, and that would trigger
payouts on credit-default swaps, according to rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  “It looks as if CACs are likely to be triggered and
therefore the CDS, but it’s still not 100 percent certain,”
said Parhar. “If you’re also worried about auction dynamics, it
makes sense to close out positions.”  Greece retroactively inserted collective action clauses
into bond documentation last month and may use them if the
portion of investors who volunteer for the exchange falls short
of its target. The addition of CACs didn’t trigger default
swaps, ISDA ruled last week, though use of them would.  Against Triggering  Investors are unsure whether  Greece  will invoke the clauses
because officials including former European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  have insisted against triggering
default swaps, arguing that traders will be encouraged to bet
against failing nations and worsen  Europe ’s debt crisis. Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos has said he’s not concerned
whether the exchange triggers default swaps.  “If we can avoid the triggering of CDSs this is the best
solution,” Venizelos said March 5. “With a near universal
participation it’s not necessary to activate CACs. But this
clause exists in our legal order and we are ready to implement
the legislation if necessary.”  The exchange, known as private-sector involvement or PSI,
would wipe 100 billion euros off more than 200 billion euros of
privately held debt if all investors participate. Even so,
Greece may struggle to reduce its national debt to 120 percent
of gross domestic product, the level it committed to in return
for a 130 billion-euro international bailout. Greece’s debt to
GDP ratio was 160 percent last year.  Participation Rate  “Even if they get 100 percent participation they’re not at
a sustainable debt level, so anything below that is not likely
to give the debt relief that’s required,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a strategist at Investec Bank Plc in London. “We would
be very surprised if CACs were not invoked and would also find
it surprising if this was the last restructuring we see in
Greece.”  Greece may not get sufficient participation because some
investors are refusing to volunteer.  Patrick Armstrong , managing
partner at Armstrong Investment Managers in London, said he’s
holding out because of the “miniscule” chance his bond
maturing March 20 will be redeemed at face value.  Armstrong said he’s betting against banks rather than using
default swaps on Greece to hedge his holdings, in part because
of concern the contracts won’t be triggered. That same concern
may be driving the reduction in default swap positions.  “There’s no real incentive to participate,” Armstrong
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview. “If I
participate, I get the same terms as everyone else who does it
voluntarily. If I don’t, most likely I’ll end up with the same
terms.”  ‘Reduce Exposure’  Traders bought and sold 110 contracts covering a gross $1.7
billion of the country’s debt in the week through March 2, DTCC
 data show . That’s more than recent weekly trading volumes and
brings the total trades outstanding to 4,323, the most since
Jan. 13.  “It’s rational for investors to reduce exposure if the
effectiveness of the contract depends on political negotiations
rather than fundamentals,” said Alberto Gallo, head of European
credit strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
“You can move to other types of macro hedging.”  It costs a record $7.5 million in advance and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years,
according to CMA. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Sellers of default protection may also be unwinding
positions to cap their losses if they expect a  credit event ,
Afseth said.  “We’re approaching the final stage of the game as far as
Greece is concerned and now it’s down to guessing the outcome of
the vote and the resulting reaction of the Greek government,”
said Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General
Plc in London. “Everybody should by now be perfectly positioned
according to their expectations on the outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  