-- Greece on Verge of Debt Swap With At Least 60% Committed
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-08T20:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greece-restructuring-deadline-looms-as-bond-investors-signal-swap-accord.html
The Greek government’s deadline for
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history passed with a
majority of investors signaling their readiness to participate
in the debt swap.  The euro and stocks gained before the offer’s close at 10
p.m. in Athens today as Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
told his Cabinet ministers that  Greece  had made “an appropriate
framework with significant incentives” for bondholders.  “For this reason I look forward to the maximum possible
participation of the private sector,” Papademos said, according
to an e-mailed transcript of his comments. Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told Parliament that “a historic process
will be completed tonight,” and the results announced tomorrow.  Holders of at least 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible
for the deal, including Greece’s largest banks, most of the
country’s pension funds and more than 30 European banks and
insurers including BNP Paribas SA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , have
agreed to the offer. That brings the total to at least 125
billion euros ($166 billion), based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from company reports and government statements.  Participation is running at more than 75 percent and may
surpass 80 percent, the state-run  Athens  News Agency reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Venizelos will hold a press conference at 1 p.m. Athens
time, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Will Go Through’  “The swap will go through if the rate is over 75
percent,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets
in Frankfurt, said by phone. “Greece pulling it off by the skin
of their teeth will still reassure the markets.”  With Greece again the focus of the euro-area debt crisis
now in its third year, the goal of the exchange is to reduce the
206 billion euros of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent.
Together with a 130 billion-euro second Greek aid package, the
writedown is a key element in European leaders’ efforts to turn
the tide against the crisis that has roiled  Europe , forcing
Ireland and  Portugal  to follow Greece in requiring bailouts.  While Greece would prefer a voluntary deal, the government
has said it will use so-called collective action clauses to
force holders of Greek-law bonds into the swap if the private
sector involvement falls short and it gets approval from
investors to change the bonds’ terms.  Under the rules of the exchange, investors holding at least
50 percent of the eligible bonds must vote on the swap, and 66
percent of those must agree to amend the bonds to enable the
government to impose the collective action clauses, said
 Christoph Rieger , Commerzbank’s head of fixed-income strategy.  Hurdles Cleared  The 17-nation euro strengthened the most in two weeks
against the dollar before the deadline, gaining 1 percent to
$1.3278 as of 8:51 p.m. in Berlin. European stocks rallied the
most in a month, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advancing 1.6
percent to 264.16 at the close in  London .  “The markets had a very long time to be prepared for
this,”  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “There’s a lot
more optimism in markets relative to where we were at the end of
last year.” She cited the “breathing space” provided by the
 European Central Bank ’s liquidity offer for banks.  In Frankfurt, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said it would be
“completely inappropriate” to comment on the Greek debt swap
since “the operation is unfolding.”  Participation Rate  The Greek government has said it wants participation above
90 percent and is seeking a minimum level of 75 percent. Greece
expects holders to accept the offer and is ready to force them
if necessary, Venizelos said in an interview earlier this week.  Hans Humes, president of Greylock Capital Management,
expects holders of more than 80 percent of Greece’s government
bonds to accede to the swap, he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. Humes is a member of a committee of private
bondholders that negotiated the deal with the government.  Niek Hoek, chief executive officer of Amsterdam-based Delta
Lloyd NV, said today the insurer plans to take part in the swap
deal on condition that the CAC clause applies to all parties.  “We have indicated we will participate if everyone else
does,” he told reporters on a call. “Our base case expectation
is the clause will be declared applicable and that the debt will
be restructured in that fashion.”  Banks, Insurers  Greece’s six largest banks, cumulatively the biggest
private holders of the country’s debt, plan to accept the offer,
the  Finance Ministry  said March 6. Greek pension funds with
about 17 billion euros of bonds will also join, Venizelos said
on Real FM Radio yesterday.  More than thirty banks and insurers that were on the
private creditor-investor committee for Greece plan to accept
the swap, according to an e-mailed statement from the  Institute
of International Finance  yesterday. Those investors hold an
aggregate 84 billion euros of bonds, said the Washington-based
IIF, which represents more than 450 financial firms globally.  Bondholders should believe the Greek government when it
says this is the final offer,  Charles Dallara , the IIF’s
managing director, told reporters in  Rio de Janeiro  today he
said. He reiterated that he expects a high level of
participation, without giving a specific number.  In the exchange, investors will receive new bonds with a
face of 31.5 percent of the old ones together with notes from
the European Financial Stability Facility. The new debt is
governed by  English law  and comes with warrants that will
provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth exceeds
thresholds. The net present value loss for investors is more
than 70 percent.  Non-Greek Law  The swap is meant to help reduce Greece’s debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from about 160
percent currently. Greece is now in its fifth year of a
recession.  The amount of the country’s bonds that is under other than
Greek law totals 29 billion euros, or 14 percent of the amount
eligible for the swap, Frankfurt-based KfW said. Those bonds are
governed by different rules and aren’t subject to the collective
action clauses retroactively added to the Greek-law debt.  “I do fully expect to be part of the collective action
clause,”  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner at Armstrong
Investment Managers in London, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview. He said he wouldn’t voluntarily join in
the swap because of the “minuscule” chance his bond maturing
March 20 will be redeemed at face value.  Compelling holdouts to take part will likely trigger
insurance contracts on the debt known as credit default swaps.  “We don’t see the Greeks failing to get a deal because the
risk for everyone involved is just too high,” Tobias Basse, a
cross market strategist at Norddeutsche Landesbank, said today
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  