-- Greek Swap Seen Provoking Aftershocks on Borrowing: Euro Credit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greek-swap-seen-provoking-aftershocks-on-borrowing-euro-credit.html
Greece ’s day of reckoning with
bondholders dawns with economists from  Barclays Capital  to
Deutsche Bank AG concerned that the world’s largest debt
restructuring will provoke aftershocks.  Eight months of negotiations reach a head with today’s
deadline for private creditors to accept a bond swap aimed at
writing off 106 billion euros ($140 billion) of Greek debt. The
government vows to bind holdouts to the deal should
participation fall short of its target.  Possible repercussions include a surge in borrowing costs
for other indebted nations as investors refuse to lend to
countries that may follow suit in imposing losses on
bondholders. The accord may also trigger derivatives designed to
insure against default, and may not be enough to prevent Greece
from reneging on its debts in the coming years.  “We have to be on alert for all kinds of potential risks
surrounding this,” said  Julian Callow , head of international
and European economics at Barclays Capital in  London . “We are
in such unknown territory here by the sovereign debt standards
of advanced economies that we have to pay attention.”  Italian and Spanish bonds rose yesterday on speculation
enough investors will sign up to the swap.  Italy’s 10-year yield 
declined 13 basis points to 4.94 percent, while  Spain’s 10-year
borrowing cost  dropped 6 basis points to 5.09 percent.  ‘Another Milestone’  Greece needs to complete the swap to qualify for a 130
billion-euro bailout by helping drive its debt closer toward a
target of 120.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from
160 percent last year. Greece needs the cash to meet a March 20
bond redemption of 14.5 billion euros and dodge a default that
would jeopardize the euro’s existence.  The debt swap is “just another milestone on the long road
to stabilize the euro,” said  Thomas Mayer , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank in London. “What we’re doing here is root canal
work on the architecture of European Monetary Union.”  The goal of the exchange is to reduce the 206 billion euros
of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent. Investors with 58
percent of the Greek securities eligible for the program had
indicated participation by 5:00 p.m. in London yesterday.  Greece’s largest banks, most of the country’s pension
funds, and more than 30 European banks and insurers including
BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG and Assicurazioni Generali SpA
have pledged to accept the offer. That brings the total so far
to at least 120 billion euros, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg from company reports and government statements.  Participation Goal  The government has set a 75 percent participation rate as
the threshold for proceeding with the transaction, in which
bondholders will receive new Greek  government bonds  and notes
from the European Financial Stability Facility. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts wrote on Feb. 28 that a voluntary
participation rate meeting that target might allow Greece to
proceed without making losses involuntary by enforcing so-called
collective action clauses.  Default swaps on  Greece (CDNNGRCE) , insurance contracts against non-
payment, now cover about $3.2 billion of debt, down from about
$6 billion last year, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps settlement of $5.2
billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Swap Ruling  Compelling holdouts to take part will likely trigger
payouts on those contracts, analysts said. A final decision
would be up to the determination committee of the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association , a panel of traders and
investors who rule on whether swap holders can collect by
handing over the defaulted debt in return for payment.  “I do fully expect to be part of the collective action
clause,”  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner at Armstrong
Investment Managers in London, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  “There’s a potential risk for the banking sector writ
large across Europe and further abroad” from the clauses, as
underwriters of the insurance have to pay out and seek funds to
do so, said Erik Britton, a director of London-based Fathom
Financial Consulting.  Activating the clauses also sets precedent, allowing
countries such as  Portugal  to mimic the initiative and providing
another reason to steer clear of European debt, said  David Kotok , who helps manage about $2 billion as chairman and chief
investment officer of Cumberland Advisers Inc. in Sarasota,
 Florida .  ‘Game Changer’  “The actual use of a CAC would be a game changer beyond
Greece’s borders,” he said. “It says ‘we can retroactively
rewrite a contractual agreement.’ It’s one thing to threaten or
cajole, but it’s another thing to do it,” Kotok said.  European finance ministers will hold a conference call at
about 2 p.m. Brussels time tomorrow, German Finance Ministry
spokeswoman Marianne Kothe said yesterday.  Failure to seal a deal could imperil the pact  Europe ’s
policy makers wrapped up just days ago to provide a second
bailout of Greece, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management. Investor resistance would throw “a short-term
spanner in the works” of the crisis-fighting effort, said
O’Neill. “If it doesn’t go through, European policy makers have
to yet again do some nifty footwork,” he said.  Even a Greek success in persuading lenders to forego what
they are owed leaves challenges for the euro area. Joachim Fels,
chief economist at Morgan Stanley in London, said he worries
about complacency among governments which may tempt them to
relax on economic reforms and fail to increase Europe’s defenses
against contagion.  ‘Deep Recession’  “Europe’s southern countries are still in a deep recession
and struggling to meet their fiscal targets,” Fels said in a
March 4 note to clients. “ If something goes wrong in the next
several months, I think that banks will be more vulnerable due
to their larger sovereign bond positions,” and “the firewall
will still not be big enough.”  At Citigroup Inc., chief euro-area economist  Juergen Michels  warns Greece will struggle to reduce its debt enough to
meet its bailout terms and still faces a 50 percent chance of
leaving the euro.  Spain ’s decision to revise its budget deficit
target higher is another sign the crisis isn’t over, he said.  “There is more disappointment out there,” said Michels.
“At the moment it looks relatively calm, but we doubt that we
have seen that all the problems have gone away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 