-- Private Investors Said to Agree to Swap About 85% of Greek Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-03-08T22:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greece-s-debt-swap-has-about-85-participation-rate-bank-official-says.html
Private investors agreed to swap
about 85 percent of their Greek  government bonds  for new
securities in the biggest sovereign debt restructuring in
history, according to a banker briefed on the results.  Preliminary indications showed that as much as 155 billion
euros ($205 billion) of the 177 billion euros of Greek-law bonds
were offered, said the banker, who declined to be identified.
Twelve billion euros of debt not under Greek law was also
tendered, as was 7 billion euros of bonds from state-owned
companies guaranteed by the government, the banker said.  With Greece again the focus of the euro-area debt crisis
now in its third year, the goal of the exchange is to reduce the
206 billion euros of privately held Greek debt by 53.5 percent.
Together with a 130 billion-euro second Greek aid package, the
writedown is a key element in European leaders’ efforts to turn
the tide against the crisis that has roiled  Europe , forcing
Ireland and  Portugal  to follow Greece in requiring bailouts.  The euro and stocks gained before the offer’s close at 10
p.m. in  Athens  as Prime Minister Lucas Papademos told his
Cabinet ministers he looked forward to “the maximum possible
participation of the private sector,” according to an e-mailed
transcript of his comments.  90 Percent?  The offer went very positively and a final result will be
released today at 8 a.m. in Athens, a government official said.
The number of bonds tendered in the swap is still being tallied,
said the official, who declined to be identified.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will hold a press
conference at 1 p.m. Athens time, the  Finance Ministry  said in
an e-mailed statement.  “Unofficially we’ve been hearing that the acceptance rate
has crossed 90 percent,” Hans Humes, president of Greylock
Capital Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“The deal is done and we’re going to have to see how the market
reacts.” Humes is a member of a committee of private
bondholders that negotiated the deal with the government.  Greece’s largest banks, most of the country’s pension funds
and more than 30 European banks and insurers including BNP
Paribas SA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , agreed to the offer.  While Greece would prefer a voluntary deal, the government
has said it will use so-called collective action clauses to
force holders of Greek-law bonds into the swap if the private
sector involvement fell short and it got approval from investors
to change the bonds’ terms. The Greek government had said it
wanted participation above 90 percent and was seeking a minimum
level of 75 percent.  Risk ‘Too High’  “Ideally we get above 90 and it doesn’t need to be done,”
said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency analyst at UBS AG, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Hyde yesterday.  Compelling holdouts to take part would likely trigger
insurance contracts on the debt known as credit default swaps.  “We don’t see the Greeks failing to get a deal because the
risk for everyone involved is just too high,” Tobias Basse, a
cross market strategist at Norddeutsche Landesbank, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  The 17-nation euro strengthened the most in two weeks
against the dollar before the deadline, gaining 1 percent to
$1.3278 as of 8:51 p.m. in Berlin. European stocks rallied the
most in a month, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advancing 1.6
percent to 264.16 at the close in  London .  Time to Prepare  “The markets had a very long time to be prepared for
this,”  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “There’s a lot
more optimism in markets relative to where we were at the end of
last year.” She cited the “breathing space” provided by the
 European Central Bank ’s liquidity offer for banks.  In the exchange, investors will receive new bonds with a
face value of 31.5 percent of the old ones together with notes
from the European Financial Stability Facility. The new debt is
governed by  English law  and comes with warrants that will
provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth exceeds
thresholds. The net present value loss for investors is more
than 70 percent.  The swap is meant to help reduce  Greece ’s debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from about 160
percent currently. Greece is now in its fifth year of a
recession.  The amount of the country’s bonds that is under other than
Greek law totals 29 billion euros, or 14 percent of the amount
eligible for the swap, Frankfurt-based KfW said. Those bonds are
governed by different rules and aren’t subject to the collective
action clauses retroactively added to the Greek-law debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  