-- Morgan Stanley Says Yield on Greece’s Exchanged Bonds Might Climb to 20%
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-08T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/greece-s-exchanged-bonds-may-yield-20-morgan-stanley-says.html
Yields on  Greece ’s new bonds may
climb to as high as 20 percent amid “material risks” stemming
from implementation of terms for the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history, according to Morgan Stanley.  Traders are offering to buy and sell the potential new
bonds at yields on 11-year securities of 22 percent, according
to a person familiar with the prices who declined to be
identified. Yields on exchanged Greek debt may be about 13
percent to 17 percent “in the medium term” as the nation faces
an election and seeks to comply with terms of its bailout and
debt-reduction programs, New York-based Morgan Stanley said
yesterday in a research report.  Private investors agreed to swap about 85 percent of their
Greek  government bonds  for new securities, according to a banker
briefed on the results. The goal of the exchange, results of
which are scheduled for release later today, is to reduce the
206 billion euros ($273 billion) of privately held Greek debt by
53.5 percent.  While the debt swap hasn’t yet been finalized, trading new
Greek bonds in the so-called gray market may be attractive to
investors as they seek ways to hedge their holdings amid
political debate and concern that credit-default swap insurance
on the debt may not pay out, said Russ Certo, managing director
of rates trading at Gleacher & Co. in New York.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  “You’re in the world of opposites and unintended
consequences,” Certo said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“There are some willing sellers of sovereign paper in the
secondary market right now because they don’t feel they’re
getting adequate protection in the CDS market. People are
hedging bets.”  The bonds are being offered on a “when-and-if-issued
basis,” meaning that trades will be settled provided Greece’s
debt restructuring is successful, according to rules posted on
the  website  of the Emerging Markets Trade Association. The new
15-year Greek bonds may yield about 20 percent, said the person
familiar with the prices who declined to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to comment.  The EMTA, a trade group in New York, also posted rules for
separate trading of the warrants that Greece will give investors
that provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth
exceeds certain thresholds.  Pessimistic Outlook  The market may receive as much as 65 billion euros of new
Greek bonds with an average maturity that’s increased to 20
years from seven years, Morgan Stanley fixed-income strategists
Paolo Batori and Robert Tancsa and economist Daniele Antonucci
wrote in the report. Absent “surprises,” the securities may
stabilize at about 25 cents on the dollar, they wrote.  The prices that the new bonds are trading at show that
investors are pessimistic about Greece’s prospects after the
debt swap, according to  Mark Grant , managing director at
Southwest Securities Inc.  “They couldn’t pay the old debt back, so how do they pay
the new debt back?” Grant said in an interview from  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida .  Preliminary indications showed that as much as 155 billion
euros of the 177 billion euros of Greek-law bonds were offered,
said the banker, who declined to be identified. Twelve billion
euros of bonds not under Greek law was also tendered, as was 7
billion euros of debt from state-owned companies guaranteed by
the government, the banker said.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will hold a press
conference at 1 p.m. Athens time, the  Finance Ministry  said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  