-- Guggenheim Hires Apollo’s Henry Silverman to Expand Investment Management
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-08T16:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/guggenheim-partners-hires-apollo-s-silverman.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the U.S.
firm seeking to buy  Deutsche Bank AG’s (DBK)  asset management
business, hired Henry Silverman, the former chief operating
officer of Apollo Global Management LLC, to advise on expansion.  Silverman, 71, who resigned from Apollo last month, will
join the firm March 16 as vice chairman of its investment
management business and will be based in  New York , according to
a statement today from Guggenheim Partners.  “Guggenheim has big ambitions,” Bruce Foerster, president
of South Beach  Capital Markets  in Miami, said in a telephone
interview. “They are smart people, they are well-capitalized
and they are getting ready to move where opportunity presents
itself.”  Guggenheim is adding Silverman, a dealmaker, as it seeks to
quintuple its size with the purchase of more than 400 billion
euros ($530 million) in assets from Deutsche Bank. The
Frankfurt-based lender said last month it was holding exclusive
talks to sell its asset management divisions to Guggenheim,
which currently has $125 billion of assets under management. The
bank’s divisions manage money for both retail and institutional
investors.  From 1990 to 2007, Silverman was chief executive officer of
Cendant Corp. and a predecessor business, HFS. Cendant was a
travel and real estate services company with franchises
including the Avis rental car and the Days Inn hotel chains.  Firm’s Roots  Silverman also was chairman of Realogy Corp., a residential
real estate broker that was spun off from Cendant. Apollo, the
private equity firm run by  Leon Black , acquired Realogy in 2007
for $6.6 billion.  “Henry has a distinguished track record of recognizing
business opportunities and building and leading companies to
sustainable growth in a broad range of industries,” Todd
Boehly, president of Guggenheim Partners, said in the statement.
“I have no doubt Henry will bring strategic guidance and
competitive drive to Guggenheim.”  Guggenheim Partners is connected to the family of Meyer
Guggenheim, a tailor of Swiss-Jewish background who came to the
U.S. in the 1840s and made a fortune in mining and smelting. The
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in  Manhattan  is named for one of
his sons, a philanthropist.  Outside Investors  In 2000 Peter Lawson-Johnson Sr., a great grandson of Meyer
Guggenheim, used family funds to start the company, which has
evolved into a financial services firm that manages money and
provides investment banking services. The firm is led by Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Walter .  Alan Schwartz , former CEO of Bear
Stearns, is executive chairman.  Guggenheim Capital LLC, the majority owner of Guggenheim
Partners, has raised money from outside investors, including
Sammons Enterprises Inc., a Dallas-based company with interests
in industrial products, insurance and travel.  K1 Ventures Ltd., based in  Singapore , agreed in June to
invest $100 million in preferred stock and warrants of
Guggenheim Capital, Guggenheim said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  