-- IAEA Needs Greater Nuclear Reactor Safety Powers Post-Fukushima
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-08T17:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/iaea-needs-greater-nuclear-reactor-safety-powers-post-fukushima.html
The  International Atomic Energy
Agency  should have a bigger role in enforcing nuclear reactor
safety following  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster, according to the
head of the World Energy Council.  “There is a realization in all countries that nuclear
safety rules must be revisited,”  Pierre Gadonneix , chairman of
the 94-country energy advisory body, said in an interview in
Paris. “Fukushima could be an accelerator for development of
common safety rules and standards.”  An earthquake and tsunami in Japan last year crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and prompted a global review of safety.
Delegates to the United Nations atomic agency’s ministerial
meeting last year failed to agree on proposals to allow the IAEA
to carry out random safety checks at plants and on the extent to
which nuclear technologies will be shared.  The IAEA should be given “the means and authority” for
nuclear reactor safety, design and rules, Gadonneix said. “I
think the global community is expecting a shift in the IAEA’s
role and would consider it positive.”  About 442 atomic reactors produced 13.5 percent of power
worldwide in 2010 with the most located in the U.S.,  France  and
Japan. Germany, Italy and  Switzerland  are withdrawing from
atomic energy on safety grounds, while  China ,  India  and the
United Arab Emirates are pushing ahead with new plants.  Safe Enough  In France, Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire, which decides whether French nuclear sites are
safe enough to operate, has said such decisions should reside
with national watchdogs.  Nuclear safety is “ultimately the responsibility of a
national authority,” Akira Omoto, a commissioner at the Japan
Atomic Energy Commission, said in an interview at a nuclear
conference in Paris today. “I would favor an enhanced IAEA role
in design standards but not for enforcement of safety. There
isn’t agreement on this.”  The World Association of Nuclear Operators, which is based
in  London , plans to increase the frequency of peer safety
reviews of members to every four years from six, bolster the
number of experienced safety auditors on the review teams,
attribute grades to the findings and make them public, according
to Chairman Laurent Stricker.  Establishing an international nuclear safety enforcer “is
a dream,” he said in an interview. “The IAEA has a tremendous
role to play in harmonizing safety, but within the organization
it’s hard to get everyone to speak the same language.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  