-- Iceland Seeks Political Retribution Law as Haarde Tried
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/iceland-seeks-retribution-law-against-politicians-as-haarde-exposes-holes.html
Iceland  is using a criminal trial
examining former Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde’s role in the
island’s 2008 banking crisis as a platform to seek laws that
will make it easier to prosecute politicians.  “There’s a need to review the whole legal framework,”
Justice Minister Ogmundur Jonasson said yesterday in an
interview in Reykjavik. “People must review the laws on
ministerial responsibility in light of the experience and the
discussions that have taken place in this particular case.”  Haarde stepped down in 2009 amid street protests blaming
his government for the island’s financial meltdown. He is the
world’s first political leader since the global credit crisis
started to face criminal prosecution for his economic policies.
Jonasson, who has blogged his opposition to the case against
Haarde, says any changes to the law wouldn’t affect the former
prime minister’s trial.  “I originally supported that Haarde be indicted but
changed my position,” Jonasson said. His change of heart
followed parliament’s decision to drop charges against other
Cabinet members, he said.  While several former executives at the failed banks are
being investigated, with some receiving jail terms, Haarde is
the only politician to face trial. His successor, Prime Minister
Johanna Sigurdardottir, has questioned the premise of the case.
If found guilty, Haarde faces as long as two years in prison.  ‘Grave’ Danger  Haarde’s trial, which is the first of its kind to be
conducted at the Landsdomur since the court’s creation in 1905,
continued this week after lawmakers voted not to interrupt the
proceedings. The case against him follows parliament’s 2010
indictment, which argued the former premier failed to protect
Iceland from “grave” financial danger. Haarde is also being
tried for failing to prevent the island’s three biggest banks
from generating debt 10 times the size of the economy.  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki Islands
hf failed at the end of 2008, defaulting on $85 billion in debts
and plunging Iceland into a recession that lasted through the
first half of 2010 and sent unemployment surging nine-fold. The
broad nature of the charges against Haarde has raised questions
as to whether they can withstand the rigors of a legal trial.  The case against Haarde “is problematic,” Sigurdur
Lindal, a law professor at the  University of Iceland  who has
also sat as a judge at the country’s  Supreme Court , said in an
interview. “Not only because of it being questionable whether
there was anything that he could indeed have done to prevent a
collapse, but also because the penal codes in the law on
ministerial responsibility aren’t extremely clear.”  Haarde Aquitted?  Iceland’s special prosecutor investigating the role of
policy makers in the crisis, Bjorn L. Bergsson, decided not to
press charges against former central bank Governor David Oddsson
or the former head of the Financial Supervisory Authority, Jonas
Fr. Jonsson. Parliament also voted against including former
Finance Minister Arni M. Mathiesen and two other ministers in
the trial. A parliamentary committee had originally recommended
all five be indicted.  “The indictment is phrased in a very general way, making
it impossible to hold a single person liable for what took place
in Iceland,” Lindal said. “It’s my opinion that Haarde will be
acquitted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  