-- Michelle Obama, Hillary Clinton Honor ’Women of Courage’
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-08T19:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/michelle-obama-joins-hillary-clinton-to-honor-women-of-courage-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and first lady  Michelle Obama  honored 10 women from around the
world today for courage and leadership in advocating for women’s
rights and empowerment, often at great personal risk.  “They saw corruption, and they worked to expose it,”
Obama said at an awards ceremony in  Washington  for the sixth
annual Secretary of State’s International Women of Courage
Award. “They saw oppression, and they worked to end it. They
saw violence, poverty, discrimination, and inequality -- and
they decided to use their voices, and risk their lives, to do
something about it,”  Obama recounted stories of honorees from Myanmar, Pakistan,
Colombia and  Brazil  who were imprisoned, silenced, tortured and
kidnapped for speaking out for  women’s rights , social justice,
peace or democracy.  “Despite the risks they face, despite the hardships they
endure, these women carry on -- because they know that they are
fighting not just for their own rights and freedoms, but for the
rights and freedoms of so many others,” she said.  On the anniversary of International Women’s Day, Clinton
and Obama were joined by two of the three women awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize last year, Liberian peace activist Leymah Gbowee and Tawakkul Karman, a journalist who led Yemeni women in
the uprising there.  Afghan, Colombian  Among the honorees as described by Clinton and Obama:  -- Maryam Durani, who survived threats and attempts on her
life to win a provincial council seat in Kandahar,  Afghanistan ,
and run a nonprofit group that promotes women’s rights.  -- Zin Mar Aung, a pro-democracy activist, who was
imprisoned for 11 years in Myanmar, formerly  Burma , for writing
a letter demanding that the elected civilian government be
permitted to take power in her country. After her release, she
started advocating for women and political prisoners.  -- Colombian investigative journalist Jineth Bedoya Lima,
who was kidnapped, raped and tortured following her coverage of
a right-wing paramilitary group and arms trafficking. After the
attack, she continued reporting and started campaigning against
sexual violence, persevering after another abduction by leftist
guerrillas three years later.  -- Shad Begum, a Pakistani human-rights activist, who ran
for district council to improve health care and education. The
male council members relegated her to a separate room, behind a
locked door where her voice couldn’t be heard. Undeterred, she
ran for higher office, saying, “Whatever it takes, I will make
them hear me,” as Obama recounted.  Rio Police  -- Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo,  one of the few
women in  Rio de Janeiro ’s military police, who has risen to
command more than 100 male officers. A gang-violence officer,
she was kidnapped and later managed to arrest the gang that held
her captive. The police major now promotes conflict mediation
and community development to counter violence.  Clinton urged the audience to “ask ourselves what are we
doing to further justice, dignity, women’s rights” and human
rights.  The honorees are traveling to 10 U.S. cities to meet with
American women, the State Department said.  In an interview today, Melanne Verveer, the State
Department’s ambassador-at-large for global women’s issues, said
women’s empowerment is key to economic development as well as
political progress. Promoting small- and medium-sized businesses
run by women “helps grow the economy,” she said.  ‘Everybody Does Better’  “No country is going to get ahead if it leaves half of its
population behind,” Verveer said. “When women and girls do
better, everybody does better. The most effective investment
that can be made is to educate a girl” because when she grows
up she leads by example, elevating the nutrition, health,
literacy and economic prospects of her whole family, Verveer
said.  The  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization 
estimates that if women had the same access to productive
resources as men, they could increase yields on their farms by
20 to 30 percent. A U.S. Agency for International Development
study found that women spend more of their earned income on
food, health care, home improvement and schooling, creating a
multiplier effect in local communities.  Educating girls and women “is the single best investment
that can be made,” Verveer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  