-- Senate to Consider Giving States More Control on U.S. Highways
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/highway-bill-deal-in-senate-still-leaves-local-projects-in-limbo.html
The  U.S. Senate  will consider giving
states more control over spending of federal gasoline-tax
revenue for transportation projects when debate on highway-
funding legislation resumes next week.  The Senate is scheduled to vote on a proposal by Senator
 Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, to grant most of the
money raised by federal gas taxes to the states after they
return to the issue March 13. It’s the first transportation-
related provision that senators deal with as they work through
30 amendments to a two-year, $109 billion transportation plan.  DeMint’s states-rights plan would so reduce U.S. highway
funding that it would be tough to refer any longer to a federal
system, said Jeff Shoaf, senior executive director of government
and public affairs at the Associated General Contractors, a
construction trade group in Arlington, Virginia.  “This would take the plant out and rip it out with the
weeds,” said Shoaf. “The disruption you would have from doing
this would really make it seem like Congress doesn’t know what
it is doing.”  The Senate action marked progress in a delayed effort to
produce a multiyear spending plan. Congress has limped along
with eight short-term extensions since the last multiyear
transportation bill expired in 2009.  The Senate deal on transportation spending reached last
night may advance the plans to the U.S. House, where Republicans
are divided on the number of years a bill should span, its
funding, and whether gasoline taxes pay for mass transit.  House Plans  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  said yesterday that the
House’s plan “right now” is to bring up the Senate version of
the transportation measure “or something like it.” He also
said  House Republicans  will still discuss a longer-term approach
if that can attract needed votes.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
yesterday that House Republicans are “in disarray” over the
transportation measure. She said that while  House Democrats  can
accept the Senate bill, “let’s not mistake it for what we need
to do for a real comprehensive jobs bill for our country.”  House members may encounter pressure to support highway
funding after visiting home districts next week, said
Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican who is
working to round up votes for the bill.  “They’re going to talk to people, you know, local
community leaders who need that bridge, local community leaders
that want a roadway completed, contractors who build this
stuff,” Shuster said. “Every district in America is affected
by this bill.”  Vehicle-Fuel Tax  Financing the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for U.S. road
and public-transportation projects using money from a vehicle-
fuel tax of 18.4 cents a gallon, has been the main sticking
point in passing a new bill. The tax was last increased in 1993
and without additional income the fund may be insolvent as soon
as October, the  Congressional Budget Office  said in January.  At a news conference, Senate leaders said the Republican
House speaker was sending too many mixed signals on his
intentions with a measure that may stoke  job creation  in the
construction sector if signed into law.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he’s heartened to
hear that Boehner’s latest position seems to be to take up the
Senate legislation.  “My reaction is that it’s a significant step forward,”
Reid said. “They should forget about their job-destroying,
destructive” version drafted by  House Transportation  and
Infrastructure Committee Chairman  John Mica , a Florida
Republican.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said he’s “glad
the Senate is moving along. It’s a very bipartisan approach and
that’s what we need. That’s what we’ve always had and that’s the
way we need to go.”  The House bill is H.R. 7. The Senate bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  