-- Iliad Profit Falls Short as Niel Beats Li on New Customers
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-03-08T15:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/iliad-profit-misses-estimates-as-niel-beats-li-on-new-customers.html
Iliad SA (ILD) , the broadband provider
founded by entrepreneur Xavier Niel, reported profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates on spending to become France’s
fourth mobile-phone network operator.  The owner of the Free brand, which introduced discounted
mobile-phone packages on Jan. 10, said it would spend 250
million euros ($331 million) this year to build its wireless
network, a 76 percent increase from 2011, excluding costs to
purchase frequencies.  With mobile subscriptions starting at 2 euros a month,
Iliad won as many as 2 million customers from  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR unit and  Bouygues SA (EN)  in less than two months,
according to Jean-Ludovic Silicani, head of French regulator
Arcep. Vivendi said last week that the new competition would
weigh on its profit for the next two years.  “There isn’t another operator in the world that has won as
many subscribers as us in such a short time,” founder and Chief
Executive Officer Niel said at a press conference.  Iliad didn’t disclose how many subscribers it has won since
Jan. 10.  Unprecedented  Iliad’s burst, to nearly 3 percent of the French mobile
market, is unprecedented in the past decade in  Europe . Other
late entrants, such as Yoigo in  Spain  or Three in the U.K. and
 Italy , were slower to gain pace in similar markets with at least
three existing competitors.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo edged up to 5 percent of the Spanish
market by the end of 2011, five years after its service started.
Three, the mobile-phone unit of billionaire Li Ka-shing’s
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , took about eight years to grab 10
percent of the U.K. and Italian markets.  Iliad now plans to accelerate the deployment of its own
network. For now, about 95 percent of Iliad’s mobile traffic
moves on France Telecom’s network, as part of a roaming
agreement the companies signed last year, Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Reynaud said.  The company had 20 million euros of “losses” last year to
start the mobile service, Reynaud said. Full-year net income
fell 20 percent to 251.8 million euros, Iliad said, missing the
281 million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Second-half profit fell about 25 percent to 106.8
million euros, on revenue of 1.08 billion euros, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  4.8 Million Subscribers  The CFO predicts revenue will grow “at a strong pace” in
2012, and forecast revenue of 4 billion euros by 2015.  “The mobile launch was a massive success,” Reynaud said,
while refusing to disclose numbers. “We’ll see the buzz around
mobile give our broadband unit a boost as well,” he said.  Iliad has introduced disruptive phone offers at discounted
prices in  France  for the second time in a decade. It set the
standard for so-called triple-play offers in 2001 by pioneering
bundles of fixed phone, television, and broadband Internet at
about 30 euros a month.  The company’s Free broadband division added 407,000
subscribers last year. Iliad has 4.8 million broadband
subscribers in total.  Iliad shares rose 0.5 percent to 99.22 euros at 4:55 p.m.
in Paris trading, giving the company a market value of about 5.7
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  