-- Limbaugh’s AWOL Sponsors Open Way for Negro College Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-08T19:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/limbaugh-s-awol-sponsors-open-way-for-negro-college-fund.html
The boycott against talk-radio host
 Rush Limbaugh  has some unexpected beneficiaries: non-profits
getting more ad time on his show.  The United Negro College Fund, Big Brothers Big Sisters and
the  American Heart Association  are among the organizations that
had ads air yesterday during Limbaugh’s program, the biggest
U.S. talk show, on WABC-AM in New York.  Of the 69 commercial spots on the three-hour show, more
than half were public-service announcements, according to data
collected by Media Matters for America, a Washington-based non-
profit  whose  mission is to fight “conservative
misinformation.” Its research found none on March 1, the day
after Limbaugh made his controversial comments about law student
Sandra Fluke. Some charities have since taken steps to remove 
their spots from Limbaugh’s show on stations where they air.  “Those are free,” said Angelo Carusone, campaign director
for Media Matters, which has fanned Limbaugh opposition. “It’s
a sign the boycott is working.”  Media Matters has asked advertisers to drop Limbaugh’s show
since the radio host called Fluke, a student at  Georgetown
University , a “slut” and “prostitute” after she testified
before a panel of Congressional Democrats Feb. 23. Fluke spoke
in support of President Barack Obama’s policy requiring health
insurers to pay for  birth control  for women.  Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS) , the Atlanta-based owner of WABC,
declined to comment, according to a spokesman.  No Thanks  The American Heart Association said it would ask WABC to
stop running the unpaid announcements.  “It is our practice to be a content-sensitive advertiser,
and in light of the current controversy, we will be asking WABC
to no longer utilize these unpaid PSAs,” Matthew Bannister,
executive vice president of communications at the Dallas-based
heart association, said in an e-mail.  Clear Channel Communication’s Inc. (CCMO) ’s  Premiere Networks (3069Q) ,
which distributes Limbaugh’s show, issued a statement supporting
the host this week.  “The contraception debate is one that sparks strong
emotion and opinions on both sides of the issue,” Premiere,
based in Los Angeles, said in the statement. “We believe he did
the right thing on Saturday, and again on his radio show on
Monday, by expressing regret for his choice of words and
offering his sincere and heartfelt apology to Ms. Fluke.”  Joye Griffin, a spokeswoman for the Fairfax, Virginia-based
United Negro College Fund, referred an inquiry to the New York-
based Ad Council, which manages spots for the fund and other
groups.  Donor Complaints  “We cannot control or predict where they appear,” Ellyn
Fisher, a council spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We find out
from reporting afterwards.”  Big Brothers Big Sisters of America is working with the
council to pull its spots from stations that carry the Limbaugh
show, Jill Godsey, a spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-based
organization, said in an e-mail.  “We made this decision at the request of national and
local donors, some of whom made their concerns known via
Facebook and Twitter posts,” Godsey said.  Others receiving the spots include the charities Save the
Children and  Feeding America , and  New York  City’s Office of
Emergency Management.  “We don’t place the ads. We’ve worked with the Ad
Council,” said Christopher Gilbride, press secretary for the
office. The department’s ads on the show reminded listeners to
create a disaster plan in the event a crisis “turns your world
upside down.”  ‘Upside Down’ World  Public-service announcements are  free spots  dating back to
World War II that are meant to raise awareness of an issue.
Radio broadcasters on public airwaves use them to show they are
operating in the public interest.  Companies including online publisher  AOL Inc. (AOL) , retailer
 Stamps.com Inc. (STMP)  and legal adviser LegalZoom.com Inc. pulled
their ads from Limbaugh’s show after activists such as Media
Matters began calling for a boycott.  Two  radio stations ,  Hawaii ’s KPUA and WPEC in
 Massachusetts , also dropped the program.  Limbaugh, 61, said yesterday on the show that three new
sponsors had signed up. He said reports of as many as 32 leaving
were inaccurate and that many local stations sell their own
commercials.  “Everything is fine on the business side,” Limbaugh said.
“Everything’s cool. There is not a thing to worry about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  