-- Impala Unit Sees 30 Years of Output From Zimbabwe Platinum Mines
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-03-08T14:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/impala-unit-sees-30-years-of-output-from-zimbabwe-platinum-mines.html
Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , a unit of
the world’s second-largest platinum miner, expects its mines in
 Zimbabwe  to produce the precious metal for at least 30 years,
according to Chief Operating Officer Stanley Segula.  “We’re looking at over 30 years of life and at least one
million ounces of platinum a year in the areas which we have so
far explored,” Segula told reporters and lawmakers visiting the
company’s Ngezi mine, about 140 kilometers (87 miles) southeast
of the capital, Harare, today.  Lawmakers were at Zimbabwe’s largest platinum producer to
“assess the progress of indigenization,” said Monica
Mutsvanga, a senator of the ruling Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front and chairwoman of the senate’s
indigenization committee.  “We aren’t witch hunting. We’re here to understand what is
going on. We are looking at the implementation of the
empowerment policy,” she said.  Zimbabwe instructed Zimplats to cede a 29.5 percent stake
to the National Indigenization and Economic Empowerment Fund by
March 13. Under Zimbabwean law, foreign-owned mines are expected
to cede or sell 51 percent of their shares to black Zimbabweans.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , a South African miner and
the world’s second-largest platinum producer, owns 87 percent of
Australia-listed Zimplats.  Zimplats will build a platinum refinery in Zimbabwe if
production of the precious metal reaches 500,000 ounces a year,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick Maseva-Shayawabaya said.  “A refinery will cost about $2 billion and we’re currently
producing about 180,000 ounces,” he said. “That needs to
increase to about 500,000 ounces to make a refinery commercially
viable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 