-- Carlyle-Backed Indian Brokerage Is Said to Eliminate 11 Jobs in Singapore
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-03-09T07:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/india-infoline-said-to-eliminate-11-jobs-close-singapore-securities-unit.html
India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL) , a brokerage
backed by Carlyle Group LP, is shutting its securities
operations in Singapore and eliminating about 11 positions,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The brokerage, based in Mumbai, plans to keep its wealth
and asset management  operations  in Singapore, the people said,
declining to be identified as the matter is confidential.  India
Infoline  has applied for a temporary suspension of its trading
activities on the Singapore exchange, spokeswoman Poonam Saraogi
said today.  Banks and brokerages in Asia Pacific are joining global
rivals that have cut more than 200,000 jobs since the beginning
of 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis triggers a slowdown in the
region.  Japan ’s Daiwa Securities Group Inc., South Korea’s
Samsung Securities Co. and  Australia ’s Macquarie Group Ltd. are
among firms that are reducing staff this year.  “Call it the European contagion, U.S. effect, Asian
effect, people want to cut down costs because the amount clients
pay for trading is simply shrinking,” said  Arun Kejriwal , a
director at Mumbai-based investment advisory company Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services. “Brokerage as a business seems
to be at the receiving end.”  India  Infoline is curbing operations in Singapore even as
it plans to double investment banking staff in India, according
to Chairman Nirmal Jain, to tap demand for managing equity
sales. Former Nomura Holdings Inc. banker Nipun Goel was named
president of its investment bank, the brokerage said in a
statement today.  Offered New Assignments  Three of the 11 people whose jobs are being eliminated were
offered the option of taking new assignments within the company,
one of the people said.  The brokerage is “downscaling” the  Singapore  office,
Saraogi, who is based in Mumbai, said by telephone, without
confirming the number of jobs cut.  “We are undergoing a restructuring there,” she said,
citing lower-than-expected trading volumes in Singapore. The
company, which had won the trading license in mid-2010, will
continue offering research on  China  from the city-state and
focus on its wealth management business from there, she said.  Shares of India Infoline gained 4.5 percent to 68.80 rupees
as of 12:19 p.m. in Mumbai trading today. The stock has gained
 58 percent  since the end of last year, while the BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has advanced 13 percent.  ‘Quick to React’  Jain’s attempt to expand the brokerage’s operations into
Singapore has “backfired,” said Kejriwal.  Still, “you can’t criticize the guy for making the
attempt,” he said. “If at all, you can compliment him for
being quick to react” to the losses and withdrawing, he said.  Carlyle in October said its private equity unit in  Asia  had
accumulated a 9 percent stake in the brokerage, without
disclosing how much it had paid. The Washington-based buyout
firm has made equity commitments of more than $2 billion in the
region, it said. The holding in the Indian brokerage was valued
at 1.71 billion rupees ($34 million) based on its March 7
closing price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  