-- Indonesia Holds Interest Rate as Inflation Risk From Oil Price Increases
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-03-08T09:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/indonesia-holds-interest-rate-as-inflation-risk-from-oil-price-increases.html
Indonesia’s central bank held
 interest rates  to support growth as a government plan to raise
fuel prices and electricity tariffs revives inflation risk.  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board kept the  reference
rate  at 5.75 percent, Bank Indonesia said in a statement in
Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by 15 of 16 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, with one calling for a cut of a
quarter of a percentage point.  China  reduced its growth target this week, and the  Asian
Development Bank  has warned that rising crude oil and  Europe ’s
debt crisis will slow expansion in the region, where policy
makers have either cut borrowing costs or stopped increasing
them in recent meetings. A plan to raise prices of subsidized
fuel threatens to reignite cost pressure in  Indonesia  and limits
the scope for easing after an unexpected cut in the last meeting.  “Concerns over unfurling inflationary expectations likely
prompted Bank Indonesia to pull the brakes in the easing
cycle,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore. The central bank appears troubled by risks to growth
from external factors, she said, adding that “the prudent line
of action here on would be to keep rates on hold for the year.”  The rupiah was little changed at 9,135 per dollar. The
benchmark Jakarta Composite index of stocks rose 0.4 percent as
of 3:01 p.m. local time, set to gain the first time in four days.  Respond if Needed  Indonesia’s decision comes after  New Zealand  and  South
Korea  also held interest rates today, even as  Brazil  surprised
analysts by cutting borrowing costs more than expected yesterday.
 Bank Negara Malaysia  is forecast to hold for a fifth meeting
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Bank Indonesia said last week it will respond to a surge in
consumer prices if needed, even as  inflation  in  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest economy slowed for a sixth straight month in February.  Inflation may exceed the central bank’s target of 3.5
percent to 5.5 percent this year if the government increases
prices of subsidized fuel by 1,000 rupiah (11 U.S. cents) per
liter or more, Nasution said in February.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s cabinet proposes to
raise costs by 1,500 rupiah per liter, Energy Minister Jero Wacik said this week. Electricity prices may also be raised by
as much as 10 percent starting in May.  The government plans to lower the 2012 economic growth
forecast to 6.5 percent from 6.7 percent, and raise the
inflation target to 7 percent from 5.3 percent when it discusses
the revised state budget for this year, Achsanul Qosasih, a vice
chairman of Commission XI at parliament, said this week.  Downward Bias  The economy may expand 6.5 percent in the first quarter,
while growth in the second quarter may not be as high,  Bank
Indonesia  said today, adding that it sees a “downward bias”
for this year if there is no fiscal stimulus.  The central bank reiterated an earlier forecast of growth
of 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent in 2012, and said it will be
supported by “strong domestic demand, especially domestic
consumption and investment,” even as exports are forecast to
slow on global weakness and lower commodity prices.  The impact of higher fuel prices on inflation will be
“temporary” the central bank said, adding that it will take
steps to mitigate the effect. Consumer prices may rise 3.5
percent to 5.5 percent in 2013, it said.  “Bias is towards a possible tightening in the second half,
if inflation overshoots,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore . “We expect Bank
Indonesia to tighten via liquidity measures rather than via
policy rate hikes as the first course of action.”  PT Bank Negara Indonesia, the nation’s third-biggest state-
owned bank, said last month 2011 net income rose 42 percent from
a year earlier, as consumption was boosted by record-low
borrowing costs. The lender expects credit growth this year to
expand at about 20 percent, the same pace as last year.  “Inflation will spike if the government raises the cost of
subsidized fuel,” Gatot Suwondo, President Director of Bank
Negara Indonesia, said last week. “However, it won’t
significantly hurt purchasing power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  