-- InterContinental to Double Southeast Asia Hotels in Three Years to Expand
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-03-08T06:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/intercontinental-to-double-southeast-asia-hotels-in-three-years-to-expand.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest provider of hotel rooms, plans to double the
number properties it manages in  Southeast Asia  in three years to
meet demand from tourists and business travelers.  Denham, England-based InterContinental, which has 37 hotels
in Southeast Asia, plans to triple the number of properties in
 Vietnam  to nine and double locations in Singapore to eight over
the next three to five years, said Clarence Tan, chief operating
officer for Asia and Australasia.  “We are very bullish on Southeast Asia, particularly
excited about Vietnam and Thailand,” Tokyo-based Tan said in a
telephone interview today. “We are getting a bit of wind in
terms of signing new contracts as owners are willing to part
with existing brands to come to our brands.”  Business and leisure travel is recovering after companies
and consumers cut spending during the global recession that
started in 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Revenue per room in the industry rose 9.8 percent
last year in the Asia-Pacific region and 8.2 percent in the
Americas, according to London-based researcher STR Global.  The operator of brands such as InterContinental, Crowne
Plaza and  Holiday Inn  also plans to double the hotels in
Thailand and Indonesia to 24 and 14 hotels respectively over the
next five years, he said.  InterContinental Hotel ’s Chief Executive Officer Richard
Solomons said last month the hotelier is well-placed to benefit
from demand in  emerging markets  such as the greater China
region, which accounts for about 12 percent of group revenue.  The group is increasing its presence in Vietnam with the
signing of two Holiday Inn resorts, and opened a Crowne Plaza
hotel in Semarang, Indonesia, in January this year, Tan said.
InterContinental expects demand for accommodations on the resort
islands of Phuket, Phi-Phi and Krabi in Thailand and the city of
Bangkok to grow, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  