-- Lionel Messi, APOEL Set Records in Reaching Champions League Quarterfinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-08T00:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/lionel-messi-apoel-set-records-in-reaching-champions-league-quarterfinals.html
Lionel Messi  set a  Champions League 
record by scoring five goals to lead  Barcelona  into the
quarterfinals, as APOEL Nicosia became the first team from
Cyprus to reach the final eight.  Messi led Barcelona to a 7-1 rout of  Bayer Leverkusen  last
night to complete a 10-2 victory over two games. Cristian Tello
added two goals as defending champion Barcelona scored its
biggest victory in European soccer’s elite club competition.  “It was beautiful to score five goals,” Messi, who was
named the world’s best player for the third straight year in
January, said on the competition’s website. “In the Champions
League we want to go as far as possible, but we know no matter
who we draw at this stage it is going to be difficult because
only the best teams get this far.”  APOEL beat Lyon 4-3 in a penalty shootout after its 1-0
victory in Nicosia left the teams tied 1-1 after two matches.
Goalkeeper Dionisios Chiotis made two saves in the shootout and
APOEL converted all four of its attempts.  Barcelona and APOEL join seven-time champion AC Milan and
Benfica in the quarterfinals. The remaining four spots will be
filled next week with Basel, Marseille and Napoli leading after
their first games and record nine-time winner  Real Madrid  tied
1-1 with CSKA Moscow. The quarterfinal draw will take place
March 16 at UEFA’s headquarters in Nyon,  Switzerland .  Messi’s five goals at the Camp Nou eclipsed the Champions
League record of four accomplished seven times, most recently by
Lyon’s Bafetimbi Gomis against Dinamo Zagreb in the group stage
in December.  Single-Season Mark  Messi also matched the single-season record of 12 goals set
by himself in 2010-11 and former Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy in 2002-03. He’s scored 53 goals in 49 games this
season for Barcelona and the Argentina national team and has 49
goals in 64 career Champions League matches.  “We’ve never seen anyone like him,” Barcelona midfielder
Cesc Fabregas said in a televised interview. “We know what he’s
capable of and we’re very happy to have him on our team.”  Barcelona took the lead in the 26th minute as  Xavi Hernandez  sent a ball over the top of the Leverkusen defense to
Messi, who scooped a shot over goalkeeper Bernd Leno.  Messi made it 2-0 three minutes before halftime with a shot
into the corner and completed his hat trick four minutes after
the break with another chip over Leno.  Tello scored in the 55th minute, two minutes after coming
on as a substitute for  Andres Iniesta , and Messi added his
fourth goal three minutes later.  Tello scored again in the 62nd minute and Messi netted his
record-setting goal with five minutes remaining. Leverkusen’s
Karim Bellarabi then closed the scoring in the final minute.  APOEL Advances  APOEL continued its historic run in the competition by
erasing a 1-0 deficit from the opening game in  France .  Gustavo Manduca scored in the ninth minute at GSP Stadium
in Nicosia. Manduca was then sent off for a second yellow card
with five minutes of extra time remaining, though Lyon was
unable to take advantage and the game went to penalties.  Each team made its first three attempts, with Lyon’s
Lisandro scoring after his shot hit the post and went in off
Chiotis’s back. The APOEL keeper then dived to his left to save
Alexandre Lacazette’s effort and Ivan Trickovski scored to give
the home side the lead. Chiotis then dived to his left again to
stop Michel Bastos’s shot and clinch the victory.  “It’s the worst way to go out,” Lyon midfielder Kim
Kallstrom said on UEFA’s website. “When it comes to the penalty
shootout anything can happen. We’re in a tough situation now.
But we’ll fight to be back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 