-- Lira Bond Rally Back on Track on Output Slowdown: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-03-09T16:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/lira-bond-rally-back-on-track-as-output-eases-trade-concern-turkey-credit.html
The biggest bond rally in  emerging
markets  resumed after a worse-than-forecast slump in Turkish
industrial output eased concern about the pace of the economic
expansion and inflation.  Production fell 3.1 percent in January from a month
earlier, slowing the  annual growth rate  to 1.5 percent, compared
with a median forecast of 3.7 percent from nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Yields on two-year lira-denominated bonds
retreated 23 basis points to 9.15 percent yesterday. They rose
three basis points today. In the year to date they’re down 183
basis points, the most among 15 major emerging markets tracked
by Bloomberg.  Turkish bonds are recovering after concern that higher oil
prices would add to the world’s second-biggest current-account
deficit and stoke inflation caused a four-day losing streak in
lira bonds this week, the longest in more than three months.
Central bank Governor Erdem Basci said in Jan. 31 in Istanbul
that higher lending costs introduced in December would reduce
import demand and steer the economy to a “soft landing.”  While  oil prices  remain the biggest concern, “news that at
least on the domestic side there’s no pressure helps balance
things,” said Ugur N. Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is
Invest,  Turkey ’s biggest broker. Reduced pressure on inflation
also means “easing rates start to become a potential policy
option,” he said in a phone interview yesterday.  Yields Plunge  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Turkey’s
dollar-denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 12
basis points to 309 yesterday, while the average for developing-
nation debt shrank by 11 to 344, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to insure Turkish bonds against non-payment using
credit-default swaps dropped 10 basis points yesterday to 222,
the lowest since August, according to data from CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles quotes by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market. The spread is 181 for  Russia , rated
three levels higher by  Standard & Poor’s , 185 for  Poland  and 161
for  South Africa . The contracts would pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or cash.  The lira declined 0.5 percent to 1.78 per dollar today
after gaining yesterday, bringing this year’s rally to 5.9
percent. Traders are becoming more bullish on the currency,
cutting the cost to exchange lira payments for dollars by the
most in five weeks, sending the two-year cross currency swap
rate falling 14 basis points to 7.27 percent yesterday. The rate
was little changed today.  Revising Forecasts  “People are going to have to revise their inflation and
economic growth forecasts down,” Cevdet Akcay, chief economist
for Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, the Istanbul-based lender part-
owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said by telephone on March 5. “Year-end
inflation is going to be quite low but the average for the year
quite high. As a bond investor if you can pick your maturities
well that can bring quite a nice return.”  Investor concern about inflation and the current account
worsened last year when Turkey’s economy expanded at the fastest
pace after  China  among the Group of 20 major nations, spurring
demand for imports that widened the 12-month cumulative  current-
account  to a record $78.6 billion in October, equivalent to
about 10 percent of gross domestic product. The lira tumbled 18
percent against the dollar in 2011, the biggest depreciation
globally.  Higher Rates  Basci responded by more than doubling the rate the central
bank charges for funds to lenders in late December and early
January. Inflation slowed in February to 10.4 percent from a
three-year high of 10.6 percent a month earlier.  While inflation was still more than double the bank’s year-
end goal of 5 percent, Basci lowered the upper limit of his so-
called interest rate corridor to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent
on Feb. 21. An economic slowdown is already taking place and
gross domestic product growth will fall this year to the
government’s target of about 4 percent, Basci said in Davos,
 Switzerland , on Jan. 27. GDP probably grew about 8.5 percent
last year, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said Feb. 28.  Sales of new cars slumped 30 percent annually in February,
the Automotive Distributors’ Association said March 6, extending
a 29 percent decline the previous month.  Industrial capacity usage  fell in February for a fourth
consecutive month to 72.9 percent, the lowest in two years,
according to data from the statistics institute on Feb. 23.  The HSBC purchasing managers’ index, which provides a guide
to expectations for future business conditions among executives,
dropped in February to 49. That was the first time the figure
dipped below 50 percent, an indication of an economic
contraction, since August last year, according to figures from
 Markit Economics  published on March 1.  Falling output is “positive for bonds, at least because it
reduces expectations that the bank will bring in additional
tightening,” said Erkin Isik, a fixed income strategist for
Turk Ekonomi Bankasi in Istanbul, said by e-mail yesterday. The
January figures “aren’t enough to push the bank to adjust
policy lower but if subsequent data show similar weakness, we
might see that happening,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  