-- Iran’s Supreme Leader Says Obama’s Diplomacy Comments Are ‘Good Words’
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2012-03-08T18:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/iran-s-khamenei-says-obama-comments-yesterday-are-good-words-.html
Iran ’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said President Barack Obama’s comments that there is
room for diplomacy in the international community’s standoff
with Iran are “good words.”  Obama said that there’s a “window of opportunity where
this can still be resolved diplomatically.” Sanctions may also
compel Iran to give up any effort to develop nuclear weapons, he
told reporters at the White House yesterday.  “These words are good words and are a sign of no longer
being in delusion,” Khamenei said in Tehran today, according to
the website of the state television station, which broadcast the
remarks. “But the U.S. president continued to talk about
sanctions against Iran to bring the people to their knees and
this part of the statement is still delusional” about the
nuclear issue.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. will
continue putting pressure on the Iranian government until it
takes action to meet international demands.  “The president’s policy towards Iran is focused in a very
clear-eyed way on behavior” rather than rhetoric, Carney said
at a White House briefing. “The pressure on Iran will continue.
The ratcheting up of sanctions will continue.”  Tougher Sanctions  The U.S. and the European Union have stiffened economic
sanctions against Iran over concerns that the government in
Tehran is pursuing atomic weapons. Iran says its nuclear program
is for peaceful purposes.  Nuclear powers said they are ready for sustained talks with
Iran and want the Persian Gulf nation to grant  United Nations 
inspectors access to its secret Parchin military installation.  “We urge Iran to fulfill its undertaking to grant access
to Parchin,” the UN’s five permanent Security Council members
plus  Germany  said in a statement issued in Vienna today. “We
call on Iran to enter, without pre-conditions, into a sustained
process of serious dialogue, which will produce concrete
results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  