-- Italian Bond Yields Drop to Nine-Month Low as Draghi Signals Improvement
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-08T16:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/italian-german-10-year-bond-yield-spread-drops-to-lowest-since-september.html
Italy’s bonds rose, pushing 10-year
yields to the lowest in nine months, as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  signaled the worst of the region’s debt
crisis may be over.  German  bunds  dropped for the first time in three days after
Draghi said “the risk environment has improved enormously,”
reducing demand for the region’s safest securities. The extra
yield investors get for owning Italy’s bonds instead of German
bunds shrank to a six-month low on optimism Greece will attract
enough investors to make its planned debt swap program a
success. Draghi spoke after the ECB left its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent.  “Italian yields are very down on the day,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in  London .
“Draghi was bullish about the effect that the recent policies
have had, he sounded as if he was happy with where things stand.
Draghi remained cautious about the growth prospects and that
kept bunds supported.”  Italy ’s  10-year yield  slid 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 4.81 percent at 4:20 p.m. London time,
after dropping to 4.75 percent, the lowest since June 8. The 5
percent security maturing in March 2022 climbed 1, or 10 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,325) face amount, to 101.94.  The difference in yield between Italian and German 10-year
bonds shrank 16 basis points to 3.01 percentage points after
narrowing to 2.93 percent, the least since Sept. 1.  The euro strengthened to a two-week high against the dollar
and the yen, appreciating 0.9 percent to $1.3266 and 1.4 percent
to 108.11 yen.  ‘Low Levels’  ECB policy makers see “signs of stabilization in economic
activity, albeit still at low levels,” Draghi said, adding that
inflation will probably breach the central bank’s 2 percent
limit this year. The ECB’s latest economic projections show
inflation averaging 2.4 percent in 2012, he said. That’s up
from a December forecast of 2 percent.  The German 10-year bund yield three basis points to 1.8
percent, and the two-year yield increased one basis point to
0.16 percent.  Greece  moved closer to sealing the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history as holders of about 60 percent of the
eligible bonds said they will take part in the nation’s planned
debt swap. Those agreeing include Greece’s largest banks, most
of the country’s pension funds and more than 30 European banks
and insurers including BNP Paribas SA and Commerzbank AG.  Greek  two-year yields  fell 13 basis points to 246.57
percent, pushing up the price to 17.5 percent of face value. The
Greek note maturing on March 20 dropped 12.03 to 16.75 percent
of face value, a record low based on closing prices.  Factory Orders  Demand for bunds also declined after a German report showed
industrial output grew more than economists predicted, sapping
investor appetite for haven assets. Output rose 1.6 percent in
January from the previous month, the central bank said,
surpassing the forecast of 1.1 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  German bonds have returned 0.4 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian debt gained 13 percent,
and Spanish securities rose 2.6 percent.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 5.07
percent today, while two-year yields declined six basis points
to 2.29 percent.  Bonds from  Italy (SOSHITGG)  and Spain have rallied since the ECB
offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s financial
institutions in so-called longer-term refinancing operations in
December and February. The securities advanced amid speculation
banks are buying them to take advantage of higher yields after
borrowing from the central bank at its 1 percent benchmark rate.  ‘Further Support’  “We expect that the three-year longer-term refinancing
operations will provide further support for the ongoing
stabilization in financial markets and, in particular, for
lending activity in the euro area,” Draghi said today.  European inflation expectations rose, pushing the German
two-year break-even rate to the highest since January, as the
ECB raised its price-growth forecasts.  Short-term breakeven rates also jumped in  France  and Italy.
The yield difference between two-year German nominal bonds and
 index-linked  securities of the same maturity, a gauge of
inflation expectations, advanced to 1.08 percentage points
today, the most since Jan. 30.  Volatility in Greek government debt was the highest in
euro-area markets today, followed by Italian securities,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  