-- Mitsubishi Heavy Told to Pay GE $170 Million Over Turbines
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-08T22:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mitsubishi-heavy-told-to-pay-ge-170-million-over-turbines.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
must pay about $170 million to General Electric Co. after a jury
in the U.S. found the company infringed a wind-turbine patent.  Mitsubishi Heavy,  Japan ’s biggest heavy-machinery maker,
will challenge the verdict and seek to have the GE patent ruled
unenforceable in a second phase of the trial in Dallas,
according to a statement today from the Tokyo-based company. A
second GE patent, related to the turbines’ base design, was
ruled invalid by U.S. District Judge Royal Ferguson on Feb. 10.  GE accused Mitsubishi Heavy of infringing a patent on a way
to keep turbines connected to utility grids during voltage
fluctuations without sustaining damage. The dispute is part of
an effort by GE to maintain its market lead in the U.S., where
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company says it has made about
half of the turbines in use.  “It is important to see this case within the larger
context: as part of a GE litigation strategy that would stifle
competition and innovation in wind turbine technology,” Sonia Williams, a spokeswoman for Mitsubishi Heavy in the U.S., said
in the statement.  Chet Lasell, a GE spokesman, said the company had no
immediate comment.  Wind Capacity  GE claimed that at least 179 Mitsubishi Heavy turbines made
for  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s renewables unit and Edison Mission Energy
infringe the first patent. Mitsubishi Heavy signed contracts
with the power companies in 2007 and 2008, and the turbines were
installed in 2010 and 2011. A 2.4-megawatt wind turbine, the
type at the center of the trial, costs about $2.9 million, based
on estimates of capacity costs in the Bloomberg New Energy
Finance  Wind Turbine Price Index (WTPIPALL) .  The U.S. has the second-largest amount of wind capacity in
the world, trailing  China , according to a Feb. 7 report by the
Global Wind Energy Council.  The Dallas suit was filed after GE lost a case at the U.S.
International Trade Commission to block Mitsubishi Heavy turbine
imports. An appeals court on Feb. 29 ordered the ITC to review
findings on one GE patent, reviving part of the case.  Mitsubishi Heavy filed an antitrust lawsuit in  Arkansas 
accusing GE of trying to monopolize the wind-turbine market.
That suit is on hold, pending the outcome of the patent cases.
The company also has a patent-infringement complaint against GE
in federal court in Orlando,  Florida .  The case is  General Electric Co. (GE)  v. Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd., 10cv276, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  