-- Mitsubishi Waiting for Japan’s Guidance on Iranian Oil Contract
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-03-08T01:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mitsubishi-waiting-for-japan-s-guidance-on-iranian-oil-contract.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Japan ’s biggest
trading company, is among crude oil buyers waiting for the
government to decide whether the Asian country needs to cut
imports from Iran.  Mitsubishi buys Iranian crude and condensate, a light oil
produced during natural-gas extraction, to supply Japanese
refiners, Shunsuke Nanami, a spokesman in Tokyo, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The company is waiting for an official
decision on how to proceed with supply contracts amid
international sanctions against the Islamic Republic, he said.  Japan plans to propose cutting Iranian crude purchases by
at least 11 percent annually in order to gain an exemption to a
U.S. law that would punish banks that do business with  Iran ,
according to a government official Feb. 21. Refiners have been
unable to renew some term contracts for 2012 until they receive
direction from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  “The discussions with the U.S. are making progress,”
 Yukio Edano , Japan’s trade and economy minister, said this week.
“I can’t disclose the status of the ongoing discussion because
the talks involve a counterparty.”  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. (5001) , Japan’s largest refiner by
capacity, buys as much as 33,000 barrels a day of Iran’s South
Pars condensates through a long-term contract with Mitsubishi,
which is supplied by National Iranian Oil Co., according to two
officials at both Japanese companies, who declined to be
identified because the information is confidential.  JX Nippon processes the liquids ain a 63,500 barrel-a-day
condensate splitter at its 189,000 barrel-a-day Kashima refinery
near  Tokyo , two of the officials said.  The refiner has contracts to buy as much as 83,000 barrels
a day of Iranian crude, which includes the deal with Mitsubishi,
according to officials from both companies. An additional 10,000
barrel-a-day supply deal with the Islamic Republic is yet to be
renewed.  Mitsubishi’s Nanami declined to provide details on specific
contract deals. Ghassem Mohsenian, the managing director of
NIOC’s Singapore office, was not available for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  