-- Japan’s Richest Man Remakes Once-Drab Uniqlo in Manhattan’s Image: Retail
-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-03-09T09:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/japan-s-richest-man-remakes-once-drab-uniqlo-in-manhattan-s-image-retail.html
Uniqlo, the Japanese T-shirt maker,
wanted to change its image, which was seen as drab in its
homeland. Part of the solution: recreating the sheen of its New
York Fifth Avenue store in Tokyo’s most expensive fashion
district -- rebranding from the outside in.  Uniqlo next week will open its world’s largest store in
Tokyo’s Ginza area. Combined with a shift to use English as its
official language and plans to hire more international workers,
the strategy is designed to shed Uniqlo’s roots as a budget
label selling cheap clothing  30 years ago .  “We came from the boonies, a roadside store,”  Tadashi Yanai , the 63-year-old president of Uniqlo’s parent,  Fast
Retailing Co. (9983)  and  Japan ’s richest man, said last month.
“Overseas, our image is that of a global company, but in Japan,
we have this legacy issue which we take with us. This roadside
image, old image is still in the minds of people and we want to
show people the new Uniqlo.”  Uniqlo’s efforts to revive its brand at home, where sales
fell 2.4 percent last year, are a study in how some Japanese
firms are adapting to an aging population and stagnant domestic
economy to find new ways of growing. Success may give Fast
Retailing a boost in a market that provides more than 80 percent
of its 820.3 billion yen ($10 billion) in annual revenue and
competes with global brands including  Inditex SA’s (ITX)   Zara  and
 Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB)   “The reimporting of their brand image may actually work,”
said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI  Asia  in
Tokyo.  Soho, Fifth Avenue  In  Manhattan , after the success of a Soho outlet, the
company set up a glass-fronted corner store on Fifth Avenue, the
priciest retail street globally in 2011, according to Cushman &
Wakefield, the commercial real estate services company. It was
followed by another store on New York’s 34th Street.  After gaining customers around the world, the company
decided the quickest way to revamp its image at home was to
import the glitz of Fifth Avenue and let Japanese customers
“experience the difference,” Uniqlo said in its  annual report .  The outlet in Ginza, where rents cost about $1,044 per
square foot in 2011, according to  Cushman & Wakefield , will be a
gleaming white rectangular glass-front building of 12 stories
and open to customers on March 16.  With floor space of 52,500 square feet, or almost the same
size as an American football field, the new outlet replaces a
smaller store and will be manned by a staff of 520. Included in
the workforce will be about 100 foreigners from around the world
speaking English, Chinese Mandarin, Korean, French and Spanish.  McDonald’s, Starbucks  “Ginza is the first place foreign brands set up shop when
they enter Japan,” said Masamichi Nakamura,  executive director 
at Interbrand Japan, a marketing consultant. “McDonald’s and
Starbucks had their very first stores in Ginza.”  In addition to the company’s traditional products such as
T-shirts and casual clothes, the new store will sell trendy
fashions from its collaborative lineup with the  Undercover  brand
and an exclusive line of outfits created for Kei Nishikori,
Japan’s top-ranked tennis player and the world’s No. 17.  Fast Retailing gained 1.5 percent to 17,660 yen at the 3
p.m. close in  Tokyo . The stock has gained 38 percent in the past
12 months,  compared  with a 6.2 percent drop in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  During the same period Inditex has risen 29 percent and
Hennes & Mauritz gained 15 percent.  Stalling Growth  For a chain that built its reputation on cheap clothing
that anyone could afford, Uniqlo is going to face hurdles
convincing Japanese shoppers it’s hip, according to analyst
James Moon.  “They have 800-plus stores and they mainly sell basic
stuff like underwear” in Japan, said Moon, an analyst for BNP
Paribas Equity Research in Tokyo. “They want to sell more to
women and to sell more outer wear, and to do that you have to be
a little bit more fashionable.”  While Japan provides the bulk of Fast Retailing’s revenue,
growth has stalled as hit products like  Heattech thermal wear 
are losing out to similar products sold at cheaper prices by
supermarket chains Ito-Yokado and  Aeon Co. (8267)   As Uniqlo improves its brand, it may take market share from
H&M and Zara around Tokyo and from the supermarkets, said
Akihiro Chiba, an analyst for Tachibana Securities.  While Uniqlo’s  Japan sales  fell to 600 billion yen in the
year ended August 2011, international revenue jumped 29 percent
to 93.7 billion yen in the same period.  The Boonies  “They have hit a ceiling domestically and can’t grow like
before,” said Chiba. “They have to do something to get out of
this situation, which is to set up shop in Ginza and show people
they are back cooler than before.”  Of the brand’s 843 domestic stores, about 60 percent are
located by roadsides, mainly in suburban areas, according to the
latest  annual report . Part of its new strategy at home is to
recreate the large, sleek stores that have won it customers
abroad with success in Ginza before expanding to other parts of
Tokyo and cities such as Osaka and Fukuoka.  The retailer plans to shut some of its smaller stores and
build bigger ones that average over 35,000 square feet. It will
also introduce English as its official language of communication
to do business around the world.  “If we are to do business globally, we have to do it in
English,” said Yanai. “This is the new reality Japan faces.”  English Tests  Managers have to score above 700 points for their TOEIC,
Test of English for International Communication test, and all
meetings involving foreigners will be conducted in English.
Yanai aims to have foreigners make up half of the 1,000 staff at
its main office in Tokyo by 2015.  Bringing the glamor of its  New York stores  to Japan may
help turn around the company’s image, according to Yoshida Kan,
a copy writer from Oita prefecture and former customer who
shunned Uniqlo’s casual clothes for cheaper alternatives sold by
supermarket chains.  “The real meaning of taking the  New York  Fifth Avenue
concept and putting it in Ginza is to assure people that they
made the right choice in buying Uniqlo,” said Kan. “Telling
people in the boonies that we have a store in New York’s Fifth
Avenue and Ginza, so we’re all right.”  Another benefit of bringing a global image back home and
setting up in fashionable Ginza: drawing international tourists,
particularly those from mainland  China .  “I think it will strengthen their image at home and
globally, especially Asia,” said Interbrand’s Nakamura.  Uniqlo already has some converts at home.  “If you have fashion sense, you can utilize their products
well,” said Yuki Morino, a 22-year-old university student in
Tokyo, wearing an orange corduroy shirt and checkered jacket
from Uniqlo. “People who say you can’t look fashionable with
Uniqlo probably have no sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  