-- Japan Economy Contracts 0.7%, Less Than Initial Estimate
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-03-08T00:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/japan-economy-shrinks-0-7-less-than-estimate.html
Japan ’s economy contracted less than
the government’s initial estimate last quarter, improving
prospects for the recovery from last year’s earthquake.  Gross domestic product  shrank an annualized 0.7 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo
today, compared with a preliminary estimate of a 2.3 percent
contraction. The median forecast of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.6 percent contraction.  The world’s third-biggest economy will grow 1.5 percent
this quarter after industrial output and retail sales gained
more than economists forecast in January,  Barclays Capital 
estimates. A weakening of the yen since the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
expanded monetary stimulus by announcing additional bond
purchases on Feb. 14 may aid exporters, with reconstruction work
after the earthquake and tsunami last March also kicking in.  “In the months ahead, it should gradually become clear
that the soft patch is over,”  Ryutaro Kono , chief economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo, said before the report. “Revived
exports and government-driven reconstruction demand should help
bolster corporate earnings, leading to improved employment and
income conditions for households.”  Some companies are increasing spending to meet rising
demand, with  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) , a heavy-
equipment maker, planning to invest about 40 billion yen to
boost production capacity.  Stimulus Measures  Parliament last month passed Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s fourth extra budget, a package of 2.5 trillion yen ($30.7
billion), and the Bank of Japan expanded monetary stimulus to 65
trillion yen from 55 trillion yen to support growth and drive
own the value of the yen.  “Japan’s economy is weathering a slump in external
demand” and domestic demand is “solid,”  Junko Nishioka , chief
Japan economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd., said before
today’s report. “With reconstruction demand kicking in, Japan’s
economy will likely return to growth this quarter.”  Japan’s currency has weakened since the BOJ announced extra
stimulus and set an inflation goal, trading at 81.16 per dollar
as of 7:39 a.m. in  Tokyo  today compared with a post-World War II
high of 75.35 in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  