-- Japan Said to Weigh Extending AIJ Suspension as Probe Widens to Hong Kong
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-03-08T08:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/japan-said-to-weigh-extending-aij-suspension-as-probe-widens-to-hong-kong.html
Japan ’s securities watchdog may
extend a one-month suspension of  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. (0202964D)  as
investigations into the asset manager expand to Hong Kong, two
government officials with knowledge of the matter said.  The Financial Services Agency is considering prolonging the
business stoppage by at least 30 days as the March 23 deadline
approaches, the officials said on condition of anonymity because
the discussions are private. Japanese authorities called on
their Hong Kong counterparts to help find out what happened to
the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of pension assets managed
by AIJ and determine any wrongdoing, one of the officials said.  AIJ has failed to account for most of the money, prompting
the regulator to embark on its biggest investigation of the
nation’s fund managers. Parliament is seeking to question AIJ
President Kazuhiko Asakawa next week as the case raises doubts
over the safety of pensions in a country where more than a fifth
of the population is over 65.  The AIJ case highlights the need for Japanese regulators
“to consider hiring specialists who can trace the flow of
investments that are channeled through overseas funds,” said
Katsuyuki Tokushima, head of pension research at NLI Research
Institute in  Tokyo . “It’s time consuming to uncover money flows
through offshore locations like the  Cayman Islands  with fund
administrators based in a different location.”  Assets Dwindled  Tokyo-based AIJ told regulators that its assets under
management have dwindled to about 24 billion yen, including 4
billion yen in cash and deposits, one of the officials said.
Phone calls to AIJ reached an automated recording that didn’t
take messages.  The lower house of parliament will ask Asakawa to appear
before its financial committee on March 14, Shunichi Yamaguchi,
an opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmaker, said in Tokyo
today. Asakawa’s current whereabouts are unknown, Yamaguchi said.  Employees of AIJ have been cooperating with the inspection
performed by the  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission ,
the official said, while they have failed to fully explain
issues such as the whereabouts of the investments under
management. The person didn’t name the AIJ staff it spoke with.  Hong Kong Link  Japanese regulators want authorities in  Hong Kong  to help
trace the movement of money managed by AIJ that went to the
Cayman Islands, the official said. A financial institution with
operations in Hong Kong may be able to provide information to
local authorities on the flow of that cash, the person said,
without naming the institution.  Jonathan Li, a spokesman for Hong Kong’s Securities and
Futures Commission, declined to comment on whether the regulator
is assisting with the investigation.  At least one of AIJ’s funds, AIM Millennium, was registered
in the Cayman Islands, according to presentation materials
provided to a pension fund that were obtained by Bloomberg News
last week.  The FSA on Feb. 24 ordered AIJ to stop business for a month
while the SESC, the regulator’s investigative arm, inspects the
firm for possible losses. The firm’s clients included pension
funds of unions representing workers ranging from taxi drivers
to medical practitioners. Advantest Corp., a maker of memory
chip testers, and Yaskawa Electric Corp., an industrial robot
maker, are among corporate pension plans that put money with AIJ.  Affects 880,000  AIJ managed 185.3 billion yen of assets with 84 pension
funds as of March 2011, according to labor ministry data. About
880,000 people may have been affected, ministry figures show.  One client,  Human Holdings Co. (2415) , plans to seek compensation.
The school and health care provider is speaking with its lawyers
to try to claim damages for any losses on the 330 million yen
AIJ managed for the Tokyo-based company as of Dec. 31, Yusuke
Kawashita, an executive officer, said in an interview today.  Shares of Human have declined for six straight days, losing
9.4 percent, since disclosing it was a client of AIJ on Feb. 29.
Unlike most of AIJ’s Japanese customers, Human didn’t invest
pension assets.  The probe spurred the FSA to ask 265 asset management firms
nationwide to submit status reports on their business by March
14. The reports must contain details of a firm’s operations,
contracts and amounts, and any past complaints from customers.  Based on the responses, the regulator will compile a
shortlist by late March of companies that may need extra
investigation, a senior FSA official told reporters last week on
condition of anonymity because of the agency’s policy.  Watchdog’s Findings  AIJ hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing following its
suspension. Any action against it depends on the SESC’s findings,
Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said on Feb. 28.  Jimi pledged last month to consider revamping the
inspection and supervision of pension asset managers, saying his
agency won’t rule out any step to prevent cases like AIJ’s.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s party has set up a panel to
study stricter oversight of the fund management industry. The
group met for the first time last week to consider measures
including requiring external audits for privately owned asset
management firms and expanding responsibilities for custodians
of fund assets, said  Tsutomu Okubo , one of the 10 lawmakers on
the subcommittee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  