-- Japan’s 3/11 Disaster Endures in Broken Families
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-10T01:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/japan-s-3-11-triple-catastrophe-endures-in-broken-families-divided-towns.html
Chikako Abe’s desk is decorated
with flowers and candy at her school in Minamisoma, a reminder
of a 17-year-old life cut short a year ago. Instead of attending
a graduation ceremony this month, her family will pray tomorrow
at the ruins of a house where the sea snatched away the lives of
Chikako, her father and two grandparents.  “She was always the center of our family,” said Chikako’s
mother Yukari Abe, 43, fighting back tears next to the concrete
foundations where the house stood. “The year has gone by so
fast, even now I feel that she will come back.”  Her mother and two sisters, who survived because they were
visiting a doctor’s clinic beyond the reach of the tsunami, will
offer flowers, chocolates and incense. Scores of similar
memorials will be held along hundreds of kilometers of  Japan ’s
Pacific coastline to mark a disaster that left 15,854 dead and
3,272 missing.  The magnitude-9 earthquake that struck at 2:46 p.m.
triggered a tsunami that in just 60 minutes laid waste to entire
towns, engulfed four-story hospitals, left hundreds of thousands
of homeless and crippled a nuclear  plant .  Many memorials will be private and distinctly personal --
prayers and incense on the thousands of scarred, empty plots
where houses lined the previously picturesque coastline. Others
will be larger attempts to acknowledge the scale of a national
disaster. For a day, families, communities, companies and
politicians will be united in grief.  Simmering Conflicts  That unity belies the conflicts hampering Japan’s recovery
from the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster as local and
central governments fight over budgets, cities and towns over
consolidation and rival companies over new regulations.  There are also widening social divisions as the legacy of
3/11 takes its toll. Grief for friends and loved ones is tainted
with guilt at having survived. The relief of not losing
everything is tinged by envy of those who did and are now
showered with handouts. Gratitude toward the army, which in many
areas arrived before tsunami waters receded, is offset by
resentment at the government’s bungling of recovery efforts.  About 150 kilometers (90 miles) north of Chikako’s house,
Koichi Tanimura stands on a hilltop near his home overlooking
the fishing port of Kesennuma.  Tanimura can see the rooftop from where a military
helicopter rescued his son the morning after the tsunami. Below
is the city where oil from damaged fuel tankers washed ashore,
creating an inferno that millions watched on their televisions
on the morning of March 12.  Washed Up  About a kilometer inland, a fishing trawler is surrounded
by the empty plots scraped clean of buildings that are still the
dominant feature of tsunami towns.  “They’re talking about keeping it there as a memorial to
the disaster,” said Tanimura, 59, who had a stroke earlier this
year that he blames on stress from the disaster. “That means
we’ll have to remember the tsunami every day.”  In the damaged business district next to Kesennuma’s port,
the city has set up a temporary ‘shotengai,’ or shopping street,
for displaced restaurants. Customers aren’t coming, though,
because the community’s economy no longer functions, said Mikie
Onodera, whose sushi restaurant, Isshin, is up the street.  “Even those who can afford to eat out are staying home
because they don’t want to be seen spending money,” she said.  Free Housing  Aid is also being distributed in a way that prevents
recovery, Onodera said. Food items, clothes and other goods are
handed out, so residents no longer need to shop locally. That
strangles the economies of small towns where businesses have
relied on mutual trade for decades.  “Money isn’t circulating,” she said.  About 30 minutes’ drive along the coast, the town of
 Rikuzentakata  faced the full fury of the tsunami as it sits on a
wide bay facing the earthquake’s epicenter 130 kilometers
offshore. Most of Rikuzentakata was obliterated and more than
1,700 people out of a population of 24,000 were killed.  “We’re really only reaching the starting point for
rebuilding,” said Mayor Futoshi Toba. “Reconstruction money
hasn’t been available.”  The central government is holding up progress, he said. The
initial decision to put the disaster recovery office in the
prefectural capital of Morioka three hours’ drive away delays
problem solving, while the Reconstruction Agency only began
operations on Feb. 10, he said.  Foreign Help  “If I can’t get companies here within one or two years to
provide jobs, they will go elsewhere,” Toba, who lost his wife
in the tsunami, said in an interview in his temporary office
last month.  Toba was successful in getting Tokyo-based restaurant
operator  Watami Co. (7522)  to set up a call center in the city,
creating 100 jobs, yet the town’s own fisheries cooperative
opposes his plan to attract private companies to the industry
because of competition fears, he said.  Toba has also approached foreign governments and charities
for funds, including the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo and the  United
Nations . The  Singapore Red Cross Society  is building an S$11
million ($8.7 million)  community center  in Rikuzentakata.  That’s an initiative that for some residents of damaged
towns along the Tohoku coast only highlights the central
government’s failure to properly distribute aid to its own
citizens.  “The tsunami happened to all of us on the east coast,”
said Onodera in Kesennuma. “Everyone should receive the same
assistance.”  Faltering Farms  Rebuilding after the tsunami has exposed the economic
fragility of Japan’s rural areas, which have been plagued by
aging, shrinking populations and faltering farms and fisheries
for decades.  While places such as  Rikuzentakata  try to build new
industries, most towns plan to revive what was already failing.
Some have little choice.  “When it’s all you’ve done your whole life, it’s difficult
to just find something else to do,” fisherman Kiyoshi Kanno, 50,
said in an interview. “I’ve had to contemplate a life on
government benefits,” he said on the dock in Kesennuma next to
his 10-meter vessel that was at sea when the tsunami struck.  “People in Tohoku have very good reason to feel
abandoned,”  Jeff Kingston , editor of “Natural Disaster and
Nuclear Crisis in Japan: Response and Recovery after Japan’s
3/11,” said in an interview. “While all the arguments just
continue, the people are left to their own devices.”  ‘Overcome by Depression’  About 90 kilometers further up the coast from Kesennuma in
Miyako, which was battered by the biggest tsunami wave at 39
meters (128 feet), shop owner Junichi Kawabe runs his general
store in a temporary building, even though sales are 30 percent
of pre-quake levels.  “If you stop to think about whether it makes sense, you’ll
be overcome by depression. All you can do is deal with what’s in
front of you, then drink sake and sleep,” he said.  The fracturing of communities into temporary housing
villages in other locations will have a lasting social impact,
said Daniel Aldrich, an Associate Professor of Political Science
at  Purdue University  and author of “Site Fights: Divisive
Facilities and Civil Society in Japan and the West.”  “These people have their own space now rather than the
less private shelters, but they are isolated and physically
farther away from health care, stores and their friends,”
Aldrich, who’s in Japan studying how people cope with disasters,
wrote in an e-mail. “Isolation and a breakdown of social
networks can be a disaster themselves.”  Communities will be fractured even longer in Fukushima,
where the nuclear disasters occurred. The meltdown of three
reactors in Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station spread radiation as far away as the U.S. and prompted
Japan’s government to consider evacuating the 30 million people
in Metropolitan  Tokyo .  Uninhabitable Land  What the government later called its “worst-case
scenario” never happened. Still, about 160,000 people were
evacuated from homes near the plant, where an area half the size
of  New York City  is likely to be uninhabitable for decades.  Critics including Greenpeace International argued that
based on international norms since the Chernobyl accident in
1986, the one million people living in Fukushima city should
also have been evacuated due to high levels of radiation.  Interviews with Fukushima residents show widespread
mistrust of the government on issues including radiation
readings and the safety of fruit and vegetables from the
prefecture. For many, the decision is boiling down to whether to
stay or find new homes.  “Trust in the authorities is completely lost,” Shuji
Shimizu, vice president at Fukushima University, said in an
interview. “Skepticism may be making citizens more proactive,
but they are also fragmented and confused.”  ‘Guinea Pigs’  The government budgeted 78.2 billion yen ($1 billion) for
research and equipment to monitor Fukushima citizens’ radiation
exposure, yet many refuse to take part in a program they say
makes them ‘guinea pigs’ in a state-sponsored health study.  Miharu Takamura, a mother of two children in Minamisoma,
says she doesn’t even open mail from the government. On March 14
when a reactor building blew up in the Dai-Ichi plant, the 43-
year-old stood in line outside for five hours to use a public
phone in an area later rated as too contaminated by radiation to
inhabit.  Health fears have also divided Fukushima families. In May,
Rika Ogawara, 29, left her husband and moved out of the region
with their three-year-old daughter, following repeated quarrels
about radiation dangers to their child, she said. Her husband,
an employee of  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) , wouldn’t leave his job,
she said.  Katsunobu Sakurai, the mayor of Minamisoma, said the city’s
residents are divided and confused.  Beyond Imagination  “Most people still can’t pull themselves together after an
accident that they never imagined would happen,” he said in an
interview in the city last month.  Residents of the town of Futaba 3 kilometers from the
Fukushima plant were forced to evacuate. About 500 people from
the town now live together in an abandoned high school in  Kazo ,
north of Tokyo, about 140 kilometers from home.  “The elderly, those living alone and those who cannot find
jobs are here,” Mayor Katsutaka Idogawa said in an interview in
January at the school, where a bulletin board advertises a job
at a Japanese restaurant in  Russia .  Pulling Together  “It is important for us to be together because everyone is
a Futaba resident,” Idogawa said. “We must care for them.”  Examples of residents and civic groups ignoring the
government and doing things themselves can be seen all over the
Tohoku region.  Minamisoma residents set up a decontamination service to
accelerate the radiation cleanup with the help of academics and
companies. Their work so far includes homes and buildings,
including the Yotsuba nursery school.  “You can no longer count on the government or Tokyo
Electric,” said the nursery’s 45-year-old Deputy Principal
Yoshiyuki Kondo. “You have to do something yourself. No one
will feed you just because you have your mouth open.”  For the 160-year-old Hisiya sake brewery in Miyako, private
investment stepped into the funding void after the tsunami
washed away its giant metal drums for fermenting rice. The
fifth-generation owners couldn’t afford to rebuild without
assistance, said manager Tetsuo Saito.  Private Help  Help came from the Tokyo-based Music Securities Inc., which
raised 12 million yen from 300 investors to help rebuild the
brewery.  “Had we waited for money from the government, we would
have been too late to produce sake this year,” Saito said in an
interview at the brewery, where new drums are fermenting this
year’s batch. “It means a lot to the town to have its only sake
producer up and running. People who visit Miyako either buy fish
or sake. It’s part of our identity.”  Sitting in his imported liquor store in a temporary
building in Kamaishi on the Tohoku coast, Kenji Sano said it’s
the third time he or his family have had to start over again
since World War II, due to U.S. bombings,  earthquakes  or
tsunamis, each time without government assistance.  Sano reopened his store in November and sold about 800
bottles the first month, in part due to pent-up demand, he said.
He said those figures aren’t sustainable and he doesn’t expect
to get his business back to where it was.  ‘Do Your Best’  “I worry that people are hanging around and waiting for
help to arrive,” he said. “This is the time to do your best.
People need to be in charge of their own recovery.”  In Minamisoma, Chikako Abe’s surviving family are finding
it difficult to move on, said her maternal grandparents Imiko
and Kazushige Hayashi. The 67-year-old grandfather leads a
farmers group trying to recover land lost to the tsunami, while
living in the shadow of the Fukushima plant.  It’s the loss of life that hurts the most, he said. Hayashi
searched for Chikako for over a month before finding her in a
body bag laid out among dozens of others on the floor of the
school gymnasium where she once played volleyball.  “I’ve been consumed by anger over what I’ve lost,” he
said. “But the anniversary will make us more determined to keep
the family together, we have to rebuild and take every
opportunity to be with our other granddaughters.”  To contact Bloomberg News reporters for this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  