-- Jefferson County Receiver Gets Approval to Question Workers in Sewer Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-08T16:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/jefferson-county-receiver-gets-approval-to-question-workers-in-sewer-fight.html
Alabama (STOAL1) ’s Jefferson County must let
the receiver for its insolvent sewer system interview public
workers as part of a court fight over the size of debt payments
on $3 billion in bonds, a judge ruled.  Receiver John S. Young Jr., who lost control of the sewer
system after a court ruling earlier this year, represents
bondholders fighting the county over how to split sewer revenue
between operations and debt payments.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham today
gave the trustee for bondholders permission for the receiver to
question top sewer officials about how the county’s budget
process may have changed since Young left office.  Young “can question anybody who’s got the information,”
Bennett said in court, overruling the county’s objection.  Bondholder trustee  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  is
preparing for an April hearing where it will ask Bennett to set
the size of debt payments bondholders are entitled to receive.  The county and the trustee disagree about how much money
should go into operations and maintenance for the system.
Bondholders are entitled to any money left over after those
costs are paid by the sewer fees collected from county residents
and businesses.  Debt Cut  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November after
county, state officials, the receiver and bondholders failed to
implement a tentative agreement to cut sewer debt by about
$1 billion, increase rates and win assistance from the  Alabama 
Legislature.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  