-- Jeronimo Martins May Seek to Grow With Acquisitions in Colombia, CFO Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-08T11:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/jeronimo-martins-considers-making-acquisitions-to-expand-in-latin-america.html
Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA (JMT) , a
Portuguese grocer with plans to expand in  Colombia , may seek
acquisitions to become one of the Latin American country’s top
three retailers, Chief Financial Officer Alan Johnson said.  “I believe acquisitions will play a role” in the
expansion, Johnson said in his first interview since taking over
as finance chief in January. The retailer isn’t in talks with
anyone at the moment, he said.  The Lisbon-based company said last year that it would
target Colombia along with  Poland , where it’s the leading
discount-store operator, to mitigate the impact of Portugal’s
shrinking economy. It will compete with  Almacenes Exito SA (EXITO) ,
Colombia’s biggest publicly traded retailer, and  Carrefour (CA)  SA.  “It will be a big business,” Johnson said of  Jeronimo
Martins ’s plans for a Colombian unit. “You need $1.5 billion in
sales a year to be in the top three.”  Chairman Alexandre Soares dos Santos said yesterday the
company plans to open its first stores there in the fourth
quarter.  Johnson worked at  Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, before joining Jeronimo Martins in
January. The 56-year-old executive, who has lived in seven
countries, was hired to help drive the Portuguese company’s
international expansion.  Brazil as Elephant  Colombia marks Jeronimo Martins’s second attempt to expand
in  South America  after the retailer entered Brazil in 1997 and
pulled out in 2002. The company may return one day, though
entering the country is akin to “trying to digest an elephant
in one go, and for a company our size it could be a significant
risk to take,” according to Johnson.  “ Brazil  will always be on our radar screen,” he said.
“How we enter is more important rather than whether we enter.”  Portugal’s biggest retailer by market value owns the Pingo
Doce hypermarket and Recheio wholesale brands. Earnings rose 21
percent last year to 340 million euros ($450 million), the
retailer said in a regulatory filing yesterday. Sales climbed 13
percent to 9.8 billion euros, fueled by growth in Poland, where
the company operates the Biedronka discount grocery chain.  The company may decide to expand further after it’s made
enough inroads in Colombia and Poland, Johnson said.  “For the next four years we will be in three countries,”
he said. “But I would not rule out another geography or two if
appropriate opportunities that make sense for the business arise
and we felt we had the capacity to take them.”  Johnson reiterated that Jeronimo Martins aims for double-
digit sales growth at constant currencies this year. The
recession in  Portugal  may weigh on sales, damping growth from
Poland and Colombia, he said.  Jeronimo Martins said yesterday it was not planning any
acquisitions in Portugal or in Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  