-- Peyton Manning Would Snub Jets Because of Team’s Dysfunction, Namath Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/joe-namath-says-jets-need-to-fix-problems-before-attracting-peyton-manning.html
The only quarterback to lead the  New
York Jets  to a Super Bowl championship said he doubts  Peyton Manning  would be interested in trying to match his feat.  Joe Namath  told Bloomberg News that Manning wouldn’t want
to join the Jets with their present roster and locker-room
dysfunction, and said current quarterback  Mark Sanchez  has the
ability and work ethic to be the signal-caller of the future.  Manning, 35, was released two days ago by the  Indianapolis
Colts  after 11 Pro Bowl appearances, four league Most Valuable
Player awards and a Super Bowl title following the 2006 season.
The Jets finished 8-8 in 2011, the end of the season marred by
locker-room controversy including verbal altercations between
Sanchez and receiver  Santonio Holmes .  “The Jets have to get things together on their own turf
before someone with his background would be interested in
coming,” Namath, 68, said yesterday in a telephone interview
from his Florida home.  The Reno, Nevada-based  Cal Neva  sports book gives the Jets
a 9.5 percent chance of signing Manning. The  Arizona Cardinals 
are favorites with a 19 percent chance, followed by the  Miami
Dolphins  at 16.5 percent.  “We appreciate Joe and he is entitled to share his
opinions,” Jets spokesman  Bruce Speight  said in an e-mail.  Running back  LaDainian Tomlinson , a free agent after two
years in New York, told the NFL Network that Manning could help
the Jets win. He called the team’s locker-room issues last
season the worst he’d seen in his 11-year National Football
League career.  Sanchez, 25, will be entering his fourth NFL season.  Desirable Free Agent  Manning’s release by the Colts made him one of the most
desirable free agents in NFL history. He won 141 games in
Indianapolis, where he helped the Colts become one of the
league’s elite teams with a $720 million stadium.  Manning turns 36 on March 24 and is working his way back
from at least three operations on his neck that kept him
sidelined for all of last season. He said he has no plans to
retire and is eager to play again.  By cutting Manning, the Colts avoided having to pay him a
$28 million bonus. The team has said it will select Stanford
University quarterback Andrew Luck with the No. 1 pick in next
month’s draft.  Namath said that with Manning’s absence last year, the
bonus and Luck’s availability, he wasn’t surprised the
quarterback was released.  “Your heart might be in one place, but business is
business,” he said. “The No. 1 question is, ‘Is he going to be
satisfied with the strength in his throwing arm?’”  Namath’s Prediction  Namath led the American Football League in passing in 1966
and 1967, and became a national celebrity after he delivered on
his prediction that the Jets would beat the heavily favored
 Baltimore Colts  in the 1969  Super Bowl . He retired after the
1977 season and was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in
1985.  Namath changed teams late in his career. In 1977, at age
33, he was waived by the Jets and signed with the  Los Angeles 
Rams, where he played four games in one season.  Namath started eight games for the Jets in 1976, and said
yesterday that he didn’t think he would have regained the
starter’s spot and wanted to play with a contender. He said the
process of leaving New York was “excruciating,” and that he
struggled to adjust to the new life and team in Los Angeles.  ‘Wasn’t Prepared’  “What was difficult for me, that I didn’t anticipate, was
how much all the newness could get in the way and be a
distraction,” he said. “I wasn’t prepared for that feeling.
The new faces, new places, new system.”  Namath said Manning’s attention to detail and preparation
may allow him to adjust faster to a new team.  “He’ll handle it much better than I did,” Namath said.  If he could do it again, Namath said, he would have stayed
in  New York . Due to knee and hamstring injuries, he found out in
Los Angeles that he was no longer physically able to play to his
satisfaction.  “I didn’t know that when I made the decision to make the
move,” Namath said. “Knowing that I wasn’t up to par
physically, I wouldn’t have left the Jets, absolutely not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  