-- Johnson & Johnson Zytiga Study Sets Up Challenge to Dendreon
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-08T21:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/johnson-johnson-zytiga-study-sets-up-challenge-to-dendreon-s-provenge.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s prostate-cancer
pill Zytiga became positioned to mount a challenge to  Dendreon
Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge after independent monitors said J&J’s medicine
was so effective it should be given to all patients in a study.  The findings by monitors of a study of Zytiga in men with
advanced prostate cancer who hadn’t begun chemotherapy will
enable J&J to go against Provenge, a $93,000 infusion therapy.
While some analysts and Dendreon officials say the drugs may be
used together, a survey by Christopher Raymond, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Chicago , found that most oncologists
would prescribe Zytiga. That drug is currently approved for
treatment after chemotherapy.  Zytiga safely slowed progression of the disease and
reduced the risk of death,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
said today in a statement disclosing it had halted the study so
that men currently getting a placebo could receive the drug.  The news is “another positive for Johnson & Johnson’s
pharmaceutical franchise, further strengthening the profile of
Zytiga, an important growth driver over the next several
years,” said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities in New York, in a note to clients.  Sales Forecast  “There are roughly twice as many pre-chemotherapy
prostate-cancer patients as there are post-chemo patients,”
said Biegelsen, who is reviewing his $914 million sales forecast
for Zytiga for 2013. He rates J&J shares outperform.  J&J  rose  less than 1 percent to $64.85 at the close of New
York trading, while Seattle-based Dendreon fell 7 percent to
$10.12.  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) , a San Francisco-based biotechnology
company developing a drug called MDV3100 that works in a similar
manner as Zytiga, rose 14 percent to $72.91.  Fifteen percent of the 218,000 American men a year who are
diagnosed with prostate cancer have it spread beyond the walnut-
sized gland that lies between the bladder and urethra, according
to the  National Cancer Institute . Treatments are designed to
stop the production of male hormones that fuel the tumor’s
growth.  Johnson & Johnson plans to file for regulatory  approval  of
Zytiga in the U.S. and worldwide in the second half of 2012 for
use, before chemotherapy, in men with prostate cancer that
doesn’t respond to conventional therapies to quell hormone
production. Dendreon’s Provenge is also sold to treat those men.  The study, dubbed COU-AA-302, covered 1,088 men with mild
or no symptoms from prostate cancer that had spread to other
parts of the body and didn’t respond to conventional therapy to
stop hormone production. They were given Zytiga once daily plus
the steroid prednisone twice daily, or else prednisone plus a
placebo.  Unanimous Finding  The independent data-monitoring committee unanimously
recommended stopping the study because men given Zytiga had a
clinical benefit, with less progression of the cancer, signs of
improved survival and a favorable safety profile, the company
said. The committee also said patients originally assigned to
get the placebo should start receiving Zytiga.  The drug was initially approved in the U.S. in April 2011
for men with advanced prostate cancer that didn’t respond to
previous treatment, including chemotherapy.  Each year in the U.S., about 30,000 men are diagnosed with
metastatic, treatment-resistant prostate cancer, said Bryan
Huang, an analyst at Citi Investment Research in  New York .
Assuming that Zytiga costs $5,000 a month and that the
Medivation drug will reach the market at about the same price,
the pre-chemotherapy U.S. market is about $2.4 billion a year,
he said in a note.  Fewer than half of patients with advanced disease get
chemotherapy, and they would receive treatment for a shorter
period of time, Huang wrote. He estimates a post-chemotherapy
market of $800 million a year.  “We believe Zytiga and MDV3100 will further squeeze
Provenge market due to ease of administration, tangible clinical
benefits beyond overall survival and cheaper pricing,” he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  