-- KanAm Grund Said to Raise About $847 Million From Sale of Paris Properties
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-03-08T17:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/kanam-said-to-raise-847-million-from-sale-of-two-paris-office-properties.html
KanAm Grund KAG (KANGRND)  will get about 640
million euros ($847 million) from the sale of Cartier’s Paris
headquarters and another office building in the city, two people
with knowledge of the transaction said.  The Frankfurt-based investment fund announced the sale of
the building occupied by Cartier known as  Cite du Retiro  and  the
Neo office  complex, used by French daily newspaper Le Figaro, in
an e-mailed statement. KanAm didn’t say who bought the
properties or disclose the price. The people with knowledge of
the deal declined to be identified because the transaction
hasn’t closed and the terms are private.  KanAm announced a plan last week to liquidate its 3.92
billion-euro Grundinvest fund. This will make it the largest
German mutual property fund to be wound up after failing to
raise enough money to meet investor withdrawals. Yesterday,
KanAm sold two  London  office buildings to Malaysian investment
fund Permodalan Nasional Bhd. for an undisclosed price.  Germany’s 85.2 billion-euro real-estate mutual fund
industry may be facing the biggest crisis in its 50-year
history. Thirteen of the 44 funds, which own 29 percent of the
industry’s assets, are liquidating or have suspended
redemptions, according to Frankfurt-based  BVI Bundesverband
Investment & Asset Management .  Grundinvest fund has sold or agreed to sell 1 billion euros
of property in  Canada ,  Europe  and the U.S. since closing for
redemptions in May 2010. Prior to the disposals announced this
week it owned 51 properties in nine countries with an estimated
value of 6.3 billion euros, according to the statement.  The fund’s other London assets are Thomson Reuters Plc’s
headquarters in  Canary Wharf  and Deutsche Bank AG’s U.K. base in
the main financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 