-- Kasich Said to Plan Raising Ohio Drilling Tax as High as 4%
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-03-08T22:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/kasich-said-to-plan-raising-ohio-drilling-tax-as-high-as-4-1-.html
Oil and natural-gas drillers in  Ohio (STOOH1) 
would pay a severance tax as high as 4 percent to fund income-
tax cuts under a plan Governor  John Kasich  will unveil next
week, according to an administration proposal obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Kasich, a Republican, will call for taxing oil extracted by
horizontal drilling at 1.5 percent of market value for the first
year, a rate that may be extended another year if initial
drilling costs aren’t recovered, documents show. After that, the
rate would be 4 percent annually, according to the proposal.  The same rate structure would be applied to natural-gas
liquids. The levy on gas would be held at 1 percent, according
to the documents.  The changes, which may generate as much as $1.02 billion by
2016, would require legislative approval. The state’s current
levy is 20 cents per barrel of oil and 3 cents per 1,000 cubic
feet of natural gas, with no tax on natural-gas liquids,
according to the  Ohio  Department of Taxation.  States including  Ohio (STOOH1) ,  Pennsylvania (STOPA1)  and  North Dakota (STOND1)  are
confronting the costs and potential benefits of hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, which involves injecting water, sand
and chemicals underground at high pressure. While the industry
says fracking is safe and has allowed increased production with
lower natural-gas prices, environmental groups say it can lead
to water contamination.  Into the Shale  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  have begun drilling in Ohio’s
Utica Shale, a geological formation that may hold as much as 5.5
billion barrels of oil and 15.7 trillion cubic feet of gas. Ohio
drillers also are tapping into the Marcellus Shale, which
stretches across  Pennsylvania  to  New York .  For Ohio’s conventional, vertically drilled oil wells, the
severance tax would not change under Kasich’s proposal. It would
be eliminated for wells that produce less than 10,000 cubic feet
of natural gas per day and changed to 1 percent for those that
produce more, according to the documents. There would be no new
tax for natural-gas liquids from conventional wells.  The changes might generate from $834.5 million to $1.02
billion from 2012-2016, depending on price assumptions, and
would be returned to residents by lowering income-tax rates on
individuals and small businesses, the documents show.  There would be no net increase in the tax burden under the
plan by Kasich, elected in 2010 with a pledge not to raise
taxes, according to the documents.  Cutting by Boosting  Kasich spokesman Scott Milburn declined to discuss the
plan, saying the governor will present it next week.  “The governor has already cut taxes by more than $800
million and wants to build on that with additional income-tax
cuts,” he said in a telephone interview. “The boost that that
can mean for small businesses is especially important to  job
creation .”  Kasich has discussed the proposal with energy producers, he
told reporters yesterday at CERAWeek, a Houston conference held
by IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  “Our plan is fair and it will create long-term
stability,” Kasich said. “A lot of people, when they pay zero,
they want to continue to pay zero. That’s not acceptable.”  America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a Washington-based trade
group, hadn’t seen the proposal and wouldn’t comment on it, Dan
Whitten, a vice president, said in an e-mail.  ‘Fundamentally Unfair’  “Natural-gas production is a capital-intensive undertaking
and we believe generally that fees should be directed to
communities where we work, with careful consideration of the
possible direct jobs impacts,” he wrote.  Devon Energy hadn’t reviewed the proposal, Chip Minty, a
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. Chesapeake Energy
referred questions to the Ohio Oil and Gas Association.  The association sees the proposal as an effort to shift the
tax burden and will oppose it, Executive Vice President Thomas E. Stewart said in a telephone interview.  “It’s fundamentally unfair to ask the one industry that
could bring economic renaissance to the state of the Ohio to
pony up and solely bear the cost of reducing income taxes for
another portion of Ohio society,” Stewart said.  The state collected $10.6 million in severance tax in
fiscal 2010, the most recent data, according to the Ohio
Taxation Department.  Lower Than Texas  Kasich’s increased rates still would be lower than those in
neighboring states and  Texas , the biggest oil and gas producer.
It charges a severance tax of 4.6 percent for oil and 7.5
percent for gas. The state grants broad exemptions for some
kinds of production, including shale gas.  In 2010, Ohio ranked 19th among natural-gas-producing
states and 17th in oil production, yet was 25th among the 35
that collected a severance tax, according to a Dec. 19 report by
Policy Matters Ohio, a Cleveland nonprofit research group.  A Feb. 2 report by Columbus-based Innovation Ohio, a
nonpartisan organization promoting policies supporting the
middle class and the poor, called for raising rates to those of
Texas to help restore cuts to schools and local governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  