-- Kingfisher Airline’s Fuel Supplies Halted Because of Non-Payment of Dues
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-03-08T05:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/kingfisher-airlines-crisis-deepens-as-fuel-supplies-halted-for-non-payment.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier struggling with losses and a cash shortage, had fuel
supplies suspended overnight after failing to pay bills.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. resumed the supply today after
resolving “issues” over fuel bill dues, S. Ramaswamy, its
spokesman, said without elaboration. India’s third-largest state
refiner stopped supplying Kingfisher yesterday evening, B. Mukherjee, its finance director, said earlier today. Kingfisher
spokesman Prakash Mirpuri didn’t answer three calls to his
mobile phone seeking comments.  The  International Air Transport Association  also yesterday
said it had suspended Bangalore-based Kingfisher from a clearing
system because of overdue payments. The airline, unprofitable
for more than 10 than straight quarters, said that payment
disruption was caused by a freeze on its bank accounts by
 India ’s tax authorities.  The carrier, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, owes
more than 4.25 billion rupees ($85 million) to Hindustan
Petroleum, its biggest supplier,  Press Trust of India  reported
yesterday, citing an official at the refiner it didn’t identify.  Kingfisher has also failed to pay staff, cut flights and
taken planes out of service because of cash shortages and
accounts being frozen by tax authorities. It this week said
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal had asked pilots to
continue working and pledged to pay salaries as soon as
possible.  The carrier  fell  6.7 percent, the most since Nov. 29, to
21.05 rupees yesterday in Mumbai trading. Markets are closed in
India today on account of a holiday.  Frozen Accounts  Kingfisher said yesterday that it is working to free its
frozen bank accounts “shortly” and will resume payments to the
IATA system once that is done. The IATA facility allows airlines
to settle dues to other operators for carrying passengers and
freight.  The airline industry group said the carrier’s participation
in the  IATA  Clearing House will be reinstated after it meets ICH
requirements.  Kingfisher said Feb. 3 that an “internal system failure”
had disrupted payment and triggered a suspension from ICH. The
carrier said then it had clear all payments and was expecting a
reversal of the halt.  Yesterday’s IATA statement didn’t say whether the group had
reversed the previous suspension. More than 450 airlines and
associates use the clearing system, according to the group’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  