-- King to Face Renewed BOE Policy Maker Rift as Dispute on Inflation Simmers
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-08T12:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/king-may-face-renewed-boe-policy-maker-rift-as-inflation-dispute-simmers.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
faces the prospect of a renewed rift among his officials as a
dispute simmers on whether inflation threatens the U.K. economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee kept its bond-purchase target
at 325 billion pounds ($514 billion) after raising it by 50
billion pounds last month, as forecast by all 45 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Over the past two weeks, potential
divisions emerged after  Martin Weale  indicated he may not favor
further purchases after the current round ends in May and  David Miles  said there’s a case for “aggressively” loosening policy.  The Monetary Policy Committee’s debate coincides with a
clouded outlook for the U.K. as an increase in crude- oil prices 
threatens to stoke inflation, while the economy is still
struggling after a fourth-quarter contraction. Surveys indicate
the economy will avoid another recession, though King has said
the recovery will only be gradual.  “Today’s vote was probably unanimous, though there are
signs of a three-way split emerging,” said  Ross Walker , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “Our
call in May is for no change to quantitative easing. The signs
of recovery weigh in favor of a pause.”  The MPC also held its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low 0.5 percent. This month marks the third anniversary of the
central bank’s QE program, started in the wake of the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a government rescue of some
of the nation’s biggest banks.  Global Pause  The  European Central Bank  left its  benchmark rate  at 1
percent today after a meeting of its Governing Council, as
predicted by 56 of 58 economists in another survey.  Global central banks are pausing to take stock of the
economic outlook after a round of monetary easing which Bank of
America Merrill Lynch calculates to have included about 30
 interest rate  cuts in the past four months and $1 trillion of
asset-buying in the last seven.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has committed to low rates through
2014 and the  Bank of Canada  will probably keep its main rate at
1 percent at 9 a.m. in Ottawa.  Indonesia ’s central bank held its
 reference rate  at 5.75 percent today and the  Reserve Bank  of  New
Zealand  signaled it may leave its official cash rate at a record
low of 2.5 percent for much of 2012.  Bond Impact  The U.K. central bank’s stimulus, along with Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s commitment to his deficit-cutting
program, is helping to support bonds. The yield on the 10-year
gilt was at 2.16 percent today, compared with almost 4 percent a
year ago. The pound was little changed against the dollar after
today’s MPC decision, up 0.4 percent on the day at $1.5801 as of
12:17 p.m.  Osborne will announce his budget for the fiscal year
beginning in April on March 21. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said
today the deficit for the current year may undershoot borrowing
forecasts by about 7 billion pounds, giving him scope to provide
a “temporary” boost to the economy.  The MPC was unanimous in the decision to raise the bond-
purchase target in February, though it was divided on the size
of the increase, with Miles and  Adam Posen  favoring 75 billion
pounds. There was a “range of views” on inflation risks,
according to the minutes of the meeting, with some officials
saying a case could be made for not adding to stimulus.  Inflation Debate  While  inflation  eased to a 14-month low of 3.6 percent in
January, that’s still above the bank’s 2 percent target. Crude-
oil prices have risen about 20 percent in the past six months.
The central bank sees inflation slowing to 1.9 percent by the
end of this year and 1.8 percent by end-2013.  Weale said in a Feb. 29 speech there is a “risk that there
may be more persistence to inflation than one might expect at a
time of rising unemployment and weak demand.” Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said the same day that while he expects inflation
to cool in the near term, his longer-term outlook is “slightly
north” of the MPC’s central forecast.  Miles has spelled out the opposing argument, saying that
“aggressively loosening monetary policy” could be better for
the economy. King said on Feb. 29 that future decisions will
depend on economic data and policy makers “will take whatever
action we think appropriate.”  Euro Crisis  Surveys this month indicate that the U.K. economy returned
to growth in the first quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction
in the last three months of 2011. Reports from  Markit Economics 
showed manufacturing and  services  continued to expand in
February, while GfK NOP’s consumer confidence index held at the
highest since June.  Still, the euro-area debt crisis remains a threat, with
Bean saying on Feb. 21 that the agreement on a second bailout
for  Greece  may not be enough to end the turmoil. The euro crisis
“represents the biggest downside risk” to the U.K., he said.  With the ongoing threats to the recovery, the
“splintering” within the MPC may not be enough to prevent more
quantitative easing, said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London .  “I don’t think they’re going to be particularly fearful
about inflation for quite a long time,” he said. “The sense of
splintering of the committee’s view is going to be more around
the edges and subtleties of just how much QE they should be
doing and how many years they should hold off before eventually
hiking rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  