-- Korean Won Snaps Three-Day Decline on Greek Progress: Bonds Gain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-03-08T08:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/korean-won-snaps-three-day-decline-on-greek-progress-bonds-gain.html
South  Korea ’s won rose for the first
time in four days as most investors agreed to a Greek debt swap
and a report showed hiring in the U.S. picked up.  Government
bonds  advanced after the Bank of Korea held borrowing costs.  Investors with about 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible
for the debt swap have so far indicated they will participate in
the sovereign restructuring before today’s deadline. U.S.
companies added more workers last month than in January,
according to data based on payrolls from ADP Employer Services.
The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 3.25
percent today for a ninth month, a decision forecast by all 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Optimism about the Greek debt-swap deal and  Kospi (KOSPI)  gains
are supporting the won,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-based
currency trader at Busan Bank.  The won strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,118.28 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of price swings used to
price options, fell 0.72 to 8.62 percent. The Kospi Index of
shares jumped 0.9 percent.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday in a Facebook
chat that the government isn’t using “weak currency policy” as
the current account is in surplus and the  exchange rate ’s effect
on exports has declined, while pressure on consumer prices has
increased, according to a Yonhap Infomax report. The comments
signaled the government may tolerate won gains to curb inflation,
according to Lee Yong Hee, a Seoul-based currency trader at
Industrial  Bank of Korea .  ‘More Hawkish’  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a press
briefing today that the rate decision was unanimous and that the
central bank will make efforts to lower inflation.  “The governor’s comments were more hawkish than previously
as he emphasized willingness to cool consumer price gains, but
effects on the  bond market  will be limited as prices already
reflected expectations for a hawkish meeting” Kong Dong Rak, a
Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co., wrote in a research note.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.48 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures climbed 0.08 percent to 104.15. The one-year interest-
rate swap fell one basis point to 3.52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  