-- NeurogesX Fails to Win U.S. Approval to Sell Patch for HIV-Related Pain
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-08T21:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/neurogesx-fails-to-win-u-s-approval-to-sell-patch-for-hiv-related-pain.html
NeurogesX Inc. (NGSX) , a specialty
drugmaker that has never reported an annual profit, failed to
win approval for expanded use of its pain-treating patch and
said it will fire 57 percent of workers. The shares fell.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for more information
about the treatment called Qutenza, the  San Mateo , California-
based company said in a statement today. No investments in
further studies are planned and 43 employees will lose their
jobs, NeurogesX said.  “We intend to reduce our marketing and sales activities
significantly,” Chief Executive Officer Ronald Martell said in
the statement.  NeurogesX declined 20 percent to 53 cents at the close of
New York trading. The shares have fallen 85 percent in the past
12 months.  The company will seek additional funds or a partnership to
prepare for a late-stage trial of compound NGX-1998 for patients
with lasting pain from shingles, according to the statement.  “It obviates the logistical issues that seem to be
impairing the success of the first-generation product,” Gregory Wade, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles  said
in a telephone interview.  Topical Liquid  NGX-1998 is a topical liquid form of high-concentration
capsaicin that requires a five-minute application opposed to 60-
minute use, both in a physician’s office for lasting shingles
pain, which the Qutenza patch was originally approved for in
2009, Wade said.  An advisory panel of outside experts voted last month the
company didn’t provide substantial evidence Qutenza works
against HIV-associated nerve pain.  An FDA report before last month’s panel vote questioned
whether the prescription-strength capsaicin patch proved
“substantial efficacy” in treating pain caused by neuropathy
linked to HIV. One-third of people with HIV/AIDS experience
peripheral nerve damage caused by the virus or drugs used to
treat it, according to the  Center for Peripheral Neuropathy  at
the  University of Chicago .  More than 1.1 million in the U.S. are estimated to be
infected with HIV, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  No Treatment  No U.S.-approved drugs exist for HIV-associated neuropathy,
according to NeurogesX. Painkillers and narcotics are
recommended to treat the condition, according to the Center for
Peripheral Neuropathy. Capsaicin is the chemical that makes
chili peppers hot.  Qutenza sells for $675 a patch and has almost 1,000
customers, Anthony DiTonno, the former president and chief
executive officer, said at the Lazard Healthcare Conference,
according to a Nov. 18 transcript.  The FDA found one test showed Qutenza worked when used for
90 minutes and failed to show effectiveness when used for an
hour or 30 minutes. Later analyses based on alternative testing
showed the 30-minute application worked, the agency said.  Qutenza failed to show efficacy in both hour-long and 30-
minute uses in a second study, according to FDA’s staff report.
Again using alternative testing later, the patch showed it
worked in the 30-minute application.  The FDA typically only accepts post-hoc studies that it
does itself, Bob Rappaport, director of FDA’s division of
anesthesia, analgesia and addiction products, said at the
advisory panel meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  