-- New Zealand Seen Picking RBNZ Veteran as Governor for First Time Since ’82
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-08T23:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/new-zealand-seen-picking-rbnz-veteran-as-bollard-s-successor.html
New Zealand  may for the first time
since 1982 pick a central bank veteran to lead the institution,
as the nation contends with slower global growth and the fastest
 exchange-rate  gains among most-traded currencies the past year.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Deputy Governor Grant Spencer,
59, has the best chance of getting promoted, nine of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said, with the analysts
covering the RBNZ at three of the country’s four largest lenders
by assets predicting Spencer. Adrian Orr, 49, head of the public
retirement fund and an ex-RBNZ deputy chief, has second-best
odds, the survey showed.  Outgoing Governor Alan Bollard rarely intervened in the
local dollar’s gains, and investors will monitor the succession
for any shift by the RBNZ leader, who alone decides on  interest
rates . As regulators overhaul global financial rules in the wake
of the 2007-2009 credit crisis, Spencer brings the experience of
having supervised banks and non-bank lenders.  “You have to put someone who understands prudential policy
as being high up on that list, which is why Grant becomes such a
very strong candidate,” said Stephen Toplis, head of research
at  Bank of New Zealand  Ltd., who has served as an adviser to the
government on national savings strategy. “Prudential
responsibility has been his thing. He understands how banks work
and think.”  Price-Target Pioneer  The RBNZ was the first central bank with a legislated
inflation target, and Bollard raised the benchmark rate to a
record high to quell price pressures halfway through his 10-year
term. He then cut it to the current 2.5 percent, the lowest
ever, after the economy suffered from earthquakes, currency
appreciation and slowing demand overseas.  Bollard, 60, said in January he’ll step down in September.
The RBNZ board’s seven non-executive members make a
recommendation on the next governor to Finance Minister  Bill English , who makes the appointment. English today reappointed
Arthur Grimes as chairman, saying he will be able to assist in
the selection process.  The application period for the position closed Feb. 27,
after help-wanted advertisements appeared in publications
including the Financial Times and the Economist.  Bollard was the third straight external appointment when he
moved to the RBNZ from the Treasury Department in 2002. Don Brash was chief executive officer of WestpacTrust, the local
unit of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , when he has named in 1988 and
Spencer Russell was chief executive of the National Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. when appointed in 1984.  Currency’s Strength  The  New Zealand dollar  rose to 88.43 U.S. cents in August
last year, the highest since it became freely traded in 1985.
The so-called kiwi traded at 82.40 U.S. cents at 11:55 a.m. in
Wellington, up 12 percent in the past year, the most among 16
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The appreciation “is detrimental to the tradable sector
and undermines” growth in a nation where exports make up 30
percent of the economy, Bollard said yesterday. Sustained
strength in the local dollar would reduce the need for future
rate increases, he added.  “It is worth us pointing out to the financial markets that
betting on the New Zealand dollar’s strength is not a sure
thing,” Bollard told Television New Zealand’s Breakfast program
today, adding that an interest-rate cut is a possibility were
the currency to continue to climb.  2007 Intervention  Because Bollard is the RBNZ’s main spokesman, Spencer’s
public comments are limited. In June 2007, when the  Reserve Bank 
starting selling NZ$2.2 billion ($1.8 billion) in its own
currency for the first time since 1985, Spencer circulated an
article to explain why.  Intervention “can help to moderate the peaks in the
exchange rate and the length of time we spend at the peaks,” he
wrote. “Those speculating in the New Zealand dollar need to be
aware that the exchange rate is not a one-way bet; they need to
be cautious.”  Spencer has been deputy governor and head of prudential
supervision since 2007, after three years as head of the
economics department. He wasn’t available for an interview, a
central bank spokesman said. He sits on the central bank’s
monetary policy committee, a group of senior officials that
advises the governor.  Spencer’s Experience  Spencer worked at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  for nine years before 2004. He is responsible for
supervision of banks and non-bank lenders, and for market
operations -- both of which have taken on more importance since
the global market rout of 2008-09.  The Wellington-based central bank manages NZ$31 billion of
assets, three-quarters of which are foreign currency reserves,
and employs about 250 people. Bollard was paid about NZ$590,000
in the year ended June 30, 2011, according to the annual report.  To replace him, candidates “must have the experience to be
appointed as a chief executive of a major organization,”
according to the advertised vacancy.  The CEO requirement may benefit an external appointment.
Orr, who was deputy governor from 2003 to 2007 and chief
economist from 1997 to 2000, is chief executive officer of
Guardians of New Zealand Superannuation, which is responsible
for the government pension fund. It currently has NZ$17.7
billion under management. Orr declined by e-mail to be
interviewed.  “The job ad very clearly said that the candidate has to be
able to demonstrate their ability to act as CEO of a major
organization,” said Dominick Stephens, Auckland-based chief New
Zealand economist for Westpac. Spencer “has got the ability to
show that but that’s something in Adrian’s favor, the fact he
has actually been a CEO.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  