-- Newcastle Narrows Loss as Broadcast Income Helps Soccer Club
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-08T17:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/newcastle-narrows-loss-as-broadcast-income-helps-soccer-club.html
Newcastle’s fiscal year loss
narrowed following the English soccer team’s return to the
Premier League and the sale of striker Andy Carroll for a record
fee to Liverpool last season.  The team, owned by Sports Direct International Plc founder
Mike Ashley, reported an operating loss of 3.9 million pounds
($6.2 million) in the year ended June 30 compared to a loss of
33.5 million pounds in the year-earlier period, according to 
a  statement on its website .  Newcastle is sixth in the league in its second season back
in the English top division. Manager  Alan Pardew  made over the
team following the exits of  Kevin Nolan ,  Joey Barton  and
Carroll, who was sold for 35 million pounds. The striker’s
replacement, Demba Ba, has 16 goals in 21 league games after
arriving on a free transfer.  “We can now count ourselves amongst very few clubs across
the U.K. and  Europe  who are operating at close to break-even,”
Managing Director Derek Llambias said. “What is particularly
pleasing is that we have achieved this whilst also ensuring we
have a strong squad sitting firmly in the top third of the table
and currently pushing for a European place.”  Its accounts have yet to be published by  Companies House .
Sales rose 69 percent to 88.4 million pounds because of the
higher television income available in the Premier League, the
Magpies said.  Ashley bought the team in 2007 from local businessman  John
Hall . Since then, he’s tried to run the club on a commercial
basis, which has at times sparked fan anger. He was jeered by
some sections when manager Kevin Keegan quit in September 2008
following a dispute over player trades. Recently he was
criticized for rebranding St James’ Park as the Sports Direct
Arena.  Transfer Policy  “Some of the key financial principles we set in place when
Mike bought to the club back in 2007 are now beginning to reap
rewards, most notably our adherence to a strict transfer policy
which avoids, or limits wherever possible, the acceptance of
dated payments for players bought or sold,” Llambias said.  Rivals teams often agree multi-year payment structures when
they trade players. The European financial crisis has led to
some clubs being unable to pay debts when they become due.
European soccer’s governing body UEFA said about 100 million
euros ($132.6 million) in transfer fees were either unpaid or
deferred last year. Ashley inherited unpaid player transfer
costs of 36 million pounds. Newcastle is now owed 5 million
pounds, the club said.  “We believe it is a far healthier financial model to
settle full transfer fees for players up front, not dated over a
period of years,” Llambias said. “We have dealt wisely in the
transfer market and reinvested the income received from player
sales into improving the squad.”  Wage Ratio  Newcastle said its ratio of wages to revenue fell to 60.6
percent for the 2010/11 season from 90.5 percent a year earlier.
Llambias said the team made a profit of 5.4 million pounds from
player sales to June 2011. Since then a further 25 million has
been spent on player acquisitions and wages, including the
arrival of Papiss Cisse from Freibourg for around 10 million
pounds.  The team said Ashley had paid all third-party debts, which
totaled 76 million pounds in the 2006-07 seasons. He’s injected
a further 140 million pounds in interest free loans. The club
hopes to boost its finances further by selling the naming
rights, saying the Sports Direct title is to show potential
buyers how the stadium could be branded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  