-- News Corp. Hacked Priest’s Phone for Pop Star Story, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-09T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/news-corp-hacked-family-priest-s-phone-for-pop-star-stories-lawyer-says.html
News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid hacked into a priest’s voice-mail messages to get scoops
about British pop star Charlotte Church and her family,
according to a witness statement described in court.  Father Richard Reardon, a Roman Catholic priest in Cardiff,
 Wales , hired a lawyer after police told him the newspaper’s
former private detective,  Glenn Mulcaire , had his phone number
among thousands of pages of notes about victims, according to a
court transcript of a Feb. 17 hearing in London.  Reardon “was informed by the police that his phone had
been intercepted, and that has been made good on the
documents,” Church’s lawyer, David Sherborne, said at the
hearing last month in her privacy lawsuit against News Corp.’s
U.K. unit. “It is very clear from Mr. Mulcaire’s notes.”  The claim that News of the World targeted the phone of a
little-known priest may open a new front in the probe of  News
Corp. (NWSA) , as the scandal has focused on the hacking of celebrities,
lawmakers and crime victims. Reardon spoke with the Churches
regularly and shared voice-mails and text messages with them, a
person familiar with the matter said -- exchanges News Corp.
employees may have been privy to by hacking.  “People of faith will be shocked that Rupert Murdoch’s
staff would target a priest in this way -- it’s just not
right,” said  Tom Watson , a Labour party lawmaker who is on a
parliamentary committee investigating the phone-hacking scandal.  ‘Friends and Family’  The priest was on the “friends and family” mobile-phone
list of Church’s father James, said the person, who declined to
be identified because they aren’t authorized by the family to
speak. Reardon went on a religious mission to Malawi with James
Church in 2006, the person said.  Charlotte Church, 26, and her parents James and Maria
settled their claim 10 days after the hearing for 600,000 pounds
($949,000). The company said its best-selling Sunday tabloid had
intercepted her messages from when she was 16-years-old, hacked
into her father’s voice mails and harassed her mother when she
was suffering mental distress.  Reardon’s lawyer,  Mark Thomson , declined to comment and a
message left for Reardon at the Parish of St. Teilo’s in Cardiff
wasn’t immediately returned. News International’s spokeswoman,
 Daisy Dunlop , declined to comment, as did the  Metropolitan
Police Service  in London.  U.K., U.S. Probes  The allegations regarding the priest surfaced as  New York- 
based News Corp. seeks to contain the hacking scandal and tackle
a widening U.K. probe of bribery by journalists at its Sun
tabloid. The company also faces legal issues in the U.S. where
authorities are investigating if the alleged bribery violated
American anti-corruption laws and whether victims of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks were hacking targets.  Last month a person familiar with the matter said Mulcaire
also had in his notes the phone numbers of U.S. citizens --
Church’s agent in  Los Angeles  and her publicist in  New York .  The Feb. 17 hearing before Judge Geoffrey Vos was requested
by London-based News International, according to the transcript.
The publisher had sought to delay a civil trial of the case,
citing late witness statements filed by Reardon and others as
one reason why it needed more time.  Reardon “has been told by his solicitor that the only way
the information on the page could appear is if Mr. Mulcaire had
listened to one of his voice-mail messages,” Michael
Silverleaf, News International’s lawyer, said at the hearing.
The priest’s lawyer “is just plain wrong.”  Murdoch’s Wedding  A trial that would have set damage guidelines for other
hacking cases was called off after Church, who sang at News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding in 1999, when she was
13, reached a deal. Hers was the last remaining “test case”
after dozens of other celebrities had already settled.  Church had sought special damages due to the distress the
stories caused her mother. The News of the World in 2005
reported Church’s father was having an affair and used cocaine,
and that her mother tried to kill herself as a result.  The transcript showed News International planned to
challenge at trial Church’s claim that 33 articles were the
result of phone hacking, and that as few as two stories stemmed
from the practice. The company also said the paper had a
legitimate source for the story about James Church’s affair -- a
claim Sherborne rejected.  After the settlement was reached and News International
apologized in open court, Church said the company was “only
sorry it got caught.” The singer said she was forced to settle
to avoid News Corp.’s lawyers seeking to discredit her mother
during a trial in a bid to lower damages.  Arrests  Mulcaire and the News of the World’s royal family reporter
pleaded guilty in 2006 and served as long as six months in jail
the next year for hacking the phones of eight people. Mulcaire
was arrested again in December in a new probe, as the extent of
the phone-hacking scandal was revealed for the first time in
civil lawsuits and police revealed hundreds more people were
targeted.  Murdoch shuttered the 168-year-old News of the World in
July after it was reported that journalists hacked the phone of
murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002.  During Mulcaire’s first arrest, more than 11,000 pages of
notes were seized by police and placed in storage without being
analyzed beyond what was necessary for the criminal case against
him and the reporter. Investigators who re-opened the probe in
January 2011 said the pages had more than 5,000 identifiable
names and details suggesting 829 people had their phones hacked.  Church, a mother of two, told a separate inquiry into media
ethics that News Corp.’s Sun may have hacked her phone to report
her pregnancy in 2007, before she’d told her friends and family.
While that claim wasn’t part of her case, the company said last
month it had obtained the singer’s private medical information
through phone-hacking and didn’t elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  