-- NMC Health of U.A.E. Seeks to Raise $250 Million in IPO for London Listing
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-08T12:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/nmc-health-seeks-to-raise-250-million-in-ipo-for-london-listing.html
NMC Health Plc is seeking to raise
as much as $250 million from an initial public offering in the
first share sale in the  United Arab Emirates  this year,
signaling a return of IPOs as regional markets rebound.  The health-care provider, which plans to list on the London
Stock Exchange, will offer shares to institutional and other
investors in the U.K. and elsewhere, it said in a statement
distributed via the Regulatory News Service today.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  is bookrunner and global coordinator of the sale, while Numis
Securities Ltd. and  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  are the lead managers.  The IPO comes after a decline in share sales by U.A.E.
companies amid tumbling stock markets and political upheaval in
the Middle East. Topaz Energy & Marine Plc, a Dubai-based oil
and gas services provider, last March pulled an IPO in  London ,
citing “uncertain investment climate for new issues.” Axiom
Ltd., a Dubai-based phone retailer, in December 2010 canceled
plans to raise about $100 million because of “widespread
concerns about market conditions and liquidity.”  “The recent stock market rally may make companies more
hopeful in terms of the appetite of investors on U.A.E.
exposure,” said Anas el Maizi, an Abu Dhabi-based fund manager
at Royal Capital PJSC. “If NMC is successful, it may open the
door for other IPOs.”  Markets Rebound  The benchmark  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  has
gained 19 percent this year after a 17 percent decline in 2011,
while the  Abu Dhabi measure  increased 6.6 percent after a 12
percent decline.  Trading volumes  have advanced in Dubai this
year, with 835 million shares exchanging hands on March 5, the
highest since December 2009 and compared with a 12-month daily
average of 134 million shares. Volumes slumped to a six-year low
in 2011.  National Takaful Co. (WATANIA) ,  Insurance House (IH)  and  Eshraq Properties
Co. (ESHRAQ)  listed their shares on  Abu Dhabi ’s stock market in 2011,
while none were listed in Dubai during the period.  NMC “intends to use the net proceeds of the offer and
borrowings under a new credit facility of up to $150 million
primarily to finance its expansion plans and to fund further
future growth opportunities,” it said in the statement. The
company had revenue of $443.7 million last year compared with
$386.5 million a year earlier and $338.9 million in 2009.  Over-Allotment  An over-allotment option will be made available by some
shareholders, NMC said. The current shareholders are Saeed Bin
Butti with 43 percent, B.R. Shetty with 30 percent, Khalifa Bin
Butti with 15 percent and Infinite Investment LLC 12 percent.  NMC’s network includes three specialty hospitals in Abu
Dhabi, Dubai and Al-Ain. The company plans to buy Healthcare
Suites in Dubai, build a hospital at Khalifa City, Abu Dhabi,
and look at potential acquisitions in the  Middle East  and North
Africa as part of its expansion, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  