-- North Korea Orchestra in Paris Shows Kim Jong Un Opening Window on World
-- B y   D a v i d   W h i t e h o u s e
-- 2012-03-08T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/north-korea-orchestra-in-paris-shows-kim-jong-un-opening-window-on-world.html
North Korea ’s Unhasu orchestra will
leave its crowd-pleasing “Cantata to Comrade Kim Jong Il” at
home in favor of Brahms’s first symphony when it plays in Paris
on March 14.  For the three-year-old orchestra, the Paris event is its
first performance abroad. The joint concert with the Radio
France Philharmonic Orchestra at the  Salle Pleyel  in Paris will
be conducted by  South Korea ’s Myung-Whun Chung. Together with
events this month in Washington and  New York , it may signal the
willingness of Kim Jong Un, the new leader of the so-called
“Hermit Kingdom,” to reduce its isolation.  “Cultural exchanges are rarely separated from North
Korea’s broader political strategy,” Scott Snyder, who heads
U.S.-Korea policy in  Washington  for the  Council on Foreign
Relations , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It is
reasonable to assume that there must also be a diplomatic motive
that accompanies the performance.”  Kim Jong Un succeeded his father Kim Jong Il after the
latter’s death in December. While diplomatic officials in the
U.S. and North Korea on March 7 opened talks for the first time
since the change in the leadership of the impoverished country,
the regime has yet to relieve tensions with South Korea.  In recent days, North Korea has stepped up its rhetoric,
threatening “a sacred war” against its neighbor for defaming
the dignity of its leadership and conducting military drills
with the U.S. That came as the regime accused a South Korean
army unit in the western port of Incheon of writing “unspeakable
defamatory words” below portraits of Kim Jong Un and his father.  The Korean peninsula has 1.7 million troops from the two
Koreas and the U.S. squaring off every day.  Long Arranged  Some political observers warned against reading too much
into cultural events like the one in Paris.  “I’d bet that this was arranged long before  Kim Jong Il ’s
death” said Alastair Newton, a senior political analyst at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “I don’t believe for one
moment that Kim Jong Un is in charge in Pyongyang. This is a
deeply Confucian society where age counts and whatever he thinks
probably doesn’t.”  Kim is believed to be about 28 or 29 years old.  Myung-Whun Chung told reporters in Paris he hopes a joint
concert between orchestras from North and South Korea will be
possible by the end of the year.  “We’re not yet politically ready to put musicians from the
North and South together,” he said. “There are political
obstacles which have to be overcome.”  New Start  North Korea’s National Symphony Orchestra, established in
1946, has performed abroad in countries including  China ,  Japan ,
 Germany , the U.K. and South Korea in August 2000. It held a
joint concert two years later in Pyongyang with the South’s KBS
Symphony Orchestra.  “Yes, these initiatives were under way before the death of
Kim Jong Il,” said Charles Armstrong, Professor of History at
 Columbia University . “But the leadership transition helps give
a fresh start to things.”  The Paris event is “a very promising sign that North Korea
under Kim Jong Un is reaching out to the world, ” he said.  Unhasu was set up in 2009, according to the South Korea’s
Unification Ministry in  Seoul . The average age of the artists in
the orchestra is about 20, according to Radio  France .  They use traditional Korean instruments such as the haegum,
a kind of violin, and the kayagum, a kind of zither with 12 silk
strings. The first part of the concert will consist of
traditional Korean music, to be followed by Brahms.  Beethoven’s ninth symphony -- among the best-known of the
German composer’s works and one that uses words of brotherhood
from the poem “Ode to Joy” -- would have been “too much,”
for this performance, Myung-Whun Chung said.  “We’ll leave that for later,” he said.  *** The concert takes place at the  Salle Pleyel  at 8.30 p.m. in
Paris on March 14. Ticket prices range from 10 euros to 45
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Whitehouse in Paris at 
 dwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  