-- Nuclear Powers Seeking Sustained Iran Talks, Access to Secret Parchin Site
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-08T13:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/nuclear-powers-seeking-sustained-iran-talks-access-to-secret-parchin-site.html
Nuclear powers said they want
sustained discussions with  Iran  and for the Persian Gulf nation
to let United Nations inspectors into its secret Parchin
military installation.  “We urge Iran to fulfill its undertaking to grant access
to Parchin,” the UN’s permanent Security Council members plus
 Germany  said in a two-page statement issued today in Vienna.
“We call on Iran to enter, without pre-conditions, into a
sustained process of serious dialogue, which will produce
concrete results.”  It was the first joint statement issued by  China ,  France ,
Germany,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. since the group committed
to resume negotiations over Iran’s atomic work two days ago.
They listed their demands to the International Atomic Energy
Agency’s 35-nation board of governors.  The U.S. and the European Union have ratcheted up economic
sanctions against Iran over concerns that the government in
Tehran is pursuing atomic weapons. Iran says its nuclear program
is for peaceful purposes. The last round of talks between
nuclear powers and Iran broke down in January 2011.  Intensifying Talks  Atomic inspectors, who have been scrutinizing  Iran’s
nuclear program  since 2003, were told to “intensify dialogue”
with Iranian authorities, according to the statement. IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano asked for guidance early this week
after two high-level missions to Tehran failed to win a
diplomatic breakthrough.  “We stress the need and urgency to reach agreement on a
structured approach, based on the agency verification practices,
to resolve all outstanding issues, particularly those relating
to possible military dimensions,” according to the statement.  Parchin, 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of Tehran, is
the military base where IAEA inspectors say they have
“credible” evidence of Iranian nuclear-military work. Amano
said on March 5 that illicit activities may be continuing at
Parchin. The agency reported in November that Iran may have
cleaned up sites at Parchin where experiments took place.  While Iran hasn’t ruled out an IAEA visit to the site,
Iranian officials said on March 5 that security concerns in the
wake of nuclear-scientist assassinations and industrial
sabotage, prevented it from giving immediate access to
inspectors.  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  praised
President  Barack Obama ’s comments yesterday that a “window of
opportunity” exists for diplomacy to work.  “These words are good words and are a sign of no longer
being in delusion,” Khamenei said at an event in Tehran today.
“But the U.S. president continued to talk about sanctions
against Iran to bring the people to their knees, and this part
of the statement is still delusional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  