-- Nuclear Industry Must Speed Seismic Reviews, NRC’s Chairman Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-08T19:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/nuclear-industry-must-speed-seismic-reviews-nrc-s-chairman-says.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , disagreeing with a staff proposal, said
reactor owners should speed a review of earthquake risks to
complete the assessment by 2016, at least a year ahead of
schedule.  Seismic reviews at 104 U.S. reactors may take until at
least 2017, or later, because reactor owners told the agency
technical resources aren’t available for a quicker analysis,
Jaczko said today in a phone interview.  “Finding the expertise may be challenging for the
industry,” Jaczko said. “It’s a challenge that we all need to
overcome.”  “I don’t think it’s acceptable for me to stand in front of
the American people and say that I think it’s OK for it to take
until 2017,” he said.  The NRC within days may issue its first orders in response
to a meltdown at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant after a 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  last
March. The agency also is seeking information from reactor
owners about seismic hazards and emergency capabilities as
regulators weigh rules that may take effect later in the decade.  Jaczko, whose term expires in June 2013, wants all
Fukushima-related rules implemented within five years after the
disaster.  “Five years is a very, very long time for us to be waiting
to see” how plants will deal with earthquake and flooding
risks. “That’s just, to me, not acceptable,” he said.  ‘Extremely Complex’  “As we made the NRC aware, the seismic analyses are
extremely complex, and there are limited resources available to
do them,  Steve Kerekes , a spokesman for the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , a Washington-based industry group, said in a phone
interview today. ‘‘That’s just the reality of it.’’  The tsunami in Japan, not the quake, crippled the Fukushima
plant, he said. The industry has also begun to implement its own
plan to provide back-up equipment, including generators and
pumps, at plants to handle power failures.  An NRC staff proposal, based on discussions with industry,
would prioritize reviews for plants in the central and eastern
U.S., where earthquake risks may be greater than experts
previously thought. Evaluations for plants in the west,
including  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre facility, about 60
miles (97 kilometers) south of  Los Angeles , and  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s
Diablo Canyon reactors near San Luis Obispo,  California , may not
be complete until 2018 or 2019, according to the proposal.  Most U.S. earthquakes occur in the western part of the
country, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  ‘‘I’m interested in moving all of this as effectively and
expeditiously as we can,” Jaczko said.  “The majority of the operating plants couldn’t complete
the assessment of the difference between the new and existing
seismic hazard before the end of 2016,” Tony Pietrangelo, the
industry group’s senior vice president, said in a Feb. 28 letter
to Jaczko. “There is a huge difference” between NRC and
industry expectations of available resources for the
evaluations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  