-- Obama Avoids Keystone Confrontation With Lobbying of Democrats
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/obama-lobbies-senate-democrats-to-block-measure-allowing-keystone-pipeline.html
President  Barack Obama  headed off an
election-year showdown over  energy policy  when the Senate
defeated a Republican measure that would have authorized the
building of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline.  Obama lobbied wavering Senate Democrats before yesterday’s
vote. He urged them to reject an amendment to legislation
funding transportation projects that would have overturned his
administration’s decision to deny a permit for the pipeline
until an alternative route was proposed to bypass an
environmentally sensitive area in Nebraska.  The measure failed to pass on a 56-42 vote. Sixty votes
were required to advance the amendment.  “The Senate voted down another misleading effort by
Republicans to play politics with a pipeline project whose route
has yet to be proposed,” said  Clark Stevens , a White House
spokesman. “We will ensure any projects receives the important
assessment it deserves.”  Republicans have sought to link rising  gasoline prices  with
the administration’s rejection of a permit for the northern
section of the pipeline. Rising prices at the pump threaten to
stunt the recovery by crimping  consumer spending , which accounts
for 70 percent of the economy, and signs at service stations
remind voters daily of higher energy costs.  As the Senate prepared to vote, Republicans criticized
Obama and sought to raise money on the issue.  “By personally lobbying against the Keystone pipeline, it
means the president of the  United States  is lobbying for sending
North American energy to  China  and lobbying against American
jobs,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters.  Fundraising Pitch  The National Republican Congressional Committee used the
issue to make a fundraising pitch. In an e-mail from the
political arm of  House Republicans , Texas Republican
Representative Pete Sessions appealed for “an immediate $12
donation to the Keystone Fund” to expose Obama’s “anti-energy
and anti-job agenda.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called the
Republican amendment “ineffectual, sham legislation that has no
impact on the price of gas.”  He said passage would be “irresponsible” because
TransCanada hasn’t formally approved an alternative route.  In a demonstration of White House concerns that energy may
give Republicans a political issue in November, Obama over the
past two weeks has made the subject the focus of public speeches
and appearances. In each, he has delivered the same message:
Little can be done short-term to bring down gasoline prices.  No Quick Fixes  “You and I both know there are no quick fixes to this
problem,” Obama told an audience this week at a Daimler Trucks
North America plant in Mount Holly,  North Carolina . “As much as
we’re doing to increase oil production, we’re not going to be
able to just drill our way out of the problem of high gas
prices.”  The average retail price for a gallon of regular gasoline
is $3.75, compared with $3.52 a year ago, according to a survey
by the American Automobile Association. Prices are higher than
average in the electoral swing states of  Florida ,  Michigan , West
Virginia and  Nevada , according to AAA figures.  Crude oil has risen 25 percent over the past five months,
in part because of increasing concern about a confrontation with
 Iran  and higher demand as the global economy picks up steam.
Crude oil for April delivery rose 42 cents to settle at $106.58
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The Republican presidential candidates and the party’s
leaders in Congress argue that Obama has hindered U.S. energy
supplies by imposing tougher environmental regulations on
exploration and blocking the $7.6 billion Keystone project.  Romney on Attack  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is the
leading contender for the Republican nomination, said last week
while campaigning in North Dakota that Obama “has tried to slow
the growth of oil and gas production in this country, and coal
production in this country.”  The administration last November postponed a decision on
Calgary-based TransCanada’s 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)
pipeline to study an alternative route for the project away from
an aquifer in  Nebraska  that supplies drinking water for 1.5
million people. That would have put off the matter until after
the 2012 election.  In December, Republicans in Congress, joined by some
Democrats, set a 60-day deadline for the administration to
decide whether to issue a permit, a step that forced Obama to
reject the plan on Jan. 18.  The issue has split Obama’s political supporters.
Environmental advocacy groups oppose the pipeline, while some
unions support it. TransCanada has estimated the project would
create about 20,000 temporary construction jobs.  Sierra Club Comment  Lena Moffitt, federal policy representative for the San
Francisco-based Sierra Club, said the group has been in touch
with the White House and has been doing its own lobbying of
senators. “We see this as a really unprecedented effort to get
Congress into the business of permitting big oil’s pet
projects,” she said before the Senate vote.  In recent weeks, Obama has been seeking to promote his
energy program, while trying to soften political criticism from
the Jan. 18 pipeline rejection. He has made energy the chief
topic of at least five events since Feb. 23.  TransCanada said Feb. 27 it would reapply for a permit to
build Keystone and proceed separately with a $2.3 billion
segment of the pipeline to carry crude from the storage hub at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the Texas coast.  Visit to North Carolina  In the election swing state of North Carolina, the
president said this week he would “do whatever we can to speed
up construction of a pipeline in Oklahoma that’s going to
relieve a bottleneck and get more oil to the Gulf -- to the
refineries down there -- and that’s going to help create jobs,
encourage more production.”  The Republican amendment was sponsored by Senator John Hoeven of  North Dakota  and attached to the $109 billion
transportation bill. It would have allowed the pipeline to run
along a modified route in Nebraska that would dodge the
ecologically sensitive region.  The Senate defeated another amendment, from  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat, that would have expedited the review process
for the pipeline and prohibited export of oil that it carries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  