-- Obama Faces Swing State Anger Over Gas Prices
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/obama-faces-swing-state-anger-over-gas-prices.html
Voters in some U.S. swing states are
feeling the pinch of rising gasoline prices more than those in
states that tend to vote Democrat, posing a challenge to
President Barack Obama’s re-election, according to a report.  Gasoline in  Florida ,  Michigan ,  Nevada  and  Pennsylvania 
costs more than the national average of $3.76 a gallon, Trevor
Houser, a partner at the New York-based policy analysis firm
Rhodium Group, said yesterday in a  report . Consumers in  Iowa ,
 New Mexico  and  Ohio  spend more on gasoline as a percentage of
their personal income than the national average.  “If you look at those Midwest battleground states, those
that haven’t crossed the line to $4 are pushing the limit,”
Houser said in an interview. “Midwest battleground states will
cross the threshold before the national average does. All things
being equal, it’s bad for the incumbent.”  Gasoline has emerged as an issue in the presidential
election after prices  rose  27 straight days through March 4.
 Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is the
leading contender for the Republican nomination, said Obama has
slowed the growth of U.S. oil and gas production and should take
some blame for rising energy costs. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, another Republican candidate for president, has said
that Obama’s energy policies “exist in a fantasy world where
we’re all going to end up buying an electric car.”  ‘Drill Our Way’  Obama, speaking at a truck manufacturing plant in Mount
Holly, North Carolina, yesterday said, “As much as we’re doing
to increase oil production, we’re not going to be able to just
drill our way out of the problem of high gas prices.”  “Anybody who tells you otherwise either doesn’t know what
they’re talking about or they aren’t telling you the truth,” he
said.  The U.S. is producing more oil today than at any time in
the past eight years, Obama said. Production has risen since he
took office in January 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Consumers in industrial states face a double threat from
rising energy costs,  Kevin Book , managing director at ClearView
Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based policy-analysis firm,
said in an interview. In addition to paying more at the pump,
job prospects are more closely linked to energy costs than in
Democrat-friendly cities on the East and West coasts.  “It is always an issue in every election,” Book said.
“It’s especially important now that this year’s battleground
states are industrial states.”  Red Versus Blue  By one measure, gasoline prices are hurting Democrat-
leaning states more than those that vote Republican, Houser
said. All but three states considered electoral locks for Obama
face gasoline prices higher than the national average.  While consumers in Republican-leaning states pay lower
prices at the pump, they use more gasoline and spend more for
fuel relative to their income, Houser said. Among swing states,
voters in Michigan,  North Carolina  and Iowa spend the most on
gasoline relative to income.  “High gas prices are a more important issue for
Republicans than Democrats,” Houser said.  In 2011, prices peaked at $4 a gallon on May 6 and then
finished the year 76 cents lower. From 1999 to 2011, the average
price rose 44.1 cents a gallon from January to June, according
to gasoline analyst  Trilby Lundberg , president of Lundberg
Survey Inc. Prices tend to rise early in the year because of
seasonal demand and the higher cost to refine gasoline to meet
driving demands in the middle of the year.  Price Increase  “When President Obama took office in 2009, the average
price of gas nationwide was roughly $1.80 per gallon,”
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican, said
yesterday at a House hearing on fuel prices. “In three years
under President Obama, we have seen average gas prices increase
almost $2 per gallon. This is unacceptable.”  Obama has said the recent rise in  oil prices  is caused by
instability in the  Middle East , including a tense confrontation
with Iran over its nuclear program. That has sparked some
“speculative trading on  Wall Street ” that has added to the
cost of oil, he said.  While most U.S. states lose from higher oil prices, six
states including Republican strongholds Alaska, North Dakota,
Wyoming, Mississippi and Alabama gain as local energy producers
see higher revenues, Houser said. There is no “meaningful” oil
production in Democratic states excluding  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  