-- Obama Calls Ghana ‘Model for Africa’ in Democracy, Security
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-08T22:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/obama-calls-ghana-model-for-africa-in-democracy-security.html
President  Barack Obama  said  Ghana 
serves as “a model for  Africa ” on issues ranging from
democracy to foreign investment and food security and that
business cooperation with Ghana is creating thousands of U.S.
jobs.  “Ghana continues to be a good-news story,” Obama said
after meeting at the White House with President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana, West Africa’s second-largest  economy .  Obama said there is a tendency to focus on the challenges
in Africa and “it’s important for us to also focus on the good
news that’s coming out of Africa.”  Mills said the two countries “share the same values of
democracy” and that development in Africa requires peace. “We
are going to ensure there is peace,” he said.  Their agenda was to include economic development,
increasing U.S.- Ghana  commercial and economic ties and
conferring on a range of bilateral, regional and multilateral
issues.  Obama met Mills during a visit to Ghana in July 2009, when
the U.S. president toured a historic slave-trade castle on the
coast. In a speech to Ghana’s Parliament, Obama said the future
of Africa is largely up to Africans.  “Development depends upon good governance,” Obama said at
the time. “That is the ingredient which has been missing in far
too many places, for far too long. That is the change that can
unlock Africa’s potential. And that is a responsibility that can
only be met by Africans.”  Ghana holds presidential and parliamentary elections in
December. Mills is vying for a second term after winning in 2008
by less than 1 percentage point.  Ghana is one of many African countries receiving U.S. aid
in exchange for striving toward democracy and good governance.
It has completed the first allocation of $547 million in U.S.
aid last month to improve highway, public works and agricultural
projects. A second allocation is planned to boost energy
production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  