-- Obama Plans to Show Cameron March Madness During Prime Minister’s Visit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/obama-s-official-visit-with-cameron-includes-march-madness-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will provide
a seasonal U.S. treat for British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
official visit next week: March Madness.  Obama and Cameron will attend a first-round game of the
NCAA Division I men’s basketball tournament when the British
leader is in the U.S., according to a White House official.  The two leaders will travel to Ohio on March 13 to attend a
game at the University of Dayton, the official said. Cameron
will be the guest of honor at a White House state dinner on
March 14.  The White House official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the schedule hasn’t been released, said the
attendance of the two leaders at the game will emphasize the
special relationship between the two nations. Obama made a state
visit to the U.K. last May.  The annual National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament, known as  March Madness , brings together 68 college
basketball teams, culminating in a championship game in New
Orleans on April 2.  Obama, an avid basketball player and fan, has made public
his picks for the tournament winner every year since taking
office and he periodically attends college and professional
games. The NCAA tournament draws millions of television viewers.  While the two leaders are in Dayton, first lady  Michelle Obama  and the prime minister’s wife, Samantha, are scheduled to
attend an Olympics-themed event for school children in the
Washington area. London will host the 2012 Summer Olympics.  It won’t be the first time a U.S. president has put some
distinctly American event on the agenda for a foreign leader.
When Japan’s then-Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  visited the
U.S. in 2006, President  George W. Bush  took him to tour
Graceland, the estate of Elvis Presley in Memphis, Tennessee.
Koizumi was a known as a Presley fan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  