-- Mock Cyber Attack on New York Used by Obama to Pitch Senate Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mock-cyber-attack-on-new-york-used-by-obama-to-pitch-senate-bill.html
The Obama administration simulated a
cyber attack on  New York City ’s power supply in a Senate
demonstration aimed at winning support for legislation to boost
the nation’s computer defenses.  Senators from both parties gathered behind closed doors in
the U.S. Capitol yesterday for the classified briefing attended
by Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, FBI Director
Robert Mueller and other administration officials.  The mock attack on the city during a summer heat wave was
“very compelling,” said Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican who is co-sponsoring a cybersecurity bill supported
by President Barack Obama. “It illustrated the problem and why
legislation is desperately needed,” she said as she left the
briefing.  U.S. lawmakers are debating cybersecurity legislation
following assaults last year on companies including New York-
based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company.  The attacks have increased concern that computer networks
operated by U.S. banks, power grids and telecommunications
companies may be vulnerable to hacking or viruses that may cause
loss of life or inflict widespread economic harm.  The Obama administration is backing a Senate measure
introduced on Feb. 14 by Collins and Senator Joe Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent, that would direct the Homeland Security
Department to set cybersecurity regulations for companies deemed
critical to U.S. national and economic security.  Competing Bill  A competing Senate bill from eight Republicans including
 John McCain  of Arizona and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas would
avoid new rules while promoting information sharing through
incentives such as protection from lawsuits. Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican, is preparing to introduce
similar legislation in the House.  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, called
yesterday’s demonstration “helpful because it got a whole bunch
of senators thinking about the same thing at the same time.” He
said the exercise didn’t sway him to support either of the
Senate bills.  After the briefing, Hutchison cited similarities in the two
Senate measures while criticizing the “big new bureaucracy and
regulatory scheme” in the Obama-backed legislation.  The simulated attack “was intended to provide all senators
with an appreciation for new legislative authorities that could
help the U.S. government prevent and more quickly respond to
cyber attacks,” Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail after the briefing.  ‘Disastrous’ Effects  A cyber attack leaving  New York  without power for a
prolonged time could have “disastrous” effects, potentially
severing communications, crashing life-saving medical equipment
and destroying networks that run financial institutions,
according to Lawrence Ponemon, chairman of the Ponemon Institute
LLC, a research firm based in Traverse City, Michigan.  “I would project that you would have literally thousands
of people dying,” Ponemon said in an interview. “A cyber
attack on electrical grids that was sustained for three to four
weeks would be like returning to the dark ages.”  A blackout that swept parts of North America in August 2003
left 50 million people in the dark for as long as four days.
Hackers could cause blackouts “on the order of nine to 18
months” by disabling critical systems such as transformers,
said Joe Weiss, managing director of Applied Control Solutions
LLC, a Cupertino, California-based security consulting company.  “The dollars are incalculable,” Weiss said. The 2003
event, triggered when a power line touched tree branches in
Ohio, caused losses of as much as $10 billion, according to a
study by the U.S. and Canadian governments.  Internet Providers Object  Internet-service providers, including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , opposed new cybersecurity regulations at a House hearing
yesterday. The companies said they prefer measures to improve
voluntary sharing of information about cyberthreats.  Government-imposed rules could impede innovation, the
Internet providers said in testimony to a House Energy and
Commerce subcommittee.  “Such requirements could have an unintended stifling
effect on making real cybersecurity improvements,” Edward Amoroso, chief security officer for Dallas-based AT&T, said in
testimony at the hearing. “Cyber adversaries are dynamic and
increasingly sophisticated, and do not operate under a
laboriously defined set of rules or processes.”  AT&T is the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier.
Philadelphia-based Comcast, the leading U.S. cable provider, and
Monroe, Louisiana-based  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  expressed similar views
in their prepared testimony.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said he wants to bring the Lieberman-Collins bill to the
chamber’s floor for a vote as soon as possible, though he hasn’t
given a date. The measure is co-sponsored by Democrats  Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia  and  Dianne Feinstein  of  California .  The Lieberman-Collins bill is S. 2105 and the McCain bill
is S. 2151.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net 
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  