-- News Corp.’s BSkyB Stake Scrutinized by Watchdog Amid Phone-Hacking Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-09T08:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ofcom-sets-up-group-to-consider-bskyb-fit-and-proper-license-holder-test.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s involvement in the U.K.
phone-hacking and bribery scandal has drawn attention from
regulators, who are examining the company’s fitness to hold a
broadcasting license through its stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The scandal, set off when News Corp.’s reporters were found
to have hacked into sources’ phones and bribed police for
stories, is being scrutinized by a special team, dubbed
“Project Apple,” at media regulator Ofcom, according to
minutes released under a Freedom of Information Act request
published on Ofcom’s website.  Ofcom, which has the ability to revoke a broadcaster’s
license, will determine whether the scandal has compromised News
Corp.’s ability to manage the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company.
 James Murdoch , son of News Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , is the chairman of BSkyB and previously oversaw News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  “I would assume his goal is to remain chairman, but if the
regulator forces the issue, I would think he’ll step down as
opposed to the other option, which is News Corp. selling its
shares in BSkyB,” said  Alan Gould , an analyst at  Evercore
Partners (EVR)  in New York. Gould rates the shares “overweight” and
doesn’t own any.  Bid Scrapped  BSkyB fell as much as 13.5 pence, or 2 percent, to 680.5
pence and traded at 684 pence as of 8:07 a.m. in London. The
stock has fallen 6.6 percent this year, valuing the company at
11.7 billion pounds ($18.5 billion). News Corp. added 0.9
percent to $19.61 in New York yesterday.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp., which owns
39 percent of BSkyB, to drop a 7.8 billion-pound bid to buy the
remaining shares last year. News Corp.’s tabloid employees were
found to have hacked into the phones of celebrities and
politicians and bribed police. The News of the World was shut in
July and more than 10 journalists at the company’s Sun tabloid
have been arrested, though not charged.  Ofcom has said it’s been monitoring the investigations
since July.  Jack Horner , a spokesman for News Corp., and BSkyB’s
Stephen Gaynor declined to comment.  “In relation to the hacking and corruption allegations,
new evidence is still emerging from the various enquiries,”
Ofcom said in an e-mail yesterday. “Ofcom is continuing to
assess the evidence -- including new and emerging evidence --
that may assist it in discharging these duties.”  Re-Election  The U.K. Parliament is expected to issue a statement
critical of James Murdoch’s management of the newspapers, where
he claims to have had no knowledge of widespread hacking and
bribery practices.  While the younger Murdoch was re-elected chairman of BSkyB
in November, he failed to get the support of almost one third of
the independent shareholders in a vote. He has stepped away from
his duties at News Corp.’s British unit to focus on his new role
as deputy chief operating officer at the company’s  New York 
headquarters.  James Murdoch, 39, became CEO of BSkyB in 2003 and left
that post in 2007 to run News Corp.’s television, newspaper and
digital operations in  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East . At the
time, he was named non-executive chairman of BSkyB.  News Corp. dropped its bid for BSkyB in July amid pressure
from politicians including Prime Minister David Cameron and
opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband , who intensified
calls to review the Murdochs’ influence in local media.  Parallel Probes  In addition to three police investigations and the
parliamentary inquiry, Cameron commissioned a judge-led
investigation into media ethics headed by Brian Leveson. Leveson
and his lawyers have questioned publishers, journalists, police,
celebrities and hacking victims and may recommend additional
regulations to police media behavior.  “News Corp. executives and non-executive directors have
shown themselves completely unable to control what was going on
in the paper and make sure the company’s acting within the
law,” Chris Bryant, a Labour lawmaker, said in July. “That
raises questions about whether they should have any stake in
BSkyB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  