-- Oil Rises on German Output, Greek Debt Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-08T20:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-german-output-signs-of-falling-iran-exports.html
Oil climbed after German industrial
production increased more than forecast and  Greece  moved closer
to completing its debt swap, bolstering optimism that Europe’s
economy and fuel demand will rebound.  Prices gained 0.4 percent as  Germany ’s Economy Ministry
said  output  rose 1.6 percent in January, greater than the 1.1
percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Investors with at least
60 percent of eligible Greek bonds have agreed to take part in
the debt restructuring. Oil shipments from Iran have dropped by
up to 400,000 barrels a day, Barclays Capital said.  “We’re up because of greater optimism about the economic
climate in Europe,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “You’re
seeing this reflected in most markets. The dollar is down
against the euro and equities are strong.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose 42 cents to settle at
$106.58 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
are up 7.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement advanced $1.32, or 1.1
percent, to end the session at $125.44 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate widened to $18.86 at the close,
the most since Feb. 6. The spread increased after the U.S.
Energy Department said yesterday that crude stockpiles at
 Cushing, Oklahoma (DOESCROK) , the delivery point for New York-traded
futures, surged to the highest level since July.  “The spread is blowing out, which tells you a lot about
WTI,” Armstrong said. “It looks like the fundamentals are
being priced into the contract.”  German Growth  The gain in Germany’s industrial production followed a 2.6
percent decline in December, the steepest drop in almost three
years, data from the Economy Ministry in Berlin showed.  U.S. stocks rose and the euro strengthened against the
dollar on speculation Greece was on the verge of reaching its
participation target by the deadline of 10 p.m. in  Athens  today.
The results will be announced tomorrow, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told Parliament.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained as much as 1.2
percent at 3:23 p.m. in  New York , and the euro rose as much as
1.1 percent against the dollar. A stronger euro and weaker
dollar boost oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “Oil turned up with the S&P,” said Phillip Streible, a
Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures. “It seems like
Greece is starting to make some kind of progress, and with that
there is some optimism in the market. Improved economic data
globally is helping support  oil prices . Iran is definitely a
concern and it creates a floor in the market.”  Fuel Consumption  The European Union’s 27 members accounted for 16 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy, released on June 8. The U.S. was the
world’s biggest oil-consuming country in 2010, responsible for
21 percent of global oil use, BP figures show.  U.S. household confidence improved last week to a four-year
high as more Americans said the economy was improving. The
Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  was minus 36.7 in the period
ended March 4, the highest level since April 2008, up from minus
38.8 in the prior period. The gauge on the state of the economy
reached a one-year high, while the buying-climate measure
climbed to a level last exceeded in December 2009.  Shipments from Iran have dropped because sanctions are
preventing the Islamic republic from selling oil, Amrita Sen, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said yesterday by e-mail.
Half of the tankers booked to load at the country’s largest
terminal last month didn’t complete their voyages, according to
brokers, company officials and ship-tracking data.  Iranian Output  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day
last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. and European countries have
imposed additional sanctions on Iran in the past few months to
pressure the country into halting its nuclear program.  U.S. lawmakers are targeting global insurers as they seek
to expand sanctions aimed at crippling Iran’s economy and
forcing its leaders to make concessions involving the country’s
disputed nuclear program.  Proposed legislation by Representative  Brad Sherman , a
California Democrat, and Senator Mark Kirk, an Illinois
Republican, would penalize underwriters that insure or reinsure
any deals with  Iran  prohibited under U.S. law, including oil and
gas investments or insurance for companies or banks that are
subject to U.S. sanctions.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 618,635
contracts as of 3:23 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 810,896
contracts yesterday, 29 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.59 million, the highest level since June 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  