-- Toilet Paper May Run Out in Trenton City Offices
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-08T20:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/toilet-paper-may-run-out-in-trenton-n-j-as-mayor-takes-swipe-at-council.html
The capital of  New Jersey (STONJ1) , the
third-wealthiest U.S. state, may run out of toilet paper in city
buildings because Trenton Mayor Tony Mack and the council are
sparring over a purchasing contract.  Trenton, midway between Philadelphia and  New York , has
money set aside to buy the bathroom tissue, yet the council
won’t sign off on the purchase, said Lauren Ira, a spokeswoman
for the mayor.  City Hall  has enough toilet paper to last until
March 16, though supplies at other buildings may run out by
early next week, Mack said in a statement.  George Muschal , a retired city police officer who
represents the city’s South Ward, said the council has refused
to sign off on a $42,573 resolution to order paper products,
including toilet tissue, cups and towels. The dispute erupted in
November when the council balked at Mack’s decision to include
$4,000 in paper cups in the order, he said.  “We’re the checks and balances over the administration,
and we’re not going to send out any blank checks,” Muschal said
in an interview.  The bill for paper cups is too high and Mack hasn’t
provided enough information, Muschal said. The council is also
concerned that the mayor didn’t solicit bids from Trenton-based
suppliers, he said. Muschal also cited what he said were reports
that the mayor’s paper order is unnecessarily large because
employees may be stealing the products for home use.  Newark Flap  The standoff is reminiscent of a 2010 warning by Newark
Mayor  Cory Booker  in which he said he might be forced to cut
“everything from printer paper to toilet paper” as the
community faced a $150 million budget gap. Marcal Manufacturing
Inc., a 60-year-old maker of toilet tissue based 13 miles (21
kilometers) away in Elmwood Park, offered to park a tractor-
trailer with 50,000 rolls valued at $35,000 outside City Hall.  Booker never cut funding for toilet paper, said his
spokeswoman, Esmeralda Cameron.  Trenton has yet to adopt the $182.6 million budget that
Mack proposed in November for the fiscal year starting July 1.
More than 100 police officers, a third of its force, were fired
in September amid a cash-crunch. The city is down 143 workers
from two years ago, according to Mack’s administration.  “The administration took all necessary measures in a
timely fashion to ensure that all city-owned buildings had
adequate supplies of paper products,” Mack said in the
statement. “Members of City Council took it upon themselves to
micromanage this resolution.”  Six Administrators  Mack took office in July 2010. He succeeded Doug Palmer,
who ran the city for 20 years.  Trenton has had at least six business administrators since
Mack took over. Two whistle-blower lawsuits have been filed
against the city, one from a parks employee who was fired for
questioning Mack’s bidding procedures and hiring decisions.  The other was from two former water-utility workers who
said they were suspended after providing evidence against Mack’s
half-brother, a fellow employee who was charged with theft and
official misconduct after allegedly using city equipment on
private plumbing jobs.  Questions about Mack’s hiring practices led citizens to
organize a campaign to recall him. That effort failed after the
group fell short of the signatures needed by Nov. 14 to force a
special mayoral election.  New Jersey  has per-capita income of $51,167 in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only Connecticut and
 Massachusetts  were higher in the ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  