-- Wynn Ordered to Produce Two Pages in Okada Dispute on Pledge
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-09T05:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/okada-wynn-battle-shifts-to-las-vegas-court.html
A judge ordered  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
was to produce two more pages of documents for Kazuo Okada, the
casino operator’s director whose 20 percent stake in the company
Wynn forcibly redeemed alleging he was “unsuitable.”  Nevada  state court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez at a hearing
yesterday in Las Vegas said Okada should get the additional
pages regarding a University of Macau donation. The judge
rejected a request to order Wynn to produce additional papers
from before the company went public or documents regarding an
amended stockholder agreement that resulted from Chief Executive
Officer Steve Wynn’s divorce.  Okada sought a court order that, as a director, he is
entitled to inspect Wynn’s books and records regarding its HK$1
billion ($129 million) pledge last year to the University of
 Macau . At a Feb. 9 hearing, Gonzalez said she would order Wynn
to produce the documents if she found that Okada’s request was
“reasonable” and that Wynn had refused to provide them.  Okada, a billionaire, held the largest single stake in Wynn
through his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  He brought
the case in January, claiming the company hadn’t provided
information he requested about the University of Macau pledge,
or about the use of $120 million he invested in 2002 and the
amended stockholders agreement.  “To ask Wynn officials to go through warehouses for every
record from 2000 to 2002 was unreasonable,” Kirk Lenhard, a
lawyer for Wynn, said at yesterday’s hearing. Wynn said in a
court filing March 7 that it has already provided Okada with
more than 900 pages of the requested documents.  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Wynn, declined to comment
on the judge’s decision after the hearing.  “The court admits that Okada has the right to see
documents as a director,” said Nobuyuki Horiuchi, spokesman for
Universal Entertainment, when reached by phone today.
“Universal Entertainment continues its own investigation and
asks Wynn to disclose more detailed documents.” 　　　　　　　  Escalated Clash  The stock redemption and Wynn’s announcement March 7 that
it will seek to remove Okada as a director escalated a clash
between Steve Wynn, the company’s founder, and Okada, who helped
bankroll Wynn Resorts starting 12 years ago.  Wynn’s lawyers said in a court filing March 7 that the
company has produced all non-privileged documents that could
“reasonably relate” to Okada’s responsibilities as a director.
Were the judge to issue an order for Wynn to produce more
documents, the lawyers asked that she delay the order for 60
days because Okada may no longer be a director then.  Wynn called March 7 for a special shareholders meeting to
vote on ejecting Okada as a director following a Feb. 18
decision by the board that Okada and certain affiliates are
“unsuitable persons,” according to a company statement.  The shareholder vote is set to take place in late April or
early May, Wynn said in a court filing.  ‘Important’ Documents  Gidon Caine, a lawyer for Okada, said at yesterday’s
hearing that “important” documents from Wynn’s donation to the
University of Macau were still missing from the ones Wynn had
turned over, including ledgers of money spent on meals and
lodging for university officials.  Caine said he wanted those documents to make sure Wynn
hadn’t violated corruption laws.  The company last month redeemed Okada’s 24 million shares
for $1.9 billion. An investigation found that Okada appeared to
have paid $110,000 to gaming regulators in the  Philippines  in
violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws, Wynn said.  Macau’s gambling regulator said March 7 that it has started
probing Wynn’s allegations about Okada. The Chinese city’s
Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau didn’t disclose
details of the investigation.  VIP Gamblers  In a separate lawsuit filed Feb. 19, Wynn alleged that
Okada is developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila  and
that he seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China  in
direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau. Construction on
the Manila Bay casino resort started Jan. 26, Wynn said in its
complaint.  Okada’s interest in seeking access to Wynn’s books and
records was an attempt to divert attention away from his own
misconduct in the Philippines, Wynn said in the complaint.  Universal Entertainment said in a statement March 7, in
response to the planned shareholder vote to remove Okada, that
 Steve Wynn  and Wynn’s board of directors were subverting the
corporate governance process “to carry out the predetermined
judgment of Mr. Wynn.”  Silencing Dissent  “In attempting to unjustly remove Mr. Okada, Mr. Wynn is
exerting his control over the board to silence any dissent and
to divert attention from the questions surrounding the company’s
use of stockholder money,” Universal Entertainment said. “Mr.
Okada is committed to protecting his interests and intends to
take the appropriate actions to do so.”  Okada said in his Jan. 11 court petition for a ruling to
inspect Wynn’s books and records that he had objected to the May
2011 pledge to the University of Macau Development Foundation.
The pledge appeared to be unprecedented in the university’s
history and there had been no discussion about whether the gift
was an appropriate use of corporate funds, according to the
petition.  Wynn said Feb. 13 that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, following Okada’s lawsuit, asked the company to
preserve information related to the University of Macau donation
“in connection with an informal inquiry.”  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522,  Clark
County , Nevada, District Court ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  