-- Molycorp Agrees to Acquire Toronto-Based Neo Material for C$1.3 Billion
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-03-09T21:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/molycorp-agrees-to-acquire-toronto-based-neo-material-for-c-1-3-billion.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest
rare-earth deposit outside of China, agreed to buy Canada’s  Neo
Material Technologies Inc. (NEM)  for about C$1.3 billion ($1.3
billion) to increase Chinese sales and gain technology used to
make magnets.  Investors will get C$8.05 in cash and 0.122 of a Molycorp
share for each Neo share,  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based
Molycorp said in a statement yesterday. The offer is equal to
C$11.19 a share based on yesterday’s closing price, representing
a premium of 40 percent.  Molycorp, which held an initial public offering in 2010 to
fund the restart of a California rare-earth mine, will get
Toronto-based Neo’s processing factories. It also will obtain
Neo’s patented Magnequench range of metal powders used to make
neodymium-iron-boron magnets, which can be found in electronic
motors and sensors.  The deal “puts the upstream and the downstream together in
a very significant way,” Molycorp Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith  said in a telephone interview. “This acquisition allows
Molycorp to access 100 percent of the demand in the world now.”  Neo jumped 37 percent to close at C$10.94 in Toronto.
Molycorp rose 19 percent to $30.89 in New York.  Rare-earth prices soared in 2010 after China -- which
accounts for 95 percent of global supplies according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey  -- imposed a quota on exports. The 17
chemically similar metals are used in applications ranging from
catalysts for oil refining to radar systems and batteries.  Chinese Quotas  Molycorp’s stock rose more than fivefold before paring
gains in the past 10 months as rare-earth prices declined.  China 
will maintain the same export quotas this year after only 60
percent of 2011’s quotas were used, Commerce Minister  Chen
Deming  said March 7.  The takeover is subject to the approval of Neo investors
and is expected to close in the second or third quarter,
Molycorp said. Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG agreed
to finance most of the cash portion of the deal. Permanent
financing will come from long-term debt, cash from the combined
company, and potential stock offerings, Molycorp said.  The Neo deal also gives Molycorp production of gallium,
which is used in light-emitting diodes; rhenium, used in high-
temperature alloys; and indium, used in electronics.  ‘Fundamental Weakness’  “This deal addresses the fundamental weakness that our
company has: we are not in control of our raw materials,” Neo
CEO Constantine Karayannopoulos said in a telephone interview.
Smith will remain CEO of the enlarged company and Neo’s boss
will take the role of his “most senior manager,”
Karayannopoulos said.  Neo employs about 1,375 people in 19 locations across 10
countries, according to its  website . Neo received 74 percent of
its $337.6 million in revenue in 2010 from its Asia division,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Neo can do more business with Molycorp material than they
can begging for Chinese feedstock, so the transaction is
positive all around,” Jonathan Hykawy, an analyst at Byron
Capital Markets in Toronto, said in an e-mail. “What they both
lack is a strong, near-term and low-cost supplier of more heavy
rare earths.”  So-called heavy rare earths are the less abundant members
of the group of elements, such as dysprosium, used in  wind
turbines , and erbium, used in lasers.  Mine Restart  Lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium and neodymium -- so-called
light rare earths -- accounted for 60 percent of Molycorp’s
sales from its Mountain Pass mine in 2011.  Molycorp is expanding production at the mine. The company
said in February it started some operations at the rare-earth
manufacturing plant in Mountain Pass, which is scheduled to
produce at a rate of as much as 19,500 metric tons of rare-earth
oxides a year by Sept. 30. Molycorp plans to double capacity to
40,000 tons by the end of 2013.  Morgan Stanley advised Molycorp.  Jones Day  and McCarthy
Tetrault LLP were its legal counsel and Cutfield Freeman and Co.
was a strategic adviser. GMP Securities LP advised Neo and
Fogler, Rubinoff LLP and McDonald Hopkins LLC acted as its legal
counsel. Stikeman Elliott LLP was legal counsel to the special
committee of Neo’s board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  