-- Home Credit Plans Asian Expansion to Boost Growth
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-03-08T10:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/home-credit-plans-asian-expansion-to-boost-growth-correct-.html
Home Credit BV , the consumer lender
controlled by Czech billionaire  Petr Kellner , expects its
operation in  China  to surpass the current value of its business
in Russia in three years as it expands in Asia.  “We believe that our Chinese business over the next three
years can pass the current size of Russia in profitability,”
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Labak said in an interview in
the company’s Prague headquarters. “If you look at Home Credit
in five years it will be one-third Europe, two-thirds Asia.”  Home Credit, which is part of Kellner’s PPF financial
group, has been focusing on providing retail loans, cash loans
and deposit services in eastern Europe. In Russia it had a net
loan portfolio worth 2.7 billion euros ($3.56 billion) last year
which accounted for some 90 percent of its European loan
portfolio.  The company, which set up a corporate headquarters in  Hong
Kong , is looking to boost its operations in China and Vietnam.
It entered  India , established a base in  Indonesia  and plans to
set up an operation in the  Philippines  in 2013. In China, it
participated in a pilot project to offer consumer finance in
cities such as Tianjin, overseen by Chinese regulatory bodies.  “We’re profitable in China and we’re in talks with Chinese
regulatory bodies to further allow to offer consumer finance in
other regions,” Labak said. “There’s a clear desire on the
Chinese side to stimulate consumer demand.”  Chinese and other Asian markets are “sizable” with a
“huge” appetite for consumption, he said, adding the
complexities of working in  Asia  distinguish them from Europe.  Regional Diversity  Specifically, issues such as migration of workers every six
months in China, language barriers in different Indian regions
and a higher risk of fraud all make working in the Asian markets
different than in Europe, he said.  In China, Home Credit started to use a biometric system to
counter potential fraudsters, Labak said.  “We want to be a profitable and sizeable player in India
and Indonesia and find a comfortable position in Philippines,”
Labak said.  Home Credit BV 2011 net income declined to 231.3 million
euros from 234.2 million euros a year ago, the company said on
March 1. Net income for 2011 at its Russian unit increased 14.3
percent to 10.8 billion rubles ($366 million).  PPF is a Czech financial group with assets worth as much as
12.4 billion euros in banking, insurance, real estate, mining
and retail. It has operations in Eastern  Europe  and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  