-- Tang Vows to Tackle Wealth Gap in Bid to Revive Leadership Push
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/hong-kong-s-tang-says-all-scandals-out-in-public-ahead-of-leadership-vote.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive candidate
 Henry Tang  pledged to boost  government spending  to tackle a
widening wealth gap as he sought to reverse a slump in public
support ahead of this month’s election.  The former chief secretary said in an interview yesterday
he will expand public housing by a further 60 percent in five
years, spend HK$6 billion ($774 million) annually more on
schools, and create 100,000 jobs for the middle class should he
win election on March 25.  “The middle class has been squeezed,” said Tang, 59.
“Every government in the western world is reexamining its role
in the market place. I would say government can be more
proactive.”  The promises from Tang, who is backed by some of the city’s
richest men, are an attempt to address growing public anger over
surging property prices and a perception of collusion between
government and business that have brought thousands onto the
streets. Tang, who has been beset by personal scandals that have
eroded his popularity, is battling to revive his candidacy as he
trails his main rival by more than 30 percentage points.  “After all the effort he’s spent in highlighting his
experience in the past few weeks, we haven’t seen him winning
much public support,” said Cheung Chor-yung, a senior teaching
fellow in public administration at the  City University  of  Hong
Kong . “What he’s been saying about himself and his opponent
hasn’t been effective.”  Release More Land  Tang said he would release more land for building to bring
down  home prices  that have tripled in the past decade while the
median monthly  household income  has remained almost unchanged at
HK$20,000, according to government data. He said he planned to
build 40,000 public rental housing units in five years, on top
of 75,000 already allocated.  “Hong Kong people need more housing and I will give them
more housing without destroying property value,” he said.  With Hong Kong’s currency pegged to the dollar and the city
taking its lead from the U.S. Federal Reserve on monetary
policy, Tang said there were limited tools to fight  inflation ,
which averaged 5.3 percent last year and has hurt the poor. He
said the dollar peg had provided “stability” and the chance of
Hong Kong linking its dollar to a non-convertible currency like
the yuan was “minimal.”  Campaign Undermined  Tang’s campaign has been undermined by admissions of his
affairs, including an allegation that he fathered a child out of
wedlock. He trails Leung Chun-ying, a former government adviser,
in opinion polls.  The margin between Leung and Tang widened after Tang said
he knew about a basement built without planning permission at a
property owned by his wife. Tang said last month he was aware
the structure was illegal, and refrained from intervening
because of marital issues at the time. In October, he confirmed
having an affair and said his wife had forgiven him.  The son of a textile magnate, he has the most nominations
from the 1,200-member election committee that will choose Hong
Kong’s next leader.  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man,  Thomas
Kwok  and  Raymond Kwok  of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , and
Henderson Land Development Co. Chairman Lee Shau-kee are among
billionaires on the election committee who supported Tang’s
nomination.  While China’s government has refrained from publicly
supporting one of the candidates, local newspapers have said
Tang was initially Beijing’s pick, while Leung is also
acceptable. Leung had 51.2 percent support against 17.7 percent
for Tang in a public opinion poll conducted by the University of
Hong Kong on Feb. 27-28. Lawmaker Albert Ho had 13.3 percent.  ‘Enjoys Support’  “I haven’t been up to Beijing since I started my campaign
in October,” Tang said. “I didn’t want to give anyone the
perception that I’m going up to Beijing because I want their
support. But that’s not to say I’m not enjoying their
confidence.”  Asked whether he would step aside before the vote if he was
still trailing in the polls, Tang said he was the “only person
who can build that consensus that will give us universal
suffrage in 2017.” The central government in Beijing has
pledged to introduce full voting in Hong Kong in five years.  Tang said he expected the city’s residents to take to the
streets in a “major march on July 1,” regardless of who gets
elected. That date marks the 15th anniversary of the resumption
of Chinese sovereignty over Hong Kong as well as a 2003 rally
when 500,000 people protested against the city’s anti-subversion
law, ultimately leading to the resignation of then Chief
Executive Tung Chee-hwa.  Street Protests  Thousands demonstrated last week to demand the resignation
of current Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  after it emerged he had
taken overseas trips on the planes and yachts of his tycoon
friends. Tsang apologized for undermining public confidence and
pledged to cooperate with a probe by Hong Kong’s anti-graft
agency, while denying any wrongdoing.  The scandals surrounding Tsang and Tang threaten to erode
Hong Kong’s reputation for rule of law and corruption-free
administration, attributes that have distinguished the city of
7.1 million from mainland  China  and helped underpin its role as
a business and financial gateway to the world’s most populous
nation.  Tang said he wasn’t concerned that under his watch
 Singapore , which competes with Hong Kong for financial talent,
had outstripped his city’s economy. He said he didn’t “envy”
Singapore’s decision to allow gambling which had created a lot
of jobs.  ‘Gambling Business’  “Truly international financial centers do not engage in
gambling business because these two businesses are very
different in nature and it creates a different psyche in the
city,” he said. “ New York  is a major financial center and they
go to  Atlantic City  if they want entertainment.”  Tang portrayed Leung as a “risky” choice, arguing he
lacked experience and had supported a policy to expand public
housing just as the Asian financial crisis hit the region in
1997-1998. Property prices in the city fell more than 60 percent
between 1997 and 2003.  Leung, who was a government adviser to Tung then, has
promised to speed the construction of public housing and
alleviate poverty by spending more on education.  Leung had no immediate response to Tang’s remarks, his
spokeswoman Mazy Lee said.  Property developer Vincent Lo, who is backing Leung, said
it was “unreasonable and unfair” to blame him for the housing
policy as he was a government adviser at the time, not a policy
maker.  “Recently, Henry Tang has had so many scandals,” said Lo,
the chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  “These are matters he himself
will have to face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  