-- Longines Says China Demand for Mid-Range Watches Is Still Strong
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-03-08T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/longines-says-china-demand-for-mid-range-watches-is-still-strong.html
Longines,  the 180-year-old watch
brand owned by  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG, sees no sign of a slowdown in
the greater China region.  The watchmaker, which has been selling timepieces in China
since 1867, had a “tremendous” start to the year and saw sales
grow at a “two-digit” pace, President Walter von Kaenel said
in an interview at the Baselworld watch fair in  Switzerland .  “We are the No. 1 worldwide” for watches that retail for
1,000 Swiss francs ($1,100) to 4,000 francs, von Kaenel said.
“I have no signals whatsoever” that demand in that price
bracket is easing in the region.  Swatch Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said March 1 that
demand in the “very, very high” segment of the market in  China 
was slowing.  Asia  accounted for more than half of Switzerland’s
2011 watch exports, which climbed 19 percent to a record 19.3
billion francs as rising wealth fueled demand for luxury
products. Longines gets more than 50 percent of its revenue from
greater China, according to von Kaenel.  The brand, which uses movements, or a watch’s internal
mechanism, supplied by Swatch’s ETA unit, is benefiting from
growth in the market because of its classic designs and because
of the brand’s price range, he said.  Affordable Prices  “It’s a very affordable price for the Chinese,” von
Kaenel said, adding that sizes and designs are adapted to the
market. Demand increases in China have eased to 15 percent to 20
percent at the higher-priced end of the market from as much as
70 percent previously, according to Hayek.  Longines, which produces more than 1 million timepieces
each year, expects to gain overall market share after a strong
start to the year, while revenue is set to exceed 1 billion
francs in 2012, von Kaenel said.  “The name of the game in 2011 was market share and we
reached this target,” he said without providing details. It’s
still “open” whether the brand will raise prices this year to
offset higher costs for precious metals used in watches.  Longines, one of the world’s earliest makers of wrist
watches, invented the first timepiece to be wound with a crown
rather than a key, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  