-- Moore Nails Palin’s Nitwit Charm in ‘Game Change’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-08T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/moore-nails-palin-s-nit-wit-charm-in-game-change-greg-evans.html
Early in  HBO ’s political docudrama
“Game Change,” a note-taking Sarah Palin, running for vice
president of the  United States , gets a crash course in
geopolitics.  “This,” explains a heroically patient foreign policy
expert with a map, “is  Germany .”  To say Julianne Moore’s steely, thoughtlessly ambitious
Palin is in over her head would be like saying the 2008
presidential race was a tad divisive. (And apparently remains
so: Randy Scheunemann, Palin’s loyal foreign policy adviser,
told reporters last week that “to call this movie fiction gives
fiction a bad name.” HBO released a statement standing by the
movie.)  Based on portions of the best-selling nonfiction book
“Game Change” by Mark Halperin and John Heilemann, the TV-
movie takes a rollicking approach to Republican candidate John McCain’s choice of Palin as his running mate.  The political theater makes for a breezy two hours, though
it certainly won’t tickle fans of the lipsticked pit bull. The
former governor of  Alaska , as viewed through the eyes of McCain
strategist Steve Schmidt (Woody Harrelson), is a political
blunder of epic proportions, a self-serving know-nothing who
provides U.S. history with one of its scariest what-ifs.  ‘OMG!’  “Oh my God,” says Schmidt, watching Palin crumble under
 Katie Couric ’s softball questions. “What have we done?”  Director Jay Roach and screenwriter Danny Strong begin the
story in August 2007, when McCain (a benign Ed Harris) recruits
strategist Schmidt to rescue his faltering campaign. Among the
first tasks is finding a suitable running mate.  McCain wants right-leaning Democrat  Joe Lieberman . “We’re
both mavericks within our own parties,” he says, in one of the
script’s painfully on-the-nose bits of dialogue.  Palin -- chosen by McCain adviser Rick Davis (Peter MacNicol) after a  Google search  -- is championed by Schmidt, who
sees the camera-ready governor as just the game changer McCain
needs.  A rudimentary vetting fails to unearth even the minor
controversies of Palin’s past, and the rising star’s lack of
qualifications threatens McCain’s campaign and hard-won
reputation.  “Governor, do you know what the Fed is?,” the
increasingly panicked Schmidt asks during a prep session. Her
blank stare says it all. When  Tina Fey  gets through with her,
Palin is a national joke.  Frightening Prospect  As drama, “Game Change” feels lower-stakes than Roach and
Strong’s previous HBO effort, “Recount,” which applied a
similarly dishy, arch tone to 2000’s Bush-Gore Florida battle.
The frightening prospect of an ill-informed Palin being a
heartbeat from the presidency is tempered by history: We know
how this turns out.  Moore, perfectly coifed and costumed, nails the Palin voice
and mannerisms, and captures the charm (especially in
interactions with special-needs kids) and the snark (“Thank you
for cuttin’ the mullet, Levi.”) Her Palin is convincing, from
initial arrogance to the near-catatonic fear that has her going
rogue out of desperate self-preservation.  The candidate’s family life isn’t addressed much; husband
Todd is barely here, and Bristol mostly mopes and cries.  A strong Harrelson -- supported by Sarah Paulson as Palin-
handler Nicolle Wallace -- gives “Game Change” the backbone
its  John McCain  sorely lacks. Harris’ McCain comes off as a
kindly, distracted grandpa done in by his own negligence,
without a hint of the real warrior’s temper or fire.  Perhaps the filmmakers were hoping to offset inevitable
charges of partisanship by going soft on McCain -- a fool’s
errand, of course -- but they’ve done the Republican senator
from  Arizona  no favors. This Mr. Nice Guy seems only slightly
more suitable for the world stage than Palin, and far less
capable of holding our interest.  “Game Change” airs on HBO Saturday at 9 p.m.  New York 
time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 