-- Morgan Stanley’s Walker Said to Be Mentioned in Madam Case
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-08T15:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/morgan-stanley-s-walker-said-to-be-mentioned-in-ny-brothel-case.html
The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  employee who
prosecutors said was with a New York woman during her arrest
last month for running a brothel is David Spencer Walker,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  Anna Gristina, a Scot and British citizen who’s a legal
permanent resident of the U.S., was with “a Morgan Stanley
banker who she counts as a close friend” when arrested, said
Assistant District Attorney Charles Linehan, according to a
transcript of the court proceedings on Feb. 23, a day after she
was arrested in Midtown  Manhattan .  Gristina was at Walker’s office “for a meeting in which
she was trying to solicit money to fund what we believe is
another illicit business venture on the Internet that involves
matching up male clients with female prostitutes,” said
Linehan, a member of the district attorney’s official corruption
unit.  Gristina “knowingly advanced and profited from
prostitution by managing, supervising, controlling and owning,
either alone or in association with others, a prostitution
business,” according to the indictment, filed in  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York.  Prosecutors haven’t accused Walker of wrongdoing or
identified him publicly. He works for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, the firm’s retail brokerage, said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because Walker wasn’t named in the case.
Fox Business Network reported his name yesterday.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr., declined to confirm the identity of the Morgan
Stanley employee or say whether that person is being
investigated.  Joint Venture  Walker has been registered with Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority firms since 1988, and worked at  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley from 1999 to 2005. He moved to  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  before the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture
between the two companies was formed in 2009, bringing him back
to Morgan Stanley, according to Finra records.  “We’re investigating this matter,” said  Jim Wiggins , a
spokesman for Morgan Stanley. “At this point, no individual at
Morgan Stanley has been charged with any crime.”  Walker has been placed on administrative leave during the
investigation, Wiggins said. Walker said he wasn’t present
during Gristina’s arrest and never did business with her,
according to the website DNAinfo.com, citing an  interview  with
the broker.  Online Dating  Peter Gleason, a lawyer for Gristina, said the business
venture mentioned by Linehan was a proposed online dating
service meant to rival Match.com, the  New York  Times reported.  Walker didn’t return phone calls left at his home and
office yesterday, and Gleason didn’t return a call to his
office.  The investigation resulted in “at least one eyewitness
account” of a sexual encounter arranged by Gristina in which
minors were involved, Linehan told New York Supreme Court
Justice Juan M. Merchan, according to the transcript.  The indictment blanks out the name of a second defendant.
Gristina, a mother of four, has business contacts worldwide,
made millions of dollars and counts “many” affluent people as
friends and clients, according to the transcript.  The case is People v. Anna Gristina, 751/12,  New York
Supreme Court (338265L)  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  