-- Morrison Plans More Convenience Stores After Profit Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-08T09:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/morrison-plans-more-convenience-stores-after-profit-gains-1-.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) ,
the smallest of the U.K.’s four main grocers, reported an 8
percent gain in full-year profit and said it plans to open more
convenience stores and expand a revamped fresh food concept.  Underlying pretax profit rose to 935 million pounds ($1.47
billion) in the fiscal year ended Jan. 29, the Bradford,
England-based company said in a  statement  today. The average
estimate of 21 analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of
922 million pounds. William Morrison raised its dividend 11
percent to 10.7 pence.  The grocer said it will open as many as 20 M Local
convenience stores this year and 50 next year along with its new
fresh-food layout, which includes food counters, flowers and 350
more fruit and vegetable items. A focus on matching competitors’
prices, coupon offers and its Fuel Britannia promotions have
helped sales this year.  “Morrisons’s finals look strong,” and its growth
initiatives are “taking shape,” according to Jefferies
International analyst  James Grzinic , who has a “buy” rating.  Morrison rose as much as 3.7 percent in early  London 
trading. The stock was 2.8 percent higher at 292.80 pence at
9:15 a.m., paring this year’s decline to 10 percent.  Fresh Labs  The retailer spent a year testing three convenience outlets
and so-called “fresh labs” in supermarkets across northern
 England .  “We know that 2012 will be tough,” Chief Executive
Officer Dalton Philips said in the statement.  The company increased its budget for this year’s capital
expenditure to 1.2 billion pounds from 1 billion pounds, Finance
Director Richard Pennycook said. William Morrison plans to
expand online and convenience spending by 100 million pounds and
it’s carrying over another 100 million pounds it underspent last
year. The “majority of the spending will be on new stores,” he
added.  The fresh food concept, which includes in-store pizza
preparation, seafood counters and more space dedicated to fresh
produce, will be available in 15 percent of stores by the end of
the first half, the CEO said, estimating the cost of converting
each store at an average of about 1.7 million pounds.  ‘Totally Different’  Philips said he is confident with its new format even as
larger competitor Tesco Plc promises to invest hundreds of
millions of pounds in 20,000 new employees, improved service and
fresh food.  “The key thing is the fresh format,” Philips said.
“These do fresh in a totally different way. We’re taking that
further with these new stores.”  The grocer wouldn’t rule out adding to its three
convenience outlets via acquisitions.  “This is a fragmented market and there’s nearly 50,000
 convenience stores  out there and mainly in independent hands,
and we’re doing something very different,” the CEO said.
“We’ve got 40 percent more space dedicated to fresh than you
see elsewhere in the market and what we’re saying is convenience
doesn’t have to be compromised.”  Non-food categories at Morrisons.com will be introduced in
the fourth-quarter, though an  online  grocery offer is still
being studied. The grocer will give a further update toward the
end of the current financial year, Pennycook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  