-- Los Angeles Gasoline Weakens for Third Day on Rising Inventories
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-08T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/los-angeles-gasoline-weakens-for-third-day-on-rising-inventories.html
California-blend gasoline in Los
Angeles fell for the third day on rising inventories and after
 Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  said its  California  refineries will return
to service in the second quarter of this year.  California gasoline inventories rose for the first time in
three weeks, by 976,000 barrels to 7.98 million, for the week
ended March 2, the state Energy Commission said yesterday.
Dallas-based Alon will start refineries in California in the
second quarter after a shutdown in December on weak margins,
according to a company statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  dropped 3 cents to a premium of 17.5
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The same fuel in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  fell 2.5 cents to a 14.5-cent
premium against futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day  Golden Eagle (TEMTCRUD)  refinery
near Martinez, California, lost power yesterday at 8:50 p.m.
local time, Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters, said in an e-mail today.  “The cause of the power loss remains under
investigation,” Barbee said. “There were no injuries resulting
from the release, no impacts to wildlife or the environment, and
no impacts upon Tesoro’s ability to meet its regional product
supply commitments.”  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  was
unchanged at a 20-cent premium against Nymex heating oil
futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  fell 3 cents to a
premium of 15 cents versus heating oil futures.  Jet fuel  in  Los Angeles  slipped from a nine-month high, by
1 cent to a premium of 15 cents against Nymex heating oil
futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a 13.5 cents a gallon against gasoline futures.  Gasoline supplies  on the U.S. West Coast rose 1.8 percent
to 31.2 million barrels in the week ended March 2, the Energy
Department said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  