-- Osborne Should Consider Stimulus as Euro Crisis Threatens Growth, PwC Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/osborne-should-consider-stimulus-as-euro-crisis-threatens-growth-pwc-says.html
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said the
U.K. economy faces “significant” growth risks and that
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has room to provide a
boost to the economy in his budget this month.  Gross domestic product will expand 0.6 percent this year,
the London-based consultant company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Exports, the Olympics and slowing inflation
will support the recovery in the second half and growth will
accelerate to 1.8 percent next year.  The government will probably undershoot its borrowing
projections by 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) in the current
fiscal year, putting it on track to eliminate the deficit by
2017, PwC said. Osborne, who will present his budget on March
21, should consider “carefully targeted fiscal stimulus” with
measures such as  capital spending . The  economy  contracted 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter.  “Risks around growth in our projections are significant at
present given ongoing challenges in the euro zone,” John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC, said in the statement. “We
recommend that businesses stress test their plans and valuations
against an alternative ‘double-dip recession’ scenario.”  Any new spending to support the economy should be “offset
by more tightening later as and when the recovery is stronger,”
PwC said. The government should also consider “supply-side”
measures such as reforming tax and easing regulation, while
focusing  government spending  on areas that provide “long-term”
benefit such as infrastructure and education.  ‘Limited Room’  Andrew Sentance , senior economic adviser to PwC and a
former  Bank of England  policy maker, said that while Osborne has
“limited room for maneuver,” he should present medium-term
measures to lower personal and other tax rates. Reforms should
“take over from the emphasis on demand stimulus we have seen
since the financial crisis,” he said in the statement.  Government figures last month showed that the  deficit  in
the first 10 months of the fiscal year was 93.5 billion pounds,
compared with 109.1 billion pounds a year earlier. Osborne said
this week he won’t allow “unfunded giveaways” in his budget.  In a separate report today, VocaLink Ltd. said annual U.K.
wage growth slowed to 1.8 percent in the three months through
February from 2 percent in the period through January,
reflecting “ongoing weak economic conditions.” The company
processes 90 percent of British salaries paid directly to bank
accounts, and uses salary-payment data from more than 200
members of the FTSE 350 Index and more than 600 government-
related organizations for its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  