-- Hospital Mergers May Enhance Debt Ratings by Reducing Risk, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/hospital-mergers-may-enhance-debt-ratings-by-reducing-risk-moody-s-says.html
A wave of hospital mergers, driven
partly by the slow economic recovery, reduces financial risks
for many institutions and may boost credit ratings in the $3.7
trillion municipal  bond market , Moody’s Investors Service said.  Reimbursement pressures and rising costs coupled with the
prospect of “healthcare reform and an unsustainable payment
system” have driven not-for-profit hospitals to look for
partnerships, Moody’s said in a report released today. They are
choosing to consolidate with other health-care systems to boost
their market presence and strengthen balance sheets, analysts
led by Lisa Goldstein said in the report.  “Consolidation offers the promise of greater operating
efficiency and risk diversification across larger organizations,
likely leading to stronger and more stable bond ratings for
affected hospitals,” Goldstein said in the report.  Smaller stand-alone hospitals that don’t merge with other
institutions may have difficulty matching the operating
performance and market access of larger multi-hospital systems
and ”will face greater negative rating pressure going
forward,” according to the report.  Medicare reductions included in the Balanced Budget Act of
1997 drove hospital consolidations in the 1990s, the analysts
said in the report. This year, continuing Medicare spending cuts
along with changes in reimbursement formulas by insurers are
putting pressure on providers, spurring a new round of mergers.  At the same time, the recovery from the longest recession
since the 1930s, “spiraling” health-care costs and riskier
debt structures have fueled moves toward consolidation,
according to the report. It listed other drivers including
increased regulatory expenses and underfunded pension plans.  “Largely absent in the last consolidation wave,
significant pension liabilities for hospitals with defined
benefit plans is a new issue in consolidation discussions,” the
analysts said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  