-- Mountain Cleantech Shifts to Consumer-Goods Resale on Solar Cuts
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-08T17:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/mountain-cleantech-shifts-to-consumer-goods-resale-on-solar-cuts.html
Mountain Cleantech AG, a Swiss
 investment company , bought shares in a German business that buys
and sells used  consumer goods , shifting its investments away
from renewable technologies that are tied to state support.  The investment in Rebuy Recommerce GmbH, based in Berlin,
was the first from the Mountain Cleantech Fund II, Juergen
Habichler, founder and managing partner of Mountain Cleantech,
said today by phone. The investment was less than 5 million
euros ($6.6 million), he said, declining to give more details.  The fund is shifting its investments away from wind and
solar projects as governments including the U.K.,  Germany  and
 Spain  cut subsidies for renewable projects. Germany plans to
curb aid to the solar industry by as much as 29 percent and
further scale back support each month from May. Mountain
Cleantech sold its shares in solar waste recycler SiC Processing
AG in 2010.  “We will limit the exposure to sectors where governments
and subsidies play an important role in their development,”
Habichler said. “If there is a cut in subsidies like in
Germany, then 50 percent of the companies go out of business.”  European Union law  promotes the reuse of electronic goods
as the 27-nation bloc seeks to limit the environmental impact of
making and disposing of equipment. Rebuy allows customers to
sell unwanted electronic goods to the company at a fixed price.
It checks their quality and sells on with a one-year guarantee.  “If you can double the lifetime of a computer, laptop, a
mobile phone or any kind of electronic gadget, you help protect
the environment,” Habichler said from Zurich, where the company
is based. He bought an iPad 2 from Rebuy for 25 percent less
than its retail price including a one-year warranty, he said.  His fund targets raising about 100 million euros by year-
end for  energy efficiency , recycling, “green IT” such as Rebuy
and advanced materials. Habichler plans two more investments
this year in buildings efficiency and recycling and seeks to
deliver returns of 15 to 20 percent to investors.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  