-- Household Worth in U.S Increases as Stock Prices Rebound
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-08T17:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/household-worth-in-u-s-rises-for-first-time-in-three-quarters.html
Household wealth in the U.S. climbed
from October through December for the first time in three
quarters as an increase in stock prices outstripped a decline in
home values.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups increased by
$1.19 trillion in the fourth quarter, or 2.1 percent from the
previous three months, to $58.5 trillion, the  Federal Reserve 
said today in its flow of funds report from  Washington . Housing
wealth decreased by the most in more than a year.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX) , which rose 11 percent in
the final three months of 2011, is again climbing this year as
the improving job market builds confidence in the expansion. At
the same time, the gain in wealth last quarter was less than
half the previous period’s slump, indicating households may
continue to repair balance sheets hurt by the recession.  “Consumers are generally repairing their balance sheets,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The performance of the
stock market has been a crutch for households.  Consumer spending 
is constrained by the need to pay down debt.”  Since reaching a five-year low of $50.5 trillion in the
first quarter of 2009, net worth has improved by $8 trillion.
That still leaves it $8.4 trillion below the record high of
$66.8 trillion reached in the quarter ended June 2007, six
months before the recession began.  Real-Estate Wealth  The value of household real estate fell by $367.4 billion
in the last three months of 2011, the first decrease in three
quarters.  Owners’ equity as a share of total household real-estate
holdings dropped to 38.4 percent last quarter from 38.9 percent.  The S&P/Case-Shiller national index of  home prices 
decreased 4 percent in the fourth quarter from the same time in
2010, according to figures released Feb. 28. The gauge fell 3.8
percent from the prior three months before seasonal adjustment,
and fell 1.7 percent after taking those changes into account.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households increased by $1.46
trillion in the fourth quarter, according to today’s flow of
funds data.  The  S&P 500  has  risen  7.6 percent this year through
yesterday amid better-than-estimated economic data and
expectations  Europe  would tame its debt crisis.  Household Debt  Household debt  rose at a 0.3 percent annual rate last
quarter, the first increase in more than three years, today’s
report showed. Mortgage borrowing decreased at a 1.5 percent
pace, the 11th consecutive drop. Other forms of  consumer credit ,
including auto and student loans, climbed at a 6.9 percent pace,
the biggest gain in at least seven years.  The labor market may help to repair household finances.
Payrolls rose by 210,000 in February and the jobless rate held
at 8.3 percent, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department report
tomorrow.  Company balance sheets are faring better than households,
today’s report showed. Businesses had a record $2.23 trillion in
cash and other liquid assets at the end of the fourth quarter,
up from $2.12 trillion in the prior three months.  Total non-financial debt climbed at a 4.9 percent annual
pace last quarter, led by a 13 percent increase by the federal
government and a 4.6 percent gain among businesses. State and
local  government borrowing  dropped at a 1 percent pace.  To contact the report on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  