-- How Many Politicians Does It Take to Avoid Cutting the Budget
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-08T22:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/how-many-politicians-does-it-take-to-avoid-cutting-the-budget.html
Every budget season, members of
Congress say this is the year they’ll make tough choices about
government  spending . Federal programs must be paid for and not
just piled onto the  deficit , they insist.  Tell that to Wyoming Republican Senator Mike Enzi, who
wants to add half a cent to the 18.4-cent federal tax on a
gallon of gas to help keep the Highway Trust Fund from going
bust as soon as October. His colleagues scorn the proposal,
though, because it would be branded a tax increase.  If Enzi’s measure passed, you probably wouldn’t feel it at
the pump, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 12 issue.
 Gas prices  can fluctuate a lot more than that in a given week.
But you most certainly will feel it driving on crumbling roads
if there isn’t enough money to fix them.  Enzi has gotten nowhere with this argument. When the Senate
Finance Committee took up a highway funding bill last month, he
didn’t even put it to a vote.  “It would have been 23-1,” Enzi says. “If you’re going
to raise a tax —- nobody’s really had much practice with that.”  Cities and states are often required to have balanced
budgets. The federal government has no such strictures, and
Enzi’s half-penny frustration tells the larger, costlier story
of how dysfunctional the budget has become. Senate Democrats
have already said they won’t introduce a new budget proposal
this year, which means Congress will go a third consecutive year
without a fiscal blueprint.  Debating Point  House Republicans  will push ahead this month with their own
plan, though it will amount to little more than a debating point
in the coming campaign. Even  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin Republican
who chairs the Budget Committee, conceded, “We basically don’t
have a budgeting process.”  At the end of this year the Bush-era tax cuts will expire,
$1 trillion in automatic spending cuts will begin taking effect
soon after, and the government again will scrape the debt
ceiling. And still congressional leaders are punting on the
tough choices they keep saying they have to make.  When Congress finally agreed to extend the payroll tax
break for the rest of this year, it didn’t bother trying to find
the $90 billion in savings needed to defray the cost but simply
tacked it onto the deficit.  “The participants said, ‘We’ve come to an agreement —-
we’re going to have another helping of dessert,’” said former
Congressional Budget Office Director  Robert Reischauer .  Medicare, Social Security  President Barack Obama shares in the blame. His budget
proposal largely ignores the biggest drivers of future deficits,
Medicare and  Social Security (SWELFZ) . One consequence of this approach:
a Medicare program estimated to cost $1 trillion annually by
2022.  It’s little wonder that year after year Congress and the
White House sidestep big, difficult challenges when they don’t
have the will to take on far easier problems. Last year the
Government Accountability Office found hundreds of redundant
government programs costing taxpayers tens of billions of
dollars.  There are 80 federal economic development programs and 15
agencies in charge of administering food-related laws. Yet
Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who has tried to
close some programs and combine others, has found few senators
willing to join the cause.  “They give it lip service and then don’t do anything,” he
said. “There’s no good reason to have 47 job training programs.
We’re stealing from our children every day.” Coburn said it
should be a cinch to pass obvious cuts like these, “except we
have no leadership to get that done.”  U.S. Postal Service  It’s no secret that the U.S.  Postal Service  faces
insolvency unless it can be made less expensive to run. Yet
lawmakers have fought requests from Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe to cut Saturday delivery and close some post offices --
80 percent of which lose money —- for fear of angering
constituents.  Representative  Dennis Ross , a Florida Republican, sponsored
a bill that would largely take the decision out of Congress’s
hands, creating a process like the one used to decide which
military bases to shutter. Since October the measure has
languished as he tries to scrounge up enough votes to get it
passed. Ross said he doesn’t like the idea of closing post
offices.  “But the fact remains if it’s costing money, and the money
isn’t there because postal rates have declined dramatically,
something has to be done,” he said. “I think it would instill
some sense of confidence in the American public that we can
solve an issue.”  User-Pays Principle  Enzi, meanwhile, held out hope that eventually he’ll
persuade his colleagues to back his gas tax. History is on his
side, he said. Since the Eisenhower administration, there has
been bipartisan acceptance that drivers should pay for roads
through the gas tax.  Instead, Republicans and Democrats have come up with a
series of convoluted proposals to pay for the bill. Republicans
want to use royalties the government receives from private
drilling on federal land, including the now off-limits Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge.  One Democratic fix would change the way corporations
calculate how much they must sock away each year for their
employees’ pensions. Democrats want to ease those requirements
because it would reduce the tax breaks companies claim for those
contributions, which would generate more revenue, which they say
could be used to pay for the highway bill.  Enzi is urging colleagues to keep things simple and stick
with the user-pays principle. He noted the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and Obama’s deficit commission have endorsed much
bigger increases in the tax, as much as 15¢ per gallon.  “It takes time to sell things around here,” he said. “If
you talk about something reasonable, they’ll listen. If it
sounds radical, they won’t. So I’m starting out reasonable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  