-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate for Tenth Month Amid Government Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-09T13:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/peru-keeps-rate-at-4-25-percent-as-stimulus-counters-slowdown.html
Peru ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged yesterday for a 10th month as
the government steps up spending to counter Europe’s debt crisis
and anti-mining protests slow investment in the third-largest
copper-producing nation.  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching
the forecasts of all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Some leading and coincident activity indicators show
growth is moderating,” the central bank said in a statement
posted on its website. “On the other hand, the trend in global
economic indicators has been somewhat better than expected.”  South America ’s sixth-largest economy expanded 5.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, the slowest annual pace in two years, as
demand for its metal and manufacturing exports waned in  Europe 
and the U.S. Increased infrastructure spending under the
government’s $3.5 billion stimulus package will help stave off a
rate cut while inflation remains above-target, said  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse AG.  “The central bank won’t be willing to cut unless they see
a huge deterioration in one of the economic indicators,” Sandy
said in a phone interview from  New York . “They don’t know
enough yet to change their stance.”  Growth, Convergence  After last month’s policy meeting the bank’s statement
pointed to signs domestic growth continued to ease in January.  Peru’s annual inflation rate will slow to 2 percent this
year, after reaching a two year-high of 4.74 percent in
December, the central bank said in the Feb. 9 communiqué.  Consumer prices rose 0.32 percent in February, the fastest
in three months, as vegetable prices climbed after flooding
damaged crops and blocked roads, the statistics agency said
March 1. The annual rate fell to 4.17 percent from 4.23 percent
in January.  “Although increases are being observed in international
fuel prices, the annual inflation rate is expected to converge
to the target range around the middle of this year,” policy
makers said yesterday.  A slowdown in private investment offset rising household
demand and a pick-up in government outlays in the fourth
quarter, the central bank said in a Feb. 24 report.  Investor concern that anti-mining protests in Peru will
spread after demonstrations stalled  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s gold
project is holding back private investment, Sandy said.  Minas Conga  Newmont halted construction work in November at its Minas
Conga project in the northern Andes following protests by local
communities concerned the gold mine will deplete water supplies.  Political opposition to the $4.8 billion project is being
led by the head of the regional government, Gregorio Santos, who
plans further protests while government-appointed consultants
carry out a 40-day environmental review of what would be Peru’s
biggest ever investment.  The outlook for investment will deteriorate if work on
Conga doesn’t resume, Moody’s Investors Service said in a March
5 report.  The  mining industry  will account for more than half the $34
billion of private investment expected in Peru this year and
next, according to the central bank.  Slower annual inflation raises the possibility of a cut in
the benchmark rate or reserve requirements in the first half of
this year to prop up demand, said  Roberto Flores , head of
research at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based brokerage.  Energy, Food  Any easing in food costs in the second quarter will likely
be offset by rising crude  oil prices , limiting the central
bank’s room to maneuver, according to  Enrique Alvarez , head of
fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal.  The Peruvian sol has gained 1 percent  versus the dollar
this year while the yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent
sol-denominated bond due August 2020 has fallen 30 basis points,
or 0.30 percentage point, to 5.45 percent on optimism European
policy makers have contained the region’s debt crisis and as the
outlook for U.S. growth improves.  Peruvian growth will probably accelerate on rising fiscal
spending, a likely rebound in private investment and a pick-up
in global demand, raising the prospect of rate increases in the
second half of this year, said Nader Nazmi, senior Latin America
economist at BNP Paribas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  