-- PGE Power Utility Falls to Three-Month Low on Earnings Revision
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-03-08T15:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/pge-power-utility-falls-to-three-month-low-on-earnings-revision.html
PGE SA (PGE)  tumbled to the lowest in more
than three months as  Poland ’s largest utility said it will
revise 2011 earnings after a Warsaw court ruled yesterday to
curb compensation for the cancellation of power contracts.  The shares lost as much as 2.9 percent to 18.82 zloty, the
lowest since Nov. 15, and traded 1.7 percent lower at 19.05
zloty at 4:32 p.m. in Warsaw. PGE will revise down by 1 billion
zloty ($322 million) the compensation it had estimated from the
termination of so-called long-term contracts for electricity
sales in 2008 to 2010, the company said in a statement.  “The figure is surprisingly high, and no wonder we saw
this sharp decline in the share price,”  Pawel Puchalski , an
analyst at  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , said by phone from Warsaw.
“The revision won’t have an influence on the company’s cash.”  PGE’s fourth-quarter net income, seen at 2.56 billion zloty
on average by five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, will probably
be lower by about 800 million zloty, Puchalski said.  The Warsaw-based utility, which reported a net income of
3.06 billion zloty for nine months ended Sept. 30, has said it
would publish fourth-quarter earnings on March 20.  PGE and other Polish electricity generators receive
quarterly payments from the government to compensate them for
losses caused by the cancellation of long-term contracts that
were banned by the European Commission as illegal state aid.  PGE is fighting in court with the energy regulator over the
amount it is supposed to receive for the cancellation. The court
ruled in favor of the watchdog’s appeal in one of the cases
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  