-- Picasso $79 Million ‘Dove’ Would Be Waste: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/picasso-s-79-million-dove-would-be-waste-of-u-k-money-martin-gayford.html
The disclosure that Picasso’s
“Child With a Dove” is to go on sale is good news for the
National Galleries of London and Edinburgh.  It’s welcome because this information, coming so soon after
the announcement of the purchase of Titian’s “Diana and
Callisto” last week, confirms what a great bargain that was.  The Titian was bought for 45 million pounds ($71 million),
and the Picasso is being privately sold with an estimated price,
according to  Arts Council England , of 50 million pounds ($79
million). This sum, were it reached, would make the Picasso
worth about 10 percent more than the Titian. That would be
absurd.  “Child With a Dove” is owned by the aristocratic
Aberconway family of  Wales , and has been on loan to London
public galleries for more than 30 years. There may well be calls
to save it for the nation. They should be resisted.  Often, the art market delivers fairly accurate verdicts on
relative value. After all, there’s no other more objective
measure. Still, there’s no comparison between the two works.
“Diana and Callisto” is among the undisputed masterpieces of
one of the greatest painters of the Italian Renaissance. It
represents a significant chunk of European cultural heritage.  In contrast, “Child With a Dove” is a relatively minor
work painted in 1901 when the artist was just 19. It’s a well-
known picture because it has often been reproduced and has been
loaned to the  National Gallery  and the  Courtauld Gallery , but
it’s not by any measure an important Picasso. Indeed, it would
be hard to argue that it’s even a major early Picasso.  Limits of Taste  John Richardson , in his massive and magnificent biography
of the artist, three volumes published to date, accords the
picture part of one sentence. It’s significant, in U.K. terms,
because it was the only Picasso owned by the collector Samuel
Courtauld (1876-1947). That fact, however, really only
demonstrates the limitations of the taste of Courtauld and other
British connoisseurs of the first part of the 20th century.  Discerning though he was when it came to Impressionist and
Post-Impressionist art, Courtauld couldn’t accept the more
explosively innovatory Picasso of the Cubist and later phases.
He contented himself with this slightly mawkish work, revealing
the artist’s occasional streak of sentimentality.  Soft Picassos  That is in fact one of the lessons of the exhibition
“Picasso and Modern British Art” (currently at Tate Britain
through July 15): Really strong Picassos were too much for
Edwardian British taste. Consequently, for a long time it was
mainly the more soft-centered works by the artist that ended up
in U.K. collections.  The Tate did eventually gain some marvelous pictures by the
artist, above all “The Three Dancers” (1925), which Picasso
himself considered one of his finest works. That was due to the
efforts of a later generation, and Roland Penrose (1900-1984) in
particular.  Even in hard times there’s a strong case for adding works
of art to the national collection. They are assets that rise in
value, and that cannot be said of many of the items on which
public money is spent. New masterpieces add to the stored
cultural worth of institutions such as the  Tate  and the National
Galleries of  London  and Edinburgh. That, in turn, brings in
benefits through tourism and by making Britain an attractive
place to live.  Yet the criterion for choosing which ones to buy for large
sums of money has to be outstanding quality, not whether they
happen already to be in the country.  “Picasso and Modern British Art” is at Tate Britain,
London. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  “Diana and Callisto” will be on display at the National
Gallery in London for the next 18 months.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 