-- Pound Falls to One-Week Low Against Euro Before Greek Debt-Swap Deadline
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-08T16:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/pound-reaches-1-week-low-versus-euro-before-bank-of-england-rate-decision.html
The pound slid to the lowest level
in more than a week against the euro as speculation  Greece  will
attract enough investors to make its debt-swap plan a success
damped demand for the safety of U.K. assets.  Sterling weakened against the 17-nation currency for a
third day after the  Bank of England  said it will leave its debt-
purchase program on hold and keep its benchmark  interest rate  at
a record low. Both decisions were unanimously predicted in
separate Bloomberg News surveys of economists. The pound rose
the most in more than a week against the dollar while gilts were
little changed.  “News out of Greece will have an effect on euro-
sterling,” said You-Na Park, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “If it looks like the Greek deal
will work as planned than this would be positive for the euro.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to 83.82 pence per euro at 4:28
p.m. London time after reaching 83.99 pence, the weakest level
since Feb. 29. The currency climbed 0.5 percent to $1.5819 after
rising 0.6 percent, the biggest advance since Feb. 29.  Investors with about 60 percent of the Greek bonds eligible
for the nation’s debt swap have so far indicated they’ll
participate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, putting
the country on the verge of the biggest sovereign restructuring
in history. The deadline is 10 p.m. in  Athens .  BOE Decision  The Bank of England today maintained a pledge to buy 50
billion pounds of bonds by May under its so-called quantitative-
easing program and kept its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent.  The decision to announce “no further quantitative easing
might support the pound slightly since it is a relief for the
market,” Park said.  The  European Central Bank  also left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 1 percent, as predicted by 56 out of 58
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro stayed higher against the pound after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said recent surveys show signs of
stabilization in the euro-region economy. Draghi was speaking at
a press conference in  Frankfurt .  Sterling has weakened 1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar declined 2.9 percent,
and the euro dropped 0.4 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 2.15 percent,
with the difference, or spread, between the benchmark gilts and
their German equivalents narrowing two basis points to 35 basis
points.  U.K. government debt has handed investors a 0.8 percent
loss this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S.
Treasuries have dropped 0.3 percent and German  government bonds 
have gained 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  