-- Power-Profit Slide Threatens German Gas-Plant Closures
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n ,   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-08T06:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/power-profit-collapse-threatens-german-gas-plant-closures-energy-markets.html
The biggest losses since at least
2009 from burning natural gas to generate electricity in  Germany 
are threatening to provoke a wave of power-plant closures in
 Europe ’s biggest economy.  As much as 6,400 megawatts, or 25 percent of the nation’s
gas-plant capacity, will shut in the five years through 2015,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Companies may close as much as
10,000 megawatts of gas and coal stations by 2014, UBS AG said
on Feb. 20. Statkraft SF,  Norway ’s biggest utility, supplied the
last power from its Emden gas plant in Germany during freezing
weather Feb. 14, the Oslo-based generator said last month.  The rising cost of gas linked to oil prices and the specter
of Europe’s second recession in three years have combined to
wipe out the  returns  from burning the fuel just as  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  encourages wind and solar units by giving them
priority to the grid. Gas plants, which supplied about 14
percent of Germany’s power last year, are the fastest backup
sources of electricity when weather-dependent output falls.  “With the spate of recent closures, it is probably the
most challenging time for gas-fired generation ever,” Trevor Sikorski , director of European energy market research at
Barclays Plc in London, said in a phone interview on March 1.
“Most power markets in Europe have spreads that are signaling
that plants should be closed.”  Running at Loss  Utilities in Germany lost 8.20 euros ($10.78) a megawatt-
hour as of yesterday, based on so-called clean-dark spreads for
next month that take account of gas, power and emissions prices,
compared with a profit of 20.95 euros in October 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.K. generators made 88 pence,
from 7.02 pounds ($11.04) in October.  “Companies do not take the decision to close a plant
lightly so they try to do whatever they can first,” Paolo Coghe, European power analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris,
said in a phone interview. “Spark spreads in the U.K. have been
decreasing to the point where dispatching a gas-fired plant that
is inefficient would mean running at a loss.”  The euro-region economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
quarter and 0.65 percent in the three months through June,
according to the median of 18 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg as
of Feb. 22.  Most gas in Europe is sold through long-term contracts
linked to the price of oil.  Brent crude , trading today at
$124.25 a barrel, has risen 9.9 percent in the last year,
compared with a 2.4 percent drop in next-month gas in the U.K.,
Europe’s biggest market for the fuel.  ‘Hurting Very Badly’  “In most of Europe, a lot of the gas-fired generators are
taking gas at prices that are linked to  oil prices  and higher
than the current market prices would suggest,”  Mark Lewis , a
commodities analyst at Deutsche Bank in Paris, said by e-mail on
March 1. “There’s no question, these continental gas-fired
generators are hurting very badly at the moment.”  U.S. natural gas futures settled at a 10-year low of $2.302
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday as the fourth-warmest U.S. winter on record
crimped demand as soaring production boosted stockpiles.  European and North American gas markets aren’t linked by
pipeline, and waterborne trade of liquefied gas between the
continents is limited, giving little reason for the heating
fuel’s value in Germany and the U.K. to track U.S. prices lower.  Oil-Linked Loss  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest utility, hasn’t yet
decided to close gas-fired stations in Germany, Chief Operating
Officer Rolf Martin Schmitz said on March 6 in Essen, Germany.
The company said buying gas in oil-linked contracts last year
led to an 800 million-euro loss for its Supply & Trading unit.
RWE’s total output of power from gas-fired plants fell 10
percent last year to 38.5 terawatt-hours, according to  slides  on
its website.  “We’re also looking to see if there are seasons when a
block could be taken out of operation for half a year or so,”
he said. “It’s absolutely possible that old gas blocks are
halted for half a year and won’t operate.”  EON AG, the nation’s largest utility, is “constantly
monitoring the market” and currently doesn’t plan “adjustments
to our power-plant portfolio,” Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, a
company spokesman, said March 5 by e-mail.  Germany Plant Closures  Germany will have to close plants to counter as much as
12,000 megawatts of new gas- and coal-fired stations that may
come online in an already oversupplied market in the four years
through 2014, Patrick Hummel, a UBS analyst in Zurich, said
March 2. Germany’s reserve margin, the amount by which available
generation capacity exceeds peak demand, will rise to 17 percent
in 2013, from 10 percent last year, according to UBS. It’s as
much as 32 percent in the U.K., according to  Centrica Plc. (CNA)   Power producers in Britain have announced more closures
than their peers in Germany because of sliding profit margins.
Barking Power Ltd. is closing one of two units at its 1,000-
megawatt station in east London, Peter Tottman, a company
secretary, said March 1 in an e-mail. Spreads don’t warrant
running the plant for the “next couple of years,” he said.
Centrica, the country’s biggest utility, plans to shut the
King’s Lynn and Barry plants with a capacity of 555 megawatts,
the Windsor, England-based company said Feb. 23.  About 4,400 megawatts of new gas-fired capacity may start
in Germany by 2015, leaving a net closure of 2,000 megawatts,
according to Deutsche Bank’s Lewis.  Solar Shines  German solar capacity soared to 24,662 megawatts last year,
from 9,786 megawatts at the end of 2009, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. Merkel wants the country to be getting 35
percent of its power from renewable sources by 2020, from 20
percent last year.  The chancellor halted more than 25 percent of her nation’s
nuclear capacity following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
that led to meltdowns at three reactors at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant. Germany plans to phase out nuclear power by 2022.  The boom in solar and wind capacity, coupled with gas
costs, mean new plants aren’t economical to build, EON’s
Thomsen-Bendixen said.  Advanced Power AG, an independent power plant developer in
Zug,  Switzerland , has postponed plans to build a gas-fired
station in Germany. Construction on the 420-megawatt Bocholt
unit may start in 2013, two years later than planned, to
generate power from about 2017, said Peter Ramm, chief operating
officer.  “Unless there’s a change in consumer behavior to only
consume electricity when the sun is shining or the wind is
blowing, there’s going to be a need for balancing capacity and
flexible dispatchable generation,” Ramm said by telephone from
 London . “The current market isn’t valuing flexible backup
capacity and that’s being seen in the current spark spreads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  