-- Airlines Shift Some U.S.-Asia Flights as Solar Storm Nears Earth
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-08T18:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/power-grids-facing-disruption-as-solar-storm-approaches-earth-noaa-says.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  shifted 11 U.S.-Asia flights further
south today to avoid potential radio disruptions as a solar
storm hits Earth.  The changes added 10 to 15 minutes to the affected flights,
the airlines said.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines moved three
flights to lower altitudes on some routes close to the polar
regions, Tim Smith, an airline spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The “coronal mass ejection” from the sun arrived about
5:45 a.m. New York time and wasn’t as strong as expected,
according to the  National Weather Service . The center said that
the effect will continue to change. In January, a similar storm,
the most powerful to hit Earth since 2003, also saw flights
rerouted.  “We fly a little more southerly to avoid radio
disruptions,” said Michael Trevino, a spokesman for Chicago-
based United Continental in an interview. “Doing this is not
unusual. Sometimes wind patterns affect routing too.”  Delta moved seven flights today to alternate routes, said
 Anthony Black , an airline spokesman. United Continental shifted
four, Trevino said. The affected routes were from the U.S. to
cities in Japan,  China  and  Hong Kong .  The radiation storm caused blackouts in high-frequency
radio, used by airlines and emergency services, at the planet’s
poles and other regions, the U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday. Such storms also have the potential to disrupt power
grids and satellite communications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  