-- Property Debt Faces ‘Big Gap’ as $1 Trillion Matures, Boxer Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S c a r l e t   F u
-- 2012-03-08T19:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/property-debt-faces-big-gap-as-1-trillion-matures-ramius-s-boxer-says.html
More capital is needed for
commercial property borrowers as $1 trillion in debt matures
over the next three years, according to Michael Boxer of
investment firm Ramius LLC.  Refinancing won’t be possible for 77 percent of loans
arranged during the height of the property boom, said Boxer, a
Ramius partner, in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Scarlet Fu on “Money Moves.” That will leave a “very big
gap,” that needs to be filled, said Boxer, head of real-estate
related investments at the New York-based firm, which manages
$10.3 billion including more than $2 billion of property assets.  Even with investor confidence in  commercial-property debt 
at the highest since May, real estate values have declined about
42 percent since 2007, making it harder to refinance loans.
Lenders that have “kicked the can down the road” for the past
few years are more prepared to accept losses and sell loans at a
loss as business improves in other banking areas, said Boxer.  High-quality commercial real estate will yield between 9
percent and 11 percent, Boxer said, compared with  yields  on 10-
year  U.S. Treasuries  of about 2 percent.  Issuance of commercial mortgage bonds that bundle loans
tied to shopping centers, skyscrapers and hotels, is forecast by
banks to rise to $45 billion this year from $28 billion in 2011.
That’s down from a record $232.5 billion in 2007 when credit
markets froze, adding to refinancing difficulties.  “The CMBS market has pulled way back,” said Boxer.
“Those buyers are so burned, they were washed out or very
skittish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  