-- Protracted Iran Conflict Could Drive Oil Prices Up $60 Barrel
-- B y   R o m e s h   R a t n e s a r
-- 2012-03-08T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/protracted-iran-conflict-could-drive-oil-prices-up-60-barrel.html
“Nobody’s announced a war, young
lady,” President  Barack Obama  said in  New York  on March 2,
wagging his finger at an audience member who decried the
possibility of U.S. military action against Iran. “But we
appreciate your sentiment.”  The crowd cheered, and a smile crossed the president’s
face. It’s too soon to say when, or whether, the long-simmering
dispute over Iran’s nuclear program will erupt in armed
conflict, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 12 issue.  “There is still a window that allows for a diplomatic
resolution,” Obama said before meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on March 5.  A raft of Western economic sanctions against Tehran,
including a looming embargo on Iranian oil exports to the
European Union, have made the country’s rulers more willing to
“recommence negotiations without preconditions, which isn’t
something they were amenable to last year,” according to Karim Sadjadpour, an  Iran  analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace. War with Iran in 2012 “is plausible but
not probable,” he says.  The economic case against war is strong. Jitters about
instability in the Middle East have caused the price of Brent
crude to rise some 9 percent since the beginning of the year.  Insurance Premiums  Even a limited conflict with Iran -- the second-largest oil
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
after Saudi Arabia -- would jack up insurance premiums on oil
tanker traffic through the  Persian Gulf .  Iran exports 2.5 million barrels per day, and OPEC lacks
the spare capacity to make up for the likely loss of Iranian
supply in the event of an attack, according to Robert McNally,
president of the Rapidan Group, an energy consulting firm.
That’s a formula for an oil shock far more painful than what
global consumers are currently experiencing.  “What we see now is a market that is very fearful and very
tight,” says McNally, a former senior director for
international energy at the National Security Council. “In
those conditions, it doesn’t take much to send the cost of oil
soaring.”  Just how high prices might climb if war breaks out, and the
broader consequences to the world economy, depend on two
factors: whether military action is initiated by  Israel  or by
the U.S., and how Iran responds.  Four Facilities  A strike conducted by Israel, which has limited air power,
might be over in a matter of hours. It would target the four
main Iranian nuclear facilities the world knows about, but
there’s no guarantee that Israel’s bombs would be able to
penetrate Iran’s deepest underground sites.  An attack carried out by the U.S. military, on the other
hand, would be longer and more extensive, according to Matthew
Kroenig, a nuclear security expert at the  Council on Foreign
Relations . He says a two-week U.S. bombing campaign could wipe
out not just  Iran’s nuclear program  but also its air defenses
and some missile capabilities.  The Pentagon’s newest generation of 30,000-pound “bunker-
buster” bombs are thought to be capable of pulverizing targets
as much as 200 feet below ground.  “There’s a lot of confusion between what an Israeli strike
would do and what an American strike could do,” Kroenig says.
“Israel would set Iran’s nuclear program back between one and
three years. The U.S. can set it back 10 years.”  ‘Less to Lose’  The costs of doing so could be steep, however. If the U.S.
attacks, “the Iranians might feel they have less to lose” by
retaliating aggressively, says Michael Makovsky, foreign policy
director of the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington .  Tehran might attempt to sabotage oil facilities in  Saudi
Arabia  and southern  Iraq , launch missiles into Israel, or deploy
small attack vessels to harass tankers in the  Arabian Sea .  The nightmare scenario would be a move by Iran to choke off
access to the  Strait of Hormuz  -- most likely by unleashing its
stockpile of 2,000 mines -- through which 40 percent of the
world’s seaborne oil supply travels.  The U.S. has warned that such a step would provoke an all-
out assault on Iran’s military. Would Tehran take that risk?  “If Iran concluded its regime were threatened, it might
try to make the conflict as big as possible, as quickly as
possible, to bring other powers in to mediate,” says McNally.  An analysis by the Rapidan Group predicts that a targeted
airstrike on Iran, followed by a token Iranian response, would
cause  oil prices  to jump $23 a barrel before settling back down.
(As of March 6,  Brent crude  was trading at $122 a barrel.)  ‘Geopolitical Disruption’  A more protracted conflict, if it involved even a brief
closure of the strait, might cause oil prices to spike by more
than $60 a barrel.  “It would be the biggest geopolitical disruption in the
history of the global oil market,” McNally says.  Ed Morse, global head of commodities research at Citigroup,
estimates that if oil reaches $150 a barrel, the U.S. would lose
2 percentage points in economic growth, enough to turn the
nascent recovery into a recession.  The dilemma for the Obama administration is that the
alternatives might be even worse.  “If we don’t have this confrontation now, but we end up
with a nuclear Iran, we have to factor in the consequences of
dealing with a nuclear arms race in the Gulf,” says  Anthony Cordesman  of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
At minimum, the Pentagon would need to invest in new anti-
missile technologies and maintain a sizable footprint in the
region, just as it is winding down two wars there.  “It could have a major impact on the U.S.’s interest in
reducing defense spending,” says Cordesman.  And because a nuclear Iran would make the  Middle East  and
the world less stable, living with the bomb also means living
with higher oil prices for an indeterminate future.  “The worst outcome for the  global economy , by far,” says
McNally, “would be a hostile, nuclear-armed Iran.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romesh Ratnesar in New York at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  