-- Qantas Asia Plan in Jeopardy as Malaysian Air Talks Fail
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-03-09T05:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/qantas-ends-talks-with-malaysian-airline-on-partnership.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s plans to set
up a full-service carrier in Asia to reverse losses on
international routes have been set back after talks with
 Malaysian Airline System Bhd (MAS)  collapsed.  The companies couldn’t agree on commercial terms, the
Sydney-based airline, Australia’s largest, said in a statement
today. Qantas  shares  fell the most in a month and the company
said it will examine other opportunities for a venture in Asia
involving “minimal capital.”  Qantas unveiled plans for the new airline in August as part
of its strategy to turn around A$200 million ($213 million) of
international losses. Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce wanted
access to a hub in Malaysia or Singapore so he could hire
workers at a lower cost and offer a greater choice of connecting
flights in  Asia , the fastest growing aviation market. His plans
included a revamped network and new carrier in  Japan  through the
Jetstar budget unit.  “They have to look at joint ventures for their existing
business, but there’s very few partners in Asia that can bring
much benefit to Qantas,” said Neil Hansford, chairman of
Strategic Aviation Solutions, a Port Stephens, Australia-based
adviser to airlines. “They will now accelerate their
development of Jetstar Asia and its overseas operations in the
Asian region.”  Malaysian Air didn’t provide an immediate comment on the
talks in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News today.  Shares Drop  Qantas  fell  2.6 percent to A$1.68 at the close of trading
in Sydney, the biggest decline since Feb. 10. The stock has lost
28 percent in the past 12 months,  compared  with the 12 percent
drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  “They have a number of options, and this takes out one of
those options,” said  Chris Weston , institutional dealer at IG
Markets in  Melbourne . “The market is responding to that.”  The airline last month announced A$700 million of spending
cuts as Joyce slows fleet growth. Qantas will also eliminate 500
 jobs  as it contends with international competition.  “The transformation of Qantas’ international business
remains vital, with plans to return the international business
to profitability in the short term on track,” Joyce said in the
statement.  While the company has about 65 percent of Australia’s
domestic aviation market, less than 20 percent of international
passengers choose to fly on Qantas planes as customers switched
to rivals such as Emirates Airline and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  