-- Raiffeisen Boosts Stakes in Units to Prepare for Basel III Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/raiffeisen-boosts-stakes-in-units-to-prepare-for-basel-iii-rules.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern Europe’s third-biggest lender, will raise its stakes in
two of the region’s banks in preparation for the introduction of
Basel III guidelines starting in 2013.  Raiffeisen will boost its holding in Slovakia’s  Tatra Banka
AS (TAT)  to 78.57 percent from 65.77 percent and its stake in
Raiffeisenbank AS of the  Czech Republic  to 75 percent from 51
percent, the Vienna-based company said in a statement late
yesterday. Raiffeisen is buying from  Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA) , its majority owner.  Raiffeisen said it’s acquiring the stakes in two of its
largest units as Europe’s implementation of Basel III will limit
the recognition of capital contributions from minority
shareholders. The 344 million-euro ($457 million) purchase will
initially reduce Raiffeisen’s core Tier 1 capital ratio by 0.35
percentage points as of the end of 2011, according to the
statement. The transaction still requires regulatory approval.  Separately, the bank called a decision by  Europe ’s top
banking regulator to continue to disqualify in its stress-test
calculations some forms of non-voting capital Austrian lenders
have sold to investors “incomprehensible.”  The European Banking Authority’s board of supervisors
rejected a proposal to count so-called participation capital
toward the requirement for banks to hold reserves of 9 percent
of risk-weighted assets,  Austria ’s FMA regulator said yesterday.  “This decision is difficult to comprehend in light of the
recognition of this capital under the Basel III guidelines and
given the fact that the state portion of this participation
capital has been fully recognized by the EBA,” Raiffeisen said.  RZB has made “sufficient arrangements” to surpass the 9
percent core Tier 1 ratio even if privately placed participation
capital isn’t recognized and a swap into EBA-compliant capital
is still an option, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  