-- Rangers Administrators Seek $5.7 Million From Law Firm
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-08T17:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/rangers-administrators-seek-5-7-million-from-law-firm-1-.html
Administrators for  Rangers Football
Club (RFC) , the Scottish soccer champions, are seeking to recover 3.6
million pounds ($5.7 million) from a London  law firm  in an
effort to ensure the club’s survival.  Rangers, which went into administration last month as U.K.
authorities pursued the owners for unpaid tax bills, must find
4.5 million pounds by the end of the season to continue
operations, administrators Duff & Phelps has said.  The 3.6 million pounds was held by Collyer Bristow LLP, a
law firm acting for club’s owner Craig Whyte. It is now in the
hands of another firm, Taylor Wessing LLP, on behalf of the
administrators while a dispute about who can access the money is
resolved. U.K. tax authorities, a pension fund and Duff & Phelps
are all claiming a share, a London court heard this morning.  Judge Nicholas Warren set a March 29 hearing to resolve the
dispute.  “If we are successful in retrieving these funds that will
help the recovery process of the club and will be an important
step towards the club emerging from administration,” David Whitehouse, one of the administrators, said in an e-mailed
statement. The firm is meeting with prospective bidders for the
club, Whitehouse said.  Collyer Bristow spokesman Paul Newhall confirmed the firm
acted for  Craig Whyte  and that it no longer held the money. He
declined to comment further.  The Scottish Football Association said on its  website  today
an independent inquiry of its board found that Whyte “is not
considered to be a fit and proper person to hold a position
within association football” because of several rules breaches
by the club and owner.  SFA Chief Executive Stewart Regan said Rangers face a
charge of bringing the game into disrepute over its financial
situation and added the administrators have been sent a letter
about possible disciplinary action over the club’s failure to
make payments to Dundee United from their recent Scottish Cup
match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  