-- Treasury Yields May Increase on Greek Debt Swap, CRT Investor Survey Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-08T20:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/treasury-yields-may-increase-on-greek-debt-swap-crt-investor-survey-says.html
An agreement between the Greek
government and its investors on the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history will boost Treasury yields, according
to a CRT Capital Group LLC survey of investors.  U.S. 10-year  yields  may increase as much as 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage point, as a majority of investors have
signaled their readiness to participate in the debt swap. Greek
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told his ministers in Athens he
expected the maximum possible participation from bondholders.  “Greece has been an immediate influence on keeping rates
low and activity low as uncertainty remains high,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT in Stamford,
Connecticut. “The general feeling of investors is once we get
the Greece deal behind us, it will remove some of that
uncertainty and we can focus on other things.”  Between 75 and 99 people took part in the CRT survey, Ader
said.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will hold a news
conference at 1 p.m.  Athens  time to announce the results, the
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  Treasuries fell for a second day as Greece moved closer to
completing the swap of its debt, easing concern about the spread
European debt crisis and damping demand for the refuge of U.S.
government securities.  Ten-year note yields rose four basis points to 2.02 percent
in New York after slipping to 1.97 percent earlier. Two-year
notes yielded 0.31 percent, up one basis point.  While Greece would prefer a voluntary deal, the government
has said it would use collective-action clauses to force holders
of Greek-law bonds into the swap. Compelling holdouts to take
part will likely trigger insurance contracts on the debt known
as credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  