-- Treasuries Fall Before Payrolls as Greek Swap Advances
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-08T22:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/treasuries-stay-lower-before-u-s-announces-size-of-next-week-s-auctions.html
Treasuries fell for a second day as
 Greece ’s debt-swap deadline passed with a majority of investors
signaling their readiness to participate, boosting risk appetite
and damping demand for the refuge of U.S. government securities.  Thirty-year bond yields  rose to a two-week high before a
report tomorrow forecast to show U.S. payrolls rose last month,
fueling optimism the economic recovery is building momentum.
Greece’s government got about 85 percent of bondholders to
tender their offerings, a banking official said. Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos will hold a press conference on the
swap tomorrow at 6 a.m. New York time, his office said.  “The news out of Greece so far has been relatively good,”
said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “We’re seeing people looking to sell
any rallies in the Treasury market.”  The  30-year bond  yield climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.17 percent at 5:04 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It reached 3.18
percent, the highest level since Feb. 22. The price of the 3.125
percent security due in February 2042 dropped 31/32, or $9.69
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 1/32.  Ten-year note  yields  rose four basis points to 2.01 percent
after slipping to 1.97 percent earlier. Two-year notes yielded
0.31 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index climbed 1 percent,
and the MSCI World Index rallied 1.5 percent in its biggest jump
on a closing basis since Jan. 3.  Yield Outlook  Ten-year note yields, which have traded between 1.79
percent and 2.09 percent this year, will advance to 2.53 percent
by Dec. 31, according to the average estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Bonds also fell today as the government said it will sell
next week $32 billion of three-year notes, $21 billion of 10-
year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds. The auctions will
take place over three days starting March 12.  “The auctions next week, along with some expectation of a
deal getting done in Greece and the expectation of a better
payroll report, have added some bearish sentiment to the market,
but only within the confines of the recent range,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told his ministers in
 Athens  earlier today he expected the maximum possible
participation from bondholders in the debt swap. The deadline on
the offer was 10 p.m. in Athens.  Greek Debt  As much as 155 billion euros ($206 billion) of the 177
billion-euro Greek-law debt was offered for the swap, according
to the official in Athens, who declined to be identified.
Another 12 billion euros of 18 billion euros of debt under non-
Greek law was also tendered, and 7 billion euros of debt from
the state-owned companies guaranteed by the government was
offered, the official said.  While Greece would prefer a voluntary deal, the government
has said it will use collective-action clauses if necessary to
force holders of Greek-law bonds into the swap. Compelling
holdouts to take part would probably trigger insurance contracts
on the debt known as credit-default swaps.  “Even if there’s a scenario where the CDS could be
triggered, I think it’s still a reasonably risk-on” event for
markets, said  Orlando Green , a London-based fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole SA. “It’s not a messy default.
It’s reasonably favorable for yields to rise in Treasuries
because of the solid progress the economy is making.”  Fed Purchase  Treasuries briefly pared losses as the  Federal Reserve 
bought $5.1 billion of  U.S. debt  due from August 2020 to August
2021. The purchase was part of the Fed’s program to swap $400
billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term bonds through June to cap borrowing costs.  The number of Americans filing claims for  unemployment
benefits  rose to 362,000 last week, a level consistent with an
improving labor market, Labor Department figures showed today.  Applications for jobless insurance payments increased by
8,000 in the week ended March 3, the data showed. Economists in
a Bloomberg News survey forecast 352,000 claims. The four-week
moving average, a less volatile measure, was little changed at
355,000, from 354,750, the fewest since March 2008.  “Any jobless claims number under 400,000 implies
improvement in the labor markets,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets.  Payrolls Report  U.S. employers added 210,000 jobs in February, the third
straight monthly increase of more than 200,000 jobs, according
to the median forecast economists in another Bloomberg survey
before a report tomorrow from the Labor Department.  “The jobs report is key,” said Alessandro Mercuri, an
interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London .
“The market has been telling itself over the past two months
that the U.S. is not going to have a double-dip recession. If
you look at the 10-year yield, it seems that it has been forming
a new range; a higher, much narrower one.”  The yield gap between two- and 30-year U.S. securities,
called the yield curve, increased to 2.87 percentage points
today, the most since Feb. 21. A steeper curve generally signals
a more bullish outlook on the economy. The one-year average is
3.27 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  