-- Record Crowd Gathers at Toronto Mining Show Chasing Shrinking Funding Pie
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-03-08T21:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/record-crowd-gathers-at-toronto-mining-show-chasing-shrinking-funding-pie.html
A record number of prospectors,
geologists and promoters showed up at the world’s largest mining
gathering this week in Toronto searching for funding that’s
become increasingly elusive.  “There’s a lot of cash sitting on the sideline, still
cautious about where the market’s going,” Ron Little, chief
executive officer of Ottawa-based  Orezone Gold Corp. (ORE) , said at
his booth nestled among about 600 other cubicles at the
Prospectors & Developers Association of  Canada   convention . “The
smaller companies for the next year may struggle if they don’t
have enough cash to get through.”  More than 30,000 people registered for this year’s PDAC
event, according to the association, topping the 27,700 last
year. The meeting, now in its 80th year, is a magnet for startup
mining companies -- known in the industry as juniors -- seeking
investment to develop and build mines.  Mining companies have raised at least $1.43 billion from 43
initial and secondary offerings and preferred share sales in
Canada this year as of yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 25 percent less than the $1.91 billion raised
from 86 deals in the same period a year earlier.  Mineral-exploration spending growth will slow this year
unless equity markets improve, Halifax, Nova Scotia-based Metals
Economics Group said in a March 4 report.  Rising Commodities  “Many juniors may have trouble raising the necessary funds
to sustain or increase exploration spending in 2012,” the
mining research company said.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities has
climbed 9 percent this year and posted annual gains in nine of
the past 10 years, helped by raw-material demand from developing
nations and rising gold prices.  Still, the  index (HUI)  fell 1.5 percent on March 6, its biggest
drop since Dec. 14, because of concern that the growth of global
economies will slow.  China , the world’s biggest consumer of
metals, lowered its economic-growth target on March 5.  Attendance at the PDAC convention has risen fourfold in the
past 15 years, according to the association. A then-record  7,500
people  attended in 1997.  At this year’s four-day event, which ended yesterday, the
mineral explorers with their maps and rock samples were joined
by contractors, students, headhunters and investors who crowded
trade-show halls and packed in for presentations. Government
delegates from more than 20 countries attended, including mining
ministers from  Peru ,  Chile ,  Brazil  and  Afghanistan .  Gold Versus Miners  “You are probably part of one of the biggest bubbles we’ve
ever seen,” David Harquail, CEO of Toronto-based  Franco-Nevada
Corp. (FNV) , said in a March 5 presentation to delegates. He
contrasted the boom in attendees with bullion’s outperformance
compared to gold stocks.  Gold has advanced for 11 straight years and traded at a
record in  London  in September as investors bought the metal as a
hedge against inflation. Gold producers, meanwhile, have lagged
behind bullion. The NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index has climbed 55
percent in the past five years while gold has more than doubled.  Companies that have operating mines use PDAC to scout for
new deposits promoted by juniors, said  John Smith , CEO of
Vancouver-based  Silver Standard Resources Inc. (SSO) , which has a mine
in  Argentina  and is studying projects in Mexico and Peru.  “We have an exploration team that is here walking through,
back and forth,” Smith said at the conference. “The bulk of
the work is really about early-stage assessment and
understanding opportunities.”  ‘More Money’  The event is vital for governments seeking investors for
mining and exploration projects, said Guillaume Curtis,
secretary general of the ministry of mines and geology in the
west African country of  Guinea .  “There is more money here in Toronto than anywhere else
where exploration is concerned,” Curtis said in an interview,
speaking through a translator. “It’s not something we should
have missed.”  To be sure, some larger companies have been able to raise
funds, including  Banro Corp. (BAA)  The Toronto-based company said
March 2 it raised $175 million for a gold project in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo.  Detour Gold Corp. (DGC)  sold C$277
million ($280 million) of equity in a share sale last month to
fund completion of its gold project in Ontario.  “The money is there for juniors,” Reg Advocaat, CEO of
Vancouver-based Fortunate Sun Mining Co., which has projects in
Mexico and Canada, said during PDAC. “If the projects have
merit, you will get financed.”  ‘Desperate for Money’  Still, the hundreds of companies must compete for
investors’ attention at the PDAC event, Advocaat said.  “They are not all getting funded,” he said.  It’s “tough” for the smaller mining companies to get
reasonable financing even amid relatively high metals prices,
said Ken Hoffman, a Princeton, New Jersey-based metals and
mining analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  “The juniors are desperate for money,” Hoffman said.
“PDAC is the way they get together, do the dance and see if
there’s any deals to be done.”  Funding difficulties may result in takeovers as juniors are
forced to seek buyers, Orezone’s Little said. In 2009, he was
CEO of a precursor company, Orezone Resources Inc., when it was
acquired by  Iamgold Corp. (IMG)  The $139 million all-shares
transaction gave Toronto-based Iamgold a controlling stake a
Burkina Faso project, while other Orezone exploration companies
were spun out into a new entity led by Little.  ‘Smiling Internally’  “The companies that need cash are somber, the ones that
have a lot are thankful, and the bigger ones are maybe smiling
internally,” Little said. “It’s a hardship for some but a
great opportunity for others.”  Merger-and-acquisition talk in the  mining industry  has been
“more muted” than in previous years, Egizio Bianchini, vice-
chairman at Toronto-based investment bank BMO Capital Markets,
said in a Feb. 27 interview on Bloomberg Television.  There have been at least $6.08 billion of mining deals
valued at $1 billion or less so far this quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $10.7 billion in
the first three months of 2011.  At the minimum, the Toronto conference raises the specter
that financing or a white knight will appear.  “PDAC has been going for a long time,” Cay Mims, a
consultant who works for Miami-based The Highland Group, said in
an interview in Toronto. “If you want to do a deal, you have to
be here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  