-- Santorum Makes Case Against Romney as Candidates Square Off in the South
-- B y   G i g i   D o u b a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-09T05:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/romney-braces-for-long-quest-as-republican-race-turns-to-unfriendly-turf.html
Rick Santorum  pressed his attack
against  Mitt Romney , saying that on “key fronts of liberty”
his opponent would be an inadequate choice to lead the charge
against President  Barack Obama  as the two prime contenders for
the Republican nomination battled for support in the Deep South.  Romney kicked off his two-day southern swing at the Port of
Pascagoula in Mississippi. With a giant crane serving as a
backdrop yesterday, he ignored his Republican rivals, accepted
the endorsement of Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant and focused
on Obama.  “We need someone who can win this campaign,” Bryant told
reporters afterwards.  At a rally yesterday in Pelham, Alabama, Santorum also
targeted Obama. Still, he went after Romney’s support of state
health-care legislation as governor of  Massachusetts , saying it
undercuts his presidential bid because the plan is similar to
the federal law Obama pushed through Congress.  “We need contrast if we’re going to win,” Santorum told
about 250 listeners at the Pelham civic center. “And  Governor
Romney  on key fronts of liberty is not a contrast.”  Romney blamed Obama for high unemployment and high gasoline
prices, promising to cut the top income tax rate and increase
oil drilling.  “We’ve gone from yes we can to it’s not my fault,” Romney
said before around 100 supporters. “It is his fault. We’ve got
to get energy independent in this country. We’re going to take
advantage of our resources.”  Unfriendly Turf  Under Obama, domestic oil output is the highest in eight
years and the U.S. has reversed a two-decade-long decline and
increased the proportion of demand met from domestic sources
over the last six years to an estimated 81 percent through the
first 10 months of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from the U.S. Department of Energy.  Santorum is seeking to win March 13 primaries in Alabama
and  Mississippi  to demonstrate his appeal to the Republican
conservative base. Romney, bracing for potential losses in what
his campaign advisers agree is unfriendly turf for him, is
trying to accumulate as many convention delegates as possible,
even if he doesn’t finish first in any upcoming contest.  “Romney benefits from low expectations in these states,”
said  Gary Jacobson , a political science professor at the
 University of California  in  San Diego . “If he does better than
expected, it would signal that Republican voters, including
evangelicals and strong conservatives, have begun to accept the
inevitable.”  ‘Increasingly Moribund’  If Santorum and former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich
“cannot outdo Romney in these states, their candidacies will
appear to be increasingly moribund,” Jacobson said.  Alabama  will send 50 delegates and Mississippi 40 to the
national convention, awarding them on a proportional basis.
Before those two states vote, Republicans in Kansas, the  U.S.
Virgin Islands  and Guam will choose delegates on March 10.  With 1,144 delegates needed for the nomination, Romney has
421, according to the  Associated Press , followed by Santorum
with 181, Gingrich 107 and Paul 47.  Santorum, in his speech in Pelham, scoffed at the efforts
Romney has made to distance himself from the federal health-care
overhaul that, like the one enacted in Massachusetts, includes a
mandate to purchase insurance.  State vs. Federal  “During the debates, he said, ‘No, no, I just support
state-mandated health insurance laws. I just supported mandates
from the state level imposing the state’s will on the people but
not the federal government,’ as if that’s a big difference,”
Santorum said, drawing chuckles from his audience.  He added: “You’re either for bottom up or you’re for top
down, right?”  A woman in the crowd at one point interrupted Santorum’s
comments to say, “I believe in you!”  Santorum responded: “Unlike President Obama, I believe in
you.”  At the Romney rally, supporters touted his electability.  “He’s the one who’s going to beat Obama,” said Carol Ann
Wilkerson, a retired tour operator from Ocean Springs.  Gingrich, under pressure from Santorum’s campaign to end
his bid and allow the anti-Romney vote to consolidate, also is
concentrating on the approaching southern primaries. Campaigning
yesterday in Tupelo, Mississippi, he spotlighted the importance
of the contests to his candidacy.  A Roller Coaster  “This race has been a roller coaster, up and down. I
believe with your help next Tuesday, when we win here and we win
in Alabama, we’ll be back up again,” he told a crowd of about
100, according to the AP.  The other remaining Republican candidate, U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , has set his sights on doing
well in the March 10 caucuses in  Kansas . He plans three stops in
the state.  Romney continues to lead in  Wyoming ’s caucuses, which began
on March 6 and end on March 10. With 30 percent of precincts
reporting, Romney had 54 percent of the vote, followed by
Santorum with 29 percent. An uncommitted slate was running
third, with 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  