-- Rousseff Nominee Rejected in Sign of Brazil Coalition Tensions
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-03-08T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/rousseff-nominee-rejected-in-sign-of-brazil-coalition-tensions.html
Brazil ’s Senate rejected President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s choice to head the nation’s transport
regulator, a sign that tensions with members of her coalition
are worsening ahead of local elections.  In a secret ballot yesterday, senators voted 36 to 31
against allowing Bernardo Figueiredo to serve a second term as
head of the country’s land transportation agency, known as  ANTT .
Figueiredo was first appointed by former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  in 2008 and is the main official overseeing the
government’s plans to build a high-speed train connecting Sao
Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro .  Part of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, or PMDB,
the country’s biggest political party and main ally of the
government, voted against Rousseff’s nominee in a clear sign of
“rebellion,” said Rafael Cortez, political analyst at Sao
Paulo-based Tendencias Consultoria.  “It’s an important and very symbolic defeat,” Cortez said
in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It’s a yellow light.
If the government failed to approve something as trivial as this
nomination, imagine how the coalition will behave in important
votes.”  Rousseff relies on coalition partners to approve
legislation in Congress, and the PMDB has five more senators
than Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, or PT. While the two parties
share power -- Rousseff’s Vice President Michel Temer belongs to
the PMDB -- members of the PMDB are upset with the PT for
running its own candidates in several municipal elections in
October instead of joining forces.  Relations between Rousseff and her coalition first became
strained when shortly after taking office in January 2011 she
fired several ministers on allegations of corruption. All but
one of those seven cabinet officials removed were members of
allied parties.  Rousseff is counting on her coalition to keep a lid on
spending so that the central bank can continue to lower  interest
rates . Congress is also debating whether to approve a special
World Cup law providing guarantees to FIFA as the host of the
2014 soccer tournament and legislation to boost protection of
the Amazon rainforest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  