-- Samsung, Enzo, Harley-Davidson, Sony: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-08T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/samsung-enzo-harley-davidson-sony-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it
filed an additional patent lawsuit against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in Seoul,
deepening a global legal dispute between the world’s two largest
smartphone makers.  Samsung filed the suit March 7, claiming Apple’s iPhone 4S
and iPad 2 infringed patents related to mobile-phone
technologies for features such as displaying user interface and
short messages, Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said by phone yesterday.  The latest case in Samsung’s local market adds to the
dispute which the two companies have been locked globally since
the iPhone maker said in an April suit that the South Korean
company’s Galaxy devices copied its products. Samsung had
previously filed a separate patent suit against Apple in Seoul.  Steve Park, a Seoul-based Apple spokesman, declined to
comment on the new Seoul case.  Samsung yesterday denied a Wall Street Journal report that
Apple offered to settle some pending litigation in exchange for
royalty payments. The two companies both lost patent cases
against each other in a court in Mannheim,  Germany  on March 2.  Samsung edged out Apple as the top smartphone seller last
year, according to an estimate from Strategy Analytics.  Enzo Sues Abbott, Becton, Hologic Over Gene-Mapping Patent  An  Enzo Biochem Inc. (ENZ)  unit sued Abbott Laboratories, Becton
Dickinson & Co. and  Hologic Inc. (HOLX)  for allegedly infringing a
patent for gene-mapping in disease diagnostics.  Enzo Life Sciences Inc., based in Farmingdale,  New York , is
asking for a jury trial, unspecified damages and an order to
stop sales of the allegedly infringing products, according to
three complaints filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  If a court order blocking future infringement isn’t
granted, Enzo should be paid “a compulsory ongoing licensing
fee” by the defendants, according to the complaint.  Enzo in February sued Roche Diagnostics Corp.,  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  and  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  in the same court claiming
infringement of the same patent -- 6,992,180 -- which was issued
in January 2006.  The technology involves evaluation of DNA sequences to
detect diseases or irregularities such as penicillin resistance
in patients with strep infections, gonorrhea or tuberculosis,
according to patent papers.  “Abbott doesn’t believe its product infringes this patent
and will defend itself accordingly,” said Adelle Infante, a
spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott, in an e-
mailed statement.  “We’ve received the complaint and are reviewing it,” said
Colleen White, a spokeswoman for Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-
based Becton Dickinson.  Officials at Bedford, Massachusetts-based Hologic weren’t
immediately available to comment on the patent challenge.  The cases are Enzo v.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , 12-cv-00274;
Enzo v. Becton Dickinson, 12-cv-00275; and Enzo v. Hologic, 12-
cv-00276; U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Wi-Lan Patent Claim Against LG Electronics Dismissed in U.S.  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  lost its bid for a court ruling that  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  infringed its patent for technology that
permits parents to control their children’s television viewing
based on program ratings.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in  Manhattan  ruled
yesterday that LG, based in Seoul, hasn’t infringed Wi-Lan’s
Patent 5,828,402, which covers a method for “selectively
blocking audio and visual signals.”  Kaplan said that Wi-Lan had argued only that LG may someday
infringe on the patent, rather than showing that it did
infringe.  “Hypotheticals regarding what another party someday might
do are insufficient to show infringement when, as here, a method
patent is at issue,” Kaplan wrote. “The fact that a party
could infringe on a method patent is insufficient.”  The judge also dismissed trademark infringement and false
designation claims by LG over Wi-Lan’s use of LG’s logo on its
website.  Kathryn Hughes, a Wi-Lan spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling. Wi-
Lan, based in Ottawa, licenses technology patents to other
companies.  The case is  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  v. LG Electronics USA Inc., 10-CV-
432, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Harley-Davidson Settles Trademark Dispute Over ‘Brando’ Boot  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the largest U.S. motorcycle maker,
has settled a trademark suit with the estate of the late actor
Marlon Brando.  According to a March 5 court filing, the parties reached an
accord on that date.  The suit, filed in June, accused the Milwaukee-based
manufacturer of using the actor’s name without authorization on
a boot bearing the Harley brands. The book was said to resemble
those worn by the actor in “The Wild One,” a movie released in
1953. The estate -- acting through Brando Enterprises -- claimed
Brando’s publicity rights were violated.  Ironically, according to the Motorcycle Views website
 collection of motorcycle myths , the bike Brando rode in the film
wasn’t a Harley. Instead the actor, who died in 2004 at the age
of 80, rode his own personal bike, which was a Triumph
Thunderbird 650.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in the court
filing.  The case is Brando Enterprises LP v. Harley-Davidson Motor
Co., 2:11-cv-05473-CAS-AGR, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony Rivals Quizzed by EU About Higher Prices From EMI Bid  A Sony Corp.-led group’s rivals and customers were quizzed
by European Union antitrust regulators examining whether its
$2.2 billion purchase of EMI Group’s publishing unit would allow
it to increase prices.  The EU also asked whether licenses for Sony and EMI’s music
portfolio were critical for online music services, according to
a copy of the questionnaire seen by Bloomberg News. The European
Commission has an April 2 deadline to rule on the bid.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions. The EU is also looking at  Vivendi SA’s (VIV)  Universal
Music Group’s bid for London-based EMI’s recorded music business
and quizzed companies last month over that deal.  The Sony group would gain control of EMI’s publishing
rights to classics such as “New York, New York” and “Stand By
Your Man,” adding to Sony’s portfolio of songs by Elvis
Presley, the Beatles and Bob Dylan. Sony/ATV Music Publishing,
the joint venture formed in 1995 that is co-owned by  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and Michael Jackson’s estate, will oversee the new business.  The EU also asked whether music publishers use their
control over online recording and publishing rights to influence
rates and conditions and if companies that control both recorded
and publishing rights for music tend to get better licensing
deals that earn higher revenues.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on the document. Voice-mail messages left at
the London offices of Sony/ATV Music Publishing weren’t
returned. Richard O’Brien, a spokesman for EMI, declined to
comment.  Righthaven Loses Copyrights It Claimed Others Infringed  Stephens Media Group LLC’s attempt to enforce copyrights
for its newspapers may have backfired on the Las Vegas-based
publishing company.  In 2011, Righthaven LLC filed more than 100 copyright-
infringement suits against people who had posted content from
Stephens’ newspapers on their websites. Courts were generally
unsympathetic to these claims, finding that Righthaven lacked
the standing to pursue infringement claims as Stephens retained
certain aspects of the control of the copyrights.  Righthaven found itself in a progressively more precarious
situation after the court ordered it to pay attorney fees to a
defendant it had sued. The company failed to comply with the
court order, and its Internet domain name was seized and
auctioned off.  On March 5, in federal court in Las Vegas, the court noted
that counsel for Righthaven had failed to appear and that the
clerk’s attempts to contact his office were futile.  The court then transferred all remaining interests
belonging to Righthaven be transferred to the defendant. It
spelled out specifically that this included the copyrights.  This would put the defendant Righthaven sued in the unusual
position of owning the copyright to the content he was said to
have infringed. The court did deny the defendant’s request for
an order known as a “writ of bodily attachment,” which would
have enabled the forced court appearance of Righthaven’s absent
counsel.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Allergan Wins Order Blocking Sales of Merz’s Botox Competitor  Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of Botox injections for cosmetic
purposes, won a court order blocking Merz Pharma GmbH from
selling a rival product after Allergan claimed its trade secrets
were stolen.  U.S. District Judge Andrew J. Guilford in Santa Ana,
 California , issued an injunction March 6 against Merz following
a trial without a jury. Guilford’s written findings and
conclusions will be released March 9 with an order that will
specify the length and terms of the injunction.  Guilford cited “dramatic examples of misappropriation” of
Allergan’s proprietary information, saying he was troubled that
some Allergan employees signed contracts with Merz and then
delayed giving final notice to begin e-mailing company data to
themselves.  Allergan, based in Irvine, California, alleges that Merz,
as it prepared to sell Xeomin for the treatment of certain
muscle spasms in 2010, in competition with Botox, targeted
Allergan sales representatives who brought along confidential
materials, including sales figures and customer lists.  Allergan said in a statement that it was pleased with the
immediate injunction.  Allergan in 2010 sued the German drugmaker and its U.S.
units as well as former Allergan sales representatives who were
hired by Merz. The commercial introduction of Xeomin for
cosmetic use is scheduled for March 12 at the annual meeting of
the American Academy of Dermatology in  San Diego .  Lawyers for Allergan sought a court order blocking the sale
by Merz of any product competing with Botox for one year and
barring the sale of Xeomin to anyone who has been an Allergan
customer. Allergan also seeks the return of trade secrets.  Rick McKnight, an attorney for Merz, said that the judge’s
bench ruling appears to be “encouraging settlement.”  Merz contended in the trial that the materials Allergan
alleges were misappropriated were either not trade secrets,
weren’t confidential, or were never seen or used by Merz
employees.  In his closing argument yesterday, McKnight said the
proposed 12-month ban on Xeomin sales “puts the companies out
of business.”  The case is Allergan v. Merz, 11-00446, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 