-- Santa Terezinha Invests $283 Million in Brazil Ethanol Projects
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-08T19:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/santa-terezinha-invests-283-million-in-brazil-ethanol-projects.html
Usina de Acucar Santa Terezinha
Ltda., a Brazilian ethanol producer, plans to invest 500 million
reais ($283 million) in a mill and sugar-cane plantations as the
country seeks to increase its supply of the renewable fuel.  The company expects to build the first phase of a 300
million-real cane project in the center-west state of Mato
Grosso do Sul by 2015 and will spend another 200 million reais
to develop plantations for its eight existing mills, Sidney
Meneguetti, director of Maringa, Brazil-based Santa Terezinha,
said today in an e-mail.  Brazil ’s government is offering a credit line and drafting
other incentives to spur investment in sugar-cane production,
which has dwindled since the 2008 financial crisis, Meneguetti
said. Ethanol prices reached record highs in April, after
supplies ran low during the annual inter-harvest season when
mills shut down.  “The government is going in the right direction,”
Meneguetti said. “The market is sturdier now than it was three
years ago and prices are better.”  The company will start investing this year in the project,
which it shelved in 2008, using funds from national development
bank Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social and
Fundo Constitucional de Financiamento do Centro-Oeste, a
government fund, he said.  BNDES is offering cane producers a 4 billion-real  credit
line  through a program called Prorenova that the government
expects to spur the development of 1 million hectares (2.5
million) of fields.  Santa Terezinha may start tapping the line for 160 million
reais in April to develop 50,000 hectares, he said.  “Prorenova will play an important role in increasing
supply,” Meneguetti said. “Slowly, investment appetite is
returning.” He said.  Brazil’s government is planning additional measures aimed
at renewing 6.4 million hectares of aging plantations and
developing 5.2 million hectares of new fields, the Ministry of
Agriculture said Feb. 24 on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  