-- Republicans Vow to Continue Push for Keystone XL Oil Pipeline
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/senate-weighs-ban-on-keystone-oil-exports-while-backing-pipeline.html
Senate Republicans vowed to try
again to speed up approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
oil pipeline after falling four votes short of rounding up
enough Democratic support to expedite the project.  The Democrat-led U.S. Senate yesterday narrowly rejected a
Republican amendment to a transportation funding bill that would
have fast-tracked the project. The measure, which received 56
votes in favor, failed because Senate rules require 60 votes to
include the amendment.  Obama lobbied wavering Senate Democrats on the pipeline
proposal before the vote. He urged them to reject the amendment,
which would have overturned his decision to deny a permit for
the pipeline until more environmental reviews are complete.  “If another vehicle pops up, expect a try to put it on
there,” Mike McKenna, an oil industry lobbyist and president of
MWR Strategies Inc. in Washington, said in an e-mail.
“Especially since a bunch of the Democrats are clearly caught
in a bad position on it.”  Obama denied the U.S. State Department permit for the
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline from Hardisty,  Alberta , to
the U.S. Gulf Coast in January. An amendment by Senator John Hoeven, a North Dakota Republican, would have authorized
construction of the project and deemed it in compliance with
environmental regulations.  Republicans will seek “other opportunities” to push the
Keystone pipeline, Hoeven said. “We’re very close to the 60”
votes needed to pass the Senate, he told reporters in Washington
after the vote.  Energy Prices  Republicans, including presidential contenders Mitt Romney
and  Newt Gingrich , said Obama’s denial of Keystone would cost
U.S. construction jobs and lead to higher energy prices. They
criticized the move as a sacrifice of jobs and energy supplies
to please the president’s political allies.  Environmental groups and some labor unions that have
supported Obama in the past oppose the pipeline. Obama called
wavering  Senate Democrats , including members from Midwestern
states where the pipeline would create construction jobs, to
lobby against the Hoeven amendment, according to a Democratic
aide.  The “vote was a temporary victory and there’s no guarantee
that it holds for the long run,”  Bill McKibben , founder of the
environmental group 350.org, said in an e-mail.  Other Republican measures to expand offshore drilling and
delay for years new pollution standards for boilers used in
paper plants and refineries also failed yesterday. A proposal by
Democrats to bar export of Canadian crude carried by Keystone XL
lost with 65 votes in opposition.  The amendments were offered during debate on a
transportation spending bill.  Construction Jobs  “It was very strong work by President Obama himself,
making personal calls to Democrats,” Senator  Richard Lugar , an
Indiana Republican, told reporters after the vote. “He
understood that a majority of the American public and a majority
at least of the Senate are strongly in favor of this project.”  The pipeline project would create about 20,000 temporary
construction jobs, according to TransCanada. The number of
employees needed to operate and maintain the pipeline may be as
few as 20, according to the U.S. State Department, or as many as
a few hundred, according to TransCanada.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, had proposed barring
export of refined products derived from crude carried by the
pipeline unless the president issued a waiver. The measure would
have also required that, to the extent possible, iron and steel
needed to build the pipeline be American-made.  Transportation Bill  Senators reached a deal this week to allow a final vote on
a two-year, $109 billion transportation plan sponsored by
Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat. The Senate will
resume debate on the full bill next week. The House passed
legislation forcing Keystone pipeline approval and opening new
areas to offshore drilling last month.  Republican amendments taken up yesterday included expanding
offshore drilling, proposed by Senator  David Vitter  of
 Louisiana . Vitter’s amendment, which would have opened areas of
the Atlantic, Pacific and Gulf of Mexico off the Florida coast
for oil and natural gas exploration, failed by a vote of 46 to
52, with 60 needed to approve.  Maine Republican Senator  Susan Collins  pushed for a measure
that would halt pending environmental-pollution standards for
boilers used in paper plants and refineries, and delay
implementing new rules for at least five years. With 60 votes
needed, it lost by a vote of 52 to 46.  Pollution Rules  The EPA’s efforts to cut pollution from boilers have been
opposed by paper processors such as  International Paper Co. (IP)  and
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , as well as refiners, manufacturers and some
universities and hospitals. The rule, which may be finalized in
the coming months, will cost $1.5 billion a year, making it one
of the most expensive proposed by the EPA.  EPA administrator  Lisa Jackson  had gone to “substantial
lengths” to address companies’ concerns that they wouldn’t have
enough time to meet the new air pollution requirements, Wyden
said. Boxer said the rules would ensure Americans breathe
cleaner air.  “The Senate chose public health, clean air and clean
energy over the polluter agenda pushed by Republican leaders,”
Scott Slesinger, legislative director at the New York-based
Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement. “These
are major victories that should clear the way for the
transportation bill that should never have been weighed down by
these unrelated issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  