-- Sequoia Capital Invests $10 Million in Online Concert Promoter Songkick
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-08T19:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/sequoia-invests-10-million-in-concert-promoter-songkick-1-.html
Songkick.com Inc. , a provider of
concert information, received a $10 million investment from
venture firm  Sequoia Capital , three months after the service
became available on Spotify Ltd.  Greg McAdoo, a partner at  Menlo Park , California-based
Sequoia, joined closely held Songkick’s board,  Ian Hogarth , co-
founder and chief executive officer, said today in an interview.  The investment, Songkick’s third round of funding, will be
used for product innovation and hiring, Hogarth, 30, said.
Songkick averages 5 million monthly users, behind only  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s Ticketmaster in concert information,
he said. After creating a profile and either entering bands
manually or allowing software to scan music collections, users
are alerted before their favorite bands come to town.  “This is my first company,” Hogarth said. “It’s
incredibly helpful to have people around you who have done it
before and have operational experience.”  The service consolidates concert listings from
Ticketmaster, Anschutz Entertainment Group and other promoters
and provides alerts of shows to users. Songkick is paid referral
fees when users buy tickets to shows.  After signing up for Songkick, which is a free service,
users usually buy tickets to double the number of shows, Hogarth
said, citing internal data.  “A big opportunity exists to improve the concert-going
experience for both artists and fans,” McAdoo said in an e-
mailed statement. “Songkick is just getting started and we
share their long-term vision for innovating in the  music
industry .”  First on Spotify  Traffic has been climbing since London-based Songkick added
a program on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App Store, which was downloaded
100,000 times in the 10 days after its release, and being one of
the first programs to work on Spotify’s music service.  “It’s a good start,” said Hogarth, who has a master’s
degree in machine learning from  Cambridge University . “We’re
getting to a meaningful level of scale where the audience on
Songkick is big enough for more disruptive innovation.”  After Cambridge, Hogarth worked at Bain & Co. in  Singapore ,
where he also began DJ-ing hip-hop, funk, drum & bass and grime
shows. He left Bain to start Songkick in 2007 with Michelle You,
chief product officer, and Pete Smith, chief operating officer.  “Concerts shouldn’t be a niche activity, where someone
goes once a year to see a band,” Hogarth said. “It should be a
regular activity in their lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  