-- Serbian Central Bank Holds Benchmark Rate Amid Dinar Weakness
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-08T11:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/serbian-central-bank-holds-benchmark-rate-amid-dinar-weakness.html
Serbia’s central bank left  interest
rates  unchanged for a second month amid concern that further
monetary  easing  may trigger further dinar weakness after the
currency lost 5 percent to the euro since the start of February.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije kept its  two-week
repurchase rate  at 9.5 percent, meeting the expectations of 11
of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Six predicted a quarter-
point cut and two saw a half-point decrease. Four respondents
expected an increase by 50 basis points.  “Any further cuts would trigger additional depreciation of
the dinar and that’s the bottom line,” Ljiljana Grubic , chief
analyst with Raiffeisenbank AD in Belgrade, said by phone before
the decision. “A lower benchmark interest rate won’t encourage
dinar lending in an economy which is 80 percent euroized.”  Serbia  is trying to avoid a second recession in three years
before the nation holds parliamentary elections. Serbia’s
currency started weakening after a dispute with the
 International Monetary Fund  over government finances led to a
freeze in the country’s $1.3 billion precautionary loan program
with the lender.  The central bank has faced calls from the government to
curb the dinar’s volatility. The unit is the fifth-worst
performer among 176 currencies tracked by Bloomberg since the
start of February. The bank has spent 238.5 million euros
($313.5 million) this year so far to curb the declines. Any drop
in the currency raises memories of past bouts of hyper-inflation
during the 1990s, a decade of Balkan wars and international
sanctions.  Election Spending  Investors are also concerned the government will step up
spending before voting, which must take place before mid-May, to
spark growth and employment in a year when economic growth is
expected to slow to 0.5 percent from 1.9 percent in 2011,
according to central bank forecasts.  Serbian policy makers are weighing the domestic fiscal
situation and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis for future
direction. Declining capital inflows, along with fiscal
expansion, are taking away room for a rate cut made by slowing
inflation, Bosko Zivkovic, the central bank’s advisory board
chairman, said on March 6.  The central bank targets inflation in a 2.5 percent to 5.5
percent band at the end of the year. Consumer-price growth
slowed to 5.6 percent in January from 7 percent in December and
weak domestic demand may push it below the lower end of the band
by April, according to the bank’s quarterly inflation report.  Inflation may slow to 5.5 percent at the end of March and
climb to 5.8 percent one year from now, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists ahead of the rate decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  