-- Shell, Southwestern Say Low Prices May Slow Gas Output Expansion
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/shell-southwestern-say-low-prices-may-slow-gas-output-expansion.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, and U.S. natural-gas producers said low
prices may slow an expansion in  North American (PAL)  onshore shale
production.  Shell will keep spending “on the lower end” of last
year’s $3 billion to $5 billion range if market conditions don’t
improve,  Marvin Odum , president of the company’s North American
operations, said in an interview yesterday.  “It wasn’t so long ago that gas prices were still at a
level where everybody was drilling almost as fast as you could
reasonably make it happen,” said Odum, who was attending
CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates. Now companies are starting to react “to
where the prices are,” he said.  Surging output due to drilling advances in U.S. shale
formations and a mild winter have pushed gas prices to a 10-year
low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. gas
production climbed 6.5 percent to a record 28.6 trillion cubic
feet in 2011, according to Energy Department data. Some of the
largest gas producers in the U.S., including  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , have announced plans to curtail gas production in
response to low prices.  “We need to learn how to live in a $2 or $3 price
environment,”  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  Chief Executive Officer
Steven Mueller said at the CERA conference.  If gas drops to $1.50 per million British thermal units,
“it’s impossible to drill dry gas,” Mueller said.  Southwestern is the largest producer in Arkansas’
Fayetteville Shale field.  Writing Down Assets  Gas for February delivery fell 5.4 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to $2.302 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest settlement price since
Feb. 15, 2002. U.S. inventories were 45 percent above the five-
year average for the week ended Feb. 24, the biggest gap since
June 2006.  Some producers may be forced to write down the value of
their assets by the middle of the year if gas prices stay low,
Mueller said.  QEP Resources Inc. (QEP) , a Denver-based producer, is cutting
spending in the Haynesville Shale and soon expects to stop
drilling at the Louisiana field, CEO  Charles Stanley  said in an
interview at CERA.  The Haynesville formation, in Louisiana and Texas, is the
“biggest culprit” to the oversupply of gas, he said.  Peter Voser , CEO of The Hague-based Shell, said gas prices
may climb to a low end of $4 to $6 in a few years.  Exporting Natural Gas  With prices for the heating fuel at its current lows, Shell
wants to wrest more value from gas by using it to produce
chemicals, other fuels or turning it into liquid form for
potential export, said Odum.  Exports of liquefied  natural gas (UNG)  from the U.S. are possible
as customers seek supplies, said Rob Bryngelson, CEO at
Excelerate Energy LP, a company based in The Woodlands, Texas,
which provides services for liquefied natural-gas operations.
Excelerate is considering building a liquefaction facility in
 North America , which chills gas into liquid, by 2016 or 2017, he
said.  “You’re going to see U.S. gas prices go up,” Bryngelson
said. “They have to. That’s just simple supply and demand.
There’s so much supply, but it’s outstripping demand to the
point where it’s suppressing prices below a sustainable level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  