-- Silicor Agrees to Deliver 40% of Polysilicon Output to Suntech
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-03-08T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/silicor-agrees-to-deliver-40-of-polysilicon-output-to-suntech.html
Silicor Materials Inc., the closely
held company previously known as Calisolar Inc., will sell
 Suntech Power Holding Co. (STP)  40 percent of the polysilicon it will
make at a planned  Mississippi  factory.  Silicor Materials has signed a memorandum of understanding
with Wuxi, China-based Suntech, according to a statement today.
Construction on the $600 million plant in Lowndes County will
start in mid-2012 and it’s expected to reach full production of
16,000 metric tons a year in 2014, Silicor Chief Executive
Officer Terry Jester said in an interview.  Silicor is seeking to deliver polysilicon for less than $20
a kilogram, Jester said. The spot price of polysilicon has
fallen more than 60 percent in the past year as global
production climbed and demand slowed, to about  $29 a kilogram ,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “We have the lowest cost structure in the industry,”
Jester said yesterday. “We’ve positioned our material for what
our customers need, not just in terms of price but
performance.”  Suntech, the world’s largest maker of solar panels, already
uses polysilicon that Sunnyvale, California-based Silicor
Materials produces at a plant in  Canada .  The company is changing its name as part of an effort to
focus on materials, according to the statement. It’s selling
equipment from a plant that made solar cells in Sunnyvale as it
exits that market. The company will continue to sell aluminum
products, such as master alloys and polyaluminum chloride.  It received a $94 million package of loans, grants and
infrastructure incentives from Lowndes County and the state of
Mississippi to build the new plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  