-- Simon Property Widens Overseas Reach With Klepierre Transaction in Europe
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-08T18:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/simon-property-widens-overseas-reach-with-klepierre-transaction-in-europe.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  is making
its biggest purchase since 2010 by buying a stake in European
shopping center operator  Klepierre (LI)  SA as it increases its
investments outside the U.S.  Simon, the largest U.S. mall owner, agreed to acquire 28.7
percent of Klepierre from  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  for about 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion), the Indianapolis-based company said in a
statement today. The 28-euro-a-share deal will be the company’s
largest transaction since its $2.3 billion purchase of U.S.
landlord Prime Outlets Acquisition Co., in August 2010.  “Part of the reason they’re looking internationally is
because there aren’t a lot of near-term growth opportunities in
the U.S. outside of buying a public competitor,” John Sheehan,
an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a
telephone interview. “They’re taking a pretty large ownership
in this entity.”  Simon often enters joint ventures or acquires stakes in
companies when doing deals -- such as its equity investment in
the U.K.’s  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG) , a mall owner it
unsuccessfully attempted to buy last year -- and at times has
been rebuffed in its attempts to make outright purchases of
other retail landlords.  The largest U.S. real estate investment trust made a bid
for  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-biggest U.S. mall
owner, after the Chicago-based company filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in April 2009.  Simon got into a takeover fight for General Growth against
an investor group that included  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM) 
and William Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP. The
investor group prevailed and committed more than $8 billion to
bring General Growth out of Chapter 11 in 2010.  Acquisition Attempts  “They’ve tried to buy a number of their competitors over
the years,” said Sheehan, who has a hold rating on Simon’s
shares. “In the U.S., they’ve had different levels of
success.”  Simon had scaled back its European presence by selling
stakes in ventures in France, Italy and Poland. The company said
today that it doesn’t plan to buy any more Klepierre shares. The
Paris-based retail owner, developer and manager has 271 shopping
centers in 13 countries. About half the properties are in France
and Belgium, and a fourth are in Scandinavia.  “We have long been admirers of Klepierre, its pan-European
footprint and growth potential,” Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  said in today’s statement. He will become the chairman of
Klepierre’s nine-member supervisory board, and  Simon Property 
will appoint two other members.  International Moves  The Klepierre deal is “a very big move” for Simon, said
 Rich Moore , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Solon, Ohio.
He rates the U.S. company’s shares outperform, meaning that he
expects the stock’s return to exceed the average among its
peers. “It tells you Simon’s next big moves are really
international.”  Simon also agreed today to purchase joint-venture partner
Farallon Capital Management LLC’s stakes in 26 malls across the
U.S. in a transaction valued at about $1.5 billion, including
loan repayments. The two acquisitions will immediately add to
funds from operations, a cash-flow measure used by REITs, Simon
said. FFO this year will be $7.35 to $7.50 a share, the company
said. That’s higher than a February forecast of $7.20 to $7.30.  The mall owner will issue 7 million shares of common stock
and three new series of senior unsecured notes with a combined
principal of $1.5 billion to help fund the two deals, it said in
a separate statement today.  Shares Outperform Index  Simon fell 1.8 percent to $135.80 as of 1:24 p.m. in New
York. The shares have increased 30 percent in the past year
through yesterday, more than the 6.9 percent gain in the
Bloomberg REIT  Index. (BBREIT)   Analysts have 17 buy recommendations on Simon shares, eight
holds and no sell ratings, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lazard Ltd., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Goldman, Sachs
& Co. served as financial advisers to Simon on the Klepierre
transaction. Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised Simon on the
U.S. purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  