-- Singh Seeks Record Dividend From Companies With $27 Billion
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-03-09T10:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/singh-seeks-record-dividend-from-resources-companies-with-27-billion-cash.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  is set to
lead India’s top state resources companies in paying a record
dividend as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  seeks to use part of
their $27 billion cash hoard to fund his government’s deficit.  Eight energy, mining and metals companies will likely pay
at least 157.1 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to the government
for the year ending March 31, based on interim payouts and
Bloomberg forecasts for special and final dividends. That’s 6.7
percent higher than the amount that ONGC,  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ,  Oil
India Ltd. (OINL) ,  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , NTPC Ltd.,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd.  and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  paid
in the previous fiscal year.  Singh’s government has asked its companies to increase
dividends and buy back shares for the first time as it struggles
to raise money by paring stakes in some of them. It received
$2.5 billion this month selling a 5 percent interest in ONGC,
with investors bidding for fewer shares than offered.  India ’s
 budget deficit  topped the target for the year in the 10 months
through January, adding pressure for steps to restrain the gap.  The government is “apparently using public sector
undertakings as piggy banks,” said Seth Freeman, San Francisco-
based chief executive officer at EM Capital Management LLC,
which manages assets in  emerging markets  including India and
 China . “It is becoming an activist shareholder by asking
companies for higher dividends and to buy back shares.”  Board Meetings  ONGC Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva and Coal India finance
director Asok Kumar Sinha didn’t answer two calls each to their
mobile phones seeking comment. Finance Ministry spokesman D.S.
Malik wasn’t available in his office for comment after two
attempts to reach him by telephone.  The board of Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of
the commodity, is scheduled to meet March 12 to vote on a
midyear payout. The Kolkata-based company may declare an interim
dividend of  4 rupees  a share, according to Bloomberg forecasts,
matching the previous year’s total payout. Investors holding
Coal India shares as of March 17 will get the dividend.  New Delhi-based ONGC’s board meets March 15 to decide on a
second interim dividend after approving an initial payout of
6.25 rupees a share on Jan. 4. Bloomberg forecasts the country’s
biggest oil and gas explorer may pay an additional 4.25 rupees.
It paid a total of 8.75 rupees in the previous year. The payout
will be made to ONGC shareholders as of March 20.  Final Dividends  Coal India gained 2.8 percent to 336.05 rupees in Mumbai
trading, the biggest increase since Jan. 25. ONGC rose 1.4
percent, while the benchmark Sensitive Index advanced 2.1
percent. Bharat Heavy climbed 2.8 percent, Steel Authority 4.3
percent, NTPC 2 percent and Oil India 0.1 percent.  Coal India and ONGC are also likely to declare final
dividends after they report full-year earnings in May, said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a strategist at SMC  Global Securities
Ltd. (GLBS)  in  New Delhi . He expects the government to exceed the
dividend collection target for the year by at least 100 billion
rupees, or 43 percent.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to cut the budget
deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal,
the lowest in four years.  Slowing economic growth  has reduced
revenue and a 25 percent drop in the benchmark  stock index  last
year hampered his plan to raise 400 billion rupees selling
shares in state-run companies.  Curbing Growth  Mukherjee is due to present the budget statement for the
year starting April 1 to Parliament on March 16.  “The government is desperate for funds,” said Pauli Laursen, an Aabenraa, Denmark-based fund manager at SydInvest
Asset Management, who manages about $700 million shares of BRIC
companies, including Indian state-run firms. While “dividends
would be the best way to get money as it benefits minority
shareholders,” higher payouts may curb investments and growth
of the companies and the country, he said.  ONGC plans to spend 1.64 trillion rupees in the five years
to March 2017, 31 percent higher than in the preceding five
years, to raise oil and gas output, Chairman Vasudeva said Feb.
1. The company is India’s biggest by net income in the past 12
months, followed by  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Coal India,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deficit Target  The explorer had 274.4 billion rupees of cash and
equivalents as of Sept. 30. Coal India holds the largest cash
hoard among state-run companies, excluding banks, with  549.8
billion rupees .  Oil India, the second-biggest state explorer, has announced
two  midyear dividends  totaling 35 rupees a share, its highest
payout to date. NTPC, the nation’s biggest electricity
generator, agreed to pay 3.5 rupees a share, its highest interim
dividend, on Jan. 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the budget for the current fiscal presented last year,
Mukherjee anticipated  234.9 billion rupees  in dividend payouts,
which was 9.6 percent lower than the estimated 259.8 billion
rupees collected in the previous year. He said Jan. 11 it will
be “difficult” for the government to achieve its deficit
target for the year.  At a Jan. 12 meeting in New Delhi, the  Finance Ministry 
asked chiefs of state companies to increase payouts, according
to a ministry official with direct knowledge of the matter.  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 6.1 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31, the slowest pace in more than two
years. Growth slowed for fourth straight quarter as domestic
demand weakened and the global recovery faltered.  “The government will try and make up a lot of the
shortfall from stake sales through higher dividends,” SMC
Global’s Thunuguntla said. “ONGC and Coal India are becoming
the government’s ATM cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  