-- Singapore Watchdog’s Help Sought by Others in Libor Probe
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-03-09T08:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/singapore-regulator-gets-international-requests-for-help-on-libor-probes.html
The  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
said regulators elsewhere sought its help with probes into the
possible manipulation of global  interest rates .  “MAS is aware of investigations into possible manipulation
of interbank rates by other regulators and has received requests
for assistance from some,” the  Singapore  central bank said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News. It didn’t identify the regulators involved.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate rates including the London interbank
offered rate, the basis for $360 trillion of securities
worldwide. The probes have called into question whether the
banks can be trusted to set the rates with minimal regulatory
oversight.  “MAS will also work with the relevant authorities to act
on any suspected manipulation” by Singapore-based financial
institutions or individuals, the regulator said. “MAS will
assist where it is appropriate to do so.”  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
 Justice Department  said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public on March 6. The Feb. 27 letter is the first public
acknowledgment by the department of the criminal probe. European
watchdogs are also scrutinizing potential collusion between
firms involved in trading derivatives based on the rate.  Singapore Case  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  are among banks that have said they’ve received
requests for information from regulators.  In Singapore, RBS has been accused of using an internal
probe into Libor manipulation to find scapegoats after condoning
such behavior. Tan Chi Min, a trader fired by the Edinburgh-
based lender, made the allegations in court documents last
month.  Tan said he and at least seven of his colleagues were
regularly consulted on the bank’s yen Libor submissions by rate-
setters and senior managers, according to the complaint filed
with the Singapore High Court.  RBS said it fired Tan because he tried to improperly
influence the bank’s rate setters from 2007 to 2011 to persuade
them to offer Libor submissions that would benefit his trading
positions, according to the bank’s court papers in January.  Japan’s Interbank Rate  The Japanese Bankers Association said Feb. 16 it may take
measures to improve the way it compiles the nation’s key
interbank lending rate, known as the Tibor.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were ordered by  Japan ’s Financial
Services Agency in December to suspend some derivative
transactions after the regulator found that staff at the firms
attempted to influence interbank lending rates.  John Lim, an external spokesman at the  Association of Banks
in Singapore , declined to comment today.  The association, which compiles the Singapore interbank
rate, had said there was “little chance” of banks colluding to
manipulate the rate, the Business Times reported on Feb. 17,
citing the group’s director Ong-Ang Ai Boon. The association has
no plans to change the way it computes Sibor, according to the
newspaper report.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in which
banks are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 different time periods, from overnight to one
year. A predetermined number of quotes are excluded and those
left are averaged and published for individual currencies before
noon.  Questions about the accuracy of the benchmark were first
raised by the  Bank for International Settlements , the central
bank for central banks, in a March 2008 report that indicated
lenders were “wary of revealing” information that could signal
they were struggling to borrow funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  