-- Slovenia Proposes to Limit Debt After EU Fiscal Pact Adoption
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-08T14:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/slovenia-proposes-to-limit-debt-after-eu-fiscal-pact-adoption.html
Slovenia proposed legislation that
would put the goal of a balanced budget into the constitution as
the nation seeks to incorporate the European Union fiscal treaty
on tighter spending into domestic law.  “The government adopted a legislative proposal to change a
provision in the constitution that would command a balanced
budget or a surplus without the need for borrowing,” Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic told reporters in Ljubljana today.
“Exceptions would be allowed under specific circumstances like
natural disasters and the new rules would come into force in
2015.”  Slovenia initiated the process of constitutional changes to
limit public debt under the outgoing administration of Borut Pahor in January as yields on its benchmark bonds rose to a
record on investors’ concern over the debt-crisis in  Europe .  Slovenia, whose economy slid into recession in the last
quarter of 2011, wants to allay investors unease over its debt,
which more than doubled since 2007 when the country introduced
the euro. The nation’s borrowing costs on the benchmark bond
surged to over 7 percent in November as the crisis threatened
 Italy , its western neighbor and the country’s third-biggest
trading partner after Germany and  Austria .  The yield on the notes maturing in January 2021 has fallen
since and was at 5.018 percent at 3 p.m. in Ljubljana, according
to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  European leaders on March 2 signed a German-inspired
deficit-control treaty that is meant to put  government spending 
under control to avoid similar crises that started in  Greece 
more than two years ago. All 17 countries in the euro region and
eight outside signed the treaty, which mandates automatic
corrections of deficits that stray from targets. It is due to
take effect on Jan. 1, 2013.  Slovenia’s public debt advanced to 47.4 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of last year, Sustersic said
yesterday. The debt level was at 23 percent in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  