-- Smoking Decline in Young Adults Slowing: Report
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-08T21:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/smoking-decline-in-young-adults-slowing-u-s-report-finds.html
One in three young adults is a
cigarette smoker, according to a U.S. Surgeon General’s  report 
that says a decline in tobacco use among youth has slowed in
recent years.  Prevention efforts must focus on this demographic because
surveys have shown that 88 percent of adult smokers were
introduced to the habit by the time they were age 18, according
to today’s report by Surgeon General Regina Benjamin. More than
3.6 million students smoke cigarettes, the report found.  About 30 percent of young smokers will quit, the report
found, while half of those that continue will die from tobacco-
related causes. Smoking early in life carries substantial risk,
including cardiovascular damage and reduced lung function,
according to the report.  “Targeted marketing encourages more young people to take
up this deadly addiction every day,” Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , said in a statement. “This
administration is committed to doing everything we can to
prevent our children from using tobacco.”  A substantial minority of youth believe smoking controls
body weight though there’s little evidence the assumption is
true, according to the study’s authors. While there is evidence
for lowered weight among smokers after age 35, there is no
relationship in smokers who are younger.  ‘Wakeup Call’  “This report underscores the critical importance of
preventing tobacco use among youth and young adults,” Charles
Connor, president and chief executive officer of the American
Lung Association, said in a statement. “This is a wakeup call
to all policymakers and community leaders that tobacco addiction
is a vicious and deadly cycle.”  The report reveals “startling new information” on the
immediate health effects on young people,  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement. The city’s 10-year tobacco
control effort has included taxes, hard-hitting public education
campaigns and smoke-free air laws. Youth smoking in New York is
at its lowest recorded levels, according to the statement.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Effective interventions include higher taxes on cigarette
and smoke-free policies. Spending on marketing and promoting
tobacco products exceeds $1 million an hour, or $27 million a
day, in the U.S., according to a press release on the report by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  One of Five Deaths  Cigarette smoking remains the leading cause of preventable
death in the U.S., accounting for about 443,000 fatalities, or
about one out of every five deaths, in the U.S. each year,
according to the report. The lung damage from tobacco use can be
permanent, causes shortness of breath immediately and increased
risk of pulmonary diseases later in life  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris USA , U.S. Smokeless
Tobacco and John Middleton aim marketing at adults, according to
a statement from Richmond, Virginia-based company.  “We agree that with the surgeon general and others that
kids should not use tobacco products,” according to the
statement. “While significant progress has been made in
reducing underage tobacco use over time, we agree that more work
needs to be done.”  Philip Morris USA has made tobacco settlement agreement
payments of more than $55 billion to the states since 1997. The
states have available funds to spend more than $65 million per
day on programs to discourage underage use yet only spend about
$1 million per day, according to the statement.  The last such report on tobacco consumption by young adults
was in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  