-- Solar Shipments Rise as Prices Fall to ‘Unsustainable’ Levels
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-03-08T18:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/solar-shipments-rise-as-prices-fall-to-unsustainable-levels.html
Solar manufacturers expect shipments
to increase this year as a global glut drives prices to
“unsustainable” levels.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar panel
company, expects shipments of as much as 2.5 gigawatts this
year, up 19 percent from 2.09 gigawatts in 2011, according to a
statement today.  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  said yesterday that
shipments will increase as much as 51 percent to 2 gigawatts.  Profits won’t rise at the same pace because solar-panel
 prices  fell 50 percent last year, squeezing gross margins to 9.9
percent in the fourth quarter at Suntech, from 17 percent a year
earlier.  Jinko Solar Holding Co. (JKS)  reported today gross margin of
negative 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, compared to 29
percent a year earlier.  “The challenge is profitability,” Suntech Chief Executive
Officer Zhengrong Shi said during a conference call. “Excess
capacity in the global industry has pushed the international
solar companies to sell at unsustainable pricing levels in an
effort generate cash and maintain viability.”  The growth in shipments will be driven in part by demand in
 China , where total installations may more than double to 5
gigawatts this year, Shi said.  Suntech, based in Wuxi, China, posted a net loss of $136.9
million, or 76 cents an American depositary receipt, in the
fourth quarter. That’s more than double the 33-cent loss
analysts were expecting, the average of 7 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Each Suntech ADR is worth one ordinary share.  ‘Unprofitable’ Solar Companies  Jinko’s net  loss  was $58.3 million, or $2.58 an ADR. Each
ADR for the Jiangxi, China-based company is worth four ordinary
shares.  Canadian Solar’s net loss was $59.9 million, or $1.39 a
share. The company is based in Kitchener,  Canada , and most of
its production is in China.  “What we are seeing is optimistic manufacturers continue
to expand, but they are unprofitable,”  Jesse Pichel , an analyst
at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York , said in an interview
yesterday. “What these companies should be doing is raising
prices and taking lower volume, while writing off low end lines
or product.”  Suntech is seeking to boost margins by cutting expenses.
“Driving down production costs is our top priority in 2012,”
Shi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  