-- South Africa Exchange to Start Cape-Wheat Contracts After Decade
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-03-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/south-africa-exchange-to-start-cape-wheat-contracts-after-decade.html
The South African Futures Exchange
plans to reintroduce contracts for wheat grown in the Western
Cape province, the area that produces 37 percent of the nation’s
grain, which may boost prices that farmers receive.  Trading will start in April or May for futures expiring in
December, Chris Sturgess, general manager of commodities
derivatives at the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange , which runs
Safex, said by phone from the city.  Safex introduced Cape-wheat futures in February 1999 and
again in July 2000, halting them both times as volumes were 3.3
percent of all contracts traded, the National Agricultural
Marketing Council said in  a 2009 report . Some growers in the
province say they are disadvantaged by how transport costs are
factored into contracts due to their distance from Randfontein
in the northern Gauteng province, the point from which the so-
called location differential is calculated, it said.  “As farmers in the Cape we are happy about the contract;
it will be an opportunity to see if there will be a difference
in pricing,” Koos Blanckenberg, the lead managing member for
Grain SA in the region, said by phone on March 6. “It could be
the same price, it could be cheaper, in which case it will bring
extra money in the pocket.”  Producers in the Western Cape have as much as 415 rand
($54) a ton deducted from the amount they’re paid, while farmers
who are closer to Randfontein forfeit less, Safex figures on  the
JSE’s website  show. The Free State province, which is closer to
Randfontein, is the biggest production region in  South Africa 
after the Western Cape.  Location Differentials  The differential is applied to sunflower-seed, corn and
wheat contracts to reflect the cost of moving stock from any
Safex-registered silo in the country to Randfontein. The traded
price is referred to as a Randfontein price, and the amount the
purchaser pays is reduced by an estimate of how much it costs to
transport the grain to Randfontein from the silo the buyer was
allocated, the JSE said.  Cape wheat’s “reference point will be Paarl and it will be
delivered anywhere in the Western Cape and-or the Free State --
this has yet to be finalized,” Safex’s Sturgess said. “The
silo owners will make the decision as to where exactly it must
be delivered.” Paarl is 55 kilometers (34 miles) from  Cape
Town .  The nation is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s largest wheat producer
and the region’s third-biggest importer of the grain after
Nigeria and  Sudan , according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
data on Bloomberg.  South African Output  South African wheat futures have fallen 6.6 percent in the
past 12 months, trading at 2,798 rand a ton on March 8. U.S.
wheat has declined 17 percent over the same period.  The nation produced 1.43 million tons of wheat in the 12
months through September, the smallest crop since 1992,
according to Grain SA. The country’s Crop Estimates Committee
raised its estimate for this season’s harvest by 3 percent, with
farmers expected to reap 1.91 million tons, it said Feb. 28.  “It will be a good thing to have the contract as it will
free up transport negotiation costs as it will now be closer to
us,” Hendrik Visser, a wheat farmer in the Western Cape, said
in a March 7 interview.  The JSE’s agricultural advisory committee last year said
that doing away with the location-differential system could
increase risk in the market, which would lead to the lowering of
finance available to the industry, according to  a July 29
statement . Transparency on how the differential is calculated
could be improved, it said.  “We are happy about it being reintroduced because the Cape
wheat producers requested it and we feel that there has been an
improvement in liquidity and that the contract is at a mature
stage,” Jannie de Villiers, the chief executive officer of
Grain SA, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  