-- South Africa Rand Gains Second Day as Stocks, Commodities Rally on Greece
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-08T14:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/south-africa-rand-gains-second-day-as-stocks-commodities-rally-on-greece.html
The rand gained for a second day and
bond yields fell to the lowest in more than two weeks as  Greece 
moved closer to a debt-swap deal, whetting investors’ appetite
for riskier assets including South Africa’s stocks and bonds.  South Africa’s currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 7.5337
per dollar as of 3:33 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the
nation’s 77 billion rand ($10 billion) of 6.75 percent bonds due
2021 dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
7.82 percent, the lowest since Feb. 20. Bond risk declined for
the first time in four days.  Investors with about 60 percent of eligible Greek bonds
indicated they will participate in the world’s biggest sovereign
debt restructuring. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  gained
for a second day as the prices of industrial metals including
copper and nickel surged. The euro advanced against the dollar
and yen as demand for refuge currencies waned.  “Today is a complete risk-on day; the euro is much
stronger, and equity markets are doing relatively well,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest
Bank Ltd., which runs  South Africa ’s largest chain of money
changers, said by phone. “Everybody is now hoping that this
Greek issue will be resolved.”  The rand held onto gains after Statistics South Africa said
manufacturing grew 2.4 percent in January, unchanged from the
previous month. A separate report by Rand Merchant Bank showed
the nation’s business confidence rose the most in two years in
the first quarter.  “We view the data as having a positive bearing on the
currency, from a growth differential perspective,” Shireen Darmalingam, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Rand participants
continue to take their cue from international developments.”  German Data  German industrial output rose more than economists’
forecasts in January, suggesting the euro-area’s largest economy
is weathering the region’s debt crisis.  The  European Central
Bank  kept its benchmark rate at a record low 1 percent today, as
forecast by 56 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro area buys 22 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data for 2011. Raw materials account for
65 percent of South Africa’s exports. The nation has the world’s
biggest mineral reserves, according to Citigroup Inc.  “Market fears have receded slightly,”  John Cairns  and
Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The better
environment is reflected in the rand. Our overall sense is that
the latest market sell-off has run its course.”  Resistance Level  The rand could strengthen to “the lower-7.40s” per dollar
if it breaches 7.50, a significant resistance level to further
gains, De Vleeschauwer said. Resistance levels are  price levels 
where traders cluster orders to sell a currency or security.  Foreign investors bought a net 3.1 billion rand of South
African  stocks  and  bonds  in the first three days of this week,
up from 753 million rand last week, according to JSE Ltd., which
runs the nation’s bond and stock exchanges.  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent
bonds due 2024 rose three basis points to 4.15 percent. The
premium investors demand to hold the debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries was unchanged at 216 basis points.  Credit default swaps on South Africa’s foreign-currency
sovereign bonds dropped 1.6 basis points to 163.8, according to
CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  