-- Stanford Jury Weighs $300 Million Seizure After Guilty Verdict
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/stanford-jury-weighs-300-million-seizure-after-guilty-verdict.html
R. Allen Stanford’s jury, after
finding the  Texas  financier guilty of leading a $7 billion
international fraud, is now deliberating whether he should
forfeit $330 million in assets sought by federal prosecutors.  The jury of eight men and four women two days ago convicted
Stanford on 13 of 14 charges including four wire fraud counts
and five mail fraud counts carrying maximum penalties of 20
years in prison. No sentencing date has been set.  The forfeiture trial started about 2 1/2 hours after jurors
returned their guilty verdict. They deliberated for about 15
minutes yesterday after hearing closing arguments from both
sides and will resume their consideration of the evidence today.  “Three hundred, thirty million dollars, that’s what’s at
stake here today, $330 million obtained through the sale of
certificates of deposits,” Justice Department lawyer Andrew
Warren told jurors as he summarized evidence they were shown in
the second proceeding.  That money, he said, remained the proceeds of Stanford’s
criminal acts regardless of what it was used to buy or where it
was deposited and under whose name it was deposited.  Stanford, the founder of Houston-based Stanford Financial
Group, denied federal government allegations that he lied to
investors about the nature and oversight of the certificates of
deposit issued by the bank and sold in U.S. by his securities
firm, Stanford Group Co.  ‘Belongs to the Victims’  Stanford funds now held in the U.K., Switzerland,  Canada 
and Antigua belong to his bank depositors, Warren told the jury
March 6 at the outset of the proceeding.  “It includes the SocGen slush fund about which you’ve
heard a lot about already,” Warren said, referring to money
held at a Swiss unit of Paris-based  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  “Every
single dollar the U.S. is seeking is CD depositors’ money that
stems from Mr. Stanford’s crimes and belongs to the victims of
his fraud.”  U.S. District Judge David Hittner had told the jury that
they must unanimously agree upon whether funds on deposit in
each of the 29 accounts at issue were proceeds of Stanford’s
wire fraud, mail fraud or conspiracy to commit those crimes, and
if so, how much of that money was stolen from investors.  Defense attorney Ali Fazel, in his closing comments, told
the jury prosecutors didn’t meet their burden.  ‘Don’t Assume It’  “They’re wanting you to make the leap again,” the defense
lawyer said, reprising a theme he sounded in his closing after
the criminal trial. “They want you to assume that all of it is
CD money. I’m asking you not to do that. Don’t assume it.”  “Fifty percent of a prosecutor’s job is to obtain the
conviction,” said Paul Pelletier, a former Stanford prosecutor
who is now with Boston-based  Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky &
Popeo PC (1367L) . “The other 50 percent is to recover for the victims,
and forfeiture goes a long way towards that goal.”  The jury must find that specific Stanford assets were
obtained with criminal proceeds in order to force him to give
them up, Pelletier said. Funds recovered through this process
will be returned to Stanford fraud victims.  U.S. Postal Inspector Clayton Gerber yesterday traced the
flow of money from Stanford investors to accounts in  Switzerland 
and, ultimately, to a bank in the  Cook Islands  near  New Zealand ,
where they were held in what Gerber identified as the Baby Mama
Trust.  Home Sales  The trust held proceeds from the 2009 sale of a Key
Biscayne,  Florida , home owned by Rebecca Reeves-Stanford, with
whom the financier had two out-of-wedlock children.  Gerber said that home was bought in 2005 with money from
the sale of a Boca Raton home that Stanford purchased for
Reeves-Stanford in 2002 for $1.1 million using CD holders’ money
transferred to a Swiss bank account.  On cross-examination by co-lead defense counsel Ali Fazel,
Gerber said he didn’t have opening balances for all of the bank
accounts about which he testified. While some of those accounts
were opened before 2000, his review only reached back to about
that year, he said.  “Aren’t you making assumptions as to what monies were
there to begin with?” Fazel asked.  “No,” the postal inspector said.  As the Houston jury heard forfeiture evidence, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  issued a ruling reiterating that
it will maintain its March 2 order freezing $55 million that,
while belonging to the Libyan government, is sought by the
Stanford receiver appointed by a federal judge in Dallas.  Qaddafi’s Investment  The ousted Libyan regime of Col.  Muammar Qaddafi  had been a
Stanford investor. Receiver Ralph Janvey sued to gain control of
the funds last year, arguing they were ill-gotten gain. U.S.
District Judge David Godbey in Dallas, who appointed Janvey in
2009, last month ruled the receiver hadn’t proved the likelihood
of success needed to warrant an injunction barring withdrawal of 
the funds by the  Libyan Investment Authority .  Janvey appealed and obtained an order reimposing an asset
freeze. The appellate court, while maintaining the status quo,
said yesterday that all briefing must be completed by April 23.
It hasn’t set a date for argument in the case  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  