-- Starbucks to Sell Green Mountain-Rival Brewer This Year
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-08T22:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/starbucks-to-sell-green-mountain-rival-coffee-brewer-this.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, plans to introduce a new single-cup brewer
this year at a time when the Keurig coffee machines made by
 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  already face new rivals.  The Verismo machine will make espresso-based beverages and
brewed coffee, Seattle-based Starbucks said today in a
statement. Starbucks said it will advertise and sell the machine
and single-cup pods through a “strategic relationship” with
closely held Krueger GmbH.  Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  has sought to boost
sales with single-serving beverages that customers can brew at
home. Last year, Starbucks began selling Via instant-coffee
packets in  China  and signed a deal with Green Mountain to sell
K-Cup capsules for  Green Mountain ’s Keurig brewer.  In November, grocery and mass retail stores began selling
Starbucks and Tazo tea brand K-Cups. Starbucks can build a
“billion-dollar business” with its single-serve segment,
Schultz said during a conference call on Jan. 26.  “The premium single-cup segment is the fastest-growing
business within the global coffee industry,” Schultz said in
today’s statement.  Starbucks rose 3.8 percent to $52.28 at 5:03 p.m. in  New
York  after climbing 1.8 percent during regular trading. The
 shares  advanced 43 percent last year. Green Mountain tumbled 21
percent to $49.40.  ‘Happy Partner’  Keurig’s low-pressure brewers and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s
Tassimo machines are the only ones “in which Starbucks can
participate in North America,” Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe
Starbucks is a very happy partner within the Keurig K-Cup
platform,” she said.  The Verismo is focused on high-pressure, espresso drinks
and will compete primarily with  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s machines, Schultz
said on a conference call today.  Starbucks has been in contact with Green Mountain, and the
relationship is “solid,” he said.  In September, Green Mountain will lose the main patents on
its K-Cups, the coffee pods that helped make it the largest
player in the U.S. single-serve coffee market. Capsule and
brewer competitors, including Rogers Family Co. and Esio
Beverage Co., already have started to emerge.  Last month, Green Mountain introduced a new brewing machine
that makes lattes and cappuccinos called the Vue to help combat
new machines and pods from rivals. It costs $250 on the
company’s website.  “We have spoken with all of our current system partners
about our Vue platform and all have expressed a strong interest
in being a part of the system,” DuLong said.  So-called Vue packs aren’t currently offered for the
Starbucks brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  