-- Sub-Billion-Dollar Deals Seen Driving India M&A as Families Sell
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-03-08T18:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/sub-billion-dollar-deals-seen-driving-india-m-a-as-families-sell.html
Transactions below $1 billion will
continue to dominate Indian dealmaking as foreign buyers target
businesses being sold by family owners, according to the
country’s top boutique mergers advisory.  European companies that hoarded cash to cope with the
region’s sovereign debt crisis may use some of that money for
purchases in  India  as they seek to tap faster-growing  emerging
markets , said Ranu Vohra, chief executive officer of Mumbai-
based Avendus Capital Ltd.  “There is no dearth of buyers out there who want to come
to India,” said Gaurav Deepak, the firm’s co-founder, in an
interview. “And the number of sellers is rapidly increasing.”  Overseas buyers swooped on Indian assets including Luminous
Power Technologies Ltd. and Numeric UPS in the past year as
founding families opted to exit businesses that flourished
during the country’s economic boom. Among 359 announced cross-
border deals targeting Indian companies in the past 12 months,
only one topped the billion-dollar mark, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Companies on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  held a combined 143
billion euros ($188 billion) of cash and equivalents at the end
of 2011, a 19 percent increase from two years earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  is studying acquisitions worth hundreds of
millions of dollars and considers the low-voltage sphere in
India as one market for expansion, Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  told Zurich-based newspaper SonntagsZeitung in February.  Selling Work  Deals valued at less than $1 billion will account for the
“bulk of market activity” in India over the next few years,
said Vohra, whose firm ranked 10th in 2011 in advising on
mergers involving Indian companies. Assignments to sell
companies account for about 70 percent of Avendus’s deal work,
he said.  Industries attractive to overseas buyers include  consumer
goods , aerospace and pharmaceuticals, according to Vohra.  While Indian companies  trade  at a premium to their European
rivals based on price-earnings ratios, the combination of
economic growth and a weakened currency means India “is not an
expensive market,” Deepak said. Decisions by family owners to
sell out and by companies to exit peripheral businesses may
drive an increase in inbound deals, he said.  The rupee has fallen about 13 percent against the dollar
since July 27, when it reached the highest level of 2011.  “If you benchmark Indian companies on growth rate and
return on capital, they are still very high as compared to
global peers,” he said.  Europe ’s 17-nation economy contracted 0.3 percent in the
quarter that ended December while India’s gross domestic product
expanded 6.1 percent, official data from both regions showed. A
further weakening of the  euro zone  would make European companies
even more eager to pursue Indian acquisitions, said Deepak.  Technology Lead  Avendus, founded by Vohra, Deepak and Kaushal Aggarwal in
1999, last year became the first local boutique firm to grab a
spot among India’s top 10 mergers advisers, Bloomberg data show.
It overtook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Kotak Mahindra Bank
Ltd. in the rankings by taking the lead in technology M&A with
$1.7 billion of deals in the last three years.  In 2009,  Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS) ’s state-appointed
board hired Goldman Sachs and Avendus to find strategic
investors or a buyer for the company at the center of India’s
largest corporate fraud inquiry. The firm has grown from a team
of 30 investment bankers in 2007 to 75 now, according to Vohra.  “Some international firms, given the size of the fee pool
in India, are asking whether they should be here or not. That
presents a great opportunity for us to hire,” Vohra said.  Most banks focus on the top 50 to 100 Indian companies,
while the “whole story about India is the growth story which is
reflected in the mid-market segment,” he said.  Avendus plans to expand in  investment banking  as well as
 wealth management , alternative asset management and
institutional equities, according to Vohra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in  Mumbai  
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  