-- Subramanian Joins Adams Chasing Abby Cohen Stock Strategy Legacy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/subramanian-joins-adams-chasing-abby-joseph-cohen-s-stock-strategy-legacy.html
On Dec. 8, 2010, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index had rallied 20 percent from its low in July
when Savita Subramanian recommended investors bet on companies
flush with cash for dividends and buybacks.  Subramanian, then head of  Bank of America Corp. ’s
quantitative team, stressed in her 2011 preview that corporate
stockpiles of cash were at about record levels and companies
increasing dividends or repurchasing programs would benefit the
most. While the  S&P 500  is up 7.6 percent from its 2010 level,
companies that returned money to investors with the biggest
buybacks and dividends have climbed 12 percent.  Nine months after her call, Subramanian was named head of
U.S. equity strategy at Bank of America. She’s making forecasts
after funds, confronted with record correlations between the S&P
index and its individual stocks, posted their worst year since
1999. For 2012, she predicts the S&P 500 will advance 11 percent
to 1,400 and dividend-payers will continue to outperform.  “This is a challenging time to be a strategist,” she said
during an interview at Bank of America’s  New York  office on
March 5. “It’s tough to hang your hat on fundamentals, which is
what we were all trained to do. It’s hard to break the
pattern.”  Subramanian, 39, and Gina Martin Adams of  Wells Fargo (WFC)  &
Co., face the additional pressure of being the only two women in
the strategist role at 12 U.S. banks. The last time the list of
Wall Street strategists tracked by Bloomberg had two female
members was 2001, when Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Abby Joseph Cohen  and Merrill Lynch & Co.’s Christine Callies were on the
list, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity Strategists  Equity strategists make predictions on the S&P 500 and
recommend industries to buy. They analyze economic trends and
develop views on whether equities and sectors will rise or fall.  “I don’t think strategy lends itself to one gender or the
other,” Subramanian said. “The glass ceiling -- it’s been
there all along but maybe it’s a little higher now.”  Surging volatility  amid a stalling economy pushed the
correlation of S&P 500 companies to gains or losses in the full
index to a record 0.86 in October, according to data compiled by
Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc. A level of 1
would mean all 500 stocks moved together. The so-called
correlation coefficient has fallen to 0.47 after the  stock
measure  jumped 7.6 percent this year, the best start since 1998,
data compiled by Birinyi and Bloomberg show.  ‘Frustrating Market’  “You can look at all the drivers that you think will make
stock prices do X, Y, or Z, but then what actually happens can
be quite divorced from that process,” Subramanian said. “It
makes for a frustrating market for fundamental stock pickers.”  Less than a quarter of the 525 global fund categories
tracked by Morningstar Inc. beat their benchmark indexes last
year, the fewest since at least 1999. A  Hedge Fund Research Inc. (HFRIFWI) 
index of industry performance fell 5.3 percent last year. It’s
only the third annual loss since 1990 and the biggest decline
since 2008, when it plunged 19 percent, according to data from
the Chicago-based firm. The gauge rose 2.1 percent in February
after gaining 2.7 percent in January.  In 2008, Adams recommended consumer-staple and health-care
companies. That was just prior to the S&P 500’s 23 percent
tumble from October through December, the  biggest quarterly drop 
in more than two decades. Adams’s categories ended the year down
18 percent and 24 percent, beating the eight  other groups  in the
benchmark equity measure as investors bet on stocks least tied
to economic growth.  Smaller Fraction  Adams projects the S&P 500 will climb 8.1 percent to 1,360
this year, compared with the median projection of 1,400 among
the 11 strategists tracked by Bloomberg News. She currently
recommends consumer-discretionary, health-care and technology
companies.  While Subramanian and Adams have risen to visible positions
on  Wall Street , women still make up a smaller fraction of
workers in the financial industry, and left at a faster rate in
the past 10 years. The tally of women employed in the U.S.
finance industry shrank 5.2 percent in the decade ended 2011,
according to data from the  Bureau of Labor Statistics . That
compares with a 1.6 percent decline in the entire work force.  Goldman Sachs’ Cohen, now senior U.S. investment strategist
at the New York-based firm, said women may gravitate toward
careers in research and portfolio management because success is
quantifiable in those areas.  ‘Quality of Work’  “The quality of work speaks much more loudly than
gender,” Cohen said in a telephone interview. “Clients are
almost always the most open, because if you can do the good work
for them, that’s what they want to know.” She added, “To be a
strategist requires knowledge, expertise, and very importantly,
interest in many different subjects,” saying “It is not an
easy role to prepare oneself for or to be trained for.”  Cohen, 60, started her career in 1973 at the  Federal
Reserve  working on econometric models, and went on to roles at
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. before
landing at  Goldman Sachs (GS)  in 1990. While she has long given
frequent television interviews, she recalls once being turned
away from a New York club where she was to deliver a dinner
speech. “When I came to Wall Street, women were more novelty
items than anything else,” she said.  Adams, 35, who is based in New York, was an economist for
Wachovia Corp. before the firm was purchased by San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo. She has been in equity strategy since 2007.
She said she was “surprised” to hear that there were so few
women in the strategy space.  New Perspectives  “It’s a shame because women can obviously bring their own
perspectives,” Adams said in a telephone interview on March 5.  At Bank of America, 10 women hold senior macro research
roles, according to spokeswoman Susan McCabe. In addition to
Subramanian, the list includes Mary Ann Bartels, head of U.S.
technical and market analysis;  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates
research; Kate Moore, global equity strategist;  Michelle Meyer ,
senior U.S. economist; and Sabine Schels, head of fundamental
commodities research. [bn:PRSN=1498700]        Candace Browning [], the New York-based head of global 
research at the firm, said the rate at which women in the work
force increases should mirror the rising tide of female degree 
recipients. Women accounted for 57 percent of students enrolled
at institutions that  grant degrees  in 2010, projected figures 
from the U.S. Department of Education show. That compares with 
1970, when they made up 41 percent.  Half the Offers  Of the people who took the GMAT business school admissions
test, 41 percent were female in the year ended June 30, 2011,
the highest ever, according to figures this year from the
Graduate Management Admission Council, which administers the
exam.  “I can’t tell you there’s been a sea change or that two
three years from now recruiting talented women is going to get
any easier,” Browning said. “Senior leaders in the firm really
need to be committed to it and make sure it’s an inclusive
place. If they do that, women can get promoted and succeed.”  Adams said an interest in macroeconomics and finance drew
her to her current career path. The fact that men represented a
higher proportion of Wall Street positions “never really
crossed my mind,” she said.  She studied finance and marketing at the University of
 Florida , starting her career in a management training program
with First Union Corp. and then in investment strategy at
Evergreen Investments, the asset-management arm of Wachovia.  Berkeley, Philosophy  Subramanian holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and
philosophy from the  University of California  at Berkeley, where
she had long discussions with the philosopher  John Searle  about
deconstructing big ideas into key parts. “That was the first
time in my life that I became engaged in thinking that way and
trying to boil down abstract concepts into concrete
components,” she recalls.  While she had originally planned to pursue a doctoral
degree in philosophy, Subramanian got a job after college
developing software for equity portfolio managers.  Learning about the markets reeled her in to finance. “I
saw the markets as very dynamic and exciting,” she said. “It
was too late to go back.”  As the Internet bubble’s collapse sent business-school
students across the U.S. chasing jobs in 2001’s tight market,
Subramanian landed an internship in Merrill’s strategy group.  ‘Luckiest Thing’  That “was the luckiest thing that ever happened to me,”
said Subramanian. She had completed her first year at  Columbia
Business School  when she worked that summer with Richard Bernstein, ranked by Institutional Investor as the No. 1
quantitative-research strategist that year.  The challenge of balancing work and a personal life may be
one of the reasons why few women choose or advance their careers
in equity strategy, according to Subramanian.  “If you’re a sell-side analyst, you’re on the road 30
percent of the time,” she said.  Subramanian said she remembers attending a luncheon while
an intern at Merrill in 2001, featuring Jessica Reif Cohen, a
media analyst who had been at the firm since 1994. “This is
amazing,” Subramanian recalls thinking at the meeting. “She’s
an incredible analyst. She’s risen in the same trajectory as any
of her male colleagues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  