-- Success in Public-Spending Cuts Turns to Hurdle in Japan Quake Rebuilding
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-03-09T06:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/success-in-public-spending-cuts-turns-to-snag-in-japan-rebound.html
After years of criticism for public-
works spending that rewarded political constituents at the cost
of adding  debt ,  Japan  succeeded in cutting the largesse in half.
Now, that legacy of success is hampering an economic rebound.  Reconstruction bids are going unmet one year after the
earthquake that devastated the northeast region, because
builders lack resources to fill them. Builders’ payrolls fell 24
percent nationwide in the decade through March 2011. Sendai,
where the airport was wrecked by the post-quake tsunami on March
11, has 14 ready-mix cement factories, compared with 30 in 1998.  The longer it takes to complete the resurrection of towns,
utilities and transport networks under Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s 20 trillion yen ($246 billion) in relief spending, the
more limited the economic impact it will have, says Akio Makabe,
who has written books on behavioral finance. With limited scope
to speed the projects along, Noda’s administration has instead
pressed the central bank into stepping up monetary stimulus.  “There will be a huge difference, psychologically -- the
speed and timing really matters in disaster reconstruction,”
Makabe, a professor of economics at  Shinshu University  in
central Japan, said in an interview. “Economists expect
stimulus from reconstruction demand will peak in the April-to-
June period, but given the current pace of progress, we must
assume such a projection is already being pushed backward.”  Finance Minister Jun Azumi said today in Tokyo that he
expects “good signs” for the economy toward spring.  Cash Unallocated  With exporters contending with the impact of  Europe ’s
crisis, higher energy costs and exchange-rate gains, Japan is
counting on reconstruction to help propel a rebound this year
from a contraction in 2011. Even so, almost half of the funds
earmarked through three extra budgets for the rebuilding efforts
remained unassigned to any projects as of Jan. 31, according to
data submitted by the Reconstruction Agency to parliament.  “Reconstruction demand, currently one of the few hopes for
economic growth and expected to raise this year’s growth by 1
percentage point, may not emerge as strong as expected,” said
 Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities, a unit of Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value. “It’s a big misfortune for the Japanese government that
the reduction of public work spending over the years to improve
the economy’s productivity is now causing a bottleneck.”  Japan has halved annual outlays on public works in the past
decade to 6.2 trillion yen. Former Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  led the charge as he capped sales of new debt. Noda’s
 Democratic Party  of Japan continued the effort after taking
power in 2009, cutting budgets for roads, bridges and community
halls under the slogan “spending for people, not concrete.”  Payrolls Drop  Cuts to public works over the past decade -- designed to
restrain the world’s largest debt -- contributed to the 1.6
million decline in builders’ payrolls, to 4.98 million in the
fiscal year through March 2011, labor ministry data show.  In Sendai, the largest city in the Tohoku region and
capital of  Miyagi prefecture , the remaining 14 cement factories
have about seven trucks each to service them, when they once had
15 vehicles a piece, according to Yoshiharu Chiba, president of
Atsumi Construction Co.  Miyagi, an area about the size of  Delaware , saw about a
third of its public-works projects go without bidders in
January, compared with an average of seven percent in 2010,
according to the Land Ministry.  Political Challenge  “The lack of workers with special skills is a particularly
serious problem,” said Hirohide Ito, managing director of the
Miyagi General Construction Association. “Everything is scarce
at the moment and that’s driving up the cost of construction.”  Politics have also posed a challenge.  The Reconstruction Agency -- mooted to oversee recovery
efforts days after the magnitude-9 quake that caused a
devastating tsunami -- didn’t start until last month, after
opposition lawmakers threatened to stymie legislation, and the
ruling party changed leaders. Eighty-four percent of the 1.9
trillion yen marked for subsidies for local-authority
initiatives has yet to be assigned to specific projects.  While some 220 communities damaged by the tsunami plan to
move residential areas to higher ground, only a dozen have so
far succeeded in reaching a consensus among residents needed
before work can begin, according to the Land Ministry.  A delay in quake spending has already weighed on the
world’s third-largest economy, which  contracted  in the fourth
quarter. Rebounds in industrial production and retail sales in
January offered signs that reconstruction funds are starting to
flow. Mizuho Research Institute estimates that demand from post-
quake recovery efforts will add about 1 percentage point to
gross domestic product in the fiscal year starting April 1.  ‘Pushed Back’  “We expect reconstruction investment will emerge and begin
to boost the economy during the current quarter,” said Yasuo Yamamoto, a senior economist at the Mizuho institute in  Tokyo .
“There is a concern the timing of their effects could be pushed
back” should labor shortages and administrative delays hamper
spending, he said.  Tokyo bureaucrats have tried to help clear the delays, with
the finance ministry’s budget bureau seconding 10 officials to
the northeast to speed subsidy applications, according to the
ministry. Municipalities throughout Japan have sent 79,000
workers to quake-affected areas at various times to help with
efforts such as managing shelters and other emergency work,
government data show.  Volume of Wreckage  Politicians have also pushed the central bank to inject
more stimulus, with Noda saying in January he expected the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  to take “bold” actions. The BOJ the following month
added 10 trillion yen to its asset-purchase program, helping
stoke a rally in stocks and reverse some of the yen’s gains.  The sheer size of the recovery task is another issue. In
Ishinomaki, a coastal city north of Sendai and hometown of
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi , more than half the debris left from
March 11 remains, environment ministry data show. The volume
clogging Ishinomaki’s streets is about 100 times the waste
normally produced by the city each year, the ministry estimates.  “We’ve seen many public work project auctions, such as
small-scale road reconstruction, fail to be completed,” Azumi,
whose Ishinomaki house was destroyed by the March 11 tsunami,
told reporters at a news conference on Feb. 24. “Local building
companies are making their utmost efforts but they’re struggling
to secure enough workers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  