-- Suffolk County Seeks to Avoid Takeover Fate That Befell Neighboring Nassau
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/suffolk-county-seeks-to-avoid-takeover-fate-that-befell-neighboring-nassau.html
By declaring a fiscal emergency,
 Suffolk County (8320MF)  Executive Steve Bellone is laying the groundwork
for cuts to programs to avoid a New York state takeover of its
finances, a fate suffered by neighboring Nassau County.  Suffolk, where hedge fund billionaires  John Paulson  and
 George Soros  have homes in the Hamptons beach towns, is facing a
three-year deficit of $530 million after sales- and property-tax
revenue failed to keep pace with rising costs of employee
benefits and social services. Bellone declared the emergency two
days ago, saying “painful steps” were needed.  “You never want a good fiscal crisis to go to waste,”
said Lawrence Levy, executive dean of the National Center for
Suburban Studies at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York.
“If Suffolk doesn’t deal with its deficit in a way that Wall
Street bond raters feel adequately addresses the problem, then
they will find themselves where Nassau was a decade ago --
facing a junking of their bonds.”  In 2000,  New York  state created the Nassau Interim Finance
Authority to bail out Suffolk’s neighbor to the west after years
of deficits. Last year, the board seized control of Nassau’s
finances after local officials failed to convince the panel that
its budget was balanced.  Bellone, a Democrat and former supervisor for the town of
Babylon, took office in January and appointed a  task force  to
study the county’s finances. The panel reported March 6 that the
county’s 2011 budget ended out of balance by $33 million.
Suffolk faces deficits of $148 million in its $2.6 billion
budget for 2012 and $349 million in 2013.  Running Into ‘Buzzsaw’  “I don’t think any newly elected county executive walked
into a bigger buzzsaw in his life,” said Desmond Ryan,
executive director of the  Association for a Better Long Island ,
which represents commercial and residential real estate owners.
“The stakes are very high.”  Suffolk relies on short-term borrowing to pay bills before
tax receipts arrive and a failure to access the market would be
devastating, Levy said. This year the county is set to borrow
about $650 million to meet its cash-flow needs.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the county’s short-
term debt rating one level on Dec. 14 and put Suffolk’s Aa2
general-obligation bond grade, the third-highest level, on
review, citing Suffolk’s “thin” cash balances.  “According to the county’s report, if they don’t take
significant action, it’s going to be really bad,” Patricia
McGuigan, a Moody’s analyst, said in an interview yesterday.  Real Estate Woes  Suffolk, which spans 80 miles (129 kilometers) from Babylon
to Montauk and had a 2010 population of about 1.5 million, was
wracked by the bursting of the real estate bubble and the 18-
month recession. The value of taxable property has declined 16
percent since 2008, according to county bond documents.  Sales-tax revenue, which makes up almost half of Suffolk’s
budget, has stagnated, and spending on “economic assistance”
has increased 20 percent to $643 million this year from 2006.  Bellone’s predecessor, Steve Levy, and the Democratic-
controlled county Legislature declined to raise property taxes
or make politically unpopular cuts to social services, public
safety and employee benefits, Hofstra’s Levy said.  Last year, Suffolk’s Legislature passed a budget that
rejected a proposal by Levy to close a 210-bed county-owned
nursing home and cut 450 unrelated jobs. Instead, the
Legislature kept the employees on the payroll for six months.  Refusal to Cut  “Suffolk got into trouble because of an obsession in
cutting the general-fund  tax rate  and a refusal to cut spending
on popular and important programs,” Hofstra’s Levy said.  Bellone has pledged not to break a state property-tax cap
that limits levy increases to 2 percent or the rate of
inflation, whichever is lower.  By declaring a fiscal emergency, Bellone will put pressure
on the Legislature to address the deficit while insulating
himself from voter anger over the difficult choices facing the
county, said Levy.  The declaration gives Bellone the authority to withhold as
much as 10 percent of each county department’s budget.  William Wilkinson, the town supervisor in  East Hampton ,
which closed facilities and consolidated departments to deal
with its own deficit, said Suffolk County would have to do the
same.  “The task may appear overwhelming, but just as if you were
in business you have to go ahead and make sure the payments are
there when they have to be made and make the tough decisions to
do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  