-- Super-PACs Ramp Up Spending on Races Where Control of Congress Is at Stake
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-08T15:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/super-pacs-ramp-up-spending-with-congressional-control-at-stake.html
Redistricting obliterated his House
seat serving central  Iowa . Still, Republican Representative Tom Latham has something going for him: a 4-1 cash edge in his re-
election race against Democratic Representative Leonard Boswell
in a merged district.  A Democrat-allied super-PAC wants to blunt that advantage.
The House Majority PAC has spent more than $395,000 against
Latham, airing television ads that claim he ignores needs of the
unemployed and has ties with “obstructionist” Republican
leaders. To run his own ads, Latham has tapped a re-election
fund that reached $1.9 million at the end of 2011.  The  Iowa (BEESIA)  race is one of the best examples of the large sums
that super-PACs are pouring into 2012 congressional contests,
said Dave Wasserman, House editor of the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report. Analysts say the outside PACs are transforming
some races that will help determine which party ends up
controlling the House and Senate, just as they are reshaping
spending on the presidential campaigns.  “Judging from what we saw in 2010, super-PACs will have a
huge impact on Senate and House races,” said  Bill Allison ,
editorial director of the nonpartisan Sunlight Foundation, which
tracks campaign giving.  So far this cycle, super-PACs have spent $5.8 million on
congressional races, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington group that tracks political spending.
Democrats need 25 seats to take control of the House from
Republicans, while Republicans need as few as three seats to
take control of the Senate from the Democrats.  Unlimited Donations  Using unlimited donations, super-PACs are infusing
congressional races with money to bolster favored candidates and
target those they oppose with a flood of negative ads and other
spending.  Some candidates affected include Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts (NFSEMA) , who the Rethink PAC is targeting, and
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah (STPIUT) , who is seeing the Tea
Party group FreedomWorks finance a drive against him in the
primary. Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri (BEESMO)  is
facing off against the fundraising of the Republican-leaning
group American Crossroads while benefiting from spending by
Democratic-leaning Majority PAC.  Meanwhile, Tea Party-backed freshmen representatives,
including  Allen West  of Florida and Sean Duffy of Wisconsin, are
being targeted by the Democratic-leaning group House Majority
PAC.  Spending Restrictions  The outgrowth of a January 2010 U.S. Supreme Court decision
barring restrictions on independent spending by companies and
unions, these expenditures gave Republicans an edge in the 2010
midterm election. Spending by super-PACs and independent
expenditures by non-profit groups helped Republicans keep or
gain Senate seats in  Pennsylvania , Florida, Missouri and
Illinois and defeat Democratic House members including Dan
Maffei of  New York .  Of $305 million in spending by the super-PACs and
nonprofits in 2010, conservative-leaning groups outspent
liberal-leaning ones by a 2-1 ratio. Among Super-PACs, American
Crossroads -- founded by Republican strategists Karl Rove and Ed Gillespie -- spent the most, with $21.6 million.  This time, Democrats are determined to catch up.  “We didn’t lose the House in 2010 to House Republicans,”
said Representative Steve Israel of  New York (BEESNY) , chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “We lost it to
House Republican super-PACs. In 2010, our allies were spinning
into a tsunami. In 2012, I don’t believe that they will let that
happen again.”  While the groups can’t coordinate with candidates and
parties, many are populated by former lawmakers and party
committee officials.  Congressional Leadership Fund  The chairman of the Congressional Leadership Fund -- a
super-PAC bolstering Republican House candidates -- is former
Minnesota Republican Senator Norm Coleman, and its president is
 Brian Walsh , a former political director for the  National
Republican Congressional Committee . Speaker John Boehner and
other House Republican leaders hosted a kick-off cocktail
reception at the Capitol Hill Club Nov. 2 for the group, which
has raised $130,600 this cycle, according to the CRP.  The Majority PAC, a group that wants to help Democrats
retain Senate control, has raised $2.5 million so far and is led
by Rebecca Lambe, a longtime strategist to Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, and his former chief of staff, Susan McCue.
The House Majority PAC is led by Alixandria Lapp, the former
deputy executive director of the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee. It has raised $3 million.  Leaving Capitol Hill  Aides to current party leaders are leaving Capitol Hill to
set up groups.  John Murray , former deputy chief of staff to
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , in October became president
of YG Action Fund. It seeks to pour $30 million into races to
help Republican House candidates, through the Super-PAC and two
new nonprofit groups. Other former Cantor aides involved are Rob
Collins, Cantor’s former chief of staff, and  Brad Dayspring , who
until late February was Cantor’s deputy chief of staff.  The biggest-spending Super-PAC remains Rove’s American
Crossroads, which has raised $23.4 million for presidential and
congressional elections this cycle. The group says it will focus
on winning Republican control of the Senate. To that end, it is
considering plans to weigh in on the race to help Brown retain
his seat and to elect Republicans to Democratic seats held by
McCaskill, Senator Jon Tester of Montana, and retiring Senator
 Jim Webb  of Virginia.  Seeking Majority Control  “The Senate is where we are focused on trying to gain the
majority,” said Nate Hodson, a spokesman for the group.  Some super-PACs have another agenda. A few conservative-
leaning groups are trying to elect their chosen Republican
candidates over more moderate Republicans in primaries.  The anti-tax group Club for Growth has a super-PAC that has
raised $3.4 million and has spent $469,000 targeting Texas
Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, a Republican, in his bid for
the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by retiring Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican. The group favors Ted Cruz, the
state’s former solicitor general. The group also backs former
Representative Mark Neumann in  Wisconsin ’s Republican Senate
primary, and has spent $51,000 seeking to defeat his top
contender, former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson.  A super-PAC operated by FreedomWorks for America, a group
led by former Republican House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  that
supports the Tea Party movement, is eyeing two Republican
senators for defeat: Hatch and  Richard Lugar  of Indiana. The
group has spent more than $25,000 against Lugar so far, and more
than $60,000 to aid his primary opponent, state Treasurer
Richard Mourdock.  Anti-Hatch Ads  The FreedomWorks super-PAC has already spent $392,000
against Hatch in online ad development, direct mail and
grassroots organizing. The group opposes him because of his past
support of issues, including a bailout of the nation’s banks and
federal funding for stem-cell research.  “That’s more than they’ve spent fighting President Obama,
so I must really be a bad guy in their eyes,” said Hatch, who
has spent money airing response ads.  Meanwhile, a nonpartisan, anti-incumbent Super-PAC, the
Campaign for Primary Accountability, asserted itself into Ohio
House primary races this past week, as voters went to the polls
as part of Super Tuesday balloting.  The Texas-based Super-PAC, which says it aims to boost
primary turnout in one-party dominated districts and is funded
primarily by construction company owner Leo Linbeck III, spent
$146,000 targeting Democratic Representative Marcy Kaptur in her
successful race against Democratic Representative Dennis Kucinich. The group, which also spent $107,000 for Kucinich,
favored him because he more often opposes his party leaders on
issues, said Curtis Ellis a spokesman for the group.  According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the group
has spent $49,000 against Ohio Republican Representative Jean Schmidt, who lost a four-way Republican primary to Brad
Wenstrup.  ‘Quite Consequential’  As the elections unfold, super-PACs and their donors could
have more significant effects on individual congressional races
than on the presidential contest, said Richard Hasen, a
professor at the University of California Irvine who studies
election law. That’s particularly the case in rural states where
TV ads are less expensive, he said.  “In House and Senate races, spending $1 million could be
quite consequential,” Hasen said. “Super-PAC money could play
a dominant role in some of these races.”  With the outside money flowing, some candidates are trying
to assert control.  In the  Massachusetts  Senate contest, Republican Brown and
Democratic rival  Elizabeth Warren  struck an accord. If any
super-PAC spends money in the race, the candidate benefiting
must donate half the value of the ad buy to a charity of the
other’s choosing from their re-election coffers.  No outside spending on ads has occurred since, Brown said
in an interview.  In a California House race, as many as three super-PACs are
raising funds to support Representative Howard Berman, who faces
Representative  Brad Sherman  in a Democratic incumbent-on-
incumbent matchup. Sherman accuses Berman of refusing to reject
aid from the groups.  It’s giving Sherman a slight edge in the race, said
Wasserman of the Cook Political Report. “It plays into the
image of Berman as a D.C. insider,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  