-- Swaps Collateral, Volcker Rule, Tribal Payday: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-08T13:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/swaps-collateral-volcker-rule-tribal-payday-compliance.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  plans to allow swaps
traders to keep collateral with a third party, offering stronger
protections than U.S. regulators required after  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  failed to safeguard $1.6 billion in customer cash.  CME Group, the futures exchange that’s expanding into
clearing interest-rate and credit-default swaps, will give
customers the option of holding their money at a neutral bank,
said  Kim Taylor , president of the Chicago-based company’s
clearinghouse. The unaccounted-for customer funds at MF Global
were within the brokerage’s control, not secured at either a
clearinghouse or a third-party bank.  A Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule passed in
January didn’t require collateral to be held by third parties
and didn’t address misuse or loss of funds held by brokers.
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, Paulson & Co., Fidelity
Investments and  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group (OZM)  have pushed
for greater safeguards on the collateral they must provide to
back positions, according to letters filed with the CFTC.  Banks, hedge funds and asset managers active in the $708
trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to
changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act passed by Congress in
2010, including a requirement to process most swaps with a
clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk. The demands for greater
collateral protection were underscored by the $1.6 billion of
customer cash that went missing after MF Global filed the
eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on Oct. 31.  A group of more than 100 swaps users and service providers
has been meeting to understand the collateral rules passed by
the CFTC and to determine if a better system should be
available, according to three members of the group who asked not
to be named because the discussions are private.  The so-called “segregation working group,” which began
meeting in January, includes representatives from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   BlackRock Inc., (BLK)  Newedge Group
SA, Moore Capital Management LP, Fidelity Investments, Vanguard
Group Inc., and CME Group, among others, according to six people
familiar with the firms’ involvement.  Representatives of the companies declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Dutch Finance Minister Plans to Study Adopting Volcker Rule  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  will study
adopting a Volcker rule on banning proprietary trading at the
country’s banks to bolster financial stability.  The rule is named after former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , who championed the ban as an adviser to President
 Barack Obama . While proprietary trading remains small in the
Netherlands, the rule would curb any potential expansion, De
Jager said.  The government is shoring up the stability of lenders,
including  ING Groep NV (INGA) , ABN Amro Group NV and Rabobank Groep,
which have a combined balance sheet almost five times the size
of the Dutch economy. De Jager said he would prefer the Europe-
wide ban on risky trading, which is being investigated by a
European Commission committee.  Hungary Sends Central Bank Law Changes to ECB, Ministry Says  Hungary has sent draft changes to a central bank law to the
 European Central Bank  for an opinion in a bid to start talks on
international aid, according to an e-mailed copy of a letter
sent by Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy to ECB President Mario
Draghi yesterday.  Hungary is offering to end the practice of a government
representative attending Monetary Council meetings and would not
require the rate-setting body to send its agenda to the Cabinet,
according to the amendments. The government would also scrap an
option to combine the central bank with the financial regulator
which could lead to demotion of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president.  The amendments don’t address the reduction of the central
bank president’s salary or the expansion of the Monetary Council
or possible addition of a vice president, steps previously
criticized by the ECB because they could undermine the
independence of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank.  Danish Banks Attack Impairment Rules They Say Choke Lending  Danish banks are lashing out at the country’s financial
regulator for imposing stricter impairment requirements that the
industry warns will choke lending and hamper an  economic
recovery .  The rules will inflate the financial industry’s loan losses
and prompt banks to retrench to protect capital buffers, said
Poul Kjaer, head of regulation at the Danish Bankers Association
in Copenhagen. The Financial Supervisory Authority argues
tighter rules are needed to restore confidence in the industry
and prevent a repeat of accounting abuses that led to Denmark’s
banking crisis.  Denmark last week presented its fifth bank rescue bill
since 2008 as lawmakers struggle to end a crisis that claimed
three lenders last year and forced losses on senior creditors.
The bank regulator has tightened standards in an effort to
restore credibility to an industry burnt by a property bubble
that burst in 2007. Banks and business groups say regulatory
measures now risk exacerbating the crisis rather than ending it.  The Danish Bankers Association has taken its case to
Business Minister Ole Sohn in an effort to prevent the FSA from
implementing its proposal.  The proposal requires lenders to write down the value of
their property portfolios to match market declines, the FSA said
Feb. 6.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Cordray Says Consumer Bureau ‘Zoning In’ on Tribal Payday Firms  U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director  Richard
Cordray  said his agency is prepared to use federal authority to
crack down on payday lenders who dodge state laws by affiliating
with Native American tribes.  Responding to a question from Colorado Attorney General
John Suthers in Washington yesterday, Cordray said his agency
and the Federal Trade Commission are looking into what they can
do about tribe-based lenders who claim immunity from state laws.  Cordray, who made comments after a speech at a  National
Association of State Attorneys  General conference, said that the
bureau is “zoning in” on this issue, as will as the FTC,
noting that tribal entities cannot oust the federal government
on jurisdictional grounds.  Sovereign immunity allows Native American tribes to run
businesses such as casinos even in states or localities where
gambling is illegal. Some tribes have claimed immunity for
payday lending firms, which consumer groups have accused of
charging usurious  interest rates  to mainly low-income borrowers.  Covering Stanford Losses Would Drain Fund, SIPC’s Harbeck Says  The fund set aside to aid customers of failed brokerage
firms would be drained if it’s forced to cover investors’ losses
in the fraud of R. Allen Stanford and similar cases, said
Stephen Harbeck, president of the  Securities Investor Protection
Corp.   The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has taken  SIPC ,
a nonprofit corporation funded by the brokerage industry, to
court demanding that it help Stanford customers. SIPC argued in
U.S. District Court in Washington last month that there is no
basis to require it to guarantee investments with an entity that
isn’t a member, in this case Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  SIPC, funded by assessments from member firms, hasn’t
previously drawn from its $2.5 billion Treasury line of credit,
Sharon Y. Bowen, SIPC’s acting chairman, told lawmakers.  In June, the SEC ordered SIPC to start a process that could
grant as much as $500,000 for each of the more than 7,000
Stanford clients -- the same maximum it offers in any case.  Stanford was convicted of fraud yesterday in what
prosecutors said was a $7 billion scheme involving bogus
certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based bank.  AIJ President Asakawa May Be Questioned by Japan Lawmakers  Japanese lawmakers plan to question AIJ Investment Advisors
Co. President Kazuhiko Asakawa, whose whereabouts are unknown
following the asset management firm’s suspension for possible
losses.  The lower house of parliament will ask Asakawa to appear
before its financial committee on March 14, Shunichi Yamaguchi,
an opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmaker, told Bloomberg
News in Tokyo today.  The Diet will send the request in writing and ask that
Asakawa give reasons should he decline, said Yamaguchi, a member
of the committee. “It’s unclear where he is,” he said.  The committee will also ask to speak with executives from
the pension fund industry, Yamaguchi said.  Separately,  Human Holdings Co. (2415) , the school and health-care
company that’s plunged 9 percent since disclosing it was a
client of suspended  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. (0202964D) , pledged to seek
compensation for losses from the Japanese asset manager.  Human Holdings is speaking with its lawyers to see if it
can claim damages for possible losses on the 330 million yen
($4.1 million) that AIJ managed for the company as of Dec. 31,
Yusuke Kawashita, an executive officer, said in an interview.  For more, click here.  The nation’s securities watchdog may extend a one-month
suspension of  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. (0202964D)  as investigations into
the asset manager expand to Hong Kong, two government officials
with knowledge of the matter said.  The Financial Services Agency is considering prolonging the
business stoppage by at least 30 days as the March 23 deadline
approaches, the officials said on condition of anonymity because
the discussions are private. Japanese authorities called on
their Hong Kong counterparts to help find out what happened to
the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of pension assets managed
by AIJ and determine any wrongdoing, one of the officials said.  AIJ, led by former  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  branch manager
Kazuhiko Asakawa, has failed to account for most of the money,
prompting the regulator to embark on its biggest investigation
of the nation’s fund managers. Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s
party has set up a panel to study stricter oversight as the case
calls into question the safety of pensions in a country where
more than a fifth of the population is over 65.  Phone calls to AIJ yesterday reached an automated recording
that didn’t take messages.  Employees of AIJ have been cooperating with the inspection
performed by the  Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission , the official said, while they have failed to fully
explain issues such as the whereabouts of the investments under
management. The person didn’t name the AIJ staff it spoke with.  Jonathan Li, a spokesman for Hong Kong’s Securities and
Futures Commission, declined to comment on whether the regulator
is assisting with the investigation.  For more, click here.  Renault Luxembourg Departures Reviewed in False-Spying Inquiry  An investigation into false spying claims against three
 Renault SA (RNO)  executives fired last year was expanded to include
three more departures from the French automaker’s Luxembourg
retail group in 2009, the company said.  “The judge is investigating the circumstances of the
departures, in 2009, of three employees of RRG Luxembourg,” as
part of a probe opened in March 2011, the company said in an e-
mailed statement March 6. Renault, which said it was a victim of
the fraud, said it is continuing to cooperate.  Renault fired the French workers after receiving an
anonymous tip that they hid money paid to them for spying on the
automaker’s electric-car program in bank accounts in Switzerland
and Liechtenstein. Investigators found the accounts didn’t exist
and the men hadn’t spied on the company, and Renault apologized,
saying it was a victim of manipulation.  Renault’s Luxembourg unit fired two employees, including
its then-chief financial officer, and forced its head of
technical services to resign in 2009 after receiving information
they also hid money in bank accounts in Switzerland and
Liechtenstein,  L’Essentiel , a Luxembourg publication, said
yesterday citing Antonio Dorego, the man forced to resign.  Dorego won a wrongful-termination suit against Renault in
Luxembourg and he and the two others have joined the French
investigation, L’Essentiel said. Calls to the lawyer
representing the three former Luxembourg employees and to
Renault’s lawyer for comment on the reports weren’t immediately
returned.  Courts  Ex-Citigroup Indonesia Banker Convicted of Stealing From Clients  Inong Malinda Dee, a former relationship manager at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Indonesia unit, was convicted of stealing from
clients by a three-judge panel and sentenced to eight years in
jail.  Dee, who denied the charges, was also fined 10 billion
rupiah ($1.1 million), according to a ruling delivered by Judge
Gusrizal at the South Jakarta district court yesterday.  Prosecutors had accused Dee, 49, of wrongfully transferring
more than $5 million from her clients’ accounts from 2007 to
February 2011. Dee made the clients sign blank transfer forms or
forged their signatures, according to prosecutors, who sought a
13-year jail term and a 10 billion rupiah fine.  “From the time we first identified the suspicious
transactions in our customers’ accounts, we have worked closely
with our regulators and the police to ensure the responsible
persons were held accountable,” Citigroup spokesman Richard
Tesvich said. The lender has compensated clients for the related
losses, he said.  For more, click here.  El Paso’s Lawyers at Wachtell Opposed Using Goldman, Lawyers Say  El Paso Corp. executives ignored advice from their lawyers
at  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz  that the pipeline operator
shouldn’t use Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as an adviser on  Kinder
Morgan Inc. (KMI) ’s $21.1 billion bid for the company, lawyers for El
Paso investors said.  Attorneys from New York-based Wachtell urged El Paso not to
hire Goldman Sachs as a financial adviser on the $25.91-a-share
offer because of its conflicting interests in the deal, Stuart
Grant, a lawyer for El Paso investors who lost a bid last week
to stop a shareholder vote on the acquisition, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine also rebuked
Goldman on Feb. 29 for its handling of its conflicts in the El
Paso case in a 33-page ruling rejecting disgruntled investors’
calls to block a shareholder vote on the deal.  Arie Finkel, a spokeswoman for New York-based Wachtell,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment yesterday on El Paso
officials’ decision not to accept the law firm’s advice on
Goldman Sachs’ role in the Kinder buyout offer.  David Wells, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said in a
telephone interview that he couldn’t comment on Wachtell’s
advice to El Paso in connection with the Kinder buyout offer.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Interviews/Speeches  U.K. Urges Tougher EU Capital Proposals for Bank Insurance Arms  U.K. Treasury Minister Mark Hoban said that draft European
Union capital rules for banks needed to be made stricter to
prevent lenders with insurance arms from avoiding the full
impact.  European Commission  proposals aren’t sufficient because
they would allow so-called companies to count their insurance
arms’ reserves toward meeting their banking arm’s capital
requirements, Hoban said.  The rule if left unchanged would “render the capital
surcharge irrelevant for some of Europe’s largest banks,” Hoban
said, according to a copy of his remarks in Brussels yesterday.  Comings and Goings  Obama Aides Said to Have Looked at Gates, Nooyi for World Bank  President Barack Obama and his advisers, casting a wide net
for potential candidates to lead the  World Bank , considered in
initial discussions  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman Bill Gates,  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi, and
former Brown University President Ruth Simmons, according to a
person familiar with the White House search.  Obama sought to look beyond the ranks of banking and
government in seeking a replacement for Robert Zoellick, who
plans to step down at the end of his term in June, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the search process is
confidential.  The White House now is narrowing its consideration to a
smaller group that includes former Treasury Secretary Lawrence
Summers, who was Obama’s first director of the National Economic
Council, Massachusetts Democratic Senator John Kerry and United
Nations Ambassador Susan Rice, the person said.  John Pinette, a spokesman for Gates, and Peter Land, a
spokesman for PepsiCo, both declined to comment. A White House
official said that Obama has begun to consider the issue.  Last month, concerned that the U.S. might lose its
prerogative to select the World Bank president if challenged by
the developing world, Obama asked his aides to expand the list
of potential candidates.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 