-- U.K. Says Two Hostages Dead in Nigeria After Rescue Attempt
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-08T23:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-k-says-two-hostages-dead-in-nigeria-after-rescue-attempt-3-.html
A British and an Italian hostage
held in northern  Nigeria  were killed during a Special Forces
attempt to rescue them after almost a year in captivity.  Chris McManus, a British citizen, and Franco Lamolinara, an
Italian, were kidnapped in May 2011. The Telegraph reported
today that the kidnap group called itself “ Al Qaeda  in the land
beyond the Sahil.”  “After months of not knowing where they were being held,
we received credible information about their location,” U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a statement today. “A
window of opportunity arose to secure their release. We also had
reason to believe that their lives were under imminent and
growing danger. The early indications are clear that both men
were murdered by their captors, before they could be rescued.”  Cameron said he authorized a rescue attempt earlier today,
and that in the course of it both men died. The British premier
called his Italian counterpart,  Mario Monti , afterwards to
inform him of the outcome.  The killers have all been arrested and “would be made to
face the full wrath of the law,” Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in an e-mailed statement. He expressed “heartfelt
condolences” to the families of the victims and to the people
and governments of Britain and Italy.  Details Sought  Monti called the Nigerian leader to ask him to provide
Italy with a “detailed account” of the circumstances that led
to the deaths of the hostages, according to a statement from his
office in Rome.  The men were engineers and had been involved in the
construction of the state headquarters for the  Central Bank of
Nigeria , the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  The Telegraph reported that between 16 and 20 members of
Britain’s Special Boat Service commando unit were involved in
the rescue operation, without saying where it got the
information. The Italian government said Nigerian troops took
lead in the mission, with U.K. personnel in support.  Authorities in Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, blame a
militant Islamist group, Boko Haram, which draws inspiration
from Afghanistan’s Taliban movement, for a surge in terrorist
attacks in the country’s mainly Muslim north and the capital,
Abuja, in which hundreds of people have died this year.  The group, whose name means “Western education is a sin,”
wants Islamic rule in the country, which is  Africa ’s most
populous with more than 160 million citizens, split betweeen a
largely Muslim north and a mainly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  