-- U.K. Green Bank Will Have Base in Edinburgh, Jobs in London
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-08T11:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-k-green-bank-will-have-base-in-edinburgh-jobs-in-london.html
The headquarters of the U.K.’s Green
Investment Bank will be in Edinburgh, with the main transaction
team based in  London , Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said.  The bank is expected to be fully operational later this
year subject to getting European Commission approval for state
aid, Cable said in an e-mailed statement today. Most of the 50-
70 jobs will initially be in London, though the employees are
eventually expected to be split equally between the two cities.  “Harnessing the strengths of Edinburgh and London will
support the Green Investment Bank’s ambition to become a world
leader,” Cable said. “Edinburgh has a thriving green sector
and respected expertise in areas such as asset management.
London, as the world’s leading financial centre, will ensure
that the transaction team can hit the ground running.”  The bank, which will be started with 3 billion pounds ($4.7
billion) of state money, is designed to spur investment in
carbon emissions-cutting technologies such as wind power. The
government is seeking to meet its pledge to be the “greenest”
ever while cutting spending to curb a record budget deficit.  Renewable Targets  The U.K. is aiming to accelerate private-sector investment
in green energy to meet a goal of getting 15 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2020. The semi-autonomous
government in Scotland plans to generate 100 percent of its
electricity requirement from such sources by that year.  The bank may borrow against its capital to lend a further
15 billion pounds, the government said. It won’t be able to tap
the market until 2015 or 2016, and only then if the U.K.’s debt
is falling as a proportion of economic output.  U.K. utilities need to spend as much as 200 billion pounds
by 2020 to replace aging power plants and upgrade the
electricity grid as the U.K. shifts to a low-carbon economy,
according to energy regulator Ofgem in October 2009.  Until European Commission approval is obtained, the
investments, which will start in April, will be handled by a
team in Cable’s department, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  