-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending March 6 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-03-08T13:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-march-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  This U.S. Drought Monitor week was dominated by a series of
storm that moved across the country primarily from February 28-
March 2.  These storms dropped well over 100 tornadoes, based
upon preliminary reports. According to NOAA’s Storm Prediction
Center, as of March 6, there were 47 confirmed deaths in
 Alabama ,  Illinois , Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Ohio,
and Tennessee.  The Southeast: Beneficial precipitation moved through some of
the most intense drought areas of the Southeast this week.
Storms which brought tornadoes from Ohio and Illinois down
through Alabama also brought multiple inches of rain from the
panhandle of  Florida  up into the Delmarva Peninsula.  Areas of
Exceptional Drought (D4) were alleviated in south  Georgia .
Extreme Drought (D3) improved in northern Florida, Georgia, and
 South Carolina .  Severe Drought (D2) improved in Florida and the
Carolinas.  Moderate Drought (D1) improved in southern Alabama
and northern Florida.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Adequate rains fell this week
the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.  Areas of Abnormal Dryness (D0)
improved in the southern Delmarva Peninsula and in southeastern
Maine.  The South and Southern Plains:  With the exception of the
extreme south of  Texas  and near New Orleans, LA, little
precipitation fell in the South this week.  Minor improvements
in Exceptional Drought (D3) were made around southeastern
Louisiana and in south-central Texas.  The mounting lack of
precipitation in western Texas and the Texas Panhandle led to
expansion in all drought classes in those areas including
expansion of Exceptional Drought (D4).  In  Kansas , Moderate
Drought (D1) and Abnormal Dryness (D0) expanded in the north-
central and western part of the State.  The Northern Plains and Midwest: Conditions in the Northern
Plains improved some this week with the passing of a front that
dumped rain and snow across much of the region.  Moderate
Drought (D1) improved in North and South Dakota and in northeast
Nebraska.  Abnormal Dryness (D0) improved in South Dakota.    In
the Midwest, conditions improved slightly in northwest Iowa with
contraction of Severe Drought (D2).  The West: The West was generally dry this week with the
exception of the extreme Northwest.  Drought conditions remain
unchanged in most areas but intensified in northern  Utah , in
southern  Oregon  and near the Nevada-California border where
long-term deficits are mounting.  Hawaii,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: Drought conditions remained
unchanged in Alaska and Puerto Rico this week. In Hawaii,
precipitation on the south end of the Big Island led to
improvement in Severe (D2) and Moderate Drought (D1).  Oahu saw
a contraction of the Abnormal Dryness (D0) there.  Looking Ahead: During the March 8-12, 2012 time period, there is
an enhanced probability of precipitation in the Pacific
Northwest and ranging from the Southern Plains into the
Southeast. Below normal precipitation is expected through much
of the West and throughout the Great Lakes and New England.  For the ensuing 5 days (March 13-17, 2012), the odds favor
normal to warmer than normal conditions over the entire US with
the exception of the Pacific Coast and Alaska, where odds favor
below normal conditions. In New England, the extreme Southwest,
and Alaska the odds favor below normal precipitation while the
northern Pacific Coast and a large are from the South, through
the Southeast and into the  Ohio  Valley and Midwest are expected
to see above normal precipitation.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  