-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rises
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-08T19:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-consumer-confidence-reaches-a-four-year-high-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Household confidence improved last
week to a four-year high as more Americans said the economy was
improving and decided it was a good time to shop.  The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  was minus 36.7 in the
period ended March 4, the highest since April 2008, up from
minus 38.8 in the prior period. The gauge on the state of the
economy reached a one-year high, while the buying-climate
measure climbed to a level last exceeded in December 2009.  For a fifth straight week, half of those surveyed also
rated their personal finances as positive, bolstered by a
resilient stock market, faster job growth and rising wages.
Stronger household balance sheets may be helping ease the sting
of the steepest gasoline prices in almost a year.  “Consumers are much more comfortable about their own
personal financial situations, which is largely negating the
recent rise in gasoline prices,” said  Joe Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “That said,  consumer
confidence  remains at the low end of the historical range.”  Since its inception in December 1985, the comfort index has
averaged minus 15.2.  Another report today showed  claims  for  unemployment
insurance  rose to a level that’s consistent with an improving
job market. The number of applications for jobless benefits
increased by 8,000 to 362,000 last week, the Labor Department
said. The monthly average held close to a four-year low.  Household Wealth  Household wealth climbed from October through December for
the first time in three quarters on higher equity values.
Net worth for households and non-profit groups increased by
$1.19 trillion, or 2.1 percent from the previous three months,
to $58.5 trillion, the  Federal Reserve  said today in its flow of
funds report from  Washington . Housing wealth decreased by the
most in more than a year.  Stocks gained for a second day. The  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500
Index climbed 0.9 percent to 1,364.66 at 2:10 p.m. in New York.
The measure has increased 7.6 percent this year through
yesterday.  All three components of the Bloomberg consumer comfort
index improved. The gauge of  personal finances  was 0.3, its
third positive reading in four weeks, after minus 0.5 a week
earlier.  An index of the buying climate climbed to minus 40.4 from
minus 43.4 the previous week. Some 30 percent said it was a
“good” time to spend, the most since December 2009.  View of Economy  The measure of Americans’ views on the state of the economy
improved to minus 70, the best reading since February 2011, from
minus 72.4.  Homeowners, women, and people living in the South were
among the groups that registered their highest levels of
confidence since 2008.  Sentiment among black Americans climbed to the highest
level since December 2007, exceeding the reading for whites by
the most since records began in 1990.  The comfort gauge reached its highest level in a year among
Republicans, at minus 26.8, compared with minus 41.8 for
Democrats. Among independents, a key swing group during this
year’s election, the comfort gauge improved to minus 36.6,
marking a fifth week above minus 40, a first since July 2008.  Nonetheless, rising fuel costs pose a risk. The price of a
gallon of regular  unleaded gasoline  climbed to $3.77 as of March
4, the highest level since June 2011, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest automobile association. In May last year, the
cost of the fuel rose to $3.99 a gallon from $3.10 at the end of
January, causing confidence to slump.  Gasoline Prices  “As gas pushes toward $4, the risk of consumer backlash
grows ever greater,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg, said in a statement. “Even with its breakout this
year, consumer sentiment has far to run.”  Better job growth may be one reason the run up in energy
prices has yet to derail sentiment. The economy generated
210,000 jobs in February, marking a third straight month of job
gains higher than 200,000, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the Labor Department will report tomorrow.  Pandora Media Inc. is among those hiring. The Oakland,
California-based Internet radio pioneer is adding advertising
sales representatives to boost its presence in the market, Joe
Kennedy, chief executive officer, said on a conference call
March 7.  “We’ve already hired dozens of people for that,” he said.
“That process will continue.”  Auto Sales  Auto dealers may be among retailers benefiting from the
improvement in employment. Sales of cars and light trucks rose
6.4 percent in February from the prior month to reach a 15
million annual pace, the highest reading since February 2008,
according to figures from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Purchases at General Motors Co., Chrysler Group LLC and
Ford Motor Co. beat the median forecast of analysts surveyed.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  