-- U.S. Treasury Agrees to Sell AIG Shares at $29 Each to Reduce Stake
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-08T15:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-sells-6-billion-of-aig-shares-at-29-apiece-to-reduce-bailout-stake.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
shares priced at $29 in a U.S. Treasury Department offering that
will reduce the  government’s stake  in the bailed-out insurer to
about 70 percent.  The price is 1.5 percent less than yesterday’s close of
$29.45 in New York, and the  stock  fell 3.1 percent to $28.53 at
10:21 a.m. AIG purchased $3 billion of the $6 billion shares
offered. Treasury said today in a statement that it agreed to
sell 206.9 million shares.  The Treasury is winding down bailouts from 2008 and 2009
that were intended to prevent a collapse of the banking system
and protect jobs. The sale of AIG stock is the second for the
department since it converted a preferred stake into 92 percent
of the New York-based company’s common shares in January 2011.
The government cut that holding to 77 percent in a May offering.  “This is likely a projection of the path forward,” Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said before
the price was announced. “As opposed to selling major chunks,
$10 billion or $20 billion at a time, they’re going to sell much
more manageable amounts.” He rates AIG  “market perform.”   The government needs to average at least $28.72 on its
share sales to recoup taxpayer funds. AIG closed above that
level on Feb. 28 in New York for the first time since July,
after reporting  fourth-quarter profit  of $19.8 billion tied to a
tax benefit. The insurer raised about $6 billion from the sale
of a stake in Hong Kong-based AIA Group Ltd. earlier this week.  Selling Assets  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, has sold non-U.S.
providers of life coverage, a consumer lender and other
businesses to help repay the taxpayer bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67,
has sought to convince investors of the potential of remaining
units, including global property-casualty and domestic life
insurance operations.  AIG trades at about half its book value, a measure of
assets minus liabilities. That’s lower than the valuation of
insurance rivals including Ace Ltd., which trades at about book,
and Travelers Cos., which is valued at about 0.9 times book. The
AIG offering at $29 a share is a reflection of the company’s
capacity for profits, said Meyer Shields, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  “It kind of seems appropriate, given the fact that their
earnings outlook is weak,” said Shields, who has a “hold”
rating on AIG shares. “Over the next three or four years,
assuming the execution of fundamentals goes well, you’ll
probably see the stock goosed up.”  Moving Forward  AIG was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed after
trading partners demanded payments on derivatives contracts.
After three revisions, the firm’s lifeline included a $60
billion Fed credit facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  The insurer was deemed by the Treasury a “systemically
significant failing institution” and was the only company to
receive bailouts through a facility created for such firms. AIG
reported the  biggest quarterly loss  in U.S. corporate history in
2008 and posted almost $100 billion in net losses that year,
fueled by bets on subprime-mortgage securities.  “We’re continuing to move forward,” Tim Massad,
Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial stability, said in
the statement. Treasury will “exit our stakes in private
companies as soon as practicable,” he said.  The government’s  cost basis  for its common shares was $47.5
billion, excluding unpaid dividends and fees of $1.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  