-- U.S. Energy Agency ‘Satisfied’ With Protection From Cyberthreats
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-08T17:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-energy-agency-says-supply-data-adequately-protected-from-cyberthreats.html
The  U.S. Energy Information
Administration  has taken steps to ensure that weekly statistics
on oil and natural-gas supplies tracked by commodities traders
are protected against computer cyber attacks, a spokesman said.  “EIA monitors its critical data releases closely, and we
are satisfied that the measures we have taken are performing as
intended,”  Jonathan Cogan , a spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, gathers and posts data about oil, natural gas,
electricity and renewable energy that is of interest to traders.
The administration “will block robots” that attempt to
download or access survey information in an excessive manner,
according to the agency’s website.  The agency is having to shield its data from market
participants who attempt to gain access and prevent other users
from getting the information as quickly, business news channel
CNBC reported yesterday. The administration has blocked some
computer Internet-protocol addresses, CNBC said.  The EIA didn’t comment about whether it had been the
subject of a cyber attack or had moved to block specific
Internet addresses. The agency has “taken responsible and
appropriate measures to protect the integrity of its data
releases,” Cogan said.  Agency Posts Data  The energy agency posts data on its government website at a
specific time, and media organizations, including Bloomberg, and
traders use devices including robots to download that
information.  Federal agencies such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
the U.S. Department of Agriculture release information that
might influence market trading to the media in so-called
lockups. Reporters, barred from contacting their offices prior
to the release, review embargoed reports, prepare stories and
publish when communications lines are opened by the agencies.  “There have been no early releases of BLS data, not from
lockup nor from any other source,” said Gary Steinberg,
spokesperson for the bureau in  Washington . He said the agency is
responsible for the data while the Department of Labor handles
the lockup room where the data is released to journalists.  USDA security officials said they are unaware of any
attempt to hack into the agency’s computers to get data prior to
the scheduled release times, said Matthew Herrick, a department
spokesman. USDA reports, including monthly estimates of domestic
and global crop production and inventories, are closely watched
by commodity traders and agricultural analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  