-- U.S. Local-Government Debt Declines for First Time Since 1996, Fed Reports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-08T19:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-state-city-debt-drops-for-first-time-since-1996-fed-says.html
U.S. state and local governments
reduced their debts last year for the first time since 1996 as
political aversion to borrowing cut supply of municipal bonds
and fueled a market rally.  Such debt dropped by almost 2 percent last year, the
 Federal Reserve  said today in a quarterly report. The decline
helped shrink the market for U.S. municipal securities to $3.74
trillion at the end of December from $3.8 trillion a year
earlier, the figures show.  States, cities and counties borrowed less as they struggled
with budget deficits left from the recession that ended in 2009
and faced political reluctance to racking up debt. Sales of
long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds totaled $258 billion in
2011, the least since at least 2003, when Bloomberg data begin.  “It has created a scarcity,” said Matt Fabian, an analyst
with Municipal Market Advisors, based in Concord,  Massachusetts .
“It’s helped push up prices.”  The municipal market includes bonds sold by state and local
governments as well as hospitals and other non-profit borrowers
that are allowed to issue tax-exempt securities. The debt of
state and local governments dropped to $2.99 trillion in 2011
from $3.05 trillion in 2010, the Fed said. Securities from non-
profit issuers totaled $254 billion, while a category including
industrial revenue bonds came to $497 billion.  2011 Return  Municipal bonds returned 11.2 percent last year, the best
performance since 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  The drop in issuance was spurred in part by political
pressure, Moody’s Investors Service said this month, as states
including  California ,  New Jersey  and  Florida  moved to limit
borrowing. Republicans, who typically argue for less  government
spending , won a majority of U.S. governorships in the November
2010 elections, which also gave the party control of the U.S.
House of Representatives.  U.S. state and local spending cuts have slowed the
economy’s recovery. Such  outlays dropped  at a 2.5 percent annual
pace during the fourth quarter, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department.  The slowdown shows the lack of investment being funneled
into public works, said Fabian, who said he expects the trend to
continue this year. While bond sales in January and February
increased from the same period a year earlier, that was a result
of refinancing debt, he said.  “You have an aversion to higher taxes and an aversion to
borrowing,” Fabian said. “Politically, debt, borrowing and
 Wall Street  are dirty words.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  