-- U.S. Spring May Be Warmer Than Normal, AccuWeather Forecasts
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-spring-may-be-warmer-than-normal-accuweather-forecasts.html
Temperatures may be higher than
normal this spring and the U.S. may be at increased risk for
tornadoes, AccuWeather Inc. said a seasonal forecast.  The Northeast, central Great Plains and  Texas  may all have
higher-than-normal temperatures into June, according to
AccuWeather’s outlook released today. Temperatures in the  Gulf
of Mexico  are already above normal, which may add fuel to storms
crossing the U.S.  “It will be a nice and mild March for the I-95 corridor,
spanning  Washington , D.C., Philadelphia,  New York City  and
 Boston ,” said the State College, Pennsylvania-based forecaster.
“Cities across the interior Northeast, such as Pittsburgh and
Buffalo, may even have a milder March than areas farther east.”  Winter in the lower 48 U.S. states was the warmest since
2000, with an average temperature of 36.8 degrees Fahrenheit
(2.7 Celsius), the  National Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,
 North Carolina , said yesterday. The season was the fourth-
warmest on record, according to the center.  The trend will probably continue for the next three months,
with the exception of the Pacific Northwest and West Coast,
according to AccuWeather.  “We do feel like it’s going to be a mild spring for most
of the nation from the eastern Rockies into the Ohio Valley and
Great Lakes area,” said Paul Pastelok, AccuWeather’s expert
long-range meteorologist. “At least two-thirds of the nation
could wind up with above-normal temperatures.”  Cool Periods Possible  There may be some periods of cooler weather in the eastern
U.S. in April and May. By June, “significant warming” will
probably be under way, according to AccuWeather.  The climate center said 57 tornadoes were reported during
February, nearly twice the average number for the month.  The U.S. has about 1,300 tornadoes in an average year,
according to AccuWeather. In 2004, an all-time high 1,817 of the
storms struck.  “Areas that seemed to miss out on frequent severe weather
last year may see an uptick this year,” Dan Kottlowski, expert
senior meteorologist for AccuWeather, said in the forecast.  Last week, two outbreaks of the deadly storms cut across
the central U.S., killing about 50 people.  There is a 15 percent chance that damaging thunderstorms
and winds will spread from eastern Texas, including  Dallas , to
central Arkansas today, according to the  Storm Prediction Center 
in Norman,  Oklahoma .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  