-- U.S. Regulators ‘Paralyzed’ by Cost-Benefit Suits, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-08T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-regulators-paralyzed-by-cost-benefit-suits-chilton-says.html
Wall Street banks are using the
threat of lawsuits to prevent regulators from writing rules
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, said  Bart Chilton , a Democrat on
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “Some regulators live in constant fear and are virtually
paralyzed by the threat” that they will face “spuriously”
filed suits alleging that the costs and benefits of their rules
weren’t adequately considered, Chilton said in a speech prepared
for the  Trade Tech 2012  conference today in New York. “It is a
bastardization of the conduct and use of cost-benefit analyses
in regulatory rulemaking.”  The CFTC is defending against a challenge filed last year
in federal court that the agency overstepped its authority under
the Dodd-Frank Act and inadequately assessed the costs of new
limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities.
The lawsuit was filed by the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc . and the  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association .  The lawsuit is one of the financial industry’s highest
profile efforts to challenge Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul
enacted in 2010. The associations represent  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other
derivatives dealers. A judgment is pending.  Chilton, a supporter of the speculation limits, said banks
and others should be required to provide cost analyses to rebut
regulators’ conclusions.  “We put out a proposal, ask for comments and ask what the
costs might be,” Chilton said. “Then we either aren’t provided
with costs of the regulation, or what we get from the commenters
isn’t very helpful.”  Chilton said CFTC data show that  hedge funds  and other
speculators increased their positions in energy markets 43
percent in January of this year from June 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  