-- U.S. House Passes Obama-Backed Bill to Cut SEC Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-08T21:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-house-passes-bill-to-reduce-sec-rules-for-private-firms-1-.html
The U.S. House voted to approve a
package of measures to roll back Securities and Exchange
Commission rules for newly public companies and closely held
firms looking for investments.  The Republican-controlled House voted 390-23 today to pass
the legislation, moving it to the Democratic-controlled Senate,
where leaders in both parties have said they will push to send
the bill to President  Barack Obama  for final approval.  The proposals have found bipartisan support that has been
rare in the current Congress as lawmakers look to help small
firms and startups facing regulatory hurdles and tight lending
standards after the credit crisis. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said the measures will make it easier to raise capital.  “This legislation also paves the way for more startups and
small businesses to go public, which will attract new investors
and allow the small businesses to grow and create jobs,”
Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said on the House floor.  The House measure, sponsored by Representative Stephen Fincher, a Tennessee Republican, pulled together six individual
bills incorporating legislation that would allow companies to
use general solicitation to find investors; permit startups to
use “crowdfunding” to raise capital; and adjust thresholds
that determine whether companies have to register with the SEC.  Obama Support  The Obama administration has pushed portions of the bill
since last year, including the crowdfunding exemption, which
would allow startups to use platforms like Twitter Inc. and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to raise funds. The administration pushed for the
lawmakers finish the bill quickly.  “Today’s vote shows both sides should be able to find
common ground on this issue and the president urges them to pass
a bill and bring it to his desk without delay,”  Amy Brundage , a
White House spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The bill also includes a provision that would provide
exemptions and a phase-in of SEC rules for “emerging growth
companies” -- a new designation for certain firms with less
than $1 billion in annual gross revenue.  Democrats including Senators Jack Reed of  Rhode Island  and
 Carl Levin  of  Michigan  have outlined potential problems rolling
back the rules may cause, echoing SEC concerns that the changes
could have a negative impact on investor protection.  The final shape of the bill will depend on the Senate,
where Democrats are meeting to craft a similar package. Cantor
and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, today urged the Senate pass the House bill.  ‘Jobs Bill Light’  House Democrats , while largely supporting the proposals,
challenged Republican statements that they would have an impact
on creating jobs. House Minority LeaderNancy Pelosi, a
California Democrat, called the measures “jobs bills light.”  “Let’s not mistake it for what we need to do for a real
serious jobs bill,” Pelosi said.  Bruce Josten , executive vice president for government
affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said the House vote
represented a “strong bipartisan step” and asked Senate
leaders to take up the measure.  House passage of the measure is a “tremendous legislative
achievement for American entrepreneurs,” said  Mark Murphy , the
head of public affairs for SecondMarket Inc., the private shares
marketplace that has been lobbying lawmakers on parts of the
bill for the past year.  The House bill is H.R. 3606.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  