-- Temperature May Rise to the 70s Next Week in Northeast, Midwest
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-08T13:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/u-s-temperatures-may-reach-70s-next-week-in-northeast-midwest.html
Temperatures are expected to soar
into the 70s Fahrenheit (20s Celsius) next week throughout the
Midwest and East, including  New York City , which may cut energy
use for heating in half in some places, forecasters said.  Average temperatures will range 15 degrees above normal
through the upper Great Plains to New England from March 13 to
March 17, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “That super-warming should trigger frequent and widespread
70s in the Midwest and East with some occurrences of 80-degree
readings too, especially through the southern Midwest and into
the mid-Atlantic,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  The warmer weather means 30 percent to 50 percent less
energy will be needed to heat homes and businesses from Chicago
to  New York , said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton, Missouri.  The next three months are expected to be warmer than normal
across the eastern two-thirds of the U.S., according to a long-
range forecast issued by  AccuWeather Inc . today.  Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge energy use
and demand, with colder weather having a larger impact on prices
and inventories. About 51 percent of U.S. households use natural
gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  Natural Gas Impact  Natural gas futures settled at a 10-year low in New York
yesterday as the fourth-warmest U.S. winter on record crimped
demand while record production boosted stockpiles.  Temperatures in Chicago and Milwaukee may rise 22 degrees
above normal for this time of year from March 14 to March 18,
Salmon said.  MDA EarthSat Weather projects the high temperature will
reach 68 degrees in New York on March 17. It may hit 76 in
 Washington , 68 in Boston, 75 in Chicago, and 78 in St. Louis on
the same day.  “No major changes were made to an already extremely warm
forecast,” said MDA, in Gaithersburg, Maryland. “Expectations
remain very low for any sudden changes to this pattern.”  In New York, the normal average temperature on March 17 is
about 43 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 39 in Boston, 39 in
Chicago, 55 in Atlanta, 63 in Houston, 47 in Seattle and 59 in
Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  