-- UBS Sees Turkey Credit Risk Rising as HSBC Says Rupee to Drop on $120 Oil
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-08T13:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ubs-sees-turkey-credit-risk-rising-as-hsbc-says-rupee-to-drop-on-120-oil.html
The biggest losers from oil’s rise
above $120 a barrel are Turkey, South Korea,  India  and  Sri Lanka 
as higher energy costs widen trade deficits and boost inflation,
according to strategists at the largest banks.  UBS AG is advising clients to buy credit default swaps on
Turkey and bet South Korea’s won will weaken against the dollar.
Morgan Stanley has “underweight” recommendations on Turkish
and Indian stocks, while HSBC Holdings Plc says the rupee will
depreciate. Sri Lanka’s currency, the world’s second-worst
performer in 2012, may fall further, according to Citigroup Inc.  Crude’s 16 percent advance in  London  trading this year is
increasing costs for oil-importing nations just as their exports
slow because of  Europe ’s economic contraction and the weakest
Chinese expansion in more than two years. While  China ’s leaders
signaled last month they may loosen monetary policy and  Brazil 
cut its benchmark  interest rate  yesterday, traders are raising
estimates for borrowing costs in India,  Turkey  and  South Korea (KWSWO1) 
on speculation inflation will accelerate.  “The markets are beginning to get concerned,”  Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-market fixed-income and
currency strategy at UBS in London, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The last thing they need is negative news on oil.”  Brent oil futures rose to a 3 1/2-year high this month on
concern the dispute between Western nations and  Iran  over the
Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program will lead to military
conflict, cutting production from a region that holds more than
half the world’s crude. Brent oil for April settlement increased
1.8 percent yesterday to $124.12 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange, while futures traded in  New York 
settled at $106.16 a barrel.  BRIC Tightening  Oil in London is still trading 20 percent below its
 inflation-adjusted peak  in July 2008 and 5.8 percent less than
the level in April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
surge in crude during those periods buffeted the global economy
as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the four-biggest  emerging
markets , tightened monetary policy to combat inflation.  The countries haven’t raised borrowing costs this year.
Brazil cut its benchmark Selic rate by 75 basis points, or 0.75
percentage point, to 9.75 percent yesterday, while China reduced
banks’ reserve requirements last month and Premier Wen Jiabao
said the country needs to start “fine-tuning” economic
policies to support growth. India and Russia have kept benchmark
interest rates unchanged in 2012.  “It’s too early to assess the impact” of this year’s
rally in crude, Arjun Divecha, chairman and head of emerging
markets at GMO LLC, which oversees about $97 billion, said in a
March 1 interview in New York. “It depends on how long the oil
spike will last.”  Turkey Vulnerable  Oil climbed 0.9 percent to $125.17 a barrel at 1:03 p.m. in
London while global stocks and emerging-market currencies
advanced after Germany’s industrial output increased more than
forecast and Greece moved closer to completing its debt swap.
Turkey’s benchmark equity index rose 1.6 percent, while the
South Korean won strengthened 0.6 percent against the dollar and
the Sri Lankan rupee appreciated 0.1 percent. India’s financial
markets were closed for a public holiday.  Turkey, the seventh-biggest emerging economy, is vulnerable
to higher oil because of the country’s current-account deficit,
UBS’s Baweja said. The  gap  was probably 10.3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, the biggest in emerging markets and up
from 5.7 percent in 2008, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Turkey Inflation  Every $10-a-barrel increase in oil adds $4 billion to the
cost of imports, or about 0.5 percentage point of GDP, Turkey’s
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said on Feb. 28.  Rising energy prices also pose a risk to inflation, Central
bank Governor Erdem Basci said the same day. Turkey’s consumer
prices increased 10.4 percent in February, within almost 20
basis points of the fastest pace in three years.  Yields (IESM2Y)  on the government’s benchmark two-year notes have
climbed 32 basis points this month to 9.25 percent. The lira
retreated 1.8 percent versus the dollar, while the  ISE National
100 Index (XU100)  of shares slid 2 percent. Arcelik AS, Turkey’s biggest
producer of household appliances, and Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS,
the Turkish unit of Ford Motor Co., fell on concern higher
energy costs will reduce consumer demand.  ‘Begin to Worry’  “If oil pushes higher, the market will begin to worry
about stock market stability, inflation and the currency, which
will all also have an impact on the CDS market,” UBS’s Baweja
wrote in a Feb. 28 research report.  The strategist advised clients to buy  five-year credit
default swaps  on Turkey, which cost 235 basis points yesterday,
after falling to a four-month low of 229.5 basis points on March
2, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The contracts increase in value as perceptions of
creditworthiness deteriorate.  India’s rupee weakened 2.5 percent against the dollar this
month while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks retreated
3.4 percent, the second-biggest decline among equity gauges in
21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg after Hungary’s BUX
Index. One-year interest-rate swaps, a gauge of expectations for
future borrowing costs, are up 42 basis points this year to 8.17
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Oil Factor’  Seven of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
India’s central bank will leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a three-year high of 8.5 percent on March 15, even
after the government said economic growth slowed to 6.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, the weakest pace since 2009.  For every $10-a-barrel increase in oil, India’s inflation
rate may rise by 0.9 percentage point and government subsidy
costs may climb by 0.3 percent of GDP, according to Morgan
Stanley.  “The market has started to discriminate a lot more on the
oil factor,”  Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-
market strategist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong , said in a
phone interview yesterday. For corporate profits, “there’s a
potential problem particularly for the oil-importing
countries,” Garner said.  Forward contracts show traders are betting India’s rupee
will weaken 5.6 percent against the dollar over the next 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Daragh Maher
and David Bloom, currency strategists at HSBC in London,
recommend selling the rupee against Malaysia’s currency because
the smaller country is a net oil exporter, according to a March
2 research report.  Won Outlook  Inflationary pressures are building in  South Korea  after
gasoline prices in the sixth-biggest emerging economy increased
to a record high, Sharon Lam, an economist at New York-based
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a March 2 note. The nation’s net crude
imports amount to 7.3 percent of GDP, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a Feb. 29 report.  Two-year  interest rate swaps  in South Korea have increased
13 basis points this year to 3.51 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank will probably keep
benchmark borrowing costs unchanged at 3.25 percent today,
according to the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The  Kospi Index of Korean shares  has retreated 2.4 percent
this month, while the won has slipped 0.5 percent. The currency
may extend declines as the surge in oil hurts the outlook for
corporate earnings, prompting overseas equity fund managers to
cut holdings, according to UBS’s Baweja. He recommends selling a
basket of won, Thai baht and Chilean pesos against the dollar.  Sri Lankan Slump  Sri Lanka’s  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  has tumbled 9.8 percent
this year while the rupee weakened 6.3 percent against the
dollar. The government let the currency depreciate to a record
low last month while boosting fuel prices and raising benchmark
interest rates in an attempt to narrow the island’s trade
deficit. Sri Lanka depends on Iran for more than 90 percent of
its oil needs, according to Oil Minister Susil Premajayantha.  Further increases in fuel prices may spur the rupee to
weaken further, Johanna Chua, an economist at Citigroup in Hong
Kong, wrote in a Feb. 20 report. Investors should wait until
April to consider buying local-currency debt, she said.  Should oil prices keep rising, the won, lira and rupee may
also underperform, according to Alessio De Longis, a portfolio
manager at OppenheimerFunds Inc. in New York.  “These countries are very vulnerable to higher oil
prices,” said De Longis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  