-- Tudou Leads Stock Rebound on Growth: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-09T01:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/tudou-leads-stock-rebound-amid-economic-stimulation-bets-china-overnight.html
(Corrects industrial output growth figures in sixth
paragraph.)  Chinese U.S.-traded stocks climbed,
led by  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , as speculation slowing inflation
will spur policy makers to take further steps to bolster growth
lured investors to the lowest share prices in a month.  Online video sharing website Tudou rose to the highest
level in March and was the biggest gainer on the  Bloomberg
China-US 55 index  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the
U.S. The index added 2.1 percent to 103.36 yesterday in New
York, rebounding for a second day after posting the steepest
drop in three months on March 6.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) 
led most solar stocks higher on prospects a delay in  Germany ’s
plan to cut aid for the panel industry will avert a slump in
solar power installations.  China  may report today that consumer-price growth slowed to
the least in 19 months and that industrial production dropped
near a two-year low, according to economist surveys conducted by
Bloomberg. The nation this week reduced its growth target for
the year to the lowest level since 2004 as  Europe ’s debt crisis
boosts the risk of a global slowdown and cuts demand for
products from the world’s largest exporter.  “The government will roll out more favorable measures to
help the economy later this year,” said Junheng Li, founder of
JL Warren Capital LLC in New York, which invests in Chinese
stocks. Share prices are recovering after undergoing a
“correction process” that was “overdone,” Li said by phone.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 2.4 percent to $38.81
in the second day of gains. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose
1 percent to 1,365.91, after a majority of investors indicated
that they will participate in  Greece ’s debt swap.  Slowest Pace  The National Statistics Bureau may report today that
consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in February from a year
earlier, from 4.5 percent in January, according to the median
estimate of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey. That would be
the  slowest pace  since July 2010. Factory  output growth  may have
eased to 12.5 percent, from 12.8 percent in December. The
government hasn’t given data for January in part because the
weeklong Chinese New Year holiday distorts data in the first two
months.  Policy makers in China are already loosening monetary
policy to ease access to credit for smaller businesses, cutting
the amount of cash large banks need to keep in reserve for the
second time since December last month. Benchmark rates have been
on hold since July.  Shanghai-based Tudou, China’s second-largest online video
website, climbed for a second day, jumping 11 percent to $13.68,
the biggest one-day gain since Feb. 3. Chief Executive Officer
Gary Wang said in a March 6 interview that the company is
narrowing the gap with industry leader  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  after adding
content and expanding ties with microblogs.  China Life  “Competition is intense among China’s online video
websites,” Echo He, a senior analyst covering Chinese Internet
stocks at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said yesterday by phone.  Tudou reported a net loss for the fourth quarter on March 1
after posting a profit in the previous three months.  American depositary receipts of  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) ,
the nation’s biggest insurer, gained 2 percent to $41.24, the
biggest one-day advance in two weeks. David Chung, an analyst at
Nomura International  Hong Kong  Ltd. reiterated a recommendation
to “buy” the company’s stock while Olive Xia at Core Pacific-
Yamaichi International Ltd. maintained a “hold” rating
yesterday.  ADRs of Beijing-based China Life, each representing 15
common shares, traded 1.1 percent above its stock in Hong Kong,
the  highest premium  in five days. The shares were up 1.4 percent
in Hong Kong yesterday to HK$21.10, the equivalent of $2.72 per
share, while those  in Shanghai  added 1.4 percent to 17.74 yuan,
or $2.81 per share.  German Delay  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  increased for the first time
in four days, rising 1.1 percent to 2,420.28 yesterday.  Yingli Green , a solar-panel marker based in Baoding in
China’s northern Hebei province, advanced 3.3 percent to $3.77,
the biggest daily gain since Feb. 17.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , based in
China’s Jiangxi province, rose 3.3 percent to $5, snapping a
seven-day slump.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s fifth-largest
manufacturer of solar modules, added 0.6 percent to $6.99, the
first increase in five days.  Policy makers in Germany, the world’s biggest solar-power
market, have agreed to postpone subsidy cuts for rooftop units
to April 1, from a previous deadline of March 9, and give
developers of ground-mounted  power plants  until June 30 to
finish their projects, lawmakers Michael Kauch and Georg
Nuesslein said on March 7.  Installations ‘Surge’  The delay will result in a “strong surge in
installations” in the first half, said Martin Simonek, a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar-
module maker, slipped 2 percent to $2.87. The company, based in
China’s Jiangsu province, reported a third consecutive quarterly
loss yesterday, saying greater competition and government
subsidy cuts will lead to a decline in its shipments in the
first quarter.  China may install as much as five gigawatts of solar panels
this year, Suntech’s Chief Executive Officer Zhengrong Shi said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts. China plans to
develop three gigawatts of solar capacity this year, double its
existing capacity, the National Energy Administration said on
its website on Jan. 11.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  for Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong added 1.7 percent to 11,168.50, ending a
three-day decline. Options on the gauge cost the most since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 when compared
with contracts on U.S. stocks. The ratio shows investors are
increasingly bearish on the index of Hong Kong-traded China
shares after it surged as much as 46 percent since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  