-- Hungary Pledges to Seek Fast IMF Aid Deal After EU Warns Orban Government
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-08T13:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/hungary-pledges-to-seek-fast-imf-aid-deal-after-eu-warns-orban-government.html
Hungary pledged to seek a fast
agreement on financial aid with the  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Union, which yesterday warned that the country
failed to resolve disputes blocking the start of talks.  Hungary wants an IMF deal to reduce financing costs, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said today in Budapest, even as he drew
red lines around policies on which he is unwilling to
compromise, including a tax system he calls “proportional.”  The government is seeking to quell investor concern that it
isn’t committed to an IMF deal after the European Commission,
the EU’s executive in Brussels, said Hungary failed to meet
preconditions for the start of talks four months after Orban
asked for aid as the forint dropped to a record and the
country’s sovereign credit grade was cut to junk.  “We need a financial safety net, they call this an IMF
deal,” Orban told a business conference today. “Analysts are
right that Hungary can finance itself. But it matters at what
cost.”  The forint gained 1.1 percent to 293.03 per euro at 12:49
p.m. in Budapest. The currency dropped 3.2 percent in the
previous five trading sessions as investors including  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  speculated
that the government may balk at compromising to obtain a loan.  Debt Sale  Hungary sold 49 billion forint ($221.6 million) of debt
today at an auction, 9 billion forint more than planned, as
financing costs fell for shorter maturities, according to the
Debt Management Agency. Hungary raised 22 billion forint in
notes maturing in 2015 at an average yield of 8.32 percent,
compared with 8.40 percent at the last sale on Feb. 23.  The benchmark BUX stock index snapped a three-day slide to
gain 1.1 percent to 18,722.61, led by mortgage lender Foldhitel
es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., which advanced 4.3 percent.  The government has “no A and B plan” on an IMF deal,
Tamas Fellegi, minister in charge of aid negotiations told
another conference in Budapest today. The “contentious issues”
between the EU and  Hungary  are of political and not economic
nature, Fellegi said, adding that these “complicated political
problems” need to be solved before negotiations can start.  Ready to Start  “The government is aware of the risks and it’s seeking an
optimal solution and an IMF deal is unarguably part of this,”
Fellegi said, adding that Hungary is committed to market
financing. “We’re ready to start talks as early as today.”  The European Commission yesterday took a formal step toward
seeking a court order to require Hungary to redraft laws on the
judiciary and data protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central bank law.  The commission yesterday gave Hungary one month instead of
the usual two to rewrite the laws or prove that they are in line
with EU standards after the government’s previous response,
submitted on Feb. 17, failed to resolve the concerns.  The government will “promptly” submit the necessary legal
amendments and is awaiting a letter from EU Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn on the trading bloc’s concerns
regarding central-bank independence as well as specific
preconditions to the start of negotiations, Fellegi said.  ‘Riskiest Tactic’  “The government chose the riskiest tactic by playing for
time in the IMF-EU talks and clearly it doesn’t want to come to
an agreement despite all of its rhetoric to the contrary,”
Istvan Hamecz, head of OTP Bank Nyrt.’s fund management unit and
a former central bank chief economist, wrote in an article
published in Heti Valasz today. “This tactic is unsustainable
and therefore not credible.”  A financing deal would help stabilize the forint, cut
government-bond yields and restart commercial lending, Fellegi
said. The government previously “underestimated the intensity
of market reaction to policy measures and the erosion of market
confidence to such a degree,” he said.  Hungary needs a “credible” economic policy turn to
improve the country’s risk assessment and cut financing costs,
Julia Kiraly, deputy governor at the central bank, told a
conference today in Budapest.  At current financing costs exceeding 8 percent, the country
would need a primary budget surplus of 3 percent to 4 percent to
ensure its debt level stabilizes at around 80 percent of gross
domestic product and doesn’t rise further, Kiraly said.  Growth Potential  “Without a turn in economic policy, Hungary won’t be able
to lower its risk premia, reach the desired primary balance and
growth potential,” Kiraly said.  The bailout talks will include the personal and corporate
income taxes, the financing of public transport companies,
local-government debt, special industry taxes, one-time fiscal
measures and a structural overhaul, Fellegi said.  Orban said he won’t compromise on the tax regime, which he
said he built in order to protect the middle class. Orban
introduced a flat personal income-tax regime last year and was
forced to suspend it this year after budget revenue plunged.  Hungary will be “open” to discussing measures to boost
growth as one of the “main questions” will be whether Hungary
can avert a recession this year, Orban said.  Orban levied special taxes on the banking, energy, retail
and telecommunications industries, forced lenders to swallow
losses on foreign-currency household loan repayments and
nationalized private pension-fund savings to narrow the budget
gap and plug holes after cutting the personal income tax rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  