-- Huntsman Would Consider Sale at ‘Right Price,’ Chairman Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-08T22:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/huntsman-would-consider-sale-at-right-price-chairman-says-1-.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  said it would be
“very interested” in pursuing a sale of part or all of the
company if it received an offer “at the right price” because
the market is undervaluing the titanium-dioxide pigment
business.  Huntsman is worth $19 to $24 a share based on a multiple of
6 to 6.5 times normalized earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, similar to competitors such as
Dow Chemical Co., Jon Huntsman Sr., the company’s founder and
chairman said today in an investor presentation in  New York . The
stock is being penalized for an erroneous belief that  titanium
dioxide, a white pigment known as TiO2, has peaked, he said.  “After 50 years in the chemical business, I’ve never seen
such a situation that has been as off balance as this,”
Huntsman, 74, said in the presentation, which was broadcast on
the Salt Lake City-based company’s website.  Huntsman’s so-called normalized earnings of $1.21 billion
reflect $300 million less of TiO2 ebitda than last year and $300
million in gains from polyurethane and restructuring, Chief
Financial Officer Kimo Esplin said in the presentation. Profit
from TiO2 has hit a “plateau” rather than a “spike,”  Jon
Huntsman  said.  “We should not be discounted to Dow or other legitimate
differentiated chemical companies,” the chairman said. “If the
right opportunity came along to us or any other chemical
business at the right price, we would be interested.”  Huntsman rose 6.5 percent to $13.70 at the close of trading
in New York, the biggest gain since Feb. 16.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman, the founder’s son,
said first-quarter earnings will match or exceed $304 million of
ebitda posted a year earlier. Early orders have made him more
optimistic about 2012 than he was a month ago, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  