-- UPS, TNT Express Said to Near Agreement After Initial Rejection
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-03-09T16:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ups-tnt-express-are-said-to-near-merger-agreement-after-initial-rejection.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
nearing an agreement to buy  TNT Express NV (TNTE) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest package-delivery company, after an initial 4.9 billion
euro ($6.5 billion) offer was rejected, people familiar with the
matter said.  The two sides are now close to a deal on price following
UPS’s bid of 9 euros a share last month, and on conditions that
may lead to job cuts and require divestments to win antitrust
approval, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the process is private. The talks are focused on concessions UPS
will offer to preserve TNT jobs in Europe, and bigger measures
to keep jobs will probably impact the price UPS is willing to
pay, one of the people said.  Buying the Dutch company would bolster European operations
for UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery service, giving it
an edge in its rivalry with  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  With expansion already
under way in  Germany , UPS might cut overlap there and elsewhere
in Europe to satisfy competition regulators, said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital Markets analyst in Richmond, Virginia.
TNT employed about 77,478 people at the end of December.  “It would have to be probably on a case-by-case basis by
each country,” Sterling said. “From the UPS perspective, in
order to extract some savings, they’ll definitely consolidate
some offices.”  Sterling said he doesn’t expect the Atlanta-based company
to pay substantially more than its initial 9 euro-a-share offer.
An announcement may come as soon as next week, the people said.  Smallest of Four  As the smallest of the four major global delivery services
companies, Amsterdam-based TNT has been a longtime subject of
merger speculation. UPS has a 7.7 percent share of the European
market, while FedEx has 3.3 percent. Both of them lag TNT and
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL unit, which have 9.6 percent and 17.6
percent in the region respectively, according to figures from
research firm Transport Intelligence.  TNT shares  advanced  as much as 21 cents, or 2.3 percent, to
9.54 euros in Amsterdam today, and were up 1.2 percent as of
4:26 p.m. UPS advanced 0.5 percent to $77.10 in  New York .
Spokesmen for both companies declined to comment on their
negotiations. A spokesman for TNT’s works council declined to
comment on a UPS bid.  TNT’s unions are opposed to “forced” job cuts, according
to a March 6 letter sent by four of the company’s main unions to
TNT Chief Executive Officer Marie-Christine Lombard and Antony
Burgmans, supervisory board chairman.  March 16 Deadline  Under Dutch law, UPS must clarify its intentions to the
market by March 16, four weeks after the first announcement of
its acquisition proposal. TNT disclosed UPS’s interest in a
statement on Feb. 17, calling the first bid “highly
conditional” and saying the two companies remained in talks.  While discussions are continuing, the companies may still
fail to reach an agreement, the people said.  Acquiring TNT would give UPS a 17.3 percent share of the
market for European express shipments before any divestments,
almost on par with DHL. The purchase would probably require
sales of road operations and depots in the Benelux countries and
the U.K. to satisfy antitrust regulators, ABN Amro analyst
Maarten Bakker said last month.  Founded in  Australia  as Thomas Nationwide Transport in
1946, TNT was spun off in May from the Dutch postal operator,
now known as PostNL, which  retains  29.9 percent of the company,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  