-- Turkish Bond Yields Slump Most in 3 Weeks as Output Growth Slows
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-08T15:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/turkish-bond-yields-slump-most-in-3-weeks-as-output-growth-slows.html
Turkish yields  dropped the most in
three weeks after  industrial output  expanded at less than half
the pace forecast for January.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds fell 23 basis points to
9.15 percent at the close in Istanbul, down for a second day and
the biggest decline since Feb. 13. The lira appreciated for a
second day, gaining 0.1 percent to 1.7797 per dollar.  “The slowdown is more than expected; this is negative and
would support a downswing in yields,” Gizem Oztok Altinsac, an
economist at broker Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in an
e-mailed report to clients.  Output, not adjusted for the number of working days,
increased in January at an annual rate of 1.5 percent, the
statistics office in Ankara said today. That compared with a
median estimate of 3.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of nine
analysts. The January industrial production is down 3.1 percent
on the previous month and 1.3 percent compared with a year
earlier, when adjusted for the number of working days, signaling
the economy is slowing.  “This is another solid data point indicating the rapid
decline in growth momentum,”  Tevfik Aksoy , the London-based
chief economist for central and Eastern Europe,  Africa  and
 Middle East  at Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed note.  The Turkish economy expanded 9.6 percent in the first nine
months of last year in the biggest growth among major economies
after  China . The government has forecast gross domestic product
will grow 4 percent this year.  The country’s  current-account deficit  narrowed in the last
two months of 2011 after surging to a record $78.6 billion in
October. It is still about 10 percent of gross domestic product,
the second-highest in the world after the U.S. The inflation
rate retreated 0.2 percentage points to 10.4 percent in February
but remains at more than twice the central bank’s target of 5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  