-- US Airways Wins Dismissal of Pilot Claims It Broke Labor Law
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-08T22:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/us-airways-wins-dismissal-of-pilot-claims-it-broke-labor-law-1-.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  won dismissal
of a lawsuit by its pilots union that claimed the carrier
violated federal labor law.  The US Airline Pilots Association  lawsuit didn’t adequately
raise a claim that  US Airways  failed to bargain in good faith
and didn’t prove the court had jurisdiction, according to a
ruling today by U.S. District Judge Allyne R. Ross in  Brooklyn ,
New York.  The lawsuit is the latest in a series of squabbles between
the Tempe, Arizona-based airline and its pilots union that dates
back to September 2005 when US Airways merged with America West
Holdings Corp. USAPA claimed US Airways violated the  Railway
Labor Act , which governs airline-union relations, by changing
contract provisions and not making reasonable efforts to
negotiate a new agreement.  “The court concludes that plaintiff has not adequately
alleged a claim for failure to bargain in good faith and has not
made a sufficient showing of the court’s jurisdiction with
respect to any of its other claims,” Ross wrote.  The judge didn’t rule on the merits of the union’s claims.  Flight Delays  “With this behind us, we are hopeful our pilot’s union
will turn its attention to resolving the seniority dispute that
must be settled before we’re able to reach a new collective
bargaining agreement,” said Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways
spokesman.  The union didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  In September 2011, a federal district judge in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , ordered US Airways pilots to end a work slowdown
he said was designed to increase flight delays, cancellations
and the carrier’s operating costs. The court agreed with US
Airways’ claims that the union failed in its duty under the
Railway Labor Act to try to stop the slowdown.  Pilots from US Airways and America West continue working
under separate labor contracts because they have failed to reach
agreement on combining seniority lists. Ranking on a union
seniority list determines compensation, what model plane a pilot
can fly and work schedules.  The case is US Airline Pilots Association v. US Airways
Inc., 11-cv-2579, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New
York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  