-- Batali Agrees to $5.25M Server-Tip Suit Accord
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-08T17:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/tv-chef-batali-associate-to-pay-5-25-million-to-settle-waiters-tip-suit.html
Mario Batali , the celebrity TV chef
and New York restaurant owner, is often seen with actress
 Gwyneth Paltrow , taste-testing the culinary delights of  Spain  in
their public television series “On the Road Again.”  Batali took a detour, through his lawyers, to New York
federal court in  Manhattan , where he was sued and accused of
cheating workers of part of their tips, as well as failing to
pay overtime and the minimum wage. He and his associate Joseph Bastianich agreed to pay $5.25 million to settle the class-
action lawsuit, according to court papers.  Servers at restaurants including Babbo and  Del Posto  sued
in 2010 alleging their employers violated the  Fair Labor
Standards Act  -- in part by pocketing gratuities equal to as
much as 5 percent of nightly wine sales.  “Mr. Batali, Mr. Bastianich, and their restaurants
unlawfully confiscated a portion of their workers’ hard-earned
tips in order to supplement their own profits,” employees said
in their complaint.  The settlement agreement, filed March 5, is subject to
approval by a federal judge.  The accord in the class-action suit may cover as many as
1,100 employees including servers, waiters and bartenders who
work or worked at Babbo, Del Posto, Bar Jamon, Casa Mono, Esca,
Lupa, Otto and Tarry Lodge, dating back to 2004, according to
court papers.  Everyone Satisfied  “The matter has been resolved to the satisfaction of all
parties,  Rachel M. Bien , one of the employees’ lawyers, said
today by e-mail. A. Michael Weber, who represented Batali,
declined to comment.  Batali got into hot water in November by saying bankers are
“not heroes but they are people that had a really huge effect
on the way the world is operating.”  “The ways the bankers have kind of toppled the way money
is distributed and taken most of it into their hands is as good
as Stalin or Hitler and the evil guys,” Batali said on a panel
sponsored by Time magazine and posted online.  He apologized the next day, after financial industry
executives criticized him and called for a boycott of his
establishments.  The case is Capsolas v. Pasta Resources Inc., 10-cv-5595,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in New York
at   ithomas15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 