-- Violence Stoked Fear to Fuel Putin’s Rise to Power: Book Review
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/violence-stoked-fear-to-fuel-putin-s-strong-arm-rise-to-power-book-review.html
More than 300 hostages -- half of
them children -- were killed in a Beslan schoolhouse in 2004,
following a firefight between their Chechen captors and Russian
troops. Ten days later, President  Vladimir Putin  announced a
sweeping overhaul of Russia’s political system.  He declared that regional governors as well as the mayor of
Moscow would be appointed by the president rather than elected.
Members of the lower house of parliament would also be
appointed. Political parties would have to re-register, making
it all but impossible to get on a ballot without Kremlin
approval.  The upshot of the changes was to undermine -- if not
obliterate -- the quasi-functioning democracy that had taken
root in Russia since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991, writes
Moscow-based journalist Masha Gessen in her engrossing and
insightful book, “ The Man Without a Face: The Unlikely Rise of
Vladimir Putin .” From then on, the president would be the only
directly elected federal-level public official.  After consolidating his power through eight years as
president and four as prime minister, Putin was returned to the
presidency on March 4 with about 64 percent of the vote. Having
convinced his fellow lawmakers to increase the length of the
presidential term to six years, Putin could head his country
until 2024.  Control, Vengeance  Gessen sees Putin as a man driven by control and vengeance,
not ideology. When he was first elected president in 2000, he
said his aim was “strengthening vertical power,” and Gessen
shows that he has attained his goal.  The heartbreaking massacre at the Beslan schoolhouse is
only one of a series of ghastly and, Gessen argues, suspicious
events that enabled Putin to use fear to consolidate his hold on
Russian society.  In 1999, just after Putin left the secret police to become
prime minister, a series of explosions leveled entire apartment
houses in several Russian cities. And in 2002, there was the
three-day-long hostage-taking at Moscow’s Dubrovka theater,
which left 129 dead.  Gessen manages to reconstruct these formerly opaque
chapters in recent Russian history. She is not so reckless as to
allege that Putin was somehow behind these events. She does
charge, however, that “once the hostage-takings occurred, the
government task forces acting under Putin’s direct supervision
did everything to ensure that the crises ended as horrifyingly
as possible -- to justify continued warfare in Chechnya and
further crackdowns on the media and the opposition in  Russia .”  Khodorkovsky, Browder  By imprisoning one-time oil baron  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  and
harassing fund manager  William Browder , founder of Hermitage
Capital Management, Putin made crystal clear that independence
and criticism had its limits. (Sergei Magnitsky, a Browder
lawyer who alleged a government attempt to defraud Hermitage,
died in prison in 2009. A Kremlin human-rights committee said
last year that he was probably beaten to death.)  Sprinkled through the book are other stories of
intimidation and murder. The lawmaker Sergei Yushenkov was shot
dead in broad daylight while investigating the theater siege,
dissident agent  Alexander Litvinenko  was murdered in  London  by
radiation poisoning and Yuri Shchekochikhin, an outspoken
politician who had also been investigating the theater siege,
died after ingesting an “unknown toxin.”  Gessen doesn’t see these events as random or unconnected.
“Putin’s Russia,” she writes, “is a country where political
rivals and vocal critics are often killed, and at least
sometimes the order comes directly from the president’s
office.”  Heady Times  Gessen came of age in the late 1980s as  Mikhail Gorbachev ’s
glasnost, or openness, spawned groups of “informals” where
people would talk about politics and social issues. Those were
heady times.  While Russia was convulsing, Putin was a KGB functionary
stationed in East Germany. In January 1990, he watched a crowd
storm the Stasi building in Dresden. Putin told his biographer
that he phoned the Russian military representatives, only to be
told nothing could be done until they heard from Moscow, but
that “Moscow is silent.”  “I realized that the Soviet Union was ill,” he said. “It
was a fatal illness called paralysis. A paralysis of power.”  Power and Prestige  He felt abandoned, Gessen says. When he returned to
Leningrad, the people he “and his colleagues had kept in check
and in fear -- the dissidents, the almost-dissidents and the
friends of friends of dissidents -- now acted as if they owned
the city.”  Putin spent much of the 1990s as a rising government
official, first in  St. Petersburg  and later in Moscow, resenting
the surge of the new democrats almost as much Russia’s loss of
world power and prestige.  Recalling the tone Putin set early in his presidency,
Gessen observes that “Soviet instincts, it seemed, kicked in
all over the country, and the Soviet Union was instantly
restored in spirit.”  “The Man Without a Face” is published by Riverhead in the
U.S. and Granta in the U.K. (314 pages, $27.95, 20 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Leon Lazaroff is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net  