-- Volatility to Rise on Short-Term Crisis Fix, Saxo CEO Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-03-08T13:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/volatility-to-rise-on-short-term-crisis-fix-saxo-ceo-says-2-.html
Saxo Bank A/S Co-Chief Executive
Officer Lars Seier Christensen said  Europe ’s efforts to contain
the region’s debt crisis are nothing more than short-term fixes
and won’t help stem market volatility.  “I don’t think we’re out of this by a long way and I think
you will see volatility increase and see the euro begin to
depreciate at some point before too long,” Christensen said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Linzie Janis today.
Europe is not yet over the worst, he said.  Europe has yet to learn how many investors will accept a
Greek debt swap needed to avert a disorderly default that would
throw the region into a deeper crisis. Investors with about 60
percent of the Greek bonds eligible for the swap have already
indicated they’ll sign up, as Europe turns its focus to easing
debt woes in Portugal and  Spain .  Greece ’s debt swap may not help
the country pay down future obligations, Christensen said.  “You have an apparent solution to the problem one day and
then everybody is disappointed 48 hours later,” he said.
“There’s the constant political impact that makes the market
very rattled.”  The euro gained 0.6 percent against the dollar, to trade at
1.3228 as of 11:04 a.m. in  London . The single currency is up 2.3
percent versus the dollar this year.  Greek Default  Closely-held Saxo Bank, which generates about 65 percent of
its revenue from  currency trading , reported a 5.7 percent rise
in 2011 operating income to 3.53 billion kroner ($626 million)
from 3.34 billion kroner a year earlier. Net income slipped 4
percent to 618 million kroner after costs on staff and
administration rose, the bank said today.  The results in part reflect a lot of “expansive
investments,” though the decline in profit also follows rising
volatility as Europe’s debt woes remain unresolved, he said.  “Today presumably we get a solution to the Greek
situation, but very quickly I think people will realize that we
have a new set of bonds that the Greeks will subsequently
default on,” Christensen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net  