-- Wal-Mart Therapy Tried as Pentagon Copes With Traumatized Troops
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-08T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/wal-mart-therapy-tried-by-pentagon-for-traumatized-troops.html
No one knows better than Connie
Chapman that almost 150 years since troops came home with
“soldier’s heart” after the Civil War, the U.S. military is
still struggling to identify and treat what’s now called PTSD.  When the now-retired Army captain and her Washington state
National Guard unit returned from  Iraq  in 2005, she said they
mustered on a racquetball court at Fort Lewis where mental-
health screeners shouted at them, “Are you suicidal? Do you
have flashbacks?”  It was difficult for anyone to acknowledge suffering from
post-traumatic stress disorder in so public a setting, said
Chapman, 45, who later underwent four years of therapy for
symptoms such as flashbacks from the incessant mortar and rocket
attacks on the logistics base in Balad where she served.  The Pentagon still has “no consistent diagnosis, no
consistent tools and different levels of professionals” working
on solutions, Senator  Patty Murray , chairman of the Senate
Veterans Affairs Committee, said in an interview.  In an effort to change that, the military says it’s trying
to find cases sooner by embedding therapists in combat units and
spending $40 million to study 20 treatments, some of which may
work within weeks. Among them is a therapy that sends some
troops on a 45-minute trip through a Wal-Mart store.  About 20 percent of the 2.4 million U.S. troops who served
in  Afghanistan  and Iraq since 2001 may meet criteria for PTSD
from the chaos of wars marked by intense combat with no clear
enemy lines, according to congressional researchers and the Rand
Corp.  Wal-Mart, Theaters  Big-box retailers, movie theaters and restaurants are
“often busy and noisy, and some people may be hidden behind
things -- and all those are perceived as dangerous” by warriors
who dodged roadside bombs and watched buddies die in Iraq or
Afghanistan, Alan Peterson, director of a Pentagon-funded
project at the University of Texas Health Science Center in  San
Antonio , said in an interview.  Doctors in the program sometimes recommend that soldiers
confront their fears by visiting a  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  location
and staying until anxieties “fade away on their own,” Peterson
said in an interview.  The South Texas Research Organizational Network Guiding
Studies on Trauma and Resilience, or  Strong Star , headed by
Peterson, is conducting the 20 studies on potential treatments.
The program, begun in 2008, is aimed primarily at active-duty
military personnel.  ‘Signature Wound’  While the military brass realize that PTSD is “the
signature wound” of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, “there’s
a cultural issue within the Defense Department that makes it
extremely difficult” to diagnose and treat troops, Senator
Murray said. “There’s a culture of ‘man up’ that continues to
send signals to soldiers that a mental-health diagnosis is not
something they should own up to,” said Murray, a Democrat from
Washington state.  “Frankly, we have not learned how to effectively deal with
that, and we have to,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said at a
Feb. 28 hearing of Murray’s committee.  The Army suspended the head of the Madigan Army Medical
Center at Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington state last
month in a dispute over whether PTSD diagnoses were being
withheld.  ‘Rubber-Stamping’ PTSD  A psychiatrist at the center had cautioned against
“rubber-stamping” cases as PTSD, saying that a soldier
diagnosed with the condition may receive as much as $1.5 million
during his or her lifetime and the costs could bankrupt the Army
and  Veterans Affairs  Department, according to a memo from an
Army ombudsman provided by Murray’s office.  Treating a veteran for PTSD and related conditions costs an
average of $8,300 in the first year and $4,200 in the second,
according to a February report by the Congressional Budget
Office.  The U.S. military has 88,817 cases of PTSD among active-
duty personnel after more than a decade of wars, according to
Peter Graves, a spokesman for the Defense Department’s office of
health affairs. An additional 223,609 veterans have been seen
for the condition, according to the Department of Veterans
Affairs.  About 21 percent of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who
sought medical treatment from 2004 to 2009 were diagnosed with
PTSD, the  Congressional Budget Office  said in a February report.
The Rand Corp. estimated in 2008 that 20 percent of those who
served in the wars met the criteria for PTSD.  Suicides Increase  Army suicides rose 80 percent from 2004 to 2008 after the
deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan, according to a report
published yesterday in the journal Injury Prevention on a study
by the U.S. Army Public Health Command.  A soldier with an amputated limb is seen as a hero, “but
you see someone diagnosed with PTSD and say, ‘What’s wrong with
them?’” said Chapman, the former Washington National Guard
soldier, who went on to be trained as a therapist and is now a
Seattle-based senior manager for a combat-stress recovery
program with the  Wounded Warrior Project , a Jacksonville,
Florida-based advocacy group.  Some in the military have questioned whether the PTSD name,
designated by the  American Psychiatric Association  in 1980,
carries its own stigma that discourages service members from
seeking help and brands them as unstable.  Changing the Name  General Pete Chiarelli, who retired at the end of January
as the Army’s vice chief of staff, said the designation should
be changed to “post-traumatic stress injury.”  For some people, “if you label them as having a disorder,
somehow it makes it sound like it’s a pre-existing condition or
that they’re a weaker person,” Chiarelli said in an interview
before leaving office.  As an alternative to changing the name, the psychiatric
association is considering creating a separate category for PTSD
that results from combat stress, said John Oldham, the group’s
president and chief of staff at the Menninger Clinic in Houston.  The new combat category may be included next year in the
fifth edition of the association’s  Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual  of Mental Disorders, Oldham said in an interview. The
guide is used to determine how patients are diagnosed and
treated and what insurers will cover.  In addition to being used for those suffering the mental
wounds of war, PTSD is a diagnosis for victims of rape or
witnesses to murder. The condition follows events that cause
intense fear and helplessness, and it can develop shortly after
the event or take several years, according to the psychiatric
association’s website.  Nightmares, Flashbacks  The symptoms may include re-experiencing the traumatic
event through nightmares, obsessive thoughts and flashbacks that
may lead people to avoid situations or objects reminding them of
the original events, according to the association. About 7.7
million Americans are affected by PTSD in a given year,
according to the  National Institutes of Health .  Not everyone is convinced that changing the name or
reclassifying the illness for soldiers is even the first step
toward dealing with inadequate treatment.  Labeling a mental illness a disorder sometimes is helpful,
said Lisa Jaycox, a researcher at the Rand Corp. in Arlington,
Virginia. In the case of depression, calling it a disorder has
helped patients get treatment, because the designation changed
the illness from “something that’s wrong with you to a medical
problem that is treatable,” she said in an interview.  Exposure Therapy  Visiting Wal-Mart or another crowded spot is part of a
treatment for PTSD called prolonged exposure therapy that
encourages a patient to recount traumatic events that cause
flashbacks, Peterson of the Strong Star group said.  The benefits of 10 such therapeutic sessions within either
two or eight weeks are being studied, and the early results
suggest the treatments are so effective that some active-duty
military personnel have been able to return to war zones,
Peterson said. About 360 military personnel are getting the
exposure therapy, he said.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Wal-Mart of Bentonville,
 Arkansas , the world’s largest retailer, had no comment on the
store visits as a treatment.  A second treatment called cognitive processing therapy is
being tested with an additional 400 warriors.  In this approach, a therapist helps patients see how
traumatic events have affected their lives, such as constant
self-blame for not having done more to save a fellow warrior on
the battlefield. In later sessions, the therapist helps warriors
understand such unhelpful thinking patterns and ways to
challenge such self-doubt.  ‘Real Warriors’  If larger studies validate the results of the therapies,
which may take two more years, the military may be able to treat
troops suffering from battlefield trauma within weeks after it
manifests itself, Peterson said.  While treatments are improving, the “biggest issue is that
a majority of service members and veterans don’t come to see us,
and those who do come don’t complete care or drop out,” said
Charles Hoge, a former psychiatrist at the Army’s Walter Reed
Medical Center and  author of  the book, “Once a Warrior --Always
a Warrior.”  The military is trying to attach mental-health personnel to
deployed units in an effort “to lower the bar to seek help,”
according to Navy Captain Paul Hammer.  “When you look at PTSD, what 10 years of war has taught
people is you don’t go to war and come back unchanged,” Hammer,
director of the Pentagon’s Defense Centers of Excellence for
Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury, said in an
interview. “If you did, you would be a sociopath. In some
cases, people are affected deeply.”  The Pentagon is also running a “Real Warriors” campaign
of television and Web ads featuring military personnel who have
sought treatment for PTSD without damage to their military or
post-retirement civilian careers.  The goal of the campaign is to show that “it takes courage
to buck the trend and say, ‘Yes, I had a problem, and I sought
treatment,’” Hammer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  