-- Wall Street Bonuses May Surge 20% This Year, Consultant Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-08T18:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/wall-street-bonuses-may-rebound-20-following-cost-cuts-consultant-says.html
Wall Street  bonuses  hit bottom and
are poised to rebound about 20 percent this year as markets
improve, according to  Alan Johnson , president and founder of
compensation consulting company  Johnson Associates Inc.   “The major Wall Street firms have cut enough of their
costs that it doesn’t take much in the way of increased revenue
to generate significant profits or pay,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview today. “A percentage increase off a smaller
number still isn’t a huge number.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were
among New York-based banks that reduced bonuses last year to
help keep costs in line with falling revenue from sales and
trading. Incentive pay at the major investment and commercial
banks fell 20 percent to more than 40 percent in 2011, Johnson
estimated in a presentation to the Wall Street Compensation and
Benefits Association this month.  The industry is at a “positive inflection point,” Johnson
said in the slide presentation. “Compensation will increase
significantly” as firms achieve a return on equity of around 15
percent in the next three years, he said.  Fixed-income traders, whose bonuses were cut last year by
an average of 35 percent to 45 percent according to Johnson, are
likely to see the biggest percentage gains this year, he said.  Fixed-income “is doing better but it’s gone from very poor
to poor,” Johnson said. “But that’s a pretty big change.”  For chief executive officers at large banks, “normal”
annual pay is in the range of $13 million to $23 million,
Johnson estimated, based on historical data. That should be what
they get in 2012, he said, “assuming that performance continues
to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 