-- Weinberg Tells CNBC He Sees U.S. Leading M&A Rebound This Year
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-08T13:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/weinberg-tells-cnbc-he-sees-u-s-leading-m-a-rebound-this-year.html
Peter Weinberg , co-founder of
closely held investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP, said
that he expects U.S. companies to lead a rebound of mergers and
acquisitions.  Firms under pressure from shareholders to increase their
growth prospects will try to do so by acquiring companies in
 emerging markets  as well as in the U.S. and  Europe , Weinberg
said today in an interview on CNBC.  “We feel pretty strongly that there’s going to be a U.S.-
led resurgence of M&A activity later this year,” Weinberg said.
“The U.S. is becoming, on a relative basis, quite strong.”  Boutique investment banks like Perella Weinberg, which
specialize in providing advice to corporations and don’t engage
in the sales and trading activities that dominate larger banks,
are poised to increase their total share of investment-banking
revenue to 20 percent in the next three to five years from 10
percent currently, Weinberg said.  Weinberg, who was on the management committee of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before starting Perella Weinberg with Joseph Perella in 2006, said he’s “not sure I’d do anything really
differently” if he was running Goldman Sachs now.  Weinberg’s grandfather Sidney J. Weinberg and his uncle
John L. Weinberg were previous heads of Goldman Sachs. His
father Sidney J. Weinberg Jr. worked at the firm and his cousin
John S. Weinberg is on the management committee at Goldman
Sachs.  Goldman Sachs was criticized last week by Delaware Chancery
Court Judge Leo Strine for its handling of the New York-based
firm’s conflict of interest in advising El Paso Corp. on a sale
to Kinder Morgan Inc. even though Goldman Sachs owned about 20
percent of  Kinder Morgan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 