-- Wells Fargo Ends Free Checking With $7 Fee in 6 States
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-08T20:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/wells-fargo-ends-free-checking-with-7-fee-added-in-six-more-u-s-states.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the bank with the
most U.S. branches, ended free checking in six eastern states as
it seeks to recover revenue lost under new financial rules.  Customers in New York,  New Jersey , Connecticut, Georgia,
Delaware and  Pennsylvania  must pay a $7 monthly fee for a basic
checking account if they receive paper statements and $5 if they
select electronic statements,  Lisa Westermann , a Wells Fargo
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. Customers can get the
fee waived if they direct deposit more than $500 in their
account each month, or maintain a $1,500 balance.  “We’re rolling it out region by region,” Westermann said
in an e-mail. “We plan to roll it out through all the regions
eventually.”  U.S. banks are asking customers to make up lost revenue
after regulators curbed overdraft fees and as a new consumer
protection agency comes online. Wells Fargo and rivals Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. abandoned plans last year
to levy debit-card fees after consumers protested. Massachusetts
Secretary of the Commonwealth  William Galvin  has said banks
should be barred from holding state deposits unless they offer
customers free basic checking.  Wells Fargo  gained  3.4 percent to $31.45 as of 3:22 p.m. in
New York. The San Francisco-based company has the biggest market
value among U.S. lenders at about $166 billion.  Free Checking Ends  “Free checking essentially went away in 2010,” Westermann
said. “As time evolved, we have been introducing fees into
other accounts, with a number of waivers for customers.” Most
account holders will get the waiver, she said.  The six eastern U.S. states were part of Wachovia Corp.’s
branch network and account holders in most states where Wells
Fargo already had outlets have already absorbed the fee,
Westermann said.  In  California , Wells Fargo’s largest market, the former
Wachovia checking accounts haven’t been assessed the new fees,
Westermann said. Wells Fargo doesn’t offer free checking
accounts in the state, she said.  Wells Fargo eliminated free checking in July 2010 for new
customers and later began to include existing account holders.
The bank purchased Wachovia in 2008 and spent three years
merging the lenders. The final Wachovia branches were rebranded
in October.  “You’re seeing all banks look at new fee structures,”
said  Jason Goldberg , a senior bank analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in New York, who has an “overweight/positive”  rating  on Wells
Fargo. “Banks provide services and they expect to be
compensated.” Customers can change banks if they’re unhappy
with the fees, he said.  Checking-account services cost the industry about $300
annually per person, and most depositors with less than $3,000
aren’t profitable for lenders without fees including overdraft
charges, said Bart Narter, a senior banking analyst at
consulting firm Celent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  