-- Pirates Double Gulf of Guinea Attacks, Lured by Tanker Cargoes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-03-08T14:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/west-african-oil-tanker-hijackings-double-as-pirates-lured-by-ship-cargoes.html
Pirate attacks in the Gulf of Guinea
doubled last month as more tankers were hijacked so their stolen
oil-product cargoes could be sold on shore, said risk-analysis
firm AKE Group Ltd. and a lawyer who acts in piracy cases.  Eight vessels were attacked in February, raising the total
to 12 for this year’s first two months, Rory Lamrock, an analyst
at AKE, said from  London . Pirate activity in the region jumped
42 percent last year as 64 ships were attacked, he said. The
gulf, off Africa’s western coast, is bordered by countries
including Nigeria, Benin and Cameroon.  “ Attacks  are rising in frequency, happening further out
from shore, and are mostly financially and criminally
motivated,” Lamrock said by phone today.  Pirates seize tankers for about two weeks and leave them
stationary off the coast, transferring the cargoes to a Nigerian
tanker by night, Stephen Askins, a partner at law firm Ince &
Co. in London, said this week at a conference in the city. The
stolen oil products are sold in Nigeria or the city of Cotonou
in  Benin , he said.  “They’ve worked out a much better way to get money out of
everybody, which is to steal cargo,” Askins said of pirates
operating in the gulf. They are “way, way ahead of the Somali
pirates,” he said at the conference.  Ransom Drop  Askins has acted in piracy cases since 2005 and once
dropped off a multimillion-dollar ransom payment in London’s
 Finsbury Park  to secure the release of a hijacked vessel. He has
direct knowledge of piracy operations after working with the
Nigerian government’s economic-crimes unit to track down a
stolen oil cargo, finding the local tanker used to carry it, and
confronting the vessel’s owner.  Pirates in the gulf have no connection to terrorist gangs
that operated around  Nigeria ’s Bonny River, said Askins, a
former Royal Marine. The gulf is a destination for tankers
because Nigeria is the biggest African oil producer.  Charterers of ships should share higher costs to protect
against pirates off the West African coast, said Dimitris
Tsahalis, chartering manager at Athens-based Thenamaris Ships
Management Inc.,  Greece ’s fifth-largest shipping company.  “Some owners are not addressing what is happening, as
they’re not fully aware of the situation,” Tsahalis said by
phone from  Athens  today. “We want to cover ourselves from any
consequences arising from vessels calling at Nigeria, as our
vessels are under greater risk than before.”  He also said charter contracts for tankers heading to West
 Africa  should include a version of piracy  clauses  published in
2009 by the Baltic and International Maritime Council. The
council, representing 65 percent of global shipowners, aimed to
spell out where responsibility lay in paying for higher costs
linked to navigating areas frequented by Somali pirates.  There are about 3,500 Somali pirates attacking vessels off
Africa’s eastern coast in the  Gulf of Aden  and  Indian Ocean , the
 United Nations  said Feb. 16. Somali pirate attacks rose to a
record 237 in 2011 and ransoms worth $160 million were paid to
release 31 hijacked vessels, according to a One Earth Future
Foundation report released last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  