-- Why Do the Kochs Want to Kill the Cato Institute?: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-03-08T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/why-do-the-kochs-want-to-kill-the-cato-institute-ezra-klein.html
It seems the effort by billionaires
Charles and  David Koch  to take control of the libertarian Cato
Institute is going poorly. “We are not acting in a partisan
manner, we seek no ‘takeover’ and this is not a hostile action,”
 Charles Koch  told Bloomberg News. When you are denying
partisanship, takeover ambitions and hostile intentions in one
sentence, you probably need to rethink your PR strategy.  The Koch brothers have long supported Cato, which they
helped found in Washington in 1977. Recently, however, they have
come to consider their creation politically unreliable. In a
meeting with Robert Levy, the chairman of Cato’s board of
directors, they expressed their intention to remake Cato into a
party organ that would aid their campaign to unseat President
 Barack Obama . To do so, however, they need control of the board.
They intend to get it by suing the widow of William Niskanen, a
recently deceased board member, for control of Niskanen’s
shares.  Whether they can pull off this coup is for the courts to
decide. (Alison Frankel has a good rundown of the relevant legal
issues  here .) But the bigger question is: Why in the world would
they want to?  In 2006, the first page of Cato’s annual report included an
admiring quote from, well, me. “The libertarian  Cato Institute 
is the foremost advocate for small-government principles in
American life,” I wrote.  I am not exactly a libertarian. I’m a technocrat. I believe
in the government’s ability, and occasionally its
responsibility, to help solve problems that the market can’t or
won’t resolve on its own. I find much of Cato’s hard-line
libertarianism -- to the point of purging Will Wilkinson and
Brink Lindsey, libertarians who explored making common cause
with liberals on select issues -- naive, callous and
occasionally absurd. And yet, it’s among a handful of think
tanks whose work I regularly read and trust.  Trusting Cato  That’s because Cato is, well, “the foremost advocate for
small-government principles in American life.” It advocates
those principles when Democrats are in power, and when
Republicans are in power. When I read Cato’s take on a policy
question, I can trust that it is informed by more than partisan
convenience. The same can’t be said for other think tanks in
town.  The  Heritage Foundation , for instance, is a conservative
think tank that professes to pursue goals similar to Cato’s.
Where Cato’s motto is “individual liberty, free markets, and
peace,” Heritage’s mission is the advancement of “conservative
public policies based on the principles of free enterprise,
limited government, individual freedom, traditional American
values, and a strong national defense.”  In practice, however, whatever the  Republican Party  wants,
so does Heritage. In 1989, Heritage helped develop the idea of
universal health care delivered by the private sector through an
individual mandate. In the early 1990s, it helped Senate
Republicans build that concept into a legislative alternative to
President  Bill Clinton ’s proposed reforms. In the early 2000s,
Heritage worked with then-Governor  Mitt Romney  to implement the
plan in  Massachusetts . Then, when Obama won office and Democrats
adopted Heritage’s idea, Heritage promptly fell into step with
the Republican Party and turned ferociously against it.  Similarly, when Representative  Paul Ryan  was developing his
budget and needed a friendly think tank to run the numbers, he
turned to the Heritage Foundation. And boy, they made those
numbers sprint. Heritage’s analysis showed Ryan’s budget driving
down unemployment to 2.8 percent. When the mockery that ensued
proved too much for the think tank to bear, it quietly  replaced
the analysis  with another that didn’t include unemployment
predictions.  Informed Thinking  On policy, I probably agree more frequently with the
Heritage Foundation than with Cato. But I can’t trust Heritage.
I trust Cato. I don’t agree with its health-care expert, Michael Cannon, who considers universal coverage an absurd and
deleterious goal. But I take his analysis seriously, and his
critiques have informed my thinking. I’m certainly more
skeptical of single-payer programs than I would have been
without having read his arguments.  Similarly, I never considered myself particularly concerned
with executive power, but in his book “The Cult of the
Presidency,” Cato Vice President Gene Healy convinced me that
“we begin by looking to the president as the solution to all our
problems, and we end up believing he’s the source of all our
problems,” contributing directly to  Washington ’s dysfunction.
That has grown into a recurring theme in my writing.  This
column , for example, bears Healy’s imprint right at the top. (I
pause here to note that Cato is literally  giving away  Healy’s
book, and you should absolutely accept the offer.)  I never had very strong views on intellectual property, but
Cato’s Julian Sanchez -- who is also a friend -- has convinced
me that our intellectual-property system has become a protection
racket for incumbent firms and is an impediment to innovation.  The list could go on, but the point is this: The Koch
brothers’  fortune  is estimated at more than $60 billion, a
couple thousand times Cato’s annual operating budget. The
brothers have started a large number of advocacy organizations,
many of which spend their time -- and the Kochs’ money -- trying
to influence the next election. They could start another such
group, one dedicated to providing campaign-season ammunition,
without noticing the expense.  The puzzle is that the Kochs ever started this campaign in
the first place. It’s easy enough to see what they hoped to
achieve: They would quietly take control of Cato and then
leverage its credibility to help elect a Republican.
Unfortunately for them, the cries from inside Cato made the
“quietly” part impossible. But it would have been impossible in
any case: Cato’s credibility is derived from its independence;
it wouldn’t last long separated from it.  What the Kochs have in Cato is an advocacy organization
that matters in the years between elections, even when the Koch
brothers’ preferred candidate doesn’t win, even to people who
don’t share the brothers’ ideology. Cato is an organization that
can have more than a marginal impact on elections. It can have a
significant impact on policy and governance. That’s a level of
influence even the Kochs can’t buy. When two of the right wing’s
most influential funders don’t recognize that, it should cheer
liberals immensely.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  