-- Witness in Croatia Ex-Premier’s Trial Says He Managed Mol Payout
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-03-08T16:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/witness-in-croatia-ex-premier-s-trial-says-he-managed-mol-payout.html
A witness at the bribery trial of
Croatian former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said the premier
asked him to organize collecting 10 million euros ($13.2
million) from Hungary’s  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  for consulting services.  Testifying for the prosecution at the Zagreb district
court, businessman Robert Jezic said 5 million euros arrived in
June 2009 at the Swiss bank account of his company Xenoplast &
Shipping AG from two Cyprus-based companies. After Sanader
resigned in July 2009, Jezic asked him to stop the second part
of payment, he said.  “Looking at the money trail, I could only conclude it came
from Mol,” Jezic told the court.  Sanader is accused of taking a bribe of 10 million euros
from the Hungarian  oil company  in early 2009 when he was head of
the government. In exchange, he arranged with Mol Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi  to give the company controlling rights over Croatian
refiner  INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  in a January 2009 shareholding
agreement, prosecutors said.  Sanader and Mol have denied the accusations. Sanader’s
lawyer Cedo Prodanovic today told the court the payment Jezic
described was sent by “Russian companies” lobbying Jezic for
favors with his chemical manufacturer,  Dioki d.d.   He also said Jezic, who is being investigated by the Office
for Suppression of Corruption and Organized Crime on unrelated
matters, is seeking to improve his status by accusing Sanader of
wrongdoing.  The two Cyprus-based companies have been affiliated with
OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, since October 2011,
Gazprom officials said in December.  Legal Help  Croatian prosecutors said earlier in the trial that Hernadi
has the status of a suspect in the case. They requested legal
help from  Hungary  in connection with the case in July. Hungarian
prosecutors cleared Mol on Jan. 30 after their own probe.  The money from Cyprus is still in the bank account of
Jezic’s companies Xenoplast and Dioki, which merged in 2011,
Jezic said. Jezic is under investigation for irregularities in
Dioki’s cooperation with national grid Hrvatska Elektroprivreda
d.d. He spent four months in detention last year.  “Four months in jail were enough for me to make some
decisions, after consulting with lawyers,” Jezic said. He said
he had obliged Sanader’s request because he felt “intimidated”
by the former premier.  Sanader’s trial for corruption and abuse of office began in
November, after the district court decided to merge two
corruption probes into one. The second case involves  Austria ’s
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  