-- Women Fill Fewer Senior Management Positions in Emerging Markets
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-08T12:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/women-fill-fewer-senior-management-positions-in-emerging-markets.html
Emerging markets are bucking a trend
in  Europe  in which the proportion of women occupying senior
management positions is on the rise, research by Grant Thornton
International showed.  Women hold 22 percent of top management positions in Latin
America, down from 28 percent in 2009, according to the global
study of 6,000 businesses that was released today on the
occasion of International Women’s Day. The trend was the same in
the Asia Pacific, Southeast Asia and the so-called BRIC major
emerging economies of Brazil,  Russia , India and  China .  “Across Europe, getting more women into senior management
positions has been high on the political agenda for quite some
time,” said April Mackenzie, global head of governance and
public policy at Grant Thornton in  London . “The steady drop-off
we are seeing in the emerging markets is a real concern, though.
The worry is that we may be reaching the point where women are
underrepresented in senior management the world over.”  U.S. companies are lagging behind gains in Europe, where
female board membership is growing to meet regulatory mandates
and corporate governance codes. Representation of women on
boards of  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  companies declined to 16 percent
in 2011 from 16.6 percent in 2010, according to the Bloomberg
Rankings annual analysis last year, which gathered data from
public company information.  Russia, Italy  Among the 40 economies surveyed by Grant Thornton as part
of its International Business Report, companies in Russia employ
the most women in senior management, 46 percent, ahead of
Botswana, Thailand and the Philippines, all at 39 percent. Italy
ranks highest in Europe, with women filling 36 percent of senior
management positions, according to the survey.  Japan  is at the “bottom of the table,” with just 5
percent of top positions held by women. That’s below  Germany  at
13 percent,  India  at 14 percent and Denmark at 15 percent.  The biggest advances in the past 12 months were made in
countries including Turkey, where women now fill 31 percent of
senior management jobs, up from 25 percent three years ago, and
the United Arab Emirates, where the number almost doubled to 15
percent from 8 percent. This suggests that “the wave of
economic liberalization in the  Middle East  as a result of the
Arab Spring could have boosted the chances of women in the
region reaching the top,” according to the study.  While assorted cultural, economic and social barriers often
prevent women from reaching top jobs, the urbanization that has
accompanied rapid economic growth in  emerging markets  may
explain why the proportion of women in senior management is on
the decline in developing nations.  “The movement into cities has begun to break down
traditional models of extended families,” Mackenzie said.
“Urbanization presents more opportunities for more people,
including women, in many different ways. But the challenges it
places on the family model appear to be having a
disproportionately large effect on the ability of women to break
the glass ceiling and occupy senior management roles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 