-- Wyoming Joins EPA to Test Water in Pavillion Fracking Area
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-08T22:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/wyoming-joins-epa-to-test-water-in-pavillion-fracking-area-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
and  Wyoming  agreed to conduct further water tests near the town
of Pavillion, ending a dispute between the state and federal
governments over a draft EPA study that found evidence of
contamination from hydraulic fracturing.  In a joint statement, the two entities said they would
conduct an additional two rounds of testing of monitoring wells
EPA had installed in 2010. The agency found evidence of chemical
contamination from hydraulic fracturing in water from those
wells in a preliminary study last year.  The U.S. gets most of its onshore gas from hydraulic
fracturing, a drilling technique known as fracking, in which
millions of gallons of chemically treated water and sand are
forced underground to break rock and let trapped vapor flow.  The EPA, state and local tribes “recognize that further
sampling of the deep monitoring wells drilled for the agency’s
groundwater study is important to clarify questions about the
initial monitoring results,” they said in today’s statement.  Samples taken from two deep water-monitoring wells near a
 gas field  in Pavillion showed synthetic chemicals such as
glycols and alcohols “consistent with gas production and
hydraulic-fracturing fluids,” the agency said in an e-mailed
statement in December.  Results Criticized  EPA’s initial results were criticized by the company that
had fracked for gas in the area,  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Republican
lawmakers and state officials.  “State agencies are concerned that the organic and
synthetic organic chemicals were likely introduced during the
drilling, completion, testing and sampling of the monitoring
wells,” Thomas Doll, state oil and gas supervisor, told the
House Committee on Science, Space and Technology on Feb. 1.  “The EPA conclusion that hydraulic fracturing caused
ground-water contamination is limited to the data found in a
single sample detect from a single monitoring well,” Doll
added. “Yet this fact is lost in the public reaction to EPA’s
announcement and results in a worldwide damnation of hydraulic
fracturing.”  More Tests  The agency and state now will collaborate on two more
rounds of tests, while putting a peer-review process for the
initial results on hold until the testing is complete.  Ecana believes this latest step shows that the original EPA
findings were rushed out unnecessarily, and wants the officials
to first test residents’ wells, not the EPA test wells, Doug
Hock, a company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  “Additional testing should focus on evaluating the taste
and odor complaints from the domestic wells,” Hock said.  The Pavillion findings give ammunition to environmental
groups, such as the  Natural Resources Defense Council , that have
said the drilling risks tainting drinking water and needs
stronger regulation.  After complaints from residents of Pavillion, about 300
miles (483 kilometers) northwest of the state capital, Cheyenne,
the EPA began investigating private drinking-water wells about
three years ago. Calgary-based  Encana (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest natural-
gas producer, owns wells near Pavillion.  The EPA dug two monitoring wells into the aquifer and found
“compounds likely associated with gas-production practices,
including hydraulic fracturing,” according to the 2011 EPA
statement.  Federal rules governing fracking have taken on new
importance following President  Barack Obama ’s advocacy in his
State of the Union address for drilling for natural gas in
shale, which he said will mean the country doesn’t have to
“choose between our environment and our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  