-- Xerox Sells $1.1 Billion of Debt After Yields Reach Record Low
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-08T21:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/xerox-sells-1-1-billion-of-debt-with-corporate-bond-yields-at-record-lows.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, sold $1.1 billion of debt in the
company’s second offering within a year after investment-grade
bond yields fell to a record low this month.  Xerox issued $600 million of 18-month floating-rate notes
and $500 million of 2.95 percent, five-year debt that pays 210
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Xerox last sold five-year notes in
December 2009, issuing $1 billion of 4.25 percent debt at a 225
basis-point spread over Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  Xerox is preparing to pay back $1.1 billion of 5.5 percent
senior unsecured notes maturing in May, Bloomberg data show. The
Norwalk, Connecticut-based company cut interest expenses with
today’s offering as average investment-grade yields tumbled to a
record low 3.4 percent on March 2, before rising to 3.43 percent
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The company’s investment-grade rating “is very important
to us because we’ve got long-term contracts with our
customers,” Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri said at a Feb.
15 conference held by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “It’s important
for us with the way we compete in the marketplace.”  Proceeds may be used to refinance outstanding obligations
and for general corporate purposes,  Fitch Ratings  said in a note
today.  The 18-month debt pays 140 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.
 Libor (US0003M) , a lending benchmark reported by banks, was set at 0.474
percent today.  Underfunded Pension  While low  interest rates  have benefited the company by
reducing borrowing costs, they’ve increased its pension
expenses, Maestri said. Even as Xerox took $600 million of debt
out of its  capital structure  last year, its pension was
underfunded by about the same amount, keeping its  leverage ratio 
constant, he said.  Xerox’s ratio of debt to operating earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 2.8 times on
Dec. 31, down from 3 times a year earlier, Fitch Ratings
analysts said in the note, assigning a BBB grade to today’s
securities.  Standard & Poor’s  has a BBB- grade  on the  company with a
“stable” outlook while Moody’s Investors Service has a Baa2
grade with a “positive” view, Bloomberg data show.  Mostly Short-Term  Most of Xerox’s debt is short-term as it’s used to support
its leasing and customer financing business, requiring the
company to continually refinance the securities, Morningstar
Inc. analyst Michael Hodel wrote in a note today.  Hodel said the company’s “current emphasis on share
repurchases” may make today’s notes unattractive. Xerox spent
$700 million in share buybacks last year and plans $1 billion
for this year, he said.  “Combined with an expected $300 million dividend payout
and acquisition spending, the firm’s cash flow in 2012 is
largely spoken for,” he wrote.  Before today, the company last sold bonds in May, issuing
$300 million of three-year floating-rate notes and $700 million
of 4.5 percent, 10-year debt, Bloomberg data show. That offering
was its first in 17 months.  Xerox added business-process services to its document-
management and printing expertise with its 2010 acquisition of
Affiliated Computer Services Inc. The approximately $6 billion
purchase, Xerox’s largest, gave it growing markets, including
managing and automating electronic payments for governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  