-- Xstrata to Buy Sukunka Coal for $500 Million From Talisman
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-03-08T10:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/xstrata-says-sukunka-coal-to-unlock-synergies-in-peace-river.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter of
coal for power stations, agreed to buy the Sukunka coking coal
deposit in western  Canada  from  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  for $500
million to increase its output of the steelmaking raw material.  Sukunka in British Columbia, which has an estimated 236
million metric tons of resources, adjoins assets acquired by
Xstrata from First Coal Corp. and Lossan last year, the Zug,
Switzerland-based producer said in a statement today.  “Sukunka has the potential to be a high quality
metallurgical coal mine,” Peter Freyberg, head of Xstrata’s
coal division, said in the statement. “Once developed, Sukunka
would meaningfully increase our exposure to hard coking coal.”  Xstrata, which is seeking to boost output by 50 percent
through 2014, last month received a takeover offer from its 34
percent stakeholder Glencore International Plc that would create
the fourth-largest mining company. Xstrata plans to seek
shareholder support for the 22.2 billion pound ($35 billion)
deal in May.  Demand for commodities such as coking coal that Xstrata
also digs at  Australia ’s Oaky Creek is high in  China , Freyberg
said Dec. 6. While steel demand is falling in China, there’s
still “good demand for quality products,” he said.  Spot prices for Australian coking coal have fallen back to
$220 a ton after exceeding $330 a ton, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in a report last month. Coking coal may bottom out in the April-
to-June period before rising as the cost of mining increases,
Akira Kishimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at JPMorgan, said in the
report.  Talisman, a Canadian oil and gas producer, is selling
“non-producing, non-core” assets as part of a strategy to
focus on its “core” business, the Calgary-based company said
in a separate statement. The cash deal is expected to be
completed later this month, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 