-- Euro Strengthens Amid Greek Debt-Swap Optimism as Deal Deadline Expires
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-08T22:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/yen-weakens-after-data-shows-japan-posted-record-current-account-deficit.html
The euro rose the most in two weeks
against the dollar on bets  Greece  has attracted enough public-
sector involvement to make its debt-swap a success, adding to
optimism the region’s debt crisis will be contained.  The 17-nation currency rose after the  European Central Bank 
kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged and President  Mario
Draghi  said recent surveys showed signs of economic
stabilization. The yen fell against all of its major
counterparts after Japan reported a record current-account
deficit, undermining the currency’s haven status.  New Zealand ’s
dollar and  South Africa ’s rand led gains by higher-yielding
currencies as stocks rose.  “We’ve had a really strong risk-on move and a lot of it
has to do with the fact that the PSI is going to come though,
that it won’t get delayed,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “The ECB did
highlight that risks have diminished, which could imply that
stimulus is less likely.”  The euro gained 1 percent to $1.3275 at 5 p.m. in New York,
advancing the most since Jan. 17. The shared currency climbed
1.5 percent to 108.27 yen. The yen lost 0.6 percent to 81.56 per
dollar after weakening to 81.87 on March 2, the weakest since
May 26.  Greek Debt  Greece’s government got about 85 percent of bondholders to
tender their holdings of the country’s debt for new securities
in the biggest restructuring in history, a banking official
said. Preliminary indications after the deadline for the swap
expired at 10 p.m. in  Athens  showed that as much as 155 billion
euros ($206 billion) of the 177 billion-euro Greek-law bonds
were offered, according to the official in Athens, who declined
to be identified.  The euro has dropped 0.4 percent against the dollar this
month. The dollar gained against most major currencies in the
period as investors sought safety on concern the Greek debt swap
might unravel.  Implied volatility of one-month options on the euro-dollar
 currency pair  declined to 9.82 percent, almost at a 10-month low
of 9.79 percent reached Feb. 24. The  implied volatility  of Group
of Seven currencies fell to 10.24 percent from 10.4 percent
yesterday, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .  Less Stress  A measure of stress in the euro-region financial system
fell below the U.K. for the first time since July as central-
bank funds flood the market and Greece stands poised to get
agreement on its debt restructuring. The difference between the
three-month London interbank offered rate for euros and the
overnight indexed swap rate dropped to a seven-month low of 56
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “What we’re seeing today is short covering because traders
do not want to be caught short when the debt-swap data is
released,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online trading firm GFT Forex in  New York . “Draghi had a lot of
things to say today that are more euro-positive than euro-
negative.” A short is a bet the price of an asset will fall.  Speaking at a press conference in  Frankfurt  after the ECB
meeting, Draghi said “the risk environment has improved
enormously” and recent surveys “confirm signs of a
stabilization” in the euro-area economy. The outlook is “still
subject to downside risks,” he said. Policy makers didn’t
discuss changing  interest rates  at their meeting, Draghi said.  Market Trends  The euro has weakened 1.4 percent in the past six months as
the region’s debt crisis intensified, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies. The dollar gained 1.4 percent, and the yen declined
5.7 percent.  The yen fell toward a nine-month low versus the dollar
after the Ministry of Finance said  Japan  had a current-account
deficit of 437.3 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in January. That’s
the biggest shortfall since comparable data began in 1985 and
was more than the median estimate of a 320 billion-yen deficit
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The dollar weakened against most of its major peers after a
U.S. report added to signs the job market is improving, damping
demand for safer assets.  The number of Americans filing  claims  for jobless benefits
rose 8,000 to 362,000 last week, the Labor Department said,
keeping the average over the past four weeks close to a four-
year low. A report from the Department tomorrow will show that
employers added 210,000 jobs last month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before the release.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to track the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, dropped 0.7
percent to 79.133.  Higher-yielding currencies advanced as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 1 percent to 82.43 U.S.
cents, the South African rand gained 1.5 percent to 7.4816 per
dollar and the Australian dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.0644.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand,
5.5 percent in South Africa, and 4.25 percent in  Australia 
compared with almost zero in the U.S. and Japan, attracting
investors to their higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  