-- YPF Admits Government Officials to Meeting After Speculation of Takeover
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-08T19:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-08/ypf-admits-government-officials-to-meeting-after-speculation-of-takeover.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s largest oil
producer, allowed government officials to attend a board meeting
today and delayed a decision on its dividend as the government
steps up pressure on the company to boost investment.  Energy Secretary Daniel Cameron and Deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof, barred from a Feb. 23 board meeting, accompanied
Roberto Baratta, who represents the government on YPF’s  board ,
according to an e-mailed statement from the planning ministry.
The board delayed a decision on its dividend to discuss what to
do with the cash available, YPF said in a separate statement.  YPF is facing mounting pressure from President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner’s government and oil-producing provinces
to boost investments amid output declines and rising fuel
imports. Three provinces have issued orders urging YPF to
increase spending since last week. The pressure has fueled
speculation Kirchner is seeking to nationalize the company.  The government is looking for legal ways to acquire control
of YPF, Buenos Aires-based newspaper Ambito Financiero reported
on Feb. 29. A month earlier, Pagina 12 newspaper said government
officials had discussed re-nationalizing YPF, which was sold to
investors in 1993. Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  acquired control
of the company six years later.  Walked Away  Baratta walked away from the previous meeting after YPF
barred Kicillof and Cameron. Six days later, Argentina’s
securities regulator annulled decisions made during the meeting
by declaring it “irregular” and “inefficient” because the
government officials weren’t allowed to participate. YPF
appealed the ruling March 5.  The government wants the company to use the cash for the
2011 dividends for investments in oil exploration and production
as well as in refining, according the the Planning ministry’s
statement today. The dividends for 2010, which have not yet been
distributed, should also be used for investments, the government
said.  Today’s Meeting  In today’s meeting, the board approved the company’s 2011
earnings, which included a 5.3 billion peso ($1.2 billion)
profit, according to the regulatory filing. Chairman  Antonio Brufau  participated via videoconference from  Madrid , where he
heads Repsol, the controlling shareholder in YPF, a company
official, who cannot be named under corporate policy, said.
Baratta declined to approve the accounts.  YPF rose 2.2 percent to 137.5 pesos at 4:26 p.m. in  Buenos
Aires . It’s down 18 percent so far this year, compared with a
8.5 percent increase in the benchmark Merval index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  