-- ABB Said to Near Purchase of Thomas & Betts for $4 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-01-30T01:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/abb-said-to-be-near-4-billion-purchase-of-component-maker-thomas-betts.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  is near an agreement to buy
 Thomas & Betts Corp ., a maker of electrical connectors, for
about $4 billion in cash, a person with knowledge of the plan
said.  ABB, based in Zurich and the world’s largest provider of
power-transmission gear, may announce a deal as soon as today,
said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations are private. The talks for Thomas & Betts, whose
market value was $3.02 billion based on its Jan. 27 closing
price of $57.95 a share, may still break down.  Thomas & Betts, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , would be the
second large acquisition for ABB under Chief Executive Officer
 Joe Hogan , who joined in 2008 from  General Electric Co. (GE)  He
bolstered ABB in the U.S. with the January 2011 purchase of
Baldor Electric Co. for $3.1 billion. That deal added industrial
motors and drives and gave ABB heft in automation, where it
competes with  Siemens AG. (SIE)   “The timing for any such transaction is near perfect into
what look like the beginnings of strong upturns in U.S. utility
and construction markets,” Scott Davis, a New York-based
analyst with Barclays Plc, wrote in a report yesterday. The
electrical industry “has long struggled with scale issues,
global coverage and pricing power.”  Spokespeople for ABB in Zurich didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment yesterday. A phone message left for Tricia Bergeron in  investor relations  at Thomas & Betts wasn’t
answered. The Wall Street Journal reported the talks yesterday,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Thomas & Betts  Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 as a sales agency for
electrical wires and raceways, and its products are used in the
telecommunications, construction and  power utility industries .
Now it makes cable ties, connectors and steel boxes that house
electrical wiring, generating  2010 sales  of $2 billion.  The  shares  of Thomas & Betts have climbed by more than half
since August. They haven’t returned to the record closing high
of $64 set in 1998.  At the Jan. 27 price of $57.95, Thomas & Betts traded at
about 15 times analysts’  estimates  for 2012 profit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, up from as little as 10 times in
September. Electrical equipment makers Hubbell Inc. and Amphenol
Corp. fetch multiples of about 15 times and 16 times forward
earnings respectively, the data show.  Thomas & Betts is scheduled to release its fourth-quarter
earnings report today. For 2010, the company said industrial and
construction customers accounted for about 76 percent of its
sales, with utilities making up the rest. The  U.S. and Canada 
generated about 81 percent of its sales.  ABB Strategy  For ABB, the acquisition would be a hedge against a
weakening European economy and currency, Davis said.  ABB was created in 1988 from the combination of Asea AB of
 Sweden  and  Switzerland ’s BBC Brown Boveri. Investor AB, the
Swedish Wallenberg family’s holding company, remains ABB’s
largest  shareholder , with a stake of about 7.2 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ABB and Munich-based Siemens compete in areas such as
factory automation gear and power-transmission equipment. ABB,
which posts fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 16, had  revenue  of
about $32 billion in 2010, with power products making up about
27 percent of sales.  Hogan has vowed to pursue “disciplined” acquisition
opportunities across all business areas and geographies, and he
has proven that he is willing to abandon a deal. In 2010, he
walked away from a planned purchase of Chloride Group Ltd. after
being outbid for the U.K. company by  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)   Hogan Builds ABB  Hogan has made the Americas one of his  main regions  in
which to pursue growth in power systems, discrete automation and
low-voltage products. By 2015, ABB wants to generate as much as
30 percent of revenue from the region, compared with 19 percent
in 2010. The company has said that it will continue to focus on
power and automation and doesn’t intend to divest assets.  ABB has said purchases may boost annual sales growth by as
much as 4 percent until 2015.  A purchase of Thomas & Betts would mark the second major
deal announced by a Swiss company in less than a week.  Roche
Holding AG  offered $5.7 billion on Jan. 25 in a hostile bid for
Illumina Inc. to bolster sales of gene-mapping equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  