-- ABB Nears Deal for Thomas & Betts for About $4B
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-01-29T19:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/abb-nears-deal-for-thomas-betts-for-about-4b.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest
provider of power-transmission gear, is nearing an agreement to
buy  Thomas & Betts Corp. (TNB) , a maker of electrical connectors, for
about $4 billion, a person with knowledge of the plan said.  ABB, based in Zurich, may announce a deal as soon as
tomorrow, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the negotiations are private. The talks may still break
down for Thomas & Betts, whose market value was $3.02 billion
based on its Jan. 27 closing price of $57.95 a share.  Thomas & Betts, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , would be ABB’s
second large acquisition under Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan , who joined in 2008 from  General Electric Co. (GE)  He bolstered
ABB in the U.S. with the January 2011 purchase of Baldor
Electric Co. for about $3.1 billion. That deal added industrial
motors and drives and gave ABB heft in automation, where it
competes with  Siemens AG. (SIE)   Spokespeople for ABB in Zurich didn’t immediately respond
to messages seeking comment. A phone message at the office of
Tricia Bergeron, an investor relations representative for Thomas
& Betts, wasn’t immediately answered. The Wall Street Journal
reported the talks earlier today, citing unidentified people
familiar with the situation.  ABB and Munich-based Siemens compete in areas such as
factory automation gear and power-transmission equipment. ABB,
which posts fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 16, had  revenue  of
about $32 billion in 2010, with power products making up about
27 percent of sales.  Hogan Builds ABB  Hogan has vowed to pursue “disciplined” acquisition
opportunities across all business areas and geographies, and he
has proven that he is willing to abandon a deal. In 2010, he
walked away from a planned purchase of Chloride Group Ltd. after
being outbid for the U.K. company by  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)   ABB has said purchases may boost annual sales growth by as
much as 4 percent until 2015.  Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 as a sales agency for
electrical wires and raceways, and its products are used in the
telecommunications, construction and power utility industries.
The  shares  of the company, whose  2010 sales  were $2 billion,
have gained 13 percent in a year.  Thomas & Betts reported on Oct. 20 that third-quarter
profit from continuing operations rose 32 percent to $54.3
million, or $1.03 a diluted share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  