-- African Union Urges Increased Intra-Regional Trade to Help Economic Growth
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-29T16:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/african-union-urges-more-intra-regional-trade-to-aid-growth-1-.html
African leaders urged countries to
boost intra-regional trade to help accelerate economic growth
and development on the continent.  “African countries do not trade enough among themselves,”
 African Union  Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  said at a summit
today in Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia ’s capital. “The growth of intra-
African trade would lay the foundations for a stronger and more
sustainable economic growth.”  Trade between African countries accounts for 11 percent of
the total, compared with 47 percent in  Asia  and 70 percent in
the European Union, according to the African Union. Increasing
that percentage may help offset the impact of a slowdown in the
euro region and other OECD countries, the Economic Commission
for Africa said on Jan. 26. Growth on the continent slowed to
2.7 percent last year from 5 percent in 2011, it said.  A doubling in intra-African trade would add 2 percent to
the continent’s gross domestic product,  Obiageli Ezekwesili ,
vice president for Africa at the  World Bank , said in Addis Ababa
before the summit. African leaders are looking to tap into the
continent’s $2 trillion economy and 1 billion population to
promote growth, she said in an interview.  “That’s a huge domestic base to drive domestic demand,”
Ezekwesili said. “Every bottleneck that stands in the way of
the integration of that into a sizeable market is seen by the
leaders as something they can work on as a collective to
remove.”  Economic Integration  Commission chairman Ping urged faster economic integration
on the continent and endorsed a plan by African ministers to
create an economic bloc for central, western and northern  Africa 
that would emulate a proposed free-trade area in southern and
eastern Africa.  The African Union summit is being held at the 54-nation
body’s new $200 million headquarters, built by  China State
Construction Engineering Corp. (601668)  on the ruins of Ethiopia’s former
maximum security prison, known as Alem Bekagne, which in the
Amharic language means “I have given up hope on this world.”
The Chinese government funded construction, according to the
African Union.  China’s economic involvement in Africa is valued at $150
billion, with more than 2,000 companies working throughout the
continent, Jia Qinglin, chairman of the National Committee of
the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, said at
the official opening of the building yesterday.  Chinese Assistance  China  will provide 600 million renminbi ($95 million) of
free assistance to the African Union over the next three years,
Jia said today.  “To further consolidate and strengthen unity and
cooperation between China and Africa and promote common
development is an important cornerstone of China’s foreign
policy, and a long-term strategic choice that China is firmly
committed to,” he said.  The African Union named Benin President Thomas Yayi Boni as
the ceremonial head of the African Union, replacing Equatorial
Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. Under African
Union rules, the bloc’s political leadership rotates annually
between Africa’s five geographic regions.  Boosting intra-regional trade may help solve the
“challenges that the African continent faces each day,” Yayi
Boni said  African countries are making “slow and generally
insufficient” progress toward meeting the United Nations
Millennium Development goals, according to an assessment
published on the Economic Commission for Africa’s website last
year. The goals aim to halve extreme poverty, halt the spread of
AIDS and provide universal primary education in  developing
countries  by 2015.  Political, Social Rights  “Trade and investment are crucial for development,” UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said in his address to the summit.
“But Africa’s future also depends on investments in civil,
political, economic, social and cultural rights.”  Tomorrow, African leaders will elect a new head of the
African Union Commission, which runs the organization’s day-to-
day affairs, a spokesman for the African Union said today. The
body previously said the election would be held today.  South African Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma
is challenging Ping, whose four-year term has ended. Dlamini-
Zuma would be the first woman to head the body since it was
founded as the Organization of African Unity in 1963. The
African Union replaced the OAU 10 years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in  Addis Ababa  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 