-- Arsenal Rallies to Beat Aston Villa 3-2 in Fourth Round of F.A. Cup Soccer
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/arsenal-rallies-to-defeat-aston-villa-3-2-in-fourth-round-of-f-a-cup.html
Arsenal rallied to defeat Aston
Villa 3-2 in English soccer’s F.A. Cup and set up a fifth-round
meeting with Sunderland or Middlesbrough, who tied 1-1 in
yesterday’s other match.  Goals from Richard Dunne and  Darren Bent  gave Villa a two-
goal advantage at halftime at Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium before
the Gunners replied with two Robin  van Persie  penalties and a
goal from Theo Walcott in a six-minute spell of the second half.  “At 2-0 down, it’s always going to be a hard task to come
back,” Van Persie told ESPN. “But a crazy six minutes in the
second half changed the game. We worked so hard and we’re
excited for the next round.”  Arsenal, with its only win in four matches coming against
Leeds in the last round of the competition, forced Villa
goalkeeper Shay Given to tip over a free kick from Van Persie
early in the game before  Thomas Vermaelen  fired a long-range
shot toward goal and Walcott shot wide after a breakaway.  The visitors became more competitive and took a 33rd-minute
lead with a header from center-back Dunne.  Arsenal pushed for the tying goal, with Alex Oxlade-
Chamberlain testing Given with a low shot from 20 yards (18
meters), before Villa made it 2-0.  As the match entered injury time at the end of the first
half, Bent collected a pass from Stephen Ireland and hit a shot
that  Lukasz Fabianski  parried back to the striker, who scored
with a low shot from a tight angle.  Two Penalties  Van Persie replied for Arsenal on 54 minutes after Dunne
fouled  Aaron Ramsey  to concede a penalty. Soon after, Walcott
scored when an attempted clearance hit the winger and rebounded
into the net.  Another penalty kick was awarded when Bent brought down
Gunners defender  Laurent Koscielny  and Van Persie scored again.  Arsenal hasn’t won a trophy since claiming the F.A. Cup for
a 10th time in 2005. Van Persie said the players are ready to
end that run.  “This cup means so much to us, we want to win this
trophy,” he said. “We need to show the fans we’re ready.”  At the Stadium of Light, Fraizer Campbell scored on his
return from an 18-month injury absence to earn Sunderland a
replay at second-tier Middlesbrough.  The Premier League hosts, who trailed at halftime after a
volleyed goal from Boro midfielder Barry Robson in the 16th
minute, introduced former  Manchester United  forward Campbell as
a halftime substitute.  Man Down  Sunderland tied the match on 59 minutes, even with only 10
players on the field after  Wes Brown  limped off with an injury.
James McClean intercepted a backpass from Robson and crossed for
Campbell to fire a low shot into the net.  It was Campbell’s first goal since April 2010 and he last
played for the Black Cats in August that year. He has since
suffered two knee injuries.  In other fourth-round matches, Liverpool defeated record
11-time champion Manchester United 2-1, Chelsea beat Queens Park
Rangers 1-0, Everton won 2-1 against Fulham, while Tottenham
beat Watford 1-0. Bolton won 2-1 against Swansea, Brighton upset
Newcastle 1-0 and Norwich defeated West Bromwich Albion 2-1.  There were also wins for  Stoke City , League Two club
Crawley Town,  Leicester City , Birmingham City and Stevenage.
Millwall and Southampton tied 1-1, while Blackpool and Sheffield
Wednesday drew 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 