-- Assad’s Security Forces Battle in Damascus Suburbs to Oust Rebel Fighters
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-30T17:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/assad-s-security-forces-battle-in-damascus-suburbs-to-oust-rebel-fighters.html
Syrian troops battled for control of
rebel-held suburbs of Damascus ahead of a  United Nations 
Security Council meeting to address an Arab proposal to end the
crisis.  The government sent tanks and armored vehicles into the
areas yesterday, said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based
 Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  and Mahmoud Merei, head of
the Arab Organization for Human Rights. The army has set up
roadblocks and communication has been cut to suburban areas,
Merei said.  The violence, which has left more than 5,000 dead since the
uprising against President Bashar al-Assad began in March, has
intensified since the Arab League halted its observer mission
last week. Forty-one people were killed yesterday, Abdel Rahman
said. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and European
foreign ministers will attend tomorrow’s Security Council
meeting to support an  Arab League  plan for Assad to step down in
favor of a national unity government.  Eleven months into the unrest, the European Union and the
U.S. have yet to overcome  Russia ’s resistance at the UN’s
decision-making body to hold Assad responsible for the
crackdown. His government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests.  ‘Brutal Repression’  “We believe the United Nations must act to support the
people of  Syria  and Russia can no longer explain blocking the UN
and providing cover for the regime’s brutal repression,” U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in  London  today.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry said Syria’s government agreed to
hold talks with the country’s opposition in Moscow. Russia is
waiting for a response from opponents of Assad, the ministry
said in a  statement  published on its website today.  Burhan Ghalioun, leader of the opposition  Syrian National
Council , rejected talks with the Syrian government unless Assad
is removed,  Al Arabiya  reported. The council is demanding “the
departure of Assad as a first step in the transition process,”
its spokeswoman, Bassma Kodmani, said in a text message today.  Clashes between government forces and the Free Syrian Army,
made up of defectors and armed civilians, have been ongoing for
three to four days in the Damascus suburbs of Douma, Saqba,
Harasta, Irbin and Zamalka, Merei said.  An “armed terrorist group” attacked a pipeline
transporting gas between Homs and Banias, the state-run  Syrian
Arab News Agency  reported today.  Controls Access  At least 35 people were killed today in the central city of
Homs, the northern province of Idlib and southern province of
Daraa, where the revolt against Assad began in mid-March, Abdel
Rahman said. More than 100 people died in clashes Jan. 27, the
bloodiest day since the uprising started in March,  Al Jazeera 
reported, citing activists.  The Syrian government controls access to the country for
journalists and the death tolls cited by activists aren’t
independently verifiable.  Clinton will push the Arab League plan tomorrow at the UN,
an Obama administration official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity.  A draft council resolution backs the transition plan put
forward by the Arab League calling for a national unity
government within two months to implement a handover of power.
Syria said it was surprised by the decision to halt the Arab
League mission after the country agreed to allow the observers
to stay for another month,  SANA  reported, citing an unidentified
government official.  Proposal Rejected  Syria has rejected the Arab League proposal, saying it
infringes on the country’s sovereignty, while Russia has opposed
 Security Council  efforts to take action against Syria.  “The momentum has stalled, Russia is still there blocking
the way for a condemnation that could lead to intervention and
the international community is disorganized on this and nobody
wants to lead the way,” said  Joshua Landis , a Syria specialist
who heads the Center for Middle East Studies at the University
of Oklahoma in Norman.  “Syria sees this disorganization and they’re cracking down
with greater force now to try and quell the demonstrations,”
Landis added. “The situation is leading to greater conflict,
Syria is deeply divided and the international community’s
cavalry is not going to ride in there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  