-- Hawker Beechcraft Says Mideast Sales Boosted by Governments
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-01-29T13:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/hawker-beechcraft-says-mideast-sales-boosted-by-governments.html
Hawker Beechcraft Corp., the former
planemaking unit of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , said its sales of aircraft to
the  Middle East  have been boosted by government purchases,
especially for so-called special-mission aircraft, amid a
slowdown in the industry.  “We’re fortunate that the government business side is so
strong that markets like the Middle East help us weather the
storm,” Sean McGeough, president of the U.S. company’s
European, Middle Eastern and African operations, said today in
an interview in  Abu Dhabi . “We sell a lot of special-mission
aircrafts to governments. That part of our business is still
healthy.”  Eighty percent of sales in the Middle East are to
governments, McGeough said. The special-mission aircraft include
those for medical evacuation, surveillance and border
protection, he said. Hawker Beechcraft delivered a total of 318
airplanes in 2010, valued at around $2.8 billion and 2011 sales
are expected to remain “consistent” with the previous year,
McGeough said.  Shipments of civil planes fell to 1,227 in the first nine
months of 2011, down 58 percent from 2,912 in the same period of
2007, according to data on the website of the General Aviation
Manufacturers Association, a Washington-based trade group.
Business jet sales fell 13 percent in 2011 from a year earlier,
the data show.  “When you look at the market place today and the overall
aviation industry, it’s suffering,” McGeough said. “It’s going
through a bad time. Fifty percent of the overall industry has
been wiped out compared with the time before the financial
crisis.”  Global Markets  Hawker Beechcraft delivers 70 percent of its airplanes
outside the U.S., a shift from five years ago when 80 percent of
its aircraft were delivered to the U.S., McGeough said. Out of
deliveries in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , 20 percent of
those in 2010 went to the Middle East, he said. Global markets
for the company’s aircraft aren’t likely to recover before 16
months to 2 years because of the European debt crisis and the
 U.S. economy , he said.  Raytheon  sold  Hawker Beechcraft in 2007 to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Onex Corp. Its models include Hawker corporate
jets and Beechcraft propeller-driven civil planes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  