-- Bahrain Cabinet to Draft Law on 15-Year Term for Police Assaults
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-01-29T12:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/bahrain-minister-calls-for-15-year-prison-for-police-attackers.html
Bahrain ’s Cabinet said it plans to
draft a law that would impose a sentence of as long as 15 years
in jail on protesters who assault policemen, state-run Bahrain
News Agency said.  The move came hours after Bahraini Interior Minister Sheikh
Rashid bin Abdullah Al Khalifa, speaking ahead of the first
anniversary of anti-government riots, suggested the punishment
in a statement carried by BNA.  Following the Cabinet’s weekly meeting, Minister of Cabinet
Affairs Kamal Mohammed said the government expressed “deep
concern” over the increasing violence during unauthorized
protests lately, BNA said. He said the Cabinet has decided to
provide policemen with more protection.  Shiite Muslim demonstrators have stepped up their protests
against the government in recent weeks, beginning an anti-police
campaign, dubbed Bahrain Fist, aimed at preventing security
forces from entering Shiite villages. One protester died in
custody and at least 41 policemen were injured last week.  The interior minister said Bahraini authorities have
arrested “numerous” protesters during the past few days for
attacking police with sharp objects and Molotov cocktails, BNA
said.  The tensions come a few weeks before the first anniversary
of anti-regime protests led by members of the Shiite majority
demanding a more representative government and greater rights
from the country’s  Sunni Muslim  rulers. Thirty-five people died
between Feb. 14 and April 15, according to the Bahrain
Independent Commission of Inquiry, which investigated the
unrest. Neighboring  Saudi Arabia , also a Sunni monarchy, sent
troops to Bahrain, which hosts the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, to
help restore order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  