-- Boehner Says He’s Confident Congress Will Extend Payroll Tax-Cut
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/boehner-says-he-s-confident-congress-will-pass-payroll-tax-cut.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he’s
confident that Republicans and Democrats in Congress will agree
to a payroll tax-cut extension supported by President  Barack Obama .  “We are in a formal conference with the Senate, and I’m
confident that we’ll be able to resolve this fairly quickly,”
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said on ABC’s “This Week” program
yesterday.  A short-term extension of the payroll tax cut expires Feb.
29, and the president is seeking to have it extended until the
end of 2012.  Unless Congress acts, the 2 percentage point
payroll tax-break for employees will lapse, as will emergency
unemployment benefits.  The two parties disagree on how to pay for the plan and
whether all the costs must be offset.  Congressional Republicans have blocked efforts over the
past year to impose a surtax on income exceeding $1 million to
pay for the extension. A House-Senate conference committee aimed
at breaking the deadlock on the extension is scheduled to meet
again Feb. 1.  President Obama, in his Jan. 24 State of the Union address,
called on Congress to approve the tax cut, urging “no side
issues. No drama.”  End of February  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said yesterday on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program: “We’ll get it done. We’ll
get it done by the end of February.”  “There’s a broad agreement on doing the payroll tax-
holiday through the end of the year. Republicans and Democrats
agree on that,” the senator said. “The problem is the paying
for it.”  “It has yet to be negotiated,” McConnell said.  Boehner told ABC that a provision approving the Keystone XL
pipeline will be attached to legislation that would expand oil
and gas drilling if the pipeline isn’t approved first.  Last month, Republicans succeeded in adding language to the
short-term payroll tax-cut extension agreement requiring Obama
to decide on the pipeline within 60 days.  Obama rejected the permit on Jan. 18, saying the deadline
didn’t leave enough time to consider alternatives to the
original pipeline route, which went through the environmentally
sensitive Sand Hills region in  Nebraska .  The lawmakers now are backing a bill that would require the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to approve the permit
within 30 days, so long as it meets safety requirements.  Oil Sands  TransCanada Corp., (TRP)  based in Calgary, is pushing for a $7
billion pipeline from Alberta’s  oil sands  to refineries along
the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Asked whether the Republican-controlled House should
coordinate its actions with the Democratic Senate before passing
legislation that senators won’t approve, Boehner said that “we
can’t control what the Senate does or doesn’t do.”  “It’s time for the Senate to do their job,” he said.  Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, chairman
of the House Budget Committee, said the panel’s version of the
U.S. fiscal year 2013 budget will be ready in March and will be
based on the proposal from last year.  The committee will work off its 2012 budget proposal, Ryan
said on “ Fox News  Sunday.”  $6.2 Trillion  The 2012 proposal passed by the House would have cut $6.2
trillion over the next decade from Medicare and several other
federal programs including  food stamps ,  farm subsidies  and Pell
college tuition grants. It called for repealing the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul and cutting the top
corporate and individual tax rates from 35 percent to 25
percent. The plan wasn’t passed by the Senate.  “We are not going backward, we are going forward,” Ryan
said on Fox News yesterday. “We are not backing off of any of
our ideas or solutions but we simply haven’t written” the next
year’s budget proposal, he said.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , Democrat from
 California , criticized Ryan’s comments that the Republican 2013
budget would be based on its 2012 proposal.  “Once again, Republicans have chosen to undermine rather
than strengthen Medicare, increase costs for seniors and cause
Medicare to ‘wither on the vine,’ leading to an end of the
guarantee,” Pelosi’s spokesman Nadeam Elshami said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  