-- HC Securities Says It’s Advising on Three Middle East M&As of $300 Million
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-29T07:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/hc-securities-says-it-s-advising-on-three-middle-east-m-as-of-300-million.html
HC Securities & Investment, a Cairo-
based investment bank, is advising on three mergers and
acquisitions in the  Middle East  as the region benefits from
higher  oil prices .  “We are working on three big M&As in the region that will
exceed $300 million” each, HC Securities Chairman Hussein Choucri said by phone from Cairo Jan. 26. “We are very bullish
on Qatar and  Saudi Arabia , helped by higher oil prices.”  Average crude prices climbed 19 percent last year. Oil-
exporting economies of the Middle East and North Africa may grow
4.9 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  said in
September. The fund forecasts growth of about 19 percent in 2011
in Qatar, making it the world’s fastest-growing economy. In
Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah announced last year a $130 billion
plan to build homes and create jobs, adding to a commitment in
2010 to spend $384 billion over five years.  Political uprisings that ousted leaders in  Egypt  and  Libya 
slowed regional mergers and hurt equity markets last year, with
the volume of deals in Middle East and Africa falling 42 percent
to $37 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  “Our view is that economic activity will pick up, as the
problem of somebody can be the opportunity of another,” Choucri
said.  Brokerage Closure  The  MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index 
slumped 23 percent in 2011, compared with an 11 percent drop in
the  STOXX Europe 600 Index.  Trading volumes in Dubai slumped to
a  six-year low  last year, with the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
losing 17 percent in the period.  Al Futtaim HC Securities LLC, a brokerage based in Dubai
part-owned by HC Securities, decided earlier this month to shut
operations in the United Arab Emirates.  “We could have lived with the low volumes if we had some
visbility as to when things would turn around,” Choucri said.  The benchmark  EGX30 (EGX30)  plunged 49 percent last year as Hosni
Mubarak was ousted, ranking it the third-worst performer among
world equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg. It has surged 22
percent in January as the country held its first parliamentary
elections after the revolution.  “Looking at Egypt, I believe the market has bottomed
out,” Choucri said. Parliamentary elections indicate “the
country is coming closer to normalcy. That will hopefully
deliver a democratic Egypt that will grow its economy,” Choucri
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  