-- Carrefour Names Plassat CEO After Three-Year Stock Decline Under Olofsson
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-30T16:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/carrefour-said-to-name-vivarte-s-plassat-ceo-after-plunge-in-stock-price.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  appointed Vivarte SA
Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat as CEO, ending Lars Olofsson’s three-year reign that saw shares of the world’s
second-largest retailer fall 24 percent.  The board of Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour
approved Plassat’s appointment at a meeting yesterday. Plassat
will join the company on April 2 as chief operating officer and
become chairman and CEO after the June 18 shareholders meeting,
the company said in a statement today.  Plassat will seek to restore investor confidence in a
company that has forecast lower profit five times since
announcing a 1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) plan to remodel some
of its largest European stores in September 2010. Carrefour has
lost about 7 billion euros in market value since Olofsson became
CEO in January 2009.  “This appointment is positive for Carrefour but there is a
lot to be done to turn around the group,” Arnaud Joly, an
analyst at CA Cheuvreux wrote today in a note. Joly has an
“underperform”  rating  on the stock.  Carrefour declined 4.1 percent to 17.52 euros in Paris.  Shrinking Profit  Profit has shrunk at the retailer amid a slump in sales in
its domestic French market. Olofsson’s plan to reduce prices and
overhaul its largest outlets failed to win over enough consumers
and doesn’t address demand for convenience and shorter journeys
to stores, according to Natalie Berg, the global research
director at researcher  Planet Retail  in  London .  “Rather than directing capital towards indulgent remodels,
money would be more wisely spent ramping up multichannel
functions such as click and collect, in-store kiosks and e-
commerce,” Berg said last week.  Plassat rejoins Carrefour after 11 years at Vivarte, the
Paris-based owner of the Kookai clothing brand that was acquired
by private-equity firm Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP in
2007. A former CEO of French supermarket operator  Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA, (CO)  he ran Carrefour’s Spanish business
between 1997 and 1999.  Carrefour said Jan. 19 that profit was at the lower end of
its forecast range as same-store sales fell in most of Europe
and in  Asia , including  China . Macroeconomic conditions are
likely to remain challenging and uncertain, it said at the time.  Arnault, Colony  Plassat “is well aware of the magnitude of the task ahead,
which will require the support of all within the company,”
Carrefour said.  Groupe Arnault SAS and  Colony Capital LLC , which own a
combined 16.02 percent of the shares and 22.14 percent of the
 voting rights , have been considering replacing Olofsson, people
familiar with the matter said in November.  Olofsson, 60, has said he tried to do “too much, too
quickly” in betting that a new format with lower prices and
more own-label products would boost sales and profit through
2015. In a revision to his plan, the grocer said in August it
will step up smaller store expansion, focus on selective price
investment and increase the number of own-branded items.
Carrefour will also cut capital expenditure in Greece and  Italy .  Brazil Botch  While Olofsson spun off all of the discounter  Distribuidora
Internacional de Alimentacion SA  on the Madrid stock exchange in
July, he shelved a plan to list 25 percent of Carrefour’s
property assets in  Europe  following opposition from investors,
unions and squabbling among management. The CEO also presided
over an aborted proposal to merge Carrefour’s Brazilian unit,
whose value was written down by 550 million euros in 2010, with
Cia. Brasilieira de Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar .  In October,  Knight Vinke  Asset Management LLC, which owns
about 1.5 percent of Carrefour, called for the grocer to split
Olofsson’s role of chairman and CEO and appoint an independent
chairman, citing “serious governance issues.” In an open
letter to Carrefour’s shareholders, employees and board, Knight
Vinke also recommended the board not bring in an outsider,
saying Carrefour has qualified candidates in its ranks.  Carrefour’s European labor committee rejected the proposal,
saying it was aimed at dismantling the retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  