-- China Preserves Ammunition as PBOC Bucks Reserve-Ratio Forecasts: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-30T08:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/china-s-decision-to-maintain-bank-reserve-ratios-taken-as-sign-of-caution.html
China (CNGDPYOY)  held off on a reduction in
bank reserve requirements that some economists had predicted
would come before a week-long holiday ending Jan. 28,
suggesting officials are cautious on more monetary easing.  Barclays Capital Asia Ltd., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Industrial Bank Co. said this month that  ratios  were likely to
fall ahead of the Lunar New Year festival, which boosts demand
for cash. The central bank instead used reverse-repurchase
contracts to add money to the financial system.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  seeks to steer the world’s second-
biggest economy through a property market slowdown and the
weakest  export growth  since 2009 without re-inflating asset
bubbles or driving up consumer prices. The central bank has left
benchmark interest rates unchanged for the past six months,
while making a single cut to reserve requirements, the first
since 2008, that became effective in December.  “The central bank aims to ease policies prudently and pace
loan growth at the beginning of the year so as to avoid a replay
of the credit explosion in 2009 and 2010 and prevent inflation
from rebounding,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist
at Industrial Bank. Lu now sees a reserve-ratio cut in February
to add liquidity and spur growth after the reverse-repurchase
contracts expire.  Asian stocks fell today ahead of a meeting of European
Union leaders in Brussels to discuss their sovereign debt
crisis.  Greece  and its private creditors said Jan. 28 they
expect to complete a deal in coming days after bondholders
signaled they would accept European government demands for a
bigger cut in their debt holdings.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.9 percent as of 4:59
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Bollard Stepping Down  Across the Asia Pacific region, New Zealand’s central bank
said that Governor Alan Bollard will quit in September and the
 Philippines  reported that economic growth accelerated, with
gross domestic product rising 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter,
after a 3.6 percent gain in the third.  In  Europe  today,  Spain  will report preliminary economic
data for the fourth quarter and an index of euro-area confidence
may rise for the first time in 11 months, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  In  China , some analysts backed away from their reserve-
ratio predictions when they saw the central bank inject 353
billion yuan ($55.7 billion) into the financial system in the
week before the holiday, using the 14-day contracts. Barclays
said the move had an effect similar to a cut in the bank
requirements.  Slow Start  London-based  Capital Economics  Ltd. said that a suspension
of central bank bill sales also played a role in easing
liquidity. Reserve requirements stand at 21 percent for the
biggest lenders.  “Policy loosening in China has got off to a slow start”
with the central bank “confounding widespread expectations,”
said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics who
formerly advised the U.K. Treasury on China.  By leaving reserve requirements unchanged, “policy makers
conveyed the signal that they are in no hurry to loosen,” he
said in a note dated Jan. 26. He forecasts five reserve-ratio
cuts this year amid risks to the nation’s growth, plus interest-
rate reductions if the euro area starts to break apart.  Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas SA, says
that the government needs to be “careful not to overshoot
monetary loosening, as it did in the financial crisis.”
Lingering effects of record lending in 2009 and 2010 include the
risk that local government financing vehicles will default on
debt.  Loosening Across Asia  India cut banks’ reserve requirements this month,  Thailand 
and the Philippines reduced  interest rates , and the U.S. Federal
Reserve pledged to keep benchmark borrowing costs
“exceptionally low” through late 2014.  On Jan. 24, the  International Monetary Fund  pared its
forecast for China’s growth this year to 8.2 percent from a
previous estimate of 9 percent as it warned that Europe’s crisis
could trigger another global recession.  A 50 basis-point cut in reserve ratios adds 400 billion
yuan to China’s financial system,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd . estimates. The reduction announced in
November was the first since the global financial crisis.  Postponing a reserve ratio cut indicates monetary easing
“is meant to be moderate and controllable,” Hong Kong-based
JPMorgan economists led by Zhu Haibin wrote in a Jan. 20 report
after forecasting a pre-festival move in a Jan. 17 report. A cut
“in the coming weeks” remains likely because market liquidity
will be tight when the 14-day reverse repurchase contracts
mature, they said.  Price Gains  Inflation peaked last July in China, giving officials more
room to spur growth. Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent in
December from a year earlier.  China’s  economy  grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since the first half of 2009.
 Home prices  have declined in cities from Beijing to Wenzhou as
the government cracks down on speculation and implements a
program to build low-cost housing.  Jim O’Neill , the economist who coined the term BRIC for
developing nations  Brazil , Russia,  India  and China, said Jan. 17
that Chinese officials had moved to avoid the “wild housing
bubbles” that many western nations had experienced. O’Neill,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said he doesn’t see
a “hard landing” for China.  The central bank is allowing the nation’s five biggest
lenders, including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, to
increase first-quarter lending by a maximum of about 5 percent
from a year earlier, two people at state lenders said
previously.  Separately, the banking regulator has been weighing a plan
to relax  capital requirements , four people with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  