-- MicroStrategy, Pep Boys, Staples, Yum!: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-01-30T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/cliffs-coach-el-paso-thomas-betts-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:45 a.m. in  New York .  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)   and  Alkermes Inc. (ALKS) 
: The drugmakers succeeded in their third attempt to
gain U.S. clearance for Bydureon, a once-weekly version of
Amylin’s diabetes shot. The  Food and Drug Administration 
approved the drug for adults with  Type 2 diabetes .  Amylin surged 16 percent to $14.10, and Alkermes rose 4.7
percent to $19.99.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)   retreated 1.4
percent to $72.06. The iron-ore miner may rise to as high as
$115 per share within the next year as it increases production
overseas to meet growing demand for infrastructure, Barron’s
reported.  Coach Inc. (COH)  : The retailer may rise to as high as
$80 per share in the next year as demand for luxury handbags and
accessories increases, Barron’s reported, citing Omar Saad,
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  : The carrier is weighing
whether to make an offer for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  , the
smallest full-service domestic carrier.  US Airways  confirmed
earlier this month it’s evaluating a possible merger with
American Airlines parent AMR Corp. (AAMRQ US) in bankruptcy. TPG
Capital and Delta also are evaluating possible bids for
American, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  US Airways advanced 7.3 percent to $8.78.  El Paso Corp. (EP)  : The company is in advanced talks to
sell its oil-exploration unit to a group led by private equity
firm  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  (APO US) for about $7 billion,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people.  Jarden Corp. (JAH)  : The maker of Mr. Coffee brewers may
stall after a 22 percent rally since last summer and the
suspension of its dividend to focus on share buybacks, Barron’s
reported, without citing anyone.  MicroStrategy Inc. (MSTR)   sank 4.5 percent to $109.50.
The maker of analytical software reported fourth-quarter
earnings excluding some items of 81 cents a share, missing the
average analyst estimate of 92 cents.  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)   rose 3.7 percent to
$15.75. The owner of patents on the blood-thinner Lovenox will
replace  HealthSpring Inc. (HS)   in the Standard & Poor’s
SmallCap 600 Index after the close of trading on Jan. 31. The
change is being made because  Cigna Corp. (CI)   is acquiring
HealthSpring in a deal expected to be completed today.  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)   slipped 1.8 percent to $45.69.
The owner of advertising agencies was lowered to “market
perform” from “outperform” by Daniel Salmon, an equity
analyst at BMO Capital Markets, with a 12-month price estimate
of $49.  Pep Boys -- Manny, Moe & Jack  (PBY US) surged 25 percent to
$15.10. The Philadelphia-based automotive retailer agreed to be
acquired by Gores Group for $1 billion including debt. The cash
offer of $15 a share is 24 percent higher than Pep Boys’ closing
price on Jan. 27.  PharMerica Corp. (PMC)   fell 14 percent to $12.26. U.S.
regulators sued  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)   to block its $440.8
million takeover of the drug-supply company, a deal they said
would increase prices for elderly nursing-home residents covered
by Medicare.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  : The BlackBerry maker has
held talks with competitors about licensing its new software,
Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said. Handset and PC
makers approached RIMM about the licensing, the CEO said,
without identifying them.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)   declined 3.5 percent to $15.45. The
world’s largest office products company was cut to “sell” from
“neutral” by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which cited a “tough”
outlook for the global printing segment.  Thomas & Betts Corp.  (TNB US) surged 22 percent to $70.87.
ABB Ltd. agreed to buy the designer and maker of electrical
components for $3.9 billion to expand its North American
distribution network and boost sales of low-voltage gear. ABB
offered $72 for each share of Thomas & Betts, 24 percent more
than the close on Jan. 27.  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)   declined 2.6 percent to $29.11. The
steel company plans to sell U.S. Steel  Serbia  d.o.o. to Serbia
for a nominal purchase price and to take a non-cash charge of
$400 million to $450 million in the first quarter.  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  (WEN US) fell 2.1 percent to $5.10. The
restaurant chain said earnings before income, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 2012 will be no more than $345
million, excluding some items, compared with the average analyst
estimate of $353.1 million.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  (YUM US) retreated 0.6 percent to $62.50.
The owner of  Pizza Hut  and Taco Bell is focusing on faster-
growing markets including China and  India  for revenue expansion
while selling U.S. stores to franchises, Barron’s reported,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer  David Novak .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 