-- Davos Signals Confidence in Franc Cap as SNB Seeks New Chief
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/davos-signals-confidence-in-swiss-franc-cap-as-snb-searches-for-new-chief.html
Delegates at the  World Economic
Forum  signalled confidence that the  Swiss National Bank  will
keep up its defence of the franc’s ceiling as the bank looks for
a new chief after Philipp Hildebrand’s surprise resignation.  “The SNB is a very stable institution,” Swiss President
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters after meetings with world
leaders in the Swiss Alpine resort.  Patrick Odier , head of the
 Swiss Bankers Association , said in an interview he’s “confident
in the existing structure” of the SNB.  Hildebrand stepped down on Jan. 9 following a probe into
his wife’s currency trades, prompting Swiss policy makers to fan
out and reiterate a pledge to defend the cap of 1.20 versus the
euro with the “utmost determination.” While the the franc rose
to the highest since September after the announcement, it has
stayed below its ceiling and traded at 1.2065 versus the euro on
Jan. 27.  The SNB imposed the ceiling in September as the euro
region’s worsening debt crisis prompted investors to pile into
the Swiss currency.  “The SNB is in a position to print as many Swiss francs as
necessary to preserve that,” billionaire investor  George Soros 
told reporters in Davos. “That was a very clever maneuver on
the part of the SNB.”  SNB Search  The SNB’s supervisory Bank Council has already started its
search for a candidate to join the three-member board. The
government will take a decision based on the council’s
suggestions and also appoint a new president. Thomas Jordan was
elected interim chairman on Jan. 9, with Jean-Pierre Danthine
the only other board member left to steer the SNB.  SNB (SZLTTR)  council member Gerold Buehrer said in an interview in
Davos on Jan. 27 that it’s “clear” that a new chairman should
be elected sooner rather than later.  “We of course need to search everywhere professionally and
that shouldn’t take forever,” said Buehrer, who is also head of
 Switzerland ’s Economiesuisse lobby group. Asked about an
appointment in April or May as earlier suggested by Widmer-
Schlumpf, he said “that’s too late.”  “It’s decisive that we find a good solution,” Swiss
Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said in Davos.
“Whether that’s sooner or later is secondary. It’s being worked
on the matter and that’s essential.”  ‘Positively Surprised’  While either Jordan or Danthine could be named chief
immediately, the government has signaled it wants to wait for
the outcome of a probe in financial transactions of all board
members and the three deputies over the past years. The current
deputies are Thomas Moser, Thomas Wiedmer and Dewet Moser.  Widmer-Schlumpf said she was “positively surprised” by
Davos participants signaling their confidence in the SNB.  To Odier, it’s “more important to have the right person
than choosing too fast.” Patrick de Maeseneire, chief executive
officer of  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest provider of temporary
workers based in Glattbrugg, Switzerland, said that any surprise
management change doesn’t necessarily hurt a company.  No Compromise  “A vacuum can be bridged,” he said in an interview. “I
would of course start the search and go for the best possible
candidate. I can’t imagine people taking a compromise for timing
reasons.”  Beatrice Weder di Mauro, a Swiss native and a member of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers,
declined to comment when asked in Davos whether she’s interested
in the SNB job. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive  Josef Ackermann , who is also Swiss, said earlier this month that he
doesn’t want the position.  Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva, said he doesn’t see “credibility issues”
under Jordan’s interim leadership.  “We have no doubt that the SNB will defend the first few
attempts at the ‘floor’ with this extreme aggressiveness we have
witnessed,” he wrote in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  