-- Davos Women Minority of One as Sandberg Shares With Bossy Girls
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-30T17:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/davos-women-minority-of-one-as-sandberg-speaks.html
Sheryl Sandberg lingered on stage
last week in Davos after leading a panel on “Women as the Way
Forward,” and found herself surrounded by a dozen fans -- all
save one of them female.  Sandberg, the 42-year-old chief operating officer of
 Facebook Inc ., accepted business cards and chatted with those
seeking her attention. The co-chair of the  World Economic Forum 
and her devotees that day constituted what was probably the most
female-heavy gathering at Davos.  At a five-day meeting that was more than 80 percent
populated by men, women often were a minority of one on panels
or not represented at all. Sandberg was one of six co-chairs of
the  forum ; the rest were men. Panels on the future of banking,
energy supplies, international finance and global risks were
among those with no women except moderators, even with a forum
theme of “The Great Transformation: Shaping New Models.”  “I’m disappointed,” said Manju George, 29, one of three
female co-founders of  Intellecap , a business consulting firm
based in Hyderabad,  India . “You would expect the conversation
to move forward. What I like is that the debate is engaging.
What I don’t like is that there appears to be no commitments
being made.”  Private Meetings  Females also were hard to find at many of the private
gatherings aimed at shaping the future of the world’s leading
industries. One example was a brainstorming session among 25
chief executive officers in the healthcare industry at the Hotel
Seehof’s Stuebli restaurant on the morning of Jan. 26. There,
Mary Tolan was reminded how much of a minority women still are.  Tolan, the founder and CEO of  Accretive Health Inc ., a
Chicago-based healthcare-services provider, was the only woman
around the table. There were others in the room -- sitting on
the sidelines, listening in, because they were not the
companies’ top executives.  “I expected to see some women because healthcare is more
diverse” than other industries like financial services, Tolan
said. “It made me make a mental note.  “The forum is about the diversity of ideas and backgrounds
so women in CEO positions should be encouraged to participate,”
she said in an interview. “Everyone is talking about human
capital with companies at 50-50 hiring of women/men in entry-
level jobs, but years later, you wonder, where have all the
women gone?”  Running Companies  In the U.S., the number of  Fortune 500  companies run by
women fell to a dozen last year from 15 in 2010, according to
Fortune magazine’s ranking. The percentage of women on U.K.
boards is 14.9 percent, from 12.5 percent in 2010, according to
a group called the “30 Percent Club” that is pushing for
change.  Across  Europe , the proportion of women on the boards of the
top 300 companies grew to 12 percent in 2010 from 8 percent in
2004, an October 2010 report by the European Professional
Women’s Network shows. At this rate, gender parity would be
reached in 16 years, the report said.  To be sure, two of the globe’s most powerful women, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , were prominent voices at
the forum. Female attendance was its highest ever: 17 percent
compared with 9 percent a decade ago. The role of women in
leadership was a recurring theme.  WEF organizers said they’ve taken steps to promote the
forum as a place to give women a voice through initiatives such
as the “Global Shapers Community.” It counts 70 members at
Davos this year, including Intellecap’s George, who are
considered high achievers in their fields and are younger than
30. The group, started in 2011, has gender parity.  ‘Strong Push’  “We have made a really strong push to make sure there are
more women in speaking roles,” said Saadia Zahidi, senior
director and head of constituents at the WEF. “There is still a
long way to go. We are working on it.”  About 20 percent of the panel speakers this year are women,
up from 17 percent last year, she said. About 80 percent of the
WEF’s so-called strategic partner companies brought mixed-gender
delegations.  “The question should be, is the forum doing enough to
promote talent?” asked John Veihmeyer, chief executive for the
Americas at  KPMG , the global accounting and professional
services firm. “The answer is probably yes. We’ve seen a shift
in focus from that on financial capital to recognizing the
importance of human capital and a greater emphasis on that.”  Beth Brooke, Washington-based global vice-chair of public
policy at Ernst & Young LLP, said she has seen progress in
female representation since she started coming to the forum.  Always That Way  “There are just more women executives here than ever
before and we are either already friends or really getting to
know each other,” said Brooke, 52, whose firm organized the
“Celebrating Women’s Leadership” reception at the Hotel
Steigenberger Belvedere in Davos on Jan. 27. “It must have
always felt that way for the men.”  Even those who’ve reached the pinnacle of deciding the
global agenda said there hasn’t been enough progress in
infiltrating the boardrooms and organizations that shape
society.  “Women have to be heard all over the world,” the IMF’s
Lagarde said in an interview at the meeting. “Davos is not a
bad place to be heard, but there are many other places around
the world where they have to be heard more.”  Margery Kraus, founder and CEO of  APCO Worldwide , a global
consulting firm in  Washington , described a lunch where she was
the only female attendee. It was focused on participants from
outside the U.S. or Europe. When time came to distribute
business cards, no one gave her theirs.  “It’s going to take a while,” Kraus said, adding, “but
the trend is in the right direction.”  Gender Issue?  At times, gender was brought up -- the wrong way. Sharan Burrow, general secretary of the International Trade Union
Confederation in Brussels, was the only woman on a panel about
20th-century capitalism failing 21st-century society. When the
panelists were asked whether they backed that premise, she was
the only one to say yes. Subsequently, one of the male
participants asked if this might be a gender issue.  “It was a cute quip but I found it telling that it was
only a woman and a trade unionist that was prepared to say that
we have lost our moral compass and that business needs to sit
down and think about the design of the future of capitalism if
it’s going to serve society,” Burrow said in an interview
afterward. “Equal treatment is a long way off.”  In one session, entitled “Pundits, Professors and their
Predictions,” a member of the audience asked where the women
panelists were. Among those on stage:  Nouriel Roubini , founder
of Roubini Global Economics LLC, Yale University Professor
 Robert Shiller  and New York Times columnist  Thomas Friedman .
Moderator Nik Gowing of the British Broadcasting Corp. responded
that while he understood the issue, it wasn’t his decision.  Hard to Get  Several participants, male and female, pointed out that
securing an invitation to Davos is competitive, and the women
who get there fought hard to build their careers. Sandberg,
whose social-networking company may file for its initial public
offering as early as the coming week, made that point.  “Little girls are called bossy,” she told the audience on
Jan. 27. “Anyone at Davos who as a girl was called bossy? If
you got to Davos you were that. I was,” she said, raising her
hand. “Success and likeability are positively correlated for
men and negatively correlated for women.” 