-- Djokovic Outduels Nadal for Third Australian Open Title in Longest Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-29T18:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/djokovic-captures-third-australian-open-title-in-six-hour-duel-with-nadal.html
Novak Djokovic outlasted  Rafael Nadal  in the longest Grand Slam final in history to win the
Australian Open for a third time.  Djokovic won 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 6-7 (5-7), 7-5 to become the
fifth man to capture three straight major titles since tennis 
went professional 44 years ago.  The match at Melbourne's  Rod Laver  Arena ended at 1:37
a.m. after five hours, 53 minutes. The previous record for a 
Grand Slam final was a 4-hour, 54-minute contest between 
 Ivan Lendl  and  Mats Wilander  at the 1988 U.S. Open. It was also 
the longest match at the Australian Open, which was hosting its 
100th men’s championship. Djokovic said it was the best of his 
five Grand Slam triumphs.  “This one I think comes out on the top because just the
fact that we played almost six hours is incredible,” Djokovic
said after thanking reporters for staying late for his press
conference. “I’m very proud just to be part of this history.”  Djokovic joins Nadal,  Roger Federer ,  Pete Sampras  and Rod Laver, who presented the trophy, as players to have won three
majors in a row since the Open era began in 1968.  The 24-year-old Serb also took the title in Melbourne 12
months ago, sparking a season in which he won 10 tournaments,
grabbed the No. 1 ranking from Nadal and secured a season-record
$12.6 million in prize money.  The victory, worth A$2.3 million ($2.4 million), extended
Djokovic’s winning streak in title matches against Nadal to
seven. He last lost to the Spaniard, who had an extra 24 hours
to prepare for the final, at the ATP World Tour Finals in 2010.
Nadal leads 16-14 in their career matchups.  ‘Had My Chances’  “I had my chances against the best player in the world,”
Nadal told reporters. “I never put him in this situation during
2011, so that’s another positive thing for me.”  Nadal, 25, was also runner-up to Djokovic at Wimbledon and
the  U.S. Open  last year, making him the first man to lose three
straight Grand Slam finals in the Open era. He won his 10th
major in June at the  French Open , where Federer handed Djokovic
his last defeat at one of the sport’s four biggest events in the
semifinals.  It was the second time in 135 Grand Slam matches that Nadal
lost after winning the first set. The only other occasion was
against fellow Spaniard  David Ferrer  at the 2007 U.S. Open.  Djokovic dropped 10 games in his first three matches this
year at Melbourne Park for his best start in 29 straight
appearances at the majors.  Five-Set Semi  Nadal beat Federer in four sets in the first semifinal on
Jan. 26. Djokovic was taken to five sets by  Andy Murray , the No.
4 seed from Britain, a day later in a 4 hour, 50-minute match
and later told reporters that he’d been suffering from allergy-
related problems in  Melbourne  that affected his breathing and
sapped his energy.  He said it was an “incredible effort” to be able to win
over five sets in the final.  “It was obvious on the court for everybody who has watched
the match that both of us, physically, we took the last drop of
energy that we had from our bodies,” Djokovic said.  Nadal also has had physical issues. The Spaniard pinched a
tendon in his right knee on the eve of the tournament and played
with his knee taped throughout. He said last month that he plans
to take several weeks off after the Australian Open to recover
from a nagging shoulder injury.  The first set of the final lasted 1 hour, 20 minutes -- two
minutes shorter than the women’s final, in which  Victoria Azarenka  of  Belarus  beat Russian Maria Sharapova 6-3, 6-0.  After the players split the first two sets, Djokovic broke
for 3-1 in the third after a 20-shot rally. Nadal didn’t hit a
forehand winner in the set until the sixth game as Djokovic
pinned him behind the baseline, winning eight straight points to
take a two sets to one lead.  Rain Delay  Nadal saved three break points while trailing 4-3 in the
third set. With the score 4-4 and the match time a minute short
of four hours, play was stopped while the roof was closed
because of rain.  Games went with serve after the 10-minute delay, the only
rain stoppage of the tournament, to set up a tiebreaker, in
which Nadal clawed his way back from 5-3 down to take the match
into a deciding fifth set.  Nadal converted his first break point in about 2 1/2 hours
to take a 4-2 lead in the fifth set. Djokovic immediately
responded, breaking back in the next game to get back on serve.  Djokovic broke for a 6-5 lead and got to within two points
of the championship at 30-0 before Nadal fought back to break
point. Djokovic got the game back to deuce and sealed the
victory by winning the next two points off an unforced error and
forehand winner.  After collapsing flat on his back, Djokovic got back on his
feet, ripped off his shirt, flexed his muscles and yelled to his
team in his player’s box. He said he was ready to take the
celebrations all through the night.  “I don’t know how far I can go, but right now I’m up for
everything,” Djokovic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  