-- Hedge Funds Lift Bets to Two-Month High as Rally Accelerates: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-01-30T23:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/hedge-funds-lift-bets-to-two-month-high-as-rally-accelerates-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased  wagers  on
rising commodity prices to the most in two months and the rally
in raw materials accelerated as the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep borrowing costs low for three more years.  Money managers raised combined bullish positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 13 percent to 742,902 contracts in
the week ended Jan. 24, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. The so-called net-long position in copper jumped 53
percent to the highest since August and in silver by 22 percent
to the most since September. Speculators also expanded bullish
bets in sugar, soybeans, cotton, gold, gasoline and crude oil.  Fed policy makers said Jan. 25 they will keep their target
interest rate for overnight loans between banks near zero at
least until late 2014 and didn’t rule out buying more bonds. The
Fed first pushed rates to a record low in December 2008 and has
since purchased $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing that ended in June 2011. During that period,
commodities rose more than 80 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials jumped 2.2 percent last
week, after a 0.1 percent gain a week earlier, as the dollar
depreciated to a seven-week low.  “Every time the Fed sends the signal to the markets that
there’s going to be a continued easy monetary stance, through
time you tend to see more interest in real assets,” said
Osvaldo Canavosio, the New York-based head of emerging markets
and commodities research at Man Investments’ fund of funds
division, which manages about $11.2 billion of assets. “Pretty
much everything across the board denominated in dollars is going
up in price because the dollar is coming down.”  Quarter Century  The S&P GSCI gauge has climbed 2.5 percent since the end of
2011. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities is up 5.4
percent. The U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six trading
partners, has dropped about 1.1 percent. Treasuries lost less
than 0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Twenty-one of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P climbed
last week, led by a 14 percent rally in natural gas. Copper rose
3.8 percent for a third weekly gain, the longest stretch since
July. Gold advanced 4.3 percent, the most since late October,
and cattle futures touched a record on Jan. 25.  The S&P GSCI surged 91 percent since the start of 2009 as
mounting concern that low U.S. borrowing costs would stoke
inflation drove investors to buy commodities as a hedge. Raw-
material prices measured on a total return basis fell for the
first time in three years in 2011 on signs that inflation was
being contained as the expansion weakened.  European Risk  Commodities gained last week even after the  International
Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth this year to
3.3 percent, from a September forecast of 4 percent, warning
that the European debt crisis threatens to derail the world
economy. The U.S. expanded at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the
fourth quarter, slower than forecast while still the fastest in
more than a year, the government said Jan. 27.  Central bankers “are moving toward a loosening cycle
rather than a tightening cycle, and that factor tends to favor
hard assets and commodities,” said  Evan Smith , who helps manage
$650 million of assets at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in  San
Antonio . “The U.S. looks really quite good compared to the rest
of the developed world.”  Funds pulled $345 million out of commodities in the week
ended Jan. 25, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks investment flows. In December, commodity-
investment net-outflows totaled $7.7 billion, the first drop in
three months,  Barclays Capital  said on Jan. 26.  Goldman Outlook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered forecasts for copper and
nickel on Jan. 16 on prospects for increased supplies. The bank
expects raw materials to rally 15 percent in the next year
because of an improving outlook in the U.S. and  Asia ,  Jeffrey
Currie , the London-based head of commodities research, said in a
report Jan. 13.  Investors lifted copper  wagers  by 2,546 contracts to 7,321,
the CFTC data show. That’s the highest since the week ended Aug.
9. Funds turned bullish in the week ended Jan. 17 after betting
on lower prices for 17 consecutive weeks. Demand outpaced
production for a third month in October, the Lisbon-based
International Copper Study Group said Jan. 23.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased wagers on higher agricultural prices by 14 percent to
358,654 contracts, the biggest gain in three weeks. The bets
jumped 77 percent since reaching a 33-month low in December.  Shrinking Cattle Herd  Bullish cattle holdings climbed 14 percent to 76,551
contacts, the largest jump since October. The U.S. herd declined
to the lowest in 60 years after a drought in the South scorched
pastures, prompting ranchers to slaughter animals as feed costs
rose, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Jan. 27.  Cattle prices rallied 16 percent since June 30 as  Texas ,
the biggest producing state, had its driest year on record,
according to John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist.
Futures advanced to $1.29675 a pound on Jan. 25 in Chicago
trading, the highest since at least 1964.  “Cautious bullishness is the best phrase I could use to
describe the commodity market,” said  Jeffrey Sherman , who helps
manage about $24 billion of assets for DoubleLine Capital in  Los
Angeles . “The economic data isn’t bad. It’s been slightly
positive, so given the confluence of the new year and new fund
flows with people looking to rebalance and put capital to work,
the backdrop is you have a market that wants to go up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  