-- Teva Drops Most in Month on Competition, Recall: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-29T15:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/teva-falls-the-most-in-a-month-narrowing-gap-with-u-s-shares.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
declined the most in a month, closing the gap with U.S.-traded
shares, as a competitor received clearance to sell a generic
version of Lovenox and a unit recalled a drug.  The  shares  of the world’s largest maker of generic
pharmaceuticals, declined 2.7 percent, the biggest slump since
Dec. 29, to 168 shekels, or the equivalent of $44.84, at the
4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . The  U.S.-traded shares  closed at
$44.91 on Jan. 27. The Tel Aviv shares are up 9.5 percent this
year, compared with a 3.2 percent gain for the benchmark  TA-25
Index. (TA-25)   Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  on Jan. 26 said a  U.S. Court of
Appeals  cleared the way for the sale of a generic version of
 Sanofi (SAN) ’s blood-thinner Lovenox, for which Teva also is seeking
to market a copy. Teva received a “minor deficiency” letter
from the FDA in January 2011, seeking answers to questions about
the company’s application to sell its copycat of Lovenox.  “If there is a competitor that gets to market first, it
isn’t good news,” Sabina Podval, an analyst Leader & Co.
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone, referring
to the Lovenox generic. The Treanda recall “could indicate some
problems in the quality of production,” she said.  Teva’s Cephalon Inc. unit recalled a batch of the cancer
medicine Treanda due to the presence of glass fragments in a
single vial, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said Jan. 27.  Separately, a Medicaid prescription drug rule issued Jan.
27 raised the rebates drugmakers pay each time their products
are dispensed to Medicaid patients. For generic-drug
manufacturers, rebates would rise from 11 to 13 percent of their
average prices. Medicaid is the joint federal-state health
insurance program for the poor.  “The Medicaid ruling is more likely to have impacted Teva
and pharma in the U.S. on Friday leading to today’s decline in
Tel Aviv,” Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance
Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone.  Kreizman also said, “With now two players, and one
additional player getting ready to launch a generic Lovenox,
even an eventual launch by Teva is much less attractive than
previously expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  