-- Sarkozy Says France Will Impose Transaction Tax in August
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-30T15:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/financial-transaction-tax-in-france-to-take-effect-in-august-sarkozy-says.html
France plans to unilaterally impose
a 0.1 percent tax on financial transactions starting in August,
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said, brushing aside opposition from
the nation’s banks.  “What we want to do is provoke a shock, to set an
example,” Sarkozy said late yesterday on French television from
Paris. “There’s no reason why deregulated finance, which
brought us to the current situation, can’t participate in the
restoration of our accounts.”  A France-only levy is opposed by the country’s  financial
community  and its feasibility has been questioned by the Bank of
France. It has become a political challenge for the president,
who faces elections in a two-round vote in April and May and
wants to make good on a pledge he made to impose such a tax when
France last year held the presidency of both the G-8 and G-20
group of countries.  The European Commission in September suggested a tax of 0.1
percent on equity and bond transactions and 0.01 percent on
derivatives, which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($71
billion) a year. European Union finance ministers are due to
discuss the levy in March.  The financial transactions tax is among measures Sarkozy
unveiled to shrink the French  budget deficit  and spur growth.
He’s also increasing sales taxes and levies on financial incomes
to fund a 13 billion-euro cut in payroll charges aimed at
reducing labor costs and making France more competitive.  Bank Shares  The French government, long a proponent of the transaction
tax, stepped up its campaign this month, saying it would impose
the levy even if others didn’t. Sarkozy said he expects revenue
of 1 billion euros from the tax “that will go toward cutting
the deficit.”  Shares of France’s three biggest banks tumbled.  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  slid as much as 7.3 percent, trading 7.1 percent lower at
32.18 euros as of 3:57 p.m. in Paris. Societe Generale SA fell
as much as 7.2 percent to 19.56 euros, while Credit Agricole SA
declined as much as 7 percent to 4.59 euros.  Jean-Pierre Jouyet, president of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, France’s financial regulator, said last week that
the tax on transactions advocated by Sarkozy would weaken the
country’s position in the asset-management industry by pushing
professionals and transactions elsewhere.  Sarkozy said yesterday that his government has found a way
to keep financial jobs in France and tax transactions related to
the country even if they happen elsewhere, pointing to trades in
credit default swaps as an example. He didn’t give details.  Negative Impact  “CDSs, which are speculative instruments against sovereign
debt, will be taxed and online speculative purchases will be
taxed,” he said.  The tax will apply to share purchases, including high
frequency trading, and CDS transactions. Unlike the European
Commission proposal, it will not apply to bond trading.  Ernst & Young, an accounting company, has said in a report
that while an EU transaction tax itself may raise as much as 37
billion euros, its net effect could be negative by between 2
billion euros and 116 billion euros by decreasing economic
activity and reducing revenue from other taxes.  The U.S. opposes taxes on transactions, preferring bank
levies based on the size of their balance sheets.  The U.K., home to  Europe ’s biggest financial center, has
also opposed the tax as it is currently proposed. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said Jan. 26 that a Europe-wide transaction tax
would be “madness,” saying it would cost 500,000 jobs.  Stamp Duty  Germany  is considering a plan for a form of European stamp
duty on shares linked to tougher trading rules as an alternative
to a financial-transaction tax, in an effort to win over the
U.K. to adopting European Union-wide levy.  “We can sense resistance within Europe, and that’s why we
want to take the lead,” French Prime Minister  Francois Fillon 
said today at a press conference in Paris. He said emerging
nations, including  Brazil , support France’s case for such a tax.  Investors buying U.K. shares pay a tax of 0.5 percent on
the price. The stamp duty is also levied on options to buy
shares and rights arising from shares. Stamp duty on shares
raised 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) in the year to April
2010, according to the government.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats and
their Free Democratic Party allies may be coalescing around an
FDP proposal for a Europe-wide tax along the lines of the U.K.’s
levy on shares. Such a solution is a “good option” if
accompanied by rules that limit “abusive excesses” in
automated trading, the Free Democrats have said in a paper
drafted by former Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle .  ‘Heavy Handicap’  The French financial industry has spoken out against
imposing a transaction tax unilaterally in  France .  “A tax that’s limited to France would weigh on growth,
lead to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap
for the financing of the French economy,” the French Banking
Federation said in a statement Jan. 9.  Sarkozy is trailing Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande 
in the French presidential election polls. Hollande has the
support of 31 percent of voters in the first round, 6 points
more than Sarkozy, and his second-round lead has risen to 20
points at 60 percent, according to a CSA poll published last
week. Hollande, too, has pledged to impose a tax on financial
transactions, if he’s elected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Deen at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling in Brussels at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  