-- German Presidential Office Raided in Probe of Former Spokesman
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-29T16:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/german-presidential-office-raided-in-probe-of-former-spokesman.html
An office in German President
 Christian Wulff ’s Berlin residence was searched by prosecutors
as part of an investigation of his former spokesman, Olaf Glaeseker.  The workplace was raided because Glaeseker had left private
material there that the president’s office couldn’t hand over,
Hans-Juergen Lendeckel, a spokesman for Hanover prosecutors said
in an interview today. Glaeseker, under investigation over
corruption allegations, had his home searched on Jan. 19.  “Normally, the president’s office would have voluntarily
turned over any material we requested,” said Lendeckel. “But
since this was private material, they weren’t allowed to, so we
had to choose the formal way to have a court authorize us to go
and look for it.”  Wulff has been under pressure for weeks over his failure to
reveal a private home loan provided by a businessman’s wife in
2008 and his attempt to block a German newspaper from reporting
about it last month.  Glaeseker is being investigated over allegations that, as
part of his job the Lower-Saxony state government, he supported
discussion events organized by a businessman who in turn
provided him with free accommodations at his vacation homes. The
conduct allegedly happened between 2007 and 2009 when Wulff was
prime minister of Lower Saxony. Glaeseker was already his
spokesman then.  Glaeseker, who quit in December, didn’t immediately reply
to a request for comment left on his mobile phone. His said on
his recorded voice mail message that he won’t return any calls.  His attorney, Guido Frings, didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail seeking comment and didn’t immediately return a request
for comment left on the emergency cell phone supplied by his  law
firm .  Wulff’s spokeswoman Petra Diroll didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 