-- Gillard ‘Angry’ as Australian Opposition Calls for Canberra Protest Probe
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-01-30T02:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/gillard-angry-as-australian-opposition-calls-for-canberra-protest-probe.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  expressed anger at opposition demands for an inquiry
over her government’s role in clashes between police and
aboriginal protesters in Canberra on Australia Day.  A media aide to Gillard resigned Jan. 27 for disclosing
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s location at a restaurant in the
national capital, information that was passed on to protest
organizers. Security officers rushed Gillard and Abbott from the
venue, where they were attending a function, as dozens of
demonstrators banged on the windows.  Gillard, who trails Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition in
opinion polls, had her parliamentary majority reduced to one
seat last week when an independent lawmaker withdrew his support
saying she’d broken a pledge to tighten gambling laws. The
ruling  Labor Party , which faces a general election by 2013,
received a boost when a Galaxy poll published today showed its
support had climbed five percentage points from October.  The Australian Federal Police won’t investigate the
disclosure of Abbott’s location as there is no evidence of a
criminal act, it said in a statement today. That comes after
Abbott yesterday told reporters the prime minister’s office
“has done the wrong thing,” and “let’s give her a chance to
do the right thing” with an inquiry. Gillard has said no other
member of her office was involved in passing information.  Abbott’s calls typify “his tendency to go too far,”
Gillard said Jan. 28 at a news conference in Melbourne. “For it
to be insinuated that I would play some role in disrupting an
event to recognize Australians who had performed miracles during
a natural disaster is deeply offensive.”  The federal police “should automatically be reviewing
their own processes and procedures,” the opposition coalition’s
Christopher Pyne said in an interview broadcast on  Sky News 
yesterday. “But also the prime minister should want to get to
the bottom of who is responsible for what happened.”  Tent Embassy  The Canberra protest took place on Jan. 26, the Australia
Day holiday marking the arrival of white settlers in the
country. Demonstrators were responding to Abbott’s comment
earlier in the day, when he replied it’s probably “time to move
on” in the debate for the need to an Aboriginal Tent Embassy,
which has been standing for 40 years in front of the nation’s
former parliament house.  Gillard and Abbott were spirited away in government cars to
cries of “racist” and “shame” from the protesters. As
Gillard was taken from the building she stumbled and lost her
shoe. Members of the Tent Embassy later found the footwear and
returned it.  Indigenous Australians  Aboriginal people populated  Australia  at least 50,000 years
before Europeans arrived. Aborigines remain the poorest and most
disadvantaged group in Australian society more than 200 years
after Europeans settled in 1788.  There are about 400,000 indigenous Australians, who make up
2 percent of the population. Australia Day marks the date in
1788 when Captain Arthur Phillip, commander of the first fleet
of convict ships from Britain, landed in Sydney Cove, the site
of the modern-day city. Many Aborigines and their supporters
refer to the date as Invasion Day.  Gillard will concentrate on Australia’s  economic 
performance when she addresses the Australia-Israel Chamber of
Commerce this week, the Sydney Morning Herald  newspaper  reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified official.  “We’re situated in the region of the world that continues
to experience economic growth and will during the course of this
century, and that gives us particular opportunities for the
future,” Gillard said at a news conference in  Melbourne 
yesterday with visiting New Zealand Prime Minister John Key.  Asia Growth  Australia is “looking how we can win in this Asian century
of economic growth and so we can be prepared for that economic
growth,” she said.  Australia’s economy will expand 3.7 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace among Group of 10 nations, according to strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg, as benchmark interest-rate cuts boost
 consumer confidence  and a resources boom spurs record exports.
 China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, may have economic
growth of 8.4 percent this year, compared with 2.5 percent
globally and a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro area, the
 World Bank  said Jan. 18.  “Our economy is now 7 percent larger than it was before
the global financial crisis, while many other advanced economies
are yet to make up the ground they lost,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said in his weekly note yesterday. “We’re uniquely placed to
deal with the worst the world can throw at us.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  