-- Gingrich Says He Needs Strong Florida Finish to Save Campaign
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-01-30T13:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/gingrich-says-strong-florida-finish-needed-to-save-campaign.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  said only a strong finish in Florida’s primary
election will save his “totally unique” campaign.  With his campaign down to about $600,000 after his South
Carolina primary victory, Gingrich said he trailed  Mitt Romney 
among Florida voters who cast ballots early and he needs a large
vote on election day to win the Jan. 31 primary.  “As fast as we’ve raised it, we’re spending it,” Gingrich
said in an interview yesterday. Later on ABC’s “This Week”
program, he predicted the contest for the Republican
presidential nomination would continue until the party’s
national convention in August, saying that conservatives will
decide they don’t want a “Massachusetts liberal” to be the
nominee.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who has estimated
his personal fortune at between $150 million and $200 million,
has “unending amounts of money,” Gingrich said, while
questioning the enthusiasm voters have shown for his rival.  “He always relied on just sheer machinery,” Gingrich said
of Romney. “He has no message. There is no reason for a Romney
presidency.”  Romney Poll Lead  Romney led Gingrich by 42 percent to 27 percent among
likely Republican primary voters, according to an  NBC News-
Marist poll  released yesterday. The survey of 682 likely
Republican voters was conducted Jan. 25-27 and had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.8 percent.  A  Quinnipiac University poll  released today showed similar
results, with Romney over Gingrich by 43 percent to 29 percent.
The telephone poll of 539 likely Republican primary voters was
conducted Jan. 27-29 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
4.2 percent.  Gingrich’s 12-percentage-point victory in South Carolina
Jan. 21 initially translated into large audiences for the former
U.S. House speaker in  Florida . Those audiences have dwindled,
including a group of about 70 at an Orlando town hall that was
planned in a theater with triple the capacity.  Gingrich said he needs to carry about 52 percent of the
vote on election day to compensate for Romney’s edge in early
voting and absentee ballots.  “We’re like Apple as compared to Microsoft,” Gingrich
said of his and Romney’s campaign. “We’re very agile, we’re
very organic, we’re very innovative,” Gingrich said. “And
every once in a while we fray at the edges.”  Florida Housing Market  Romney told voters in Naples yesterday that Gingrich’s
sinking fortunes in Florida stemmed from the fact that he worked
for  Freddie Mac , the federally tied home mortgage company,
unpopular in a state that has been the site of one-quarter of
the nation’s foreclosures.  “The people of Florida have had enough of Freddie Mac and
 Fannie Mae  and government interference” in the housing market,
Romney said at a rally at a square in the city’s upscale
downtown, surrounded by boutiques, restaurants and palm trees.  “Mr. Speaker, your problem in Florida is not that the
audience is too quiet or too loud,” Romney said in a reference
to lackluster debate performances by Gingrich last week, which
the former speaker later attributed in part to the responses of
attendees. “Your problem in Florida is you worked for Freddie
Mac at a time that Freddie Mac was not doing the right thing for
the American people.”  Santorum’s Daughter  As Gingrich and Romney fanned out across the state, former
U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum , who is running third in recent
polls, was at home in  Pennsylvania , where his daughter
Isabella’s admission to a hospital in Philadelphia forced the
cancellation of his events yesterday. Santorum’s campaign said
in a statement that he would “resume the campaign schedule as
soon as possible.”  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  isn’t campaigning in
Florida, instead focusing on  Maine , which will hold caucuses in
late February. Paul said yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the
Union” program that the state is “a real good place for us to
break through” and that the ups and downs of the nominating
contest so far show the race remains up for grabs.  “The rough road is competing with, you know, establishment
money, the big money,” Paul said. “It’s a money game. And I
think that’s one of the things that frustrates a lot of
people.”  Asked to name the best-run national campaigns he’d seen or
been a part of, Gingrich first named President Barack Obama’s
primary campaign in 2008. He added  Richard Nixon ’s in 1972, with
the exception of the Watergate scandal,  Ronald Reagan ’s in 1984
and  George H.W. Bush ’s in 1988.  Gingrich refused to compare his campaign with those.  ‘Unique’ Campaign  “I’m totally unique,” Gingrich said. “My campaign
resembles nothing that has ever been run. It’s a very idea-
oriented, Internet-based, constantly-evolving,” he said. “It’s
organic.”  “Every week we absorb new energy, new people and we figure
out five new things,” he said. “It’s the most exciting thing
I’ve ever done.”  Gingrich offered an explanation for his performance in two
nationally televised debates during the week leading to
Florida’s primary vote.  “I went into those two debates with one big goal: I didn’t
want to get mad enough to lose my poise,” Gingrich said. “I
felt that the Romney people had a very deliberate strategy.
They’d all been talking about my temperament and they were
looking for an excuse.”  Gingrich’s Discipline  “So I just wanted to be very calm no matter what,” he
said. “I spent a lot of my energy just staying disciplined.”  If he appeared tired, he said, he was simply “staring in
amazement” at Romney in debate.  “I’m standing there thinking to myself, ‘You think you can
lie your way to the presidency? You think it’s possible in
America today, even to be this dishonest?’” Gingrich said.  Gingrich said he held a conference call with his campaign
team at 11:15 p.m. after the second debate on Jan. 26.  “By the next morning we had an ad up that begins to
demonstrate and you’re going to see more stuff like this,”
Gingrich said. “We’re going to demonstrate again and again this
is not a man who can be honest, because if he is honest his
campaign is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tampa, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  