-- Gingrich May Be Trying to Win One From the Gipper: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-01-29T15:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/gingrich-may-be-trying-to-win-one-from-the-gipper-albert-hunt.html
To listen to the candidate, the
Reagan Revolution of the 1980s was about the Gipper and Newt.  “I worked with President Reagan in the entire recovery of
the 1980s,”  Newt Gingrich  declared in a recent debate of
Republican presidential hopefuls. He frequently talks about the
way he and  Ronald Reagan  “changed” Washington.  The former House speaker has cited Reagan 61 times in 19
debates; he casts the contest against former Governor  Mitt Romney  as one between a “Massachusetts moderate” and a
“Reagan conservative.”  “Gingrich had absolutely nothing to do with the Reagan
Revolution,” replies Lou Cannon, who as a journalist covered
the entire Reagan presidency and wrote the best biography of the
40th president, “President Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime.”  “There were congressmen who influenced Reagan, especially
 Jack Kemp ,” Cannon said in an interview. “I’m not sure Reagan
even knew who Gingrich was.”  Gingrich is only mentioned once in Cannon’s book, in a
discussion about the post-Reagan era. In one of the former
president’s own books, “The Reagan Diaries,” the ex-Georgia
congressman comes up only once in passing and the reference is
largely negative. He doesn’t appear at all in Reagan’s
autobiography, “An American Life” or Edmund Morris’ biography,
“Dutch.”  Low Profile  The central figure in the  Reagan administration  was James A. Baker, first White House chief of staff and then Treasury
secretary. One Reagan insider ventures that in those eight years
he doesn’t believe that Baker ever met one-on-one with the
Georgia congressman.  This past weekend in Florida, the Romney and Gingrich
forces were trotting out dueling experts to comment on the
former Georgia lawmaker’s role in the Reagan years.  Elliott Abrams , a former official in Reagan’s State Department, took one
of the former congressman’s typically hyperbolic broadsides to
suggest he was anti-Reagan on national security; Abrams is a
Romney supporter.  On the other side, Craig Shirley, a conservative activist
and author of books on the former president who is backing
Gingrich, correctly questions  Romney’s Reagan credentials . He
then exaggerates his own candidate’s bona fides with claims such
as the one that Gingrich was put on the party’s platform
committee in 1984 to “protect” the president’s interests. That
year, the president so dominated his party that he needed no
protection.  Cannon is the most authoritative Reagan expert today; his
critique has more credibility than the others’.  To be sure, the ex-speaker’s rivals aren’t well-positioned
to attack him on this score. During his unsuccessful race to
unseat Massachusetts Senator Edward M. Kennedy in 1994, Romney
distanced himself from the former president, emphasizing that he
had been a political independent in the 1980s. “I’m not trying
to return to Reagan-Bush,” Romney said in a debate with
Kennedy.  Today, Reagan stands alone as a hero to Republican
constituents and politicians. None of the current candidates can
claim much resemblance to his persona.  He had shortcomings. He could be insensitive, a few of his
policies had cruel results; his imagination sometimes exceeded
his judgment and, on occasion, he was oblivious or ignorant of
basic facts.  Yet he often transcended those flaws; some admirers
considered him a committed conservative, others a governing
pragmatist. He was both.  Hollywood Career  He was a can-do optimist who, despite many years in
Hollywood, identified with and embodied American values. “It’s
the damndest thing,” a Reagan adviser once marveled, “he spent
years around the rich and famous and still relates to a gas-
station attendant.”  Gingrich’s closest identification with that attendant is
that for a time he lived above a gas station as a child. Romney
doesn’t even pretend to identify.  Reagan also had a capacity, as Cannon notes, to seem larger
than himself; he did it repeatedly. The longtime journalist and
author says he’s only observed one candidate reach those heights
during the current primary fight; that was former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum  during his (semi) victory speech after the
Iowa caucuses.  “Santorum didn’t seem to know how effective that was,”
Cannon says, “He’s never repeated it.”  Although Reagan could be harsh in his criticism of
institutions and ideological movements, he rarely focused on
running down his opponents, especially fellow Republicans. “He
never said anything remotely as negative as Romney and Gingrich
said about each other last week,” Cannon says.  The oldest man ever elected president regaled voters with
stories about the past while always looking to the future. To
him, American exceptionalism was more than a campaign slogan and
he really believed the country’s best days were ahead. “Reagan
projected the future,”  Cannon  recalls. “These guys don’t.”  The candidate who presents himself as an original Reaganite
is Gingrich. Campaigning in  Florida  this weekend, he said he was
“very proud to run on a Reagan-Gingrich record.” The Georgia
lawmaker, in fact, was a backbencher in the House during the
1980s; while he brilliantly plotted the Republican takeover of
the House a decade later, he played almost no role in the Reagan
agenda.  His assertions to the contrary infuriate Reagan-watchers
like Cannon. “I find Gingrich almost condescending in the way
he talks about Reagan,” he says. “He tries to attach himself
to the coattails or the image, saying, ‘I’m Reaganesque,’
without any evidence.”  Reagan was sunny; Gingrich is often sneering. The former
president preferred to charm; the former speaker prefers to
confront. For the last quarter century of his public life, the
Gipper had a North Star of conviction; Gingrich is in perpetual
reinvention, personally and politically.  On his  website , the insurgent candidate says he’s been a
“Reagan man” since 1974. That was the year I first met
Gingrich, over a leisurely lunch in  Washington . He was then an
exciting new congressional candidate. He was dazzling, exuberant
and talkative. He said his two Republican role models were
Linwood Holton, the progressive Republican governor of  Virginia ,
and  Nelson Rockefeller , the former governor of  New York  and vice
president to  Gerald Ford .  There was no mention of Reagan.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 