-- Greek Debt Talks Risk Derailing EU Summit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-30T12:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/greek-debt-talks-risk-derailing-eu-summit-progress-on-crisis-fighting-plan.html
European Union leaders gather for
their first summit of 2012 as a deteriorating  economy  and the
struggle to complete a Greek debt writeoff risk sidetracking
efforts to stamp out the financial crisis.  EU chiefs arrived in Brussels today to put the finishing 
touches on a German-led deficit-control treaty and to endorse 
the statutes of a 500 billion-euro ($656 billion) rescue fund 
to be set up this year. European finance officials yesterday 
discussed a deal that  Greece  and its private creditors expect 
to complete in the coming days after bondholders signaled they 
would accept government demands for a bigger cut in their
debt holdings.  Efforts to hold the 17-nation euro area together with
bolstered fiscal rules and a stronger firewall are colliding
with  stalled progress  in Greece, where the crisis began in 2009.
To prevent a financial collapse, Greek bondholders have been
pushed to cede more ground after agreeing in October to take a
50 percent cut in the face value of more than 200 billion euros
of debt.  “The fact we’re still at the beginning of 2012 talking
about Greece is a sign this problem hasn’t been dealt with,”
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .  No Longer Enough  The summit follows warnings at the gathering that ended
yesterday in Davos that it’s time to end the region’s debt
crisis and that measures aimed at simply containing the turmoil
are no longer enough. The euro economy is set to contract by 0.5
percent this year, according to the median of 19 economist
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year loans to
banks have helped buoy sentiment among investors in the euro
area. Italian  10-year bonds  gained for a third week, while
Spanish two-year yields dropped to the lowest since November
2010. The euro gained against the  U.S. dollar  every day last
week, climbing 2.2 percent on the week. The European currency
was down 0.7 percent at $1.3123 at 12:26 p.m. in Brussels.  “We can say -- with caution -- that we see elements of
financial stability in France, in Europe and in the world,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a nationally televised
interview in Paris yesterday. “Europe is no longer at the edge
of the cliff.”  Debt Sales  That optimism will be tested this week as European nations
including Italy, Belgium and  Spain  sell about 22 billion euros
of debt securities. Italian borrowing costs fell as the nation
sold 7.5 billion euros of debt today, near the maximum for the
auction.  Belgium  sells as much as 3 billion euros of bills
tomorrow, with Spain, Portugal,  Germany  and France issuing 13
different maturities during the week.  A draft of the summit statement showed that EU leaders will
pledge to retarget unspent subsidies and consider boosting the
lending of the bloc’s project-financing arm. No figures are
given in the draft, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Attention before the Brussels summit turned to negotiations
between the interim government of Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and creditors. The two sides were “close” to an
agreement outlined by Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the Institute of International Finance, negotiating on
behalf of private creditors, said in a Jan. 28 statement after
three days of talks in  Athens .  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds, said a person familiar
with the talks, who declined to be identified because a final
deal hasn’t been struck yet. As recently as Jan. 23, creditors
wanted an average coupon of about 4.25 percent, two people
familiar with the talks said then. That offer equated to a loss
of about 69 percent on the net-present value of Greek debt.  ‘Last Minute’  The initial debt-swap agreement with creditors three months
ago sought to scale back Greece’s debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020. The anticipated agreement on private
sector involvement, or PSI, will open the way to a 130 billion-
euro second bailout from Greece’s European partners and the
 International Monetary Fund  for the country, which faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  “A deal on PSI will be reached at the last minute,”  Niall Ferguson , a professor of economic history at  Harvard University ,
said in a Davos interview. “The trouble for  Europe  is the
crisis won’t be over as the Greek position remains
unsustainable. Any PSI deal will bring only temporary respite.”  Greece now requires 145 billion euros for the second
bailout, 15 billion euros more than was agreed in October,  Der
Spiegel  reported Jan. 28, citing an unidentified official from
the troika in Greece.  As a possible condition of the bailout, European policy
makers are discussing plans to directly intervene in Greek
budget decisions as the country struggles to cut its deficit,
according to two euro-region government officials. Leaders are
mulling responses to states that are “off-track,” German
Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said in Berlin today.  U.K. Refusal  Patience with Greece “is really coming close to the
limit,” Philipp Roesler, chief of Germany’s Free Democratic
Party, the junior coalition partner, told Bild newspaper. “Time
is running out. There can only be additional help if the Greek
government carries out the necessary reforms.”  Another objective at the summit will be to complete a
fiscal compact, which was negotiated in December in talks that
exposed a rift in the EU after the U.K. refused to participate.
The rules aim to provide stricter sanctions and closer
cooperation on national budgets.  The latest draft, dated Jan. 27 and obtained by Bloomberg,
requires governments to set up a “correction mechanism” to be
triggered “automatically” when deficits stray from targets.
The treaty caps structural deficits at 0.5 of GDP, allowing
deviations in case of “exceptional circumstances” such as a
“severe economic downturn,” according to the draft.  A call by  Poland , the biggest country with aspirations to
join the single currency, to take part in euro-area decision-
making looms as the main obstacle to the deal, two officials
said. Poland’s plea to take part in euro summits is opposed by a
group led by  France , which aims to turn the 17-nation monetary
union into an exclusive policymaking club.  Future Action  “We will not express an acceptance of the present form in
which the compact has been drafted, a compact that excludes or
endangers the community-based method,” Polish Prime Minister
Donald Tusk told reporters in Brussels today.  Over the weekend, senior officials worked to clear away
lesser snags to the treaty, including the role of national
parliaments and the ratification threshold. A draft last week
foresaw the treaty taking effect after ratification by 12 of the
17 euro countries.  EU leaders plan to endorse the statutes of the permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to be signed in
early February and sent to national parliaments to ratify. The
ESM is scheduled to go into operation this year.  Leaders are unlikely to address mounting pressure to raise
the ceiling on rescue lending from 500 billion euros once the
permanent fund goes on line, the officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  