-- Iran Parliament Debates Ban on Oil to Europe as Nuclear Inspectors Arrive
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-29T16:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/iaea-inspectors-arrive-in-tehran-for-nuclear-talks-presstv-says.html
International Atomic Energy Agency 
inspectors arrived in Tehran today for talks on  Iran’s nuclear
program  while lawmakers drafted a ban on oil sales to Europe.  “We are looking forward to the start of a dialogue, a
dialogue that’s overdue,” Chief Inspector Herman Nackaerts,
who’s heading the six-member IAEA team, said in comments cited
on the website of state-run  Press TV . The delegation will stay
in the country for three days, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi 
told reporters in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital.  Iran  has been at loggerheads with western countries over
accusations that the country is using its nuclear program as a
cover for developing weapons, a charge the government denies.
European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
Iranian oil imports starting in July and freeze the assets of
the country’s central bank, the latest in a series of sanctions
by the  United Nations , U.S. and EU.  Iranian lawmakers responded by drafting legislation that
calls on the government to halt oil exports to Europe as long as
the import ban is in place. The bill would also require Iran to
block imports from countries participating in the EU ban, Nasser
Sodani, deputy head of the parliament’s energy commission said
yesterday, according to the Fars news agency.  The draft was submitted to the parliament’s energy
commission for review, state-run Mehr news agency reported,
citing commission spokesman Emad Hosseini. The measure must be
discussed with the government before it is formally proposed to
the parliament, he said.  Prepared to Cut Supply  “Given our previous search for new customers, we are as of
now prepared to cut our oil supplies to  Europe ,” Ahmad Qalebani,
managing director of National Iranian Oil Co., said today,
according Oil Ministry website  Shana .  Salehi said he is “very optimistic” about the IAEA team’s
mission, which will include visits to some of the country’s
nuclear sites.  “Right from the beginning we have indicated explicitly that
Iran has never ever been after nuclear weapons,” Salehi said in
Addis Ababa, where he is to take part in an African Union summit.
said. “There is nothing dubious or ambiguous in our peaceful
activities.”  The IAEA has confirmed that Iran hasn’t used its declared
uranium stockpile to make weapons. However, in November it cited
“credible” sources as saying that Iran has studied how to make
a nuclear bomb.  Iran, which is under four sets of UN sanctions, has said
that documents in the IAEA’s possession are forged. The
government has in the past refused to address the nuclear-
weapons allegations until it is allowed to examine the evidence.  ‘Case to Answer’  “We have requested Iran to engage with us to clarify the
decisions,” IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said in Davos,
 Switzerland  on Jan. 27. “Iran has a case to answer.”  Iran will do “confidence building” with the agency and
discuss its concerns about the safety of nuclear scientists,
Mehdi Mehdizadeh a member of the parliament’s national security
and foreign policy committee, told  Press TV .  Iran accuses the U.S. and  Israel  of targeting Iranian
atomic scientists in an effort to halt Iran’s nuclear program.
Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan, a deputy director of the Natanz uranium
enrichment facility in Isfahan province, was killed in a Tehran
bombing on Jan. 11, the fourth prominent Iranian scientist to
die in similar attacks, Iran says.  Iranian officials say that the IAEA has failed to protect
the identity of some of its experts and they say that Roshan had
recently met with the agency’s inspectors. The IAEA says it
doesn’t know Roshan and didn’t release his name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  