-- Neeson’s ‘The Grey’ Tops Box Office With $20 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-01-30T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/liam-neeson-leads-the-grey-to-box-office-win-with-20-million.html
The Liam Neeson action film “The
Grey” opened in first place in U.S. and Canadian cinemas,
taking in $20 million for Open Road Films, the distributor
founded last year by the three largest U.S. theater chains.  “One for the Money,” starring  Katherine Heigl , was third
in its first weekend, with $11.8 million, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Man on a Ledge” was fifth in its debut with sales
of $8.3 million.  “The Grey” is Open Road’s second release, following
“Killer Elite” in September. Owned by  Regal Entertainment
Group (RGC) , AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. and  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) , the company was a response to shrinking output by major
studios. “The Grey” was expected to have sales of about $14.5
million, according to a BoxOffice.com estimate.  “Regal and AMC can go back to Hollywood and say, ‘See,
these are the kinds of movies people want to see,’” said  Jeff
Bock , a box-office analyst for Exhibitor Relations Co. in Los
Angeles, in a telephone interview. “It’s a real coup for them
that they got Neeson for this role.”  This past weekend also brought increased sales for a few
films after the nominees for Academy Awards were announced.
“The Artist,” nominated for best picture, recorded a 40
percent rise in receipts, while sales more than doubled for
“The Descendants,” also a best-picture contender,
Hollywood.com said.  `The Descendants'  “The Artist” needs the critical support and aid from the
Hollywood community,” said Phil Contrino, editor of
Boxoffice.com, in a telephone interview. “This film is pretty
much the favorite to win the best picture Oscar.”  Contrino said the improvement by “The Descendants,” which
was seventh with $6.6 million after expanding by 1,441 screens,
also was driven by the nominations.  “This is a great example of a movie building an audience
by word of mouth,” he said.  George Clooney  is viewed as the
favorite to win the best actor award, he said.  From 2006 to 2010, best-picture winners on average had
$57.2 million in box-office sales heading into the nominations
and $42.9 million afterward, according to research by  Santa
Monica , California-based IbisWorld, an industry researcher.  ‘One for the Money’  First place’s “The Grey” features Neeson as the leader of
a group of oil-rig workers who are stranded in the Alaskan
wilderness after a plane crash. They are threatened by a pack of
wolves. Dermot Mulroney co-stars.  “Underworld: Awakening,” last weekend’s top film, fell to
second with sales of $12.5 million for  Sony Corp. (6758)  The movie, the
fourth film in the vampire-versus-werewolf series, has taken in
$45.1 million since it opened on Jan. 20.  “One for the Money,” distributed in the U.S. by  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , features Heigl as an out-of-work woman
who takes a job with a bail-bond company. Desperate for money,
she goes after the biggest bail jumper, a former police officer
accused of murder. Jason O’Mara and Daniel Sunjata co-star.  “Red Tails,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, was
fourth with $10.4 million in receipts. The movie follows the
training and deployment of the first U.S. fighter squadron
staffed by black pilots at Tuskegee,  Alabama . The film stars
Terrence Howard and Cuba Gooding Jr.  “Man on a Ledge,” from Summit Entertainment LLC, stars
 Sam Worthington  as a police officer convicted of stealing a
famous diamond. After escaping custody, he stands on the ledge
of a New York high-rise in a plot to clear his name. Elizabeth
Banks co-stars.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 7.5 percent to
$99.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Year to date, revenue and attendance have both risen 12 percent.
The amounts below are based on actual tickets sales for Jan. 27
and Jan. 28 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  