-- Indonesia’s Economy to Maintain ‘Upward Trajectory,’ Trade Minister Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r t a   M a r i n o
-- 2012-01-29T02:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/indonesia-economy-to-maintain-upward-trajectory-minister-says.html
     Jan. 29 (Bloomberg) --Indonesia may sustain its  economic
growth , Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said, as “fiscal
prudence” helps improve the business climate and counter the
impact on exports of the European debt crisis.  The nation’s gross domestic product is “likely to stay on
the upward trajectory,” Wirjawan said in a Bloomberg TV
interview yesterday from Davos,  Switzerland . “We’re not yet too
much affected by what’s happening in  Europe  and also in the
U.S., because exports only make up 26 percent of GDP unlike some
other countries in Asia-Pacific.”  Indonesia may trim debt to less than 20 percent of GDP in
the next three years, from 24.5 percent last year, improving the
business climate and leading to a higher rating, Wirjawan said.
Moody’s Investors Service raised its sovereign rating on
 Indonesia  to an investment grade Baa3 on Jan. 18  The Southeast Asian nation is counting on higher credit
ratings to help lure investment. Asian policy makers are
shifting focus to shielding growth as Europe’s sovereign woes
and a struggling U.S. economy raise the risk of a global
recession. Moody’s upgrade was the second in five weeks for
Indonesia, after Fitch in December brought the nation back from
14 years of junk ratings.  “Fiscal prudence has yielded very positive results,”
Wirjawan said. “It’s quite sensible to think that Indonesia
could be in the single-A category in the near foreseeable
future,” he said, referring to a rating three levels above
Baa3. “That will help improve the business climate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Marino in London at 
 mmarino4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  