-- Intra-Africa Trade May Double on Fewer Barriers, World Bank Says
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-29T05:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/intra-africa-trade-may-double-on-fewer-barriers-world-bank-says.html
Africa  could double intra-regional
trade by easing non-tariff barriers including customs procedures
and poor transport infrastructure, helping boost economic
growth, the  World Bank  said.  African leaders meet at the African Union’s headquarters in
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, today to discuss ways to boost
trade within the continent, which accounts for 12 percent of the
total. That compares with 35 percent in Latin America, almost 50
percent in  Asia  and about 70 percent in  Europe , Obiageli Ezekwesili, vice president for Africa at the World Bank, said in
an interview ahead of the summit.  A doubling in that rate would add 2 percent to Africa’s
gross domestic product, while helping offset the impact of
slowing economic growth in countries in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, she said. OECD countries
are expected to grow 1.4 percent this year and 2.6 percent in
2013, according to the bank.  Increased intra-African trade is “an area of potential
growth and as the global economy deteriorates it is important
that Africa discovers Africa,” Ezekwesili said. “The push at
this summit has got to be a call to action.”  Trade is hampered by “cumbersome” import and export
procedures, “difficult” cross-border processes, the lack of
transportation networks, regulatory and trade-settlement issues,
she said. The constraints can have an impact on companies like
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  South Africa ’s biggest retailer, which
because of import requirements sent trucks to Zambia with as
many as 1,600 documents each, according to World Bank research.  Transport Corridor  Constraints on trade may be addressed by projects similar
to the North-South Corridor being developed in southeastern
Africa, Ezekwesili said. The corridor, linking eight countries
from South Africa to  Tanzania , envisages upgrading roads,
railways, border posts and ports, while harmonizing transit and
transport rule, and simplifying administrative requirements,
according to the  North South Corridor Programme ’s website.  The upgrade and maintenance of roads on the corridor, which
stretches from Durban in South Africa, the continent’s biggest
port, to Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, will cost $6.9 billion,
South African President Jacob Zuma said at a conference in  Addis
Ababa  yesterday. “Serious” work also must be done to improve
rail infrastructure, he said.  Africa plans to introduce a Continental Free Trade
Agreement by 2017, while boosting intra-African trade to 25
percent to 30 percent within the next decade, according to the
African Union.  “The idea should be free trade within the continent to
boost the free-flow of goods, services and people,” Ezekwesili
said. “Because as that happens, productivity is enhanced,
competitiveness is improved. It increases growth and reduces
poverty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Addis Ababa at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 