-- New Zealand Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard to Step Down in September
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-30T01:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/new-zealand-reserve-bank-governor-alan-bollard-to-step-down-in-september.html
New Zealand  central bank Governor
Alan Bollard will quit in September, ending a decade-long tenure
in which he raised  interest rates  to a record high before
cutting them last year to the their lowest ever.  Bollard won’t seek another five years when his current term
ends Sept. 25, the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  said in an e-
mailed statement today. The Wellington-based central bank said
it will search in New Zealand and abroad for a successor.  “He was a governor through some very difficult times --
both on a very overheated, imbalanced upswing and a
consequential downturn, made worse by the global situation,”
said  Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd.
in Wellington.  The announcement leaves New Zealand searching for a new
central bank chief during a period of slowing global growth and
a sluggish domestic economy that’s motivating young people to
leave in search of higher-paying jobs in  Australia  and
elsewhere. Bollard, 60, said today he would focus on the serious
economic and financial challenges facing New Zealand in his
remaining eight months in charge.  The governor left the benchmark rate at 2.5 percent last
week for a 10th month and said Jan. 27 the RBNZ will need to
keep monitoring quake reconstruction “to judge whether the
level of the cash rate continues to be appropriate.”  Rate Bets  The  New Zealand dollar  was little changed after today’s
announcement and traded at 82.21 U.S. cents at 2:32 p.m. in
Wellington after reaching a four-month high of 82.50 cents Jan.
27. Investors are pricing in a 23 percent chance of a quarter
percentage point rate reduction at the RBNZ’s next meeting on
March 8, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  The currency surged to 88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1 last
year, the highest level since exchange controls were removed in
1985, as prospects for quake reconstruction and rising commodity
prices encouraged traders to bet on higher borrowing costs.  Christchurch, the nation’s second-biggest city, has been
rocked by quakes since September 2010, including a temblor in
February that killed 181 people and closed the central business
district. Most recently, an aftershock on Dec. 23 forced malls
to close and delayed demolition work.  “The bank is ready to respond to ongoing developments
overseas, especially in  Europe , the U.S. and  China , as well as
domestically, particularly the Canterbury earthquakes,” Bollard
said in today’s statement.  Slower Expansion  Bollard, appointed in 2002, said last week that New
Zealand’s economy may expand at a slower pace this year than the
3 percent forecast in December as fallout in the Asia-Pacific
region from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis curbs growth.  “The market thinks rates are going to be unchanged right
through this year,” Bollard said Jan. 27. “We’re not
uncomfortable with that. As we see the numbers at the minute, it
seems to be a reasonable deduction to take from that.”  The governor, who has a PhD. from Auckland University and
is a former chairman of the nation’s Commerce Commission and
Secretary of the Treasury, hasn’t been reluctant to share his
views on the trajectory of policy.  In 2005, during a series of rate increases, he warned the
RBNZ was prepared to raise borrowing costs in a “way that
really hurts” as he sought to damp a spending spree that had
doubled consumer debt in the past 10 years. He lifted official
cash rate to a peak of 8.25 percent in 2007 and held it there
until mid-2008.  Successor Search  Ebert said the central bank was likely to sift through New
Zealanders abroad for a replacement, as well as look at the
domestic scene.  The RBNZ governor is appointed by the country’s finance
minister on recommendation of the central bank’s board.  Internal candidates may include Deputy Governor Grant Spencer and Assistant Governor John McDermott, Ebert said.
Another name “that gets bandied around quite frequently” is
Adrian Orr, a former  Reserve Bank  official who now heads the
country’s superannuation fund, Ebert said.  During Bollard’s tenure, New Zealand’s consumer price index
has risen an annual average 2.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, at the upper end of the 1 percent to 3
percent inflation target of the central bank. The figure was
inflated by a 5.3 percent increase in prices in the second
quarter of 2011 from a year earlier as the government introduced
a new  sales tax .  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Inc. in  Singapore , said Bollard was likely to leave
his post with an the economy on the mend.  “The last couple of years he’s put the appropriate
emphasis on externalities when it comes to setting monetary
policy,” Beacher said. “He’s going to finish on a high by
taking the calculated risk that keeping rates lower for longer
is the correct path to take. That will be his legacy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  