-- Mobius Says QE3 Would be ‘Very Good’ for Emerging Stocks as China Rallies
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   T a n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-01-30T02:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/mobius-says-qe3-would-be-very-good-for-emerging-stocks-as-china-rallies.html
Emerging market stocks would benefit
from the cash injection created by a third round of U.S. asset
purchases, with  China ,  Russia  and Taiwan looking “attractive,”
Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  said.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke laid the
groundwork last week for a third round of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE3, saying that the Fed is prepared for further
“accommodation.” The central bank, which bought $2.3 trillion
of debt as part of QE1 and QE2, also reiterated a commitment to
keep rates low until at least 2014.  “QE3 is very, very good for emerging markets because it
means there’s lots of cash in the system,” Mobius, who oversees
about $40 billion as executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging
markets group, said in a phone interview from Bangkok on Jan.
27. “I would expect more institutional flows into stocks,
generally, and of course, emerging markets as well.”  Mobius’ $21 billion Templeton Emerging Markets Fund has
returned 12 percent over the past month, compared with a 8
percent average for its peers and the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s 10 percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
developing-nation gauge rose 0.2 percent to 1,018.76 at 9:51
a.m. in  Hong Kong .  Chinese stocks will “probably see a rally” this week
after being closed last week for the Lunar New Year holiday,
said Mobius, 75. “There’s no question” China will continue to
loosen monetary policy and he recommends consumer, energy and
commodity stocks in the country, he said.  Stock Support  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has climbed 4.5 percent this
year on speculation slowing Chinese growth will prompt the
central bank to further relax monetary policy and that the
government will take measures to support stocks. The gauge
dropped 0.9 percent to 2,298.26 today.  The People’s Bank of China lowered lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios in December for the first time since 2008 as
inflation slowed to a 15-month low.  China’s economy  grew 8.9
percent last quarter, below 9 percent for the first time since
the middle of 2009, official data show.  Mobius predicted gains in emerging markets in March 2009,
when he told Bloomberg Television that developing-nation
equities are building the base for the next “bull-market”
rally. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  more than doubled from
its lows that month to its peak in May 2011.  The measure has risen 11 percent in 2012, after tumbling 20
percent last year. Shares on the emerging-market index trade at
10.1 times estimated earnings, less than the daily average over
of 12 in the past four years.  ‘Rallies Should Continue’  Valuations in developing nation stocks are “attractive,
almost globally,” Mobius said. He said “rallies should
continue” as markets have “already anticipated” a global
economic slowdown.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global
economic growth this year on Jan. 24 to 3.3 percent from a
September estimate of 4 percent, citing a European recession and
slowing expansion in China and  India . Growth in 2013 will be 3.9
percent, less than the previous projection of 4.5 percent, the
IMF said.  Mobius joined Templeton in 1987 to help oversee emerging-
market investments, according to a biography posted on the
company’s website.  In addition to China, Mobius said equity markets in  Taiwan 
and Russia are “attractive.” Templeton also likes  Indonesia 
and smaller countries including Vietnam, including Cambodia,
Laos,  Nigeria  and Kazakhstan, according to Mobius.  “Emerging markets, even this year, are growing at four
times that of developed countries,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Tan in Singapore at 
 jennifertan@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  