-- Loonie Poised for U.S. Parity as Aussie 35% Overvalued in China Slowdown
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-30T20:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/loonie-poised-for-u-s-parity-as-aussie-35-overvalued-in-china-slowdown.html
Canada ’s dollar is set to outperform
commodity-exporters  Australia  and New Zealand as the  U.S.
economy  accelerates while China’s output cools.  Down 0.2 percent this year after having lost 1.8 percent in
2011 against nine major peers in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, Canada’s dollar rose to parity with the U.S. dollar for
the first time last week since November. Foreigners piled into
Canadian  money-market securities  at more than double the record
pace set in 2008. Speculators have cut bets that the currency
will fall against resource-rich peers.  The outlook is improving as Canada grows in lockstep with
the U.S. and after it swung to a merchandise trade  surplus  in
November on higher exports of energy and automobiles. The
Australian dollar is the most overvalued in two decades versus
the so-called loonie, while slower Chinese growth amid higher
 inflation  may lessen the attraction of countries that depend on
selling  raw materials  to  Asia ’s biggest economy.  “The Canadian dollar is ripe for a rally,” Ray Attrill,
head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in
a Jan. 24 telephone interview. “It has heavily underperformed
its commodity-currency peers. It should be reflecting the better
economic performance in the U.S. that we’re seeing.”  Canada sells about 75 percent of its exports to its
southern neighbor, accounting for about 25 percent of its C$1.7
trillion ($1.7 trillion) gross domestic product. It is the
biggest supplier of energy to the U.S., the world’s largest
economy.  Raw Materials  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, consumes 28
percent of its merchandise exports including coal and  iron ore ,
and about 14 percent of  New Zealand ’s, including milk powder,
butter and cheese.  Raw materials  such as lumber, wheat, crude oil, gold,
nickel and zinc account for about half of Canada’s export
revenue.  Canada’s currency rose to parity with its U.S. counterpart
for the first time in almost three months on Jan. 26 and touched
the strongest level since Nov. 1 after the U.S. Federal Reserve
pledged to keep interest  rates  at almost zero through 2014,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The same day, the loonie, named for the aquatic bird on the
one-dollar coin, touched a 15-year low of C$1.0689 versus
Australia’s currency, known as the Aussie. The pair was equal on
Oct. 4.  Loosening Connection  Canada’s dollar appreciated 1.1 percent last week to
C$1.0018 per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto. It slipped 0.1 percent
today to C$1.0030. One Canadian dollar buys 99.70 U.S. cents.
The currency ended the week at 82.63 cents versus the New
Zealand currency, down 5.5 percent in two months.  The loonie fell 2.3 percent versus the greenback last year
as the Australia and New Zealand currencies were little changed.
The loosening connection for the three currencies, which
generally trade in tandem with stocks and commodity prices, has
continued in 2012 with the loonie appreciating 2 percent,
compared with 4.4 percent for the Australian dollar and 6.1
percent for that of New Zealand’s.  The currencies have each traded with an average correlation
coefficient to the MSCI World Index, a stock gauge, of at least
0.61 since January 2007, according to Bloomberg data. A
correlation of 1 would mean the measures move in lockstep.  Australia’s currency is overvalued by 28.6 percent against
its U.S. counterpart, according to purchasing power parity,
which measures the relative producer prices of goods across
countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Canada’s is
undervalued by 6.2 percent. The gap of about 35 percentage
points is the most since the comparison began in 1990.  ‘Very Rich’  “The Australian dollar’s outperformance against the likes
of the kiwi and the Canadian dollar in the last few years has
probably been justified” because of price rises for its iron
ore, coal and gold, said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto, in a telephone
interview Jan. 26. The Aussie “does look very, very rich at
this point,” he said.  Accelerating U.S. growth may lift output in Canada. Leading
economic indicators increased for a sixth month in December, by
0.8 percent,  Statistics Canada  reported on Jan. 23.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew 2.7 percent in October
from a year earlier, about the same pace as 2.8-percent U.S.
fourth quarter expansion, and about double the 1.4 percent
average rate for Group of Seven countries and the  euro zone ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eliminating the Deficit  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s Conservative Party, which
won a majority last year, has pledged to eliminate the nation’s
deficit, forecast at C$31 billion this fiscal year, by 2015.  Canadian non-financial companies are sitting on C$350
billion of cash, equivalent to about 30 percent of gross
domestic product, triple the historical average of 10 percent,
according to Royal Bank of Canada estimates.  Canada swung to a merchandise trade  surplus  of C$1.07
billion in November, Statistics Canada reported on Jan. 13.
Exports of energy and automobiles rose and imports declined.  U.S. employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice the
previous month’s pace, as the jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent
from 8.6 percent the month before. Gross domestic product
increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
according to a Commerce Department report Jan. 27. That compared
with a 1.8 percent advance in the previous three-month period.  “Growth is better in the U.S., and Canada as well as
 Mexico  will benefit from that,” said Willie Williams, a
director in institutional derivative sales at Societe Generale
SA in  New York .  Funds Flow In  Canada’s AAA rated bonds returned 9.6 percent last year,
versus 6.1 percent for global peers, while yields fell to a
record low of 1.43 percent on Dec. 19, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Canadian Treasury bills yielded 0.96
percent on Jan. 27, more than double the average of 0.37 percent
on similar debt of G-7 nations.  International  funds  bought C$28.5 billion of bills and
commercial paper in the first 11 months of 2011, more than twice
2008’s record C$11 billion, according to Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce data. Foreigners purchased C$5.7 billion of federal,
provincial and corporate short-term paper in November, the fifth
straight month of inflows, Statistics Canada said Jan. 17.  For every C$10 billion of net investment into Canada’s bond
market, the Canadian dollar appreciates 0.7 percent versus the
greenback, said Charles St-Arnaud, an economist and foreign
exchange strategist at Nomura Securities in New York, in a Jan.
25 note to clients.  Options Outlook  The options market has become less bearish on the Canadian
dollar with the premium for the right to sell it over the
ability to buy falling by about 75 percent since reaching an at-
least eight-year high last quarter. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s index
of implied volatility on  major  currencies fell this month to the
lowest since March, as options traders scale back risk of large
exchange rate swings.  Canada’s five biggest banks aren’t among the bulls. They
predict the currency may depreciate as much as 8.8 percent this
quarter. The most bearish, Toronto-Dominion, is calling for the
loonie to weaken to C$1.09 per U.S. dollar. Bank of  Nova Scotia ,
the least bearish, expects the currency to fall to C$1.02.  The odds the Bank of Canada will lower its  policy rate  by
September fell to less than 30 percent last week from more than
50 percent on Jan. 16, according to Bloomberg data on overnight
index swaps. Economists in a Bloomberg survey with 24 responses
predict the Bank of Canada will keep borrowing costs at 1
percent, where they’ve been since September 2010, until at least
the first quarter of 2013.  ‘Spigots Wide Open’  The U.S. Fed said Jan. 25 it would hold its overnight
lending rate at about zero until at least 2014, and might
further ease policy if the economy stalls.  “I’m struggling to reconcile why everyone is so happy with
the prospects in an environment where policy makers feel the
need to keep the spigots wide open,” said Osborne of Toronto-
Dominion Bank. “Is the Canadian dollar going to take off? I
doubt it. Is it going to strengthen a little bit in the near
term? Possibly.”  Exports are threatened by slowing global demand and the
“persistent strength” of its currency, Canada’s central bank
said in a statement Jan. 17. Slow U.S. growth is costing about
C$30 billion in lost Canadian exports, Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  said in an interview on CTV’s “Question Period”
Jan. 22.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he may offer additional
spending if the recovery falters. Canada’s economy will expand
by 2 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2013, Bank of Canada
policy makers said in their quarterly  policy report  on Jan. 18.  China’s Slowdown  Growth in Australia may be held down as  China ’s economy
slows to 8.2 percent this year according to estimates by the
 International Monetary Fund , from a 9 percent forecast in
September. The Australian economy will grow 3.7 percent in 2012
and 3.65 percent in 2013, after 1.95 percent last year,
according to the median of six forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The loonie will end 2012 at parity versus the greenback,
with 16 of 36 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicting
it will finish stronger than the one-for-one mark, according to
median forecasts.  “The momentum in the U.S. economy looks reasonably good
and that has not yet been reflected in the Canadian dollar,”
said Robert Sinche, global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , in an
interview on Jan. 25. “The currency is attractive because it
hasn’t run up as much as some of the other commodity
currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  