-- Papademos Wins Backing of Political Party Leaders to Pursue Troika Talks
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-01-29T16:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/papademos-gets-domestic-support-on-greek-debt-troika-talks-1-.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
said he has the backing of leaders from the three political
parties supporting his interim government as international
creditors increase the pressure on Greece to make deeper
spending cuts to secure new funding.  The party leaders are in “complete agreement” with the
government on continuing talks with private and international
creditors, the prime minister said in a statement today after
meeting in  Athens  with  George Papandreou  of the socialist Pasok
party, New Democracy party chief Antonis Samaras and George Karatzaferis, head of the Laos party. Talks “aren’t easy,” he
said before flying to Brussels to meet European leaders.  “If this process isn’t successfully concluded then we face
the specter of bankruptcy with all the dire consequences for
society that entails,” Papademos said the e-mailed statement.  European leaders meet in Brussels tomorrow to draw up rules
to strengthen governance of the euro region after  Greece (GDBR10)  sparked
a wave of financial turmoil that still threatens to splinter the
euro area. With  Greece  struggling to meet the terms of bailout
agreements struck over the past two years and facing a 14.5
billion-euro ($19 billion) bond payment March 20, policy makers
are discussing plans to directly intervene in Greek budget
decisions, two euro-region government officials said yesterday.  That prospect has been rejected by Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos, officials from all Greek parties supporting
Papademos, as well as other parties represented in parliament.  Deficit Estimate  The possibility of a European budget commissar for Greece
emerged a day after the country’s international creditors, known
collectively as the troika, said the country needed deeper
spending cuts to meet 2012 deficit-cutting conditions of a
second bailout package.  After two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the
 International Monetary Fund  estimates Greece’s 2011 deficit at
about 9 percent of GDP, down from 10.6 percent in 2010. The
economy was expected to shrink about 6 percent last year,
according to the latest IMF estimates, compared with an estimate
of 3.8 percent made in June, and another 3 percent this year.  Papademos, who came to office in November charged with
securing a 130 billion-euro financing package, has repeatedly
warned Greeks to expect lower wages and pensions as part of
reforms aimed at keeping the country in the euro and bolstering
competitiveness. National elections are to be held once funding
is secured.  Debt Swap  Part of the financing package, Greece’s second in less than
two years, entails a debt swap with private creditors that will
lop 100 billion euros off the privately-held 200 billion euros
of Greek debt. Greece and private creditors said yesterday they
expect to complete the accord this coming week after bondholders
signaled they would accept European government demands for lower
 interest rates .  The sides are “close” to completing a voluntary exchange
within a framework outlined by Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, the  Institute of International Finance ,
negotiating on behalf of private creditors, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  