-- Hester Comes Under Further Pressure to Turn Down RBS Bonus
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-01-29T17:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/rbs-ceo-hester-comes-under-further-pressure-to-turn-down-bonus.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  came under further
pressure to give up his 963,000 pound ($1.5 million) bonus after
Chairman  Philip Hampton  waived a 1.4 million-pound shares award.  If Hester decides to claim his bonus “nobody would be
happy with the government, but it’s up to him,” Pensions
Secretary Iain Duncan Smith told British Broadcasting Corp.’s
“Marr” program today.  Hester, 51, has been at the center of a political furore
over executive pay since the announcement on Jan. 27 that he is
to receive 3.6 million shares on top of his 1.2 million-pound
salary. RBS has fallen  35 percent  in the past year and the
Edinburgh-based bank said this month it plans to cut 4,800 jobs.  Hampton had been due to receive 5.17 million shares that
were awarded when he joined the state-controlled lender in 2009,
RBS said yesterday. He gave up the bonus on the grounds that it
would be inappropriate to take it, the  BBC  reported.  Britain has an 83 percent stake in RBS after bailing out
the bank with 45.5 billion pounds of capital during the 2008 and
2009 banking crisis. Hester’s award, whose value was based on
the RBS closing price on Jan. 25, will be deferred until 2014.
He took a 2 million-pound bonus for 2010, his first since
replacing  Fred Goodwin  in 2008.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  was criticized by the
opposition  Labour Party , as well as by coalition allies in the
Liberal Democrats and members of his own  Conservative Party , for
approving Hester’s bonus days after urging shareholders to hold
down executive pay. The payout comes at a time when unemployment
is at a 17-year high and the economy stands on the brink of a
second recession in less than three years.  ‘Inequality’  “The question is inequality has to be tackled if we are to
protect the economic recovery,” Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond told the “Marr” program. “When an organization is in
the public sector, there has to be accord with the discipline
ordinary workers in the public sector are being asked to accept.
The integrity of the public sector depends of pay restraint in
the public sector.”  Duncan Smith said the agreement drawn up by the previous
Labour administration when the bank was rescued in 2008 means
the government can only block the payout by deposing the board,
which would cause “chaos” in the financial system.  ‘Chaos’  “If you do that, imagine what would happen in the banking
sector,” he said. “Imagine what would happen to RBS. You’d
have chaos. We need to get this bank to a point where we can
sell it back and get the money for the taxpayer which has been
put in.” Hester’s bonus could be clawed back if RBS fails to
perform, Duncan Smith said.  An ICM Ltd. poll found just 7 percent think senior
executives should earn more than 1 million pounds a year, while
only 1 percent said they were worth the 4 million pounds that is
now the average for the heads of FTSE 100 companies.  “People think these are difficult jobs and need to be well
rewarded but they feel that the excess we’ve seen in recent
years is just not fair,” Deborah Hargreaves, director of
monitoring body the High Pay Centre, which commissioned the ICM
survey of 2,003 voters, told  Sky News  today.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said the
U.K. government gave a “very strong steer” to RBS that bonus
settlements were reduced.  “We’ve used our influence to ensure that the bonus paid
this year is less than half of that paid last year,” Alexander
told the BBC’s Sunday Politics program. “You’ll see something
similar when the RBS brings out its full bonus pool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  