-- RBS Chief Waives Bonus After Labour Seeks Parliamentary Vote
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-01-30T17:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/rbs-ceo-to-waive-1-5-million-bonus-after-payout-triggers-political-furor.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester decided to waive his
963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after the U.K.’s opposition
 Labour Party  said it would ask Parliament to vote on the award.  Hester, 51, has been at the center of a storm since the
announcement Jan. 27 that he would get a bonus for 2011.
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-controlled bank has fallen  36 percent 
in the past year to about half what the government paid for its
stake in the lender. Chairman  Philip Hampton  has waived his 1.4
million-pound stock award, and the government hopes the other
board members also decide to forgo their bonuses, said a person
familiar with ministers’ thinking.  Hester’s decision, announced late yesterday, should not be
“just a one-off episode,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  told
reporters in Glasgow,  Scotland , today. “If we don’t deal with
this systematically, if we don’t deal with the issue of bankers’
bonuses in a proper way, then this sort of thing is going to
reoccur.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose government holds 82
percent of the bank, was criticized for allowing Hester’s bonus,
on top of his 1.2 million-pound salary, a week after he’d urged
shareholders to hold down executive pay. The award comes at a
time when unemployment is at a 17-year high, wages for many are
being frozen and the economy stands on the brink of a second
recession in less than three years.  ‘Media Frenzy’  “The big question is whether Hester stays, as there is
only so much one man can take,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, a
banking analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London . “I
don’t hear many investors complaining about his pay package.
This is a media frenzy and it’s going to carry on for some
time.”  RBS  dropped  3.5 percent to 26.8 pence at the close in
London for a market value of 29.5 billion pounds. The bank has
gained 31 percent so far this year.  The government injected 45.5 billion pounds of public money
into the lender at the height of the financial crisis, making it
the costliest bailout of any bank in the world.  Hester’s award, whose value is based on RBS’s closing price
on Jan. 25, was to have been deferred until 2014. He took a 2
million-pound bonus for 2010, his first since he replaced  Fred Goodwin  in 2008 following the government rescue.  John Hourican, who leads RBS’s securities unit, will
receive as much as 5.8 million pounds as part of a 2009 long-
term incentive award that vests in April. It is not known how
much he may receive as a bonus for this year.  ‘Be Responsible’  Other RBS employees must make their own decisions on
whether to accept bonuses Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff,
said today.  “Reward for good performance in itself is not a bad
thing,” she told reporters in London. “What they need to do is
reflect the current times and be responsible. What we’re not
going to be doing is micro-managing.”  Hester and eight other senior executives including Finance
Director Bruce Van Saun received about 28 million pounds in
shares last year. The payouts are subject to clawbacks if the
bank underperforms.  Cameron was concerned that Hester might leave RBS if he was
refused a bonus, a person familiar with the government’s
thinking said on Jan. 27.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s “Today” program that Hester’s decision
was sensible and welcome.  ‘Very Important Job’  “ Stephen Hester  has to focus on the very important job he
has to do -- getting billions of pounds of taxpayers’ money that
was put into RBS back and that is the most important thing of
all,” he said today. “We want him and senior management of RBS
to get on with that.”  Hester has shrunk the lender’s assets by about 600 billion
pounds to 1.61 trillion pounds by selling and closing units. RBS
announced about 4,800 job reductions earlier this month and said
it plans to sell or close its cash equities, mergers advisory,
corporate broking and equity capital markets units. That will
take total job losses at the lender to more than 33,000 since
the financial crisis of 2008.  ‘Common Sense’  “It was right for common sense to prevail and this massive
bonus to be waived,” said  David Fleming , national officer of
the Unite trade union, which represents bank employees, in an e-
mailed statement today. “There remains a long way for RBS to go
in proving its credentials as a responsible organization, to its
customers and also to its thousands of staff.”  The bank has struggled to increase profit after the
European sovereign debt crisis crimped income from  investment
banking . Revenue at RBS’s global banking and markets unit
slipped 29 percent in the third quarter from the year-earlier
period, while profit for the overall bank tumbled 63 percent.
The lender is slated to report full-year earnings next month.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said the
U.K. government gave a “very strong steer” to RBS to reduce
bonus settlements.  “We’ve used our influence to ensure that the bonus paid
this year is less than half of that paid last year,” Alexander
told the  BBC ’s “Sunday Politics” program yesterday. “You’ll
see something similar when the RBS brings out its full bonus
pool.”  The CEO of Britain’s second-biggest government-aided bank,
Antonio Horta-Osorio of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said on Jan.
13 he won’t take a 2011 bonus following his nine-week absence
for exhaustion. The payment could have been as much as 2.39
million pounds, according to company filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  