-- Robert V. Lindsay, New York Mayor’s Brother at J.P. Morgan, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-29T22:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/robert-v-lindsay-former-president-of-j-p-morgan-dies-in-florida-at-86.html
Robert V. Lindsay, the brother of a
two-term  New York City  mayor, whose 37-year career at J.P.
Morgan & Co. culminated in seven years as House of Morgan
president, has died. He was 86.  He died Jan. 20 in the hospice wing of Good Samaritan
Hospital in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida , according to a death
notice in the New York Times. The cause was complications from
pneumonia. He had resided in Manhattan and Wellington, Florida,
and had  Parkinson’s disease  for about 15 years, according to the
death notice.  Known as Rod, Lindsay was the brother of Mayor John V. Lindsay and president from 1980 to 1987 of J.P. Morgan, now part
of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., and of its main subsidiary, Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co. He led the firm during some of its final
years as a strictly commercial bank, before  Wall Street , led by
Morgan itself, began winning exemptions to the 1933 Glass-
Steagall Act, leading to its repeal in 1999.  Ron Chernow, in his 1990 book, “The House of Morgan: An
American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance,”
described Lindsay as a “blue-blooded” throwback to Morgan’s
roots. “The Morgan feeling of collegiality is the most
important thing we’ve got,” Lindsay told Chernow.  In line with the edict of his chairman and chief executive
officer, Lewis Preston -- who, according to Chernow, would
admonish employees for putting themselves ahead of the firm --
Lindsay largely avoided publicity.  ‘Corporate Capital’  He did pose for a Times photographer in January 1968 inside
Morgan’s first new domestic branch in 21 years, a Morgan
Guaranty Trust location at 299 Park Ave. Lindsay, then a Morgan
vice president, told the newspaper that the new branch reflected
confidence in  New York ’s position as the world’s “corporate
capital.”  Upon his retirement at the end of 1986, Lindsay was
succeeded by Dennis Weatherstone, the U.K.-born executive who
went on to become Morgan’s chairman and CEO in 1990.
Weatherstone would diversify the firm into a global investment
bank by, among other steps, winning approval from the  Federal
Reserve  to underwrite stocks, something that had been prohibited
by Glass-Steagall.  Robert Van Cleef Lindsay was born on Jan. 1, 1926, the last
of five children of George Nelson Lindsay and the former
Florence Eleanor Vliet. His brother John would serve as New York
City’s mayor from 1966 through 1973, drawing national attention
for his battle to clean up the city, for his good looks, for his
shift from Republican to Democrat and for his brief run for
president in 1972.  Their father was an investment banker and chairman of
American Swiss Corp., a unit of Credit Suisse, according to the
Times’s 1995 obituary of the former mayor.  U.S. Merchant Marine  Lindsay graduated from the Episcopal Church-affiliated St.
Paul’s School in Concord,  New Hampshire , in 1943, then served in
the U.S. Merchant Marine and the U.S. Army Transportation Corps,
according to the death notice. He majored in Spanish literature
at  Yale University , graduating in 1949.  He joined J.P. Morgan after college, rising to vice
president in 1960 and senior vice president in 1969, halfway
through his brother’s eight years as New York City mayor. He
became general manager of Morgan Guaranty’s London office in
1973, returning to New York in 1976 as executive vice president.  He became chairman of the executive committee in 1978 and
president in 1980.  Among his other affiliations, he was chairman of the
 Foreign Policy Association , served 20 years as director of the
New York Philharmonic Society and was a member since 1959 of the
Westminster Kennel Club.  His wife since 1950, the former Nancy Adams Dalley, died in
2008. Their three children -- daughters Cammy and Tinker, and
son Robert -- are among his survivors, according to the death
notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  