-- Tiger Woods Fades in Final Round at Abu Dhabi as Robert Rock Takes Title
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-29T22:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/rock-wins-abu-dhabi-golf-championship-as-woods-fades-in-final-round.html
Tiger Woods finished third in his
season-opening event in  Abu Dhabi , where he failed to make a
birdie over the last eight holes after entering the final round
tied for the lead with winner Robert Rock.  Woods shot an even-par 72 yesterday at Abu Dhabi Golf Club
to finish 11-under par, two strokes behind Rock, who shot 70,
and one behindRory McIlroy, who closed with a 69. Woods shared
third place in the European Tour event with 2010 U.S. Open
champion Graeme McDowell and Thomas Bjorn.  “I was just a touch off,” said Woods, who hit one fairway
off the tee over the last nine holes and six greens in
regulation during the final round. “But Robert played great. He
made a couple of key up-and-downs and a couple of beautiful iron
shots down the stretch.”  Woods, 36, won the Chevron World Challenge, an invitational
tournament that he hosts, in December to end a 749-day winless
drought. In the two years after he won the Australian Masters in
November 2009, Woods got divorced and lost his swing coach,
corporate sponsors and No. 1 world ranking following a sex
scandal. He hasn’t won on the U.S.  PGA Tour  since September
2009.  The 34-year-old Rock’s second European Tour title is worth
347,024 euros ($460,000) and the Englishman will climb into the
top 60 of the  Official World Golf Ranking  from 117th.  “I can’t believe I’ve done this,” Rock told  Sky Sports .
“It’s such an amazing feeling.”  Rock made five birdies during the final round and had the
last of three bogeys at the 18th hole after he pushed his drive
into a hazard.  PGA Tour Debut  Woods, a 14-time major winner, is set to make his 2012 PGA
Tour debut at the Feb. 9-12 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am in
Pebble Beach, California. It will be his first appearance at the
event since 2002.  “I’m pleased with the progress I’ve made,” Woods said.
“I just need to keep building, keep getting more consistent.”  Northern Ireland ’s McIlroy was runner-up in Abu Dhabi for a
second straight year, while Germany’s  Martin Kaymer , winner in
three of the past four years in Abu Dhabi, failed to make the
halfway cut.  Luke Donald , the No. 1 golfer in the Official World
Ranking, tied for 48th place at 1-under par.  The European Tour’s three-week Middle East sojourn, dubbed
Desert Swing, continues with the Qatar Masters from Feb. 2-5 and
concludes with the Dubai Desert Classic from Feb 9-12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 