-- Romney, Gingrich Deliver Final Arguments in Florida
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-29T13:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/romney-gingrich-deliver-final-arguments-florida.html
Newt Gingrich  and  Mitt Romney  are
delivering closing arguments at rallies around Florida, with
paid TV ads and on today’s morning talk shows in what may be the
final chance to grab momentum before the state’s Jan. 31
Republican presidential primary.  The two have crossed the state trading attacks: Gingrich
criticized Romney as a moderate while announcing an endorsement
from former candidate  Herman Cain , a Tea Party favorite. Romney
teased Gingrich for being thin-skinned and aired a new TV ad
highlighting a 1997 House vote reprimanding the former House
speaker.  “We ran a moderate in 1996 and we lost. We ran a moderate
in 2008 and we lost,” Gingrich said during a campaign stop at
PGA Village in  Port St. Lucie . “The only way to defeat  Barack Obama  is to run a solid conservative who can make the case for
our values, our belief, our programs.”  With two full days of campaigning to go, hundreds of
thousands of Florida Republicans already have cast their
ballots.  More than 460,000 votes were cast through the mail and at
early voting sites in Florida through Jan. 26, the most recent
numbers available from the  Republican Party  of Florida.  That’s more than the total number of votes in Iowa and New
Hampshire primaries and nearly as many as the South Carolina
contest. It also nears the record 543,000 Republican ballots
cast in the mail or at early voting sites during Florida’s 2008
presidential primary, which included a property tax cut on the
same ballot.  Mail Ballots  Mail ballots were first delivered to Florida Republican
homes more than three weeks ago, when Romney, 64, had an
advantage in public polls. Early voting sites, which closed Jan.
27, opened Jan. 20, the day Gingrich, 68, won a 12-point victory
in  South Carolina ’s contest.  Absentee ballot returns and attendance at early voting
sites both opened at a record pace then slowed in recent days,
said state party spokesman Brian Hughes.  “It’s almost like people are deciding to wait and see,”
Hughes said.  A poll of 580 likely Republican primary voters released
Jan. 27 by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University 
showed Romney pulling away from Gingrich, 38 percent to 29
percent, with a margin of error of plus or minus 4.1 percentage
points. A Quinnipiac poll released Jan. 25 put Romney only two
points in the lead.  New Advertisement  As the two fanned out across the state, former U.S. Senator
Rick Santorum was at home in  Pennsylvania , where his daughter
Isabella’s admission to a hospital in Philadelphia forced the
cancellation of his Sunday morning events, while U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  isn’t campaigning in  Florida .
Santorum’s campaign said in  a statement  he would “resume the
campaign schedule as soon as possible.”  Romney aired a new TV ad featuring former NBC News Anchor
Tom Brokaw. The 30-second spot is Brokaw opening his Jan. 21,
1997 newscast detailing the House vote reprimanding Gingrich,
and the $300,000 in fees his colleagues imposed on him to cover
the expenses of the ethics investigation.  Gingrich was formally reprimanded for providing false
information to a congressional panel investigating whether he
used tax-exempt charitable contributions for political purposes
in violation of federal law.  The Romney campaign bought more than $1 million worth of
advertising time to run it, according to a person familiar with
the purchase who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The NBC News legal department wrote a letter to Romney’s
campaign asking for the removal of all NBC News material from
their political ads. Brokaw said in a statement yesterday that
he is “extremely uncomfortable with the extended use of my
personal image in this political ad” and that he didn’t want
his “role as a journalist compromised for political gain by any
campaign.”  Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond joked about the
controversy. “Finally! A crack in the establishment,” he wrote
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in  West Palm Beach  at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Pensacola at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  