-- Solar Outlook Boosts New York Index to Four-Month High: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/solar-outlook-boosts-new-york-index-to-four-month-high-china-overnight.html
The biggest rally in Chinese stocks
in the U.S. in three weeks pushed up premiums on  Aluminum
Corporation of China Ltd.  and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. over  Hong
Kong  shares.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. jumped 2.8 percent last week to 104.14, the
highest level since Sept. 15, while markets on the mainland were
closed for the New Year holiday. Shares traded in Hong Kong on
Jan. 26 and 27 and mainland markets open today.  Aluminum Corp. (ACH) , known as Chalco, climbed 3.1 percent in New
York last week to trade 1.6 percent higher than its shares in
Hong Kong, while Yanzhou’s premium swelled to 0.6 percent,
buoyed by bets policy makers in the U.S. and China will ease
monetary policy further to stoke global growth. Social-
networking site  Renren Inc. (RENN)  led Internet companies higher,
surging as much as 27 percent on Jan. 27 on reports Facebook
Inc. may file for an initial public offering this week.  “Investors expect that China will continue to grow at a
significant rate,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at Paragon
Capital LP in New York, which invests in U.S.-traded Chinese
shares, said by e-mail. “While Chinese stocks are vulnerable if
there is a global drop in stock prices, they are better
positioned to outperform given that many of them currently are
trading at relatively low valuations.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  trades at 8.5
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies,
compared with 10 times for  Brazil ’s Bovespa gauge and 15 for the
BSE India Sensitive Index. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trades
for 9.5 times estimated earnings.  Chalco Rises  Chalco rose 0.5 percent to $13.33 on Jan. 27, extending its
weekly gain to 3.1 percent. The Beijing-based company’s Hong
Kong shares gained 2 percent in two days of trading to HK$4.07,
or the equivalent of 52 U.S. cents. Each ADR equals 25 ordinary
shares.  Yanzhou Coal added 0.1 percent to $24.78 on Jan. 27 and
advanced 1.1 percent last week. Shares in Hong Kong increased
1.2 percent last week to HK$19.10, the equivalent of $2.46. Each
ADR is worth 10 ordinary shares.  On the mainland, where foreign investment in Chinese stocks
is restricted, shares generally trade at a premium to both the
U.S. and Hong Kong.  Facebook may be valued at as much as $100 billion in an
IPO, two people with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 27,
asking not to be identified because the plans haven’t been made
public.  ‘Huge Gap’  An offering by  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , the
world’s largest social networking site, may make investors more
willing to buy stock in Chinese companies that offer similar
products but trade at cheaper levels, Andy Yeung, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co Inc. in New York, said in an interview.  “If you look at the valuation of Facebook on a per-user
basis, there’s a huge gap between what’s being ascribed to
Chinese social networking companies and what’s being ascribed to
Facebook,” Yeung said.  Beijing-based Renren has more than 135 million users on its
social-networking platform and has a market value of $2.8
billion. The  stock  gained 26 percent to $5.25 in New York on
Friday, the biggest one-day jump since May 4.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which
operates a service similar to Twitter for more than 200 million
users, rose 12 percent to $69.96. Facebook, the largest social-
networking site, has more than 800 million users.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  The  Federal Reserve  said on Jan. 25 that it will keep U.S.
interest rates low until at least 2014 and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  didn’t rule out the possibility of more asset purchases
to support the world’s largest economy.  Reserve Ratios  Chinese economic growth slipped to the slowest pace since
the middle of 2009 in the fourth quarter, stoking speculation
that policy makers will further loosen lending and monetary
policy.  The People’s Bank of  China , which lowered banks’ reserve
requirement ratios for the first time since 2008 last month,
hasn’t altered the nation’s 6.56 percent lending rate since
July. The central bank injected $353 billion yuan ($55.7
billion) into the market two weeks ago through open-market
operations and is allowing the five biggest banks to boost
first-quarter lending, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 0.2 percent on
Jan. 27 after a report showed that the  U.S. economy  expanded
less than economists forecast in the fourth quarter. Gross
domestic product grew 2.8 percent, trailing the median analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey for 3 percent growth.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.1 percent to $39.60 on
Jan. 27, extending its gain last week to 2.4 percent.  Chinese  manufacturing  contracted in January for the second
time in three months, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the  purchasing managers ’
index’s release on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  