-- South Sudan, Sudan Risk Economic Damage, Bank Says
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-29T10:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/south-sudan-sudan-risk-economic-damage-on-oil-world-bank-says.html
(Corrects quote in third paragraph to say dispute may have
unsalutary impact on economies.)  The dispute between  Sudan  and  South
Sudan  over oil fees, which led the south to suspend crude
production, risks damaging both economies because of their
dependence on the natural resource, the World Bank said.  South Sudan began halting production earlier this month
after accusing Sudan of seizing oil that passes through its
territory via a pipeline to an export terminal on the Red Sea
and of seizing vessels carrying crude. Sudan says it is
diverting the fuel to cover unpaid fees for allowing it to
transit the country. South Sudanese President Salva Kiir said on
Jan. 23 that Sudan has “looted” oil valued at $815 million.  “Considering the importance of oil to both sides, the lack
of economic activities in the sector that’s predominant would
have a huge, unsalutary impact on the economies,”  Obiageli Ezekwesili , vice president for Africa at the World Bank, said in
an interview yesterday in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it gained independence from
its northern neighbor in July. The crude is pumped mainly by
 China National Petroleum Corp. (136) ,  Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. (PET)  and  India ’s  ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC)  Sudan is demanding
compensation for the loss and also wants South Sudan to pay $6 a
barrel to transit the oil via the country. The neighboring
country has offered to pay $1 a barrel.  The dispute presents an opportunity to “look at options
other than oil for growing their economies,” Ezekwesili said.
South Sudan relies on oil to generate more than 90 percent of
government revenue, and Sudan depends on it for 30 percent.  Agriculture  “Whether it’s South Sudan or Sudan, agriculture is a key
potential source of transformational growth,” Ezekwesili said.
“They need to focus on those, they need to focus on other
aspects or opportunities in attracting foreign direct investment
into manufacturing and that would mean they have to focus on
macro-economic reforms.”  South Sudan is set to become a member of the  World Bank 
next month, giving the country access to zero-interest loans of
$75 million a year over the next three years, Ezekwesili said.
Similar loans to countries like Sierra Leone and Liberia in the
past have enabled the bank to “mobilize three times that amount
from other partners,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Richardson in Addis Ababa at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 