-- South Korea Current-Account Surplus Narrows to 3-Month Low as Exports Slow
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-01-29T23:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-narrows-to-3-96-billion.html
South Korea’s current-account
surplus narrowed to a three-month low in December as the  trade
surplus  shrank on slowing exports and a jump in energy imports.  The  surplus  was $3.96 billion, compared with a revised
$4.56 billion in November, the  Bank of Korea  said in today’s
statement in Seoul. The current account is the broadest measure
of trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  Weak external demand is set to “weigh on Korean exports,”
Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. said
before today’s data. At the same time, “Korean manufacturers
are well positioned to remain price competitive on the global
stage given input price growth has continued to ease alongside a
weak won,” he said.  South Korea’s economy grew the least in two years in the
fourth quarter as exports sank because of  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis and a faltering global expansion, a government
report showed last week. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
said Jan. 17 that  interest rates  are below “the desirable
level,” indicating that policy makers may be cautious in making
reductions to support growth.  The surplus on traded goods was $3.85 billion last month
from a revised $4 billion in November, today’s report showed.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 10.8 percent
from a year earlier to $48.9 billion in December after an 11.6
percent gain in November, dented by a decline in overseas
shipments of mobile phones and display panels, according to
today’s statement. Imports increased to $45.5 billion from $43
billion on seasonal demand for oil and gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  