-- Standard Chartered Sees Hyperinflation Risk for Hong Kong
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-30T07:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/standard-chartered-s-bindra-sees-hong-kong-hyperinflation-risk.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s pledge to
keep  interest rates  low through at least late 2014 creates a
risk of hyperinflation in Hong Kong, said Jaspal Bindra,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s chief executive officer for Asia.  A currency peg to the dollar means the city won’t be able
to raise benchmark borrowing costs as China’s expansion fuels
growth and price gains, Bindra told journalists on Jan. 27 at
the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.  “It will have a very profound impact in Hong Kong,” he
said. “If you have near-zero interest rates when their
inflation is at over 6 or 7 percent given the China effect, and
their growth is, also thanks to China, at 6 or 7 percent, you’re
looking for hyperinflation.”  Bindra’s view contrasts with those of analysts from Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. and   Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd ., who said last week that Asian officials would be
less concerned about U.S. monetary stimulus than in 2010, when
it was blamed for spurring capital flows to the region. Asian
officials are shifting focus from inflation and asset bubbles to
growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens exports and dims the
outlook for the world economy.  ‘Very Different’  K.C. Chan,  Hong Kong ’s financial services secretary, said
on Jan. 28 that while past U.S. easing caused bubbles, “this
year’s economic situation is very different -- many countries
and economies are facing economic difficulties.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted last
week to keep interest rates low until at least late 2014,
compared with mid-2013 previously. Fed officials lowered their
forecasts for economic growth and price increases this year and
in 2013, and set a long-term goal of 2 percent inflation.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke laid the groundwork for a
third round of quantitative easing through asset purchases, a
so-called QE3, saying that the Fed is prepared for further
“accommodation.” Officials in  China  and  South Korea  were among
those who criticized QE2, when they were raising interest rates
in part to stem property and stock price surges.  Hong Kong consumer prices rose 5.7 percent in December from
a year earlier on food and rental costs. Excluding distortions
from temporary government subsidies, the rate was 6.4 percent,
unchanged from the previous month, a record high for data that
began in 2007. The economy grew 4.3 percent in the third quarter
from the same period in 2010.  House Prices  Fourth-quarter data is due this week when the government
announces the next budget.  Housing prices have been slipping in the city from June’s
14-year high. DBS Bank Hong Kong Ltd., a unit of Southeast
 Asia ’s largest lender, says that unemployment may be set to
climb, based on past links between changes in home values and
the jobless rate.  Bindra, who is based in Hong Kong, said that the Fed’s
policy could make dollars scarcer in markets like  Indonesia  and
South Korea, where local-currency interest rates are higher.  “There will be a higher premium on dollar borrowing from
the clients’ point of view, which will just make the liquidity
even scarcer than it is today in those markets,” he said.  Standard Chartered is based in  London  and earns most of its
profit in  emerging markets . The bank trimmed its full-year
revenue-growth forecast last month because of Asian currencies’
depreciation against the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in Davos,  Switzerland , on 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net  