-- VietJet Budget Flights Lure Travelers From 40-Hour Bus Rides
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-30T04:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-29/vietjet-lures-travelers-from-40-hour-bus-rides-with-budget-hanoi-flights.html
VietJet Aviation Joint-Stock Co. ,
the budget carrier that began flights in  Vietnam  last month, may
double its fleet to six planes by the end of the year as it
lures passengers from bus trips taking as long as 40 hours.  The carrier’s 122-seat Airbus SAS A320s are 90 percent full
on its first route, Ho Chi Minh City-Hanoi, said Chief Operating
Officer Pritam Singh. The average fare including taxes is 1.03
million dong ($49) one way, according to the airline. That’s
about 25 percent less than the cheapest ticket offered on
Vietnam Airlines’ website.  VietJet also intends to challenge the state-owned carrier
on international services as soon as the third quarter as an
 economic growth rate  that the government expects to reach 6
percent this year spurs  travel demand . The number of Vietnamese
living in poverty declined to about 11 percent in 2010 from 58
percent in 1993, based on U.S. government figures.  “The market for a budget carrier has to be developed, but
it’s there -- if they have enough capital and run a good
marketing campaign,” said Paul Stoll, who helped set up the
Vietnam Tourism Association and is the chief executive officer
of Celadon International Hotel Management Joint-Stock Co. Still,
“it will be tough.”  Two-Hour Flight  On the Ho Chi Minh City-Hanoi route, a VietJet flight takes
about two hours compared with 30 to 42 hours by rail and 34 to
40 hours by bus. A one-way rail trip in mid-February costs
486,000 dong for a hard seat, according to the website of the
Hanoi train station. The cheapest ticket on a bus operated by
 Vinamotor Investment Joint-Stock Co.  is about 400,000 dong.  “Many people think an airplane has to be expensive, and
that a bus will be much cheaper,” said Singh on Jan. 27 by
phone. “We are trying to reach out to this segment, to
introduce the idea of using an airline instead.”  VietJet also intends to start services by April to Danang,
the biggest city in central Vietnam. A Danang- Ho Chi Minh City 
bus trip takes about 18 hours, according to bus operator Phuong
Trang Investment Joint-Stock Co.  The carrier, a unit of Hanoi-based Sovico Holdings, flies
from Hanoi to Ho Chi Minh City three times a day. Other
operators on the route include Jetstar Pacific Airlines Joint-
Stock Aviation Co., a Vietnam Airlines- Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) 
venture, and closely held Mekong Aviation Joint-Stock Co. As the
carrier expands overseas, possible destinations may include
 Singapore ,  Kuala Lumpur  or Bangkok, Singh said.  The airline, which has leased planes from Kuwait-based
 Aviation Lease & Finance Co. , expects to be profitable by 2014
and it may list on Ho Chi Minh City’s  stock exchange  within the
next few years, Singh said. Losses before the carrier breaks
even are expected to exceed $10 million, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  