-- 1Time May Add Africa Route as Airline Fights to Survive
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-05-24T15:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/1time-in-talks-for-africa-route-as-airline-fights-for-survival.html
1time Holdings Ltd. (1TM) , a South African
low-fare airline, is close to concluding talks to acquire a
regional route while refinancing its fleet to buy new aircraft
in an effort to return to profit.  The regional network deal “will be very transformative and
will change the face of 1time,” Chief Executive Officer Blacky Komani, 48, said. He declined to name the company, which he said
is not flying along the route for which it holds licenses,
because talks are still in progress.  1time, which also provides technical maintenance services,
may enter into a joint venture with the unidentified license-
holder or buy shares in the company, he said. Expansion outside
of South Africa is part of Komani’s strategy to return 1time to
profit by 2014. 1time’s loss widened to 157 million rand ($19
million) in the year through December from 11.1 million rand a
year earlier, the company said on April 26. Its shares plunged
to a record today.  “Margins are far higher outside of  South Africa  as the
market is not as congested,” he said in an interview at the
company’s Johannesburg headquarters on May 18. Komani became CEO
in October after his company,  Mtha Aviation (Pty) Ltd. , bought
25 percent of 1time.  1time’s liabilities exceeded assets by 295 million rand in
fiscal 2011, casting “significant doubt” on the airline’s
ability to continue operating, the company’s auditors, Nexia
SAB&T, said in 1time’s earnings statement.  Removing Currency Risk  1time is in negotiations with a local funder to refinance
dollar-denominated debt and remove  currency risk , Komani said,
declining to name the lender. “That will save us 60 million
rand a year on both interest and currency fluctuations.”  The debt is the repayment on the company’s lease agreement
on its fleet of 10 McDonnell Douglas Corp., including MD-80
aircraft, which are older and less fuel-efficient than Airbus
SAS A380 and  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 aircraft that are favored by
competitors  Comair Ltd. (COM)  and South African Airways SOC Ltd., the
state-owned airline.  The rand price of jet fuel jumped by 30 percent in the 12
months through December, increasing 1time’s fuel costs by 130.6
million rand. “By refinancing the aircraft we’re creating a
resilient company with a strong balance sheet that can withstand
the tough economic conditions with a high fuel prices,” he
said.  The Airports Co. South Africa SOC Ltd., or Acsa, increased
taxes at its airports by 70 percent on Oct. 1 as the government,
which owns the operator, needed funds to pay for airport
infrastructure built before the 2010  World Cup . Taxes will more
than double over the next five years.  ‘Contraction Mode’  “Increasing fuel prices, weakening demand and increasing
competition means the industry is in contraction mode,” Keith McLachlan, a senior equities analyst at Johannesburg-based Thebe
Stockbroking Pty Ltd., said by mobile phone yesterday. 1time is
one of the marginal operators that will struggle through what is
a “perfect storm” for the industry, he said.  As part of the debt-refinancing negotiations, 1time will
acquire newer aircraft, said Komani. The company is in talks
with Airbus and Boeing, he said.  To lower costs, 1time has cut executive positions. Komani
acts as chief executive officer of the group and of the airline
company, positions previously held by two of the founding
directors and major shareholders, the company said on March 13.  Finance Director Lorna Terblanche runs finances for the
entire group, where in the past each of the company’s three
units had its own finance director, while two human resources
managers have been cut to one human resources director.  “The result of all this is that the decision-making
process is much faster and simpler,” Komani said.  Running on Time  The airline’s on-time performance improved to 91 percent by
the end of April, according to data on the website of
Johannesburg-based  Acsa . 1time’s on-time performance was 35
percent in April last year, Komani said.  “In the first quarter through March, 1time has paid out
657,000 rand as compensation to inconvenienced customers as a
result of delays,” said Komani. In the quarter through March
2011, the compensation bill was 3.3 million rand. “The saving
is far bigger than the 2.6 million rand. You now have fewer
people who think you suck and never come back to fly with you.”  1time, after losing more than 70,000 rand a month on wasted
food, has replaced sandwiches, muffins and most fruits with
snack bars, which keep longer.  “That’s another 1 million rand a year in savings,” he
said. “That’s as far as we can go on the cost-containment
side.”  Share Drops  1time dropped 87 percent to 2 cents at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg, the lowest since the stock started trading almost
five years ago and valuing the company at 5.6 million rand. The
stock declined 6.3 percent yesterday, extending its drop over
the past 12 months to 96 percent. That compares with a 38
percent slump in Comair, partly owned by British Airways Plc,
over the same period. Mtha Aviation paid 70 cents a share when
it acquired its 25 percent stake in March last year.  Komani, a father of three, pledged his family home while
his partners in Mtha also put at risk personal assets as
collateral for the 65 million rand stake purchase in 1time,
which was funded through a loan by the Industrial Development
Corp., a state-owned South African lender.  “We put everything we have into this company,” he said.
“It must work. If it goes down, my home goes down with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  