-- Sanlam, Atterbury Acquire 85% Stake in Accra Mall From Actis
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-05-23T16:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/actis-sells-85-stake-in-accra-mall-to-sanlam-and-atterbury-1-.html
Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)  and Atterbury Investment
Holdings Ltd. purchased an 85 percent stake in Ghana’s Accra
Mall from emerging-markets investment company Actis LLP as
investors seek real-estate assets in sub-Saharan Africa.  The mall houses South African retailers  Shoprite Holdings
Ltd. (SHP)  and  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) ’s Game as well as Ghanaian
brands such as Kiki Clothing and Nallem, Actis said in an e-
mailed statement today. Actis managed the development of the
mall, which opened in July 2008 and attracts about 135,000
shoppers a week, according to the statement.  Sanlam,  South Africa ’s biggest life insurance company, is
building a sub-Saharan African real estate fund, for which the
Accra Mall was the first purchase, Thomas Reilly, managing
director of Sanlam Properties, said by phone from Johannesburg.
The fund will buy properties in 14 countries in the region, he
said.  “ Ghana  is one of the mandated countries and it was really
just a matter of timing,” Reilly said. “Ghana is an important
investment destination in terms of commercial properties.”  The remaining 15 percent of the Accra Mall is owned by a
minority shareholder in the West African nation, Reilly said,
without giving details. The mall is valued at $65 million, he
said.  The sale shows “increasing interest in Ghana by foreign
investors and also reflects the acute demand for high-quality
real-estate assets in sub-Saharan Africa,” according to the
statement from Actis.  The development of the shopping center “came at a time
when Ghanaians still sourced even basic goods from London and
Johannesburg,” David Morley, head of real estate at Actis, said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  