-- Iran Navy Helps U.S. Ship Attacked by Pirates in Middle East
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-05-23T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/maersk-line-thwarts-attack-by-pirates-north-east-of-fujairah.html
Iran ’s navy helped a U.S.-flagged
cargo ship that was attacked by pirates off the  United Arab
Emirates , according to the vessel’s owner,  Maersk Line  Ltd.  The Iranian navy was the first to respond to the initial
distress call from the Maersk  Texas , Kevin Speers, senior
director of marketing at Maersk Line, said by phone today. The
vessel was attacked by several skiffs and armed guards on board
returned fire, the company said in an earlier statement.  The incident happened at about noon northeast of Fujairah,
the biggest port in the  Middle East  for refueling  oil tankers ,
Maersk said. Iran’s navy provided guidance to the crew of the
Maersk Texas by radio, Speers said, declining to comment further
pending a debriefing.  U.S., U.K., Chinese, French, German and Russian negotiators
-- the so-called P5+1 group -- are meeting with Iranian
officials in  Baghdad  today over the Persian Gulf country’s
nuclear program. The West suspects Iran’s goal is to develop a
weapon, while Iran contends it is for civilian purposes.  The European Union’s counter-piracy force said it had
reviewed the incident and determined there was “no case of
piracy and it’s a false alarm,” Timo Lange, a spokesman for
Northwood, England-based EU Navfor, said by phone today. EU
Navfor operates nine warships and five maritime patrol aircraft
as part of an operation combating piracy in the region,
according to data on its website.  HMAS Melbourne  Maersk got its information from the captain of the Maersk
Texas and will investigate EU Navfor’s assertion, Speers said.  The Australian frigate  HMAS Melbourne  was dispatched to
help the Maersk Texas, Lieutenant Commander Mark Hankey at
Combined Maritime Forces in Bahrain said by phone. The command
is headed by Vice Admiral Mark Fox, leader of the U.S. Navy’s
Fifth Fleet.  The warship launched a helicopter that proceeded to the
merchant vessel, which had exchanged gunfire with a skiff
located within a group of about 20 boats, according to Hankey.
The  task force  has yet to assess whether pirates were in any of
the skiffs, he said. The Gulf of Oman, which Fujairah faces, is
noted for fishing and smuggling activity, Hankey said.  Speers said the crew of Maersk Texas was unharmed and there
were no signs of injuries to the pirates. The attackers fled the
scene shortly after they were thwarted, according to Speers, who
said the vessel had just passed through the Strait of Hormuz and
was heading for the U.S.  Iran is one of 25 countries deploying warships to protect
against piracy off the coast of Somalia and in the  Gulf of Aden ,
according to Aliakbar Marzban, a London-based Iranian diplomat.
Two hijacked vessels were seized and 21 pirates arrested in
rescue operations staged by Iran’s navy in March and April, he
said in an e-mailed statement May 22.  Fujairah is close to the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit point
for about a fifth of the world’s globally traded oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  