-- African Union Begins Anti-Rebel Offensive North of Mogadishu
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-05-23T15:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/african-union-begins-anti-rebel-offensive-north-of-mogadishu-1-.html
Somali and  African Union  troops
advanced to the north of the capital, Mogadishu, to seize
further ground from al-Qaeda-linked rebels in fighting that
killed a senior commander of al-Shabaab, the peacekeeping
mission said.  The offensive, known as Operation Free Shabelle, is taking
place in the Afgoye corridor, an area housing the world’s
largest population of internally displaced people, the African
Union Mission for Somalia said in an e-mailed statement today.  Amisom, as the mission is known, have captured Al Fitr
town, five kilometers (three miles) north of Mogadishu, it said.
The dead rebel leader hasn’t been identified, it said.  Al-Shabaab militants have for the past five years waged an
insurgency against the United Nations-backed transitional
administration of Somalia’s President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed.  While the group withdrew most of its fighters from bases in
Mogadishu in August following advances by African Union and
government forces, the Islamic militant group still controls
parts of central and southern Somalia. Somalia descended into
chaos after the removal of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991,
leaving the country lawless and without a functioning economy.  The African Union is advising all residents in and around
northwest Mogadishu to stay put, the statement said.  The UN is concerned the fighting will uproot more people
from their homes, said  Mark Bowden , humanitarian coordinator for
Somalia, in an e-mail today.  “I remain concerned that an escalation of hostilities or a
prolonged operation could lead to displacement,” Bowden said.
The conflict could increase the strain on “settlements and host
communities in Mogadishu or drive people away from the life-
saving help they require,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 