-- AirAsia Reports First Profit Gain in Five Quarters
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-05-23T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/airasia-reports-first-profit-gain-in-five-quarters.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount carrier, reported its first increase in profit in five
quarters as it carried more passengers and posted a larger
foreign currency gain.  Net income  increased to 172.4 million ringgit ($55 million)
in the three months ended March 31 from 171.9 million ringgit a
year earlier, the Sepang, Malaysia-based carrier said in a
statement yesterday. Revenue rose 11 percent to 1.17 billion
ringgit.  AirAsia boosted passenger numbers 12 percent in the period
as slowing economic growth in the region prompted more people to
opt for budget travel. The carrier said demand in the second
quarter “remains positive” based on the current booking trends
and it is adding more aircraft.  “We have defied industry trends again,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Fernandes  said in the statement. The AirAsia group
“aims to continue to enhance connectivity,” he said.  Malaysian Airline Systems Bhd. (MAS) , the nation’s biggest long-
haul carrier, and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  posted losses in the
same quarter as they contend with higher fuel costs and waning
demand for full-service travel. The global airline industry’s
profit will drop 62 percent this year, the  International Air
Transport Association  forecast in March.  AirAsia was unchanged at 3.39 ringgit at close of Kuala
Lumpur trading yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The
stock has declined 10 percent this year, while the FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index gained 0.6 percent.  Forex Gain  The carrier’s foreign exchange gain on borrowings doubled
in the quarter to 83.6 million ringgit. The Malaysian currency
gained 3.6 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the period.  The airline’s main Malaysian unit operated 57 aircraft and
filled 80 percent of the seats, according to the statement. Its
Thai and Indonesian units also carried more people. Thai
AirAsia’s parent is slated to list shares by the end of this
month, it said.  Parent companies of Malaysian Air and AirAsia said earlier
this month they would unwind a share swap agreement following
complaints by the national carrier’s biggest union. Khazanah
Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state-investment fund, will change
back its 10 percent stake in AirAsia for the 20.5 percent of
Malaysian Air owned by the budget carrier’s biggest shareholder,
it said in a statement May 2.  AirAsia still intends to cooperate with Malaysian Air in
areas including maintenance and procurement as they try to pare
costs, according to separate statements on May 3.  Malaysian Air reported May 22 first-quarter  loss  narrowed
to 171.8 million ringgit, compared with 242 million ringgit a
year earlier. The carrier cut unprofitable routes and also used
new fuel-efficient aircraft to curb expenses.  Jet fuel  averaged 9 percent higher in Singapore trading in
the three months ended in March than a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are monitoring fuel prices very closely,” Fernandes
said. “The moment we perceive an opportunity, we will not
hesitate to add to our hedges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  