-- Heywood Murder Thrusts Employer Hakluyt Into Limelight
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hakluyt-firm-that-hired-heywood-in-china-works-in-stealth.html
Hakluyt & Co., the corporate
investigations firm that hired British businessman Neil Heywood
as a consultant in  China , has been thrust by his death into a
place it promises clients it will never be: the limelight.  “We guarantee complete confidentiality,” Hakluyt director
Christopher James told Enron Corp.’s then Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  in 2001, according to an e-mail
exchange that was released during a U.S. investigation into the
bankrupt energy company. Hakluyt, James wrote, “places an
unparalleled private intelligence network at the personal
disposal of senior commercial figures.”  The mysterious death of the 41-year-old Heywood in November
caused a political crisis in China and led to an investigation
of the wife of a communist party chief, Bo Xilai, who was
suspended from the ruling Politburo last month. The continuing
probe into whether Heywood was killed by  Bo Xilai ’s wife, Gu
Kailai, keeps the focus on Hakluyt, whose board includes ex-
chairmen of BHP Billiton PLC and BBC Worldwide and consultants
who are former diplomats and members of Parliament.  Hakluyt -- named after a 16th century English author who
wrote about journeys to far-off lands -- said in an e-mailed
statement that Heywood wasn’t a full-time employee. The firm,
rarely written about in news accounts, declined to comment on
his role or its work in China other than to say it’s a
“strategic information consultancy” with company clients.  Aston Martins, Taxis  Heywood developed close ties to one of China’s most
powerful political families. He got to know Bo, the former
Chongqing Communist Party chief, doing favors such as getting
Bo’s son into the elite British boarding school Harrow.  His consulting company, Neil Heywood & Associates Ltd.,
also advised Aston Martin and Manganese Bronze Holdings Plc, a
maker of  London  taxis.  Heywood, found dead in Chongqing on Nov. 15, appears to
have been part of a global network of consultants who use local
connections to provide intelligence for Hakluyt clients, said
Dr.  Stephan Blancke , a researcher and analyst who studied
Hakluyt and firms like it at the Free University in Berlin.  Melissa Sweet, an Australian health journalist, had a
chance to join Hakluyt’s circle. She received an e-mail from the
firm in 2008 offering her work as a consultant.  “We have a proprietary network of well-placed individuals
around the world who are able to provide us, very discreetly,
with intelligence on specific commercial or political issues,”
Hakluyt said in the e-mail to Sweet. Those individuals are asked
not to reveal the firm’s or its clients’ identities, she was
told.  Sweet said in a phone interview the e-mail was the only
contact she had with Hakluyt.  16th Century Author  Hakluyt also has top-level links to government and
business. The London-based company’s U.K. and international
advisory boards include Niall Fitzgerald, former deputy chairman
of Thomson Reuters UK Ltd. and an adviser to Morgan Stanley; Sir
Kieran Prendergast, former  United Nations  under secretary-
general for political affairs;  John Rose , the former CEO of
Rolls Royce; Robert Webb, ex-chairman of BBC Worldwide; Edward Isdell, former chairman of Coca-Cola; and former BHP chairman
Donald Argus.  Two members of the U.K. parliament, which is weighing new
regulations for private investigators, have worked as Hakluyt
advisers or consultants.  Andrew Mitchell , the U.K. Secretary of
State for International Development, is listed as a former
adviser to Hakluyt on a parliamentary website.  Mitchell’s Westminster office said this was between 1998
and 2001 when he wasn’t a serving MP. “His official links to
Hakluyt are in the public domain,” according to a spokesman,
who declined to be identified, citing office policy.  Former Spies, Reporters  James Gray, a conservative lawmaker from North Wiltshire,
is also listed as a former Hakluyt consultant. His office didn’t
respond to repeated requests for comment.  Consultants can also be embassy staff, former spies or
reporters, said Blancke, who wrote his doctoral thesis on
corporate investigations firms.  “Hakluyt and all the other similar companies try to
recruit people with a special know-how in getting access to
sensitive information,” he said.  The British corporate investigation industry makes more
than 100 million pounds ($157 million) a year, according to an
 estimate  submitted to parliament by London-based Bishop
International in January.  Hakluyt, which has 41 employees, made 5.6 million pounds in
the fiscal year ending in June 2011 on revenue of 28.7 million
pounds, according to company filings for its holding company
Holdingham Group Ltd.  Enron E-Mails  The e-mails to Sweet and Enron give a rare insight into the
firm’s marketing and recruitment. Hakluyt’s  website  contains no
information besides its logo -- a red armored gate -- and
contact details for offices in London,  New York  and  Singapore .  James’s sales pitch to Skilling, who is now in jail for
misleading investors about Enron’s financial condition, seemed
to work. Hakluyt was paid about $450,000 by Enron, according to
a 2003 bankruptcy filing that didn’t say what the money was for.
The Skilling e-mails were published by the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission .  Hakluyt is rarely written about -- it was mentioned in
eight newspaper stories in the 10 years prior to Heywood’s
death. When it does make the news, it is usually for matters the
firm would rather keep private.  Sunday Times Article  The firm was accused in a 2001 Sunday Times article of
helping BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc spy on Greenpeace using
a German agent called Manfred Schlickenrieder, who posed as a
left-wing film-maker.  Free University’s Blancke, who studied the incident, has
computer files taken from Schlickenrieder’s room by
environmental activists who became suspicious of his behavior.
Those files include e-mails from Hakluyt.  A 1997 message in German from Hakluyt Director Mike
Reynolds discussed the location of Greenpeace ships and asked
Schlickenrieder to use his informants to find out how the
organization would respond to being sued, Blancke said.  “Hakluyt has from time to time provided general background
information to Shell on global social and economic developments,
but the company has never played any kind of role in specific
business developments,” the company said in a statement. BP
spokesman David Nicholas declined to comment.  Hakluyt declined to comment on the offer to Sweet, Enron e-
mails or Greenpeace spying claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  