-- Half of Brazil 2014 World Cup Projects Still on Drawing Board
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-05-23T19:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/half-of-brazil-2014-world-cup-projects-still-on-drawing-board.html
Just two years before the start of
the 2014  World Cup ,  Brazil  has broken ground on barely half of
the planned infrastructure projects that it’s touting as the
soccer tournament’s biggest legacy.  Construction is under way or has been completed on only 60
of the 101 stadium, public transport and airport projects whose
delivery has been promised by 2014, according to a  report 
published by the Sports Ministry today. The remaining 41,
representing 37 percent of the 27 billion reais ($13 billion) in
planned investments, are still in the planning stages, awaiting
construction permits or have yet to be awarded.  Rising construction costs, labor disputes and a
disagreement with soccer’s governing body FIFA over legislation
have slowed Brazil’s preparations for the World Cup. In
February, Brazil’s government briefly demanded that FIFA’s
General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  be removed from his role as an
emissary to the competition’s organizers after he said the
country needed a “kick up the ass” to get ready in time.  Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo pushed back against criticism
that Brazil, which was awarded the rights to the most-watched
sports event in 2007, is behind schedule. The majority of the
projects still on the drawing board are public transport
projects, according to the report.  Rebelo said that he has “absolutely no doubt” that the 12
stadiums being built for the tournament and the smaller
Confederations Cup next year will be completed in time.  “We respect every opinion, but this is not how we see
it,” Rebelo, who traveled to Zurich this month to settle
differences with Valcke and FIFA President  Sepp Blatter , told
reporters in Brasilia. “Any project that has been delayed can
pick up the pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  