-- Alibaba Said to Seek Up to $2 Billion From CDB for Yahoo Buy
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-05-23T02:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/alibaba-said-to-seek-4-billion-from-chinese-bank-syndicate.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. may borrow
as much as $2 billion from  China  Development Bank Corp. and
another $2 billion from a syndicate of international lenders,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Alibaba Group plans to seek $2 billion from CDB in three- 
and four-year loans, divided equally, the people said, asking 
not to be identified because the details are private. It may 
also borrow $1 billion each in three- and four-year facilities 
from a syndicate of international banks, the people said.  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba,
declined to comment on the financing. Feng Qihua, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman for CDB, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  China’s largest e-commerce provider is seeking the $4
billion of debt to fund an about $7.1 billion buyback of a
portion of the stake that  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  owns in it, another person
familiar with the matter said on May 21. Yahoo acquired 40
percent of Alibaba in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and
ownership of the U.S. Web portal’s Chinese operations.  Alibaba agreed to repurchase about half of the U.S.
company’s stake, Yahoo said in a statement on May 21. As well as
at least $6.3 billion in cash, Yahoo will receive as much as
$800 million in newly-issued Alibaba preferred stock, according
to the statement.  The final commitment sizes, bank group and structure of the
$4 billion borrowing has not yet been determined, the people
said today. The loan debt, which was originally meant to be $3
billion in size and provided by international lenders, is now
being restructured as a $4 billion facility, they said.  Alibaba.com  The money will also help fund the privatization of Hong
Kong-listed  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the person who spoke on May 21
said. Alibaba Group offered HK$13.50 ($1.74) a share for the 27
percent it doesn’t already own in Alibaba.com, according to a
Feb. 21 statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange .  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Credit Suisse
Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. underwrote the original $3 billion
financing that’s now being restructured. The $3 billion facility
was syndicated to an additional about 14 banks, another person
said on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  