-- Halliburton Demand Spurs Vikas to Expand: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-05-24T04:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/halliburton-demand-spurs-vikas-to-expand-corporate-india.html
Vikas WSP Ltd. (VWSP)  plans to more than
double capacity to produce guar gum in India after surging
demand for the product from Halliburton Co. to extract gas
trapped in shale drove prices to a record.  The company will invest more than 2 billion rupees ($36
million) to set up two plants to make guar gum products in
Rajasthan state that will increase capacity to 145,000 metric
tons by April, Managing Director B.D. Agarwal said in a phone
interview yesterday. Vikas, which has more than tripled in
Mumbai this year, will use its own cash to fund the expansion.  Prices of guar gum, a thickening agent used in ice creams,
drugs and in extracting crude oil, rallied more than nine-fold,
forcing the Indian commodity market regulator to suspend futures
trading in March. Record prices are boosting costs for
 Halliburton (HAL) , the world’s largest provider of hydraulic-
fracturing services, Chief Executive Officer Dave Lesar said in
a conference call on April 18.  “We have not seen much decline in prices of guar gum even
after futures trading was banned because of the demand” from
the fracking industry, Krishna Reddy, an analyst at industry
consultant Beroe Consulting (I) Pvt., said in a phone interview.  Vikas, the second-best performer in the 535-member BSE
Small-Cap Index this year, climbed 1.2 percent to 58.35 rupees
at 9:44 a.m. in Mumbai today. The company is India’s only
publicly traded guar gum producer.  Halliburton and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  help companies drill and
complete oil and gas wells using a pressure-pumping technique
known as fracking, which blasts water mixed with sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale
formations. Guar is made into a thickening gel used to carry
sand down a well and into the cracks created from fracturing.  Drilling Costs  The cost to drill and complete a well climbed 6 percent in
2010, a further 25 percent last year and is projected to grow 20
percent this year, according to a January presentation from
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based industry consultant Spears & Associates.  “There is no alternative available at this point of time
and we don’t see there will be any substitute in time to come,”
Vikas’ Agarwal said. The company, based in Sri Ganganagar in
Rajasthan state, adjacent to the Pakistan border, aims to sell
60 percent of its production to drillers next year from 50
percent, he said.  India  accounts for more than 70 percent of the global
production of guar, which means “cow food” in Hindi, according
to the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. The seed is also
grown in Pakistan and the U.S.  Normal Monsoon  Record prices may prompt farmers in India to boost the area
under guar by as much as 50 percent next year, Beroe’s Reddy
said. The crop was planted over 3.5 million hectares (8.6
million acres) this year, according to Jai Bharat Gum &
Chemicals Ltd., India’s second-biggest exporter.  Guar gum prices rallied to a record 95,920 rupees ($1,711)
per 100 kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai on March 21, extending gains into a
fourth year.  Prices may drop as much as 50 percent as normal monsoon
rain boosts planting, Mitul Shah, managing director of Rama
Industries, the third-largest shipper, said last month.  Vikas expects  net income  in the year that began on April 1
to climb to 5 billion rupees, Agarwal said. It posted profit of
1.22 billion rupees in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according
to the company’s website.  India exported 403,675 tons of guar gum worth $617 million
in the year ended March 31, 2011, according to the Agricultural
& Processed Food Product Export Development Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  