-- An Exit From Europe Would Be Our Own Greek Tragedy
-- B y   P a n a g i s   V o u r l o u m i s
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/an-exit-from-europe-would-be-our-own-greek-tragedy.html
Greece  is going through one of its
periodic self-mutilations. After trying for decades to become a
full member of the European Union, and succeeding, it’s doing
its best to get thrown out.  With new elections due in June, the country’s two-party
system has been shattered. A mosaic of smaller parties that are
either openly anti-European or pledging themselves to policies
that would drive Greece from the euro did well on May 6.  The last time there was such a major swing in the Greek
vote was in 1981. Pasok, the socialist party led by  Andreas Papandreou , swept to power on a slogan of “change” and exit from
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Economic
Community, as the EU was called back then. Nothing of the sort
happened. Instead, Pasok went on to create a huge state sector
and then to pack it with its own political supporters.  Orgy of Entitlements  Thereafter, Pasok and the center-right  New Democracy  -- the
labels are deceptive, both parties are basically similar --
 alternated  in power. Their combined share of the electorate
never fell below 75 percent, and often exceeded 85 percent. For
30 years, these two parties competed in an orgy of jobs and
entitlements for votes. In the span of a generation, the
composition and ethos of Greek society were transformed. Where
there had been a mostly self-reliant and hard-working body of
citizens, we got an army of state-supported employees with
guaranteed  job security  and early pensions.  In the latest election, Pasok and New Democracy together
received less than 32 percent of the vote, and it’s easy to see
why. These two parties campaigned on promises to stick with the
 austerity program  imposed on Greece by the so-called troika --
the European Commission, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 European Central Bank  -- in exchange for help to stave off a
disorderly bankruptcy and exit from the euro. The troika insists
on structural reforms, such as less job protection, limiting
trade union privileges, and opening monopolies and closed
professions in the service sector.  In short, Greece’s creditors are asking the country to
dismantle what was built during the last few decades and led
Greece to bankruptcy. The intent is to make the economy
competitive, but those affected don’t see it that way, and they
are many. Close to one in four of the working population depends
on the state for his or her salary. Add to them the unemployed
at 23 percent, double among the young, plus all those whose
salaries and pensions were reduced by the troika’s austerity
measures, and you get a large pool of very unhappy and insecure
people. It is an ideal fishing ground for all kinds of political
adventurers, and this is what is happening.  The parties that increased their strength on May 6 are
mostly led by unscrupulous ignoramuses. None of them has any
coherent program, but they all agree on one thing: Greece should
renege on the agreements it signed with the EU and the IMF.
Three of these parties -- Syriza (a neo-Marxist conglomerate
that received 16.8 percent of the vote), Independent Greeks (a
last minute nondescript grouping that scored 10.6 percent) and
the more moderate Democratic Left (with 6 percent) -- claim they
want Greece to stay in the euro. Either they are totally out of
it or, more likely, they are deliberately misleading the
electorate.  A Winning Oxymoron  Most Greeks keep their savings and receive their salaries
or pensions in euros. However bitter they are with the old
parties, however much they want to believe that by some miracle
austerity would disappear with a different government, leaving
the euro is scary. Nevertheless, the lie, the oxymoron that it’s
possible to renege on the bailout agreements and also keep the
euro, seems to work for the moment, especially in favor of
Syriza. The communists with 8.5 percent of the vote and the neo-
Nazis with 7 percent also made it over the threshold to enter
Parliament. They at least don’t pretend they want the euro or to
be in  Europe .  According to the government, there is enough money to run
the country until June. A possible scenario is that the catalyst
for future political developments will come in the form of an
energy crisis: Greece depends entirely on imports for power and
transportation, and suppliers of crude oil and natural gas now
accept only cash. If the agreements with the EU and IMF become
inoperative, there will be no money for energy, or anything else
for that matter. Before that, of course, Greece may get a run on
the banks.  The situation is critical, but that doesn’t seem to faze
the politicians who emerged from the last election. Drunk with
victory, they are anxious to benefit from the momentum. Their
pitch is that with  Francois Hollande  now president in  France ,
and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats
defeated in state elections, the political climate in Europe is
changing to favor a more-or-less unconditional bailout of
Greece. They think the IMF and the Germans are bluffing when
they say they will cut Greece off unless it sticks with the
austerity program.  As the June 17 new election approaches, the electorate is
becoming polarized. Voters are moving away from some of the
smaller protest parties to Syriza, and others to New Democracy.
Under Greek law, the winner gets an extra 50 seats out of the
300 in Parliament, so whether Syriza or New Democracy emerges
with a few more votes than the other becomes crucial. Recent
polls suggest it will be very close. Whatever the result, the
government that emerges will have a thin majority and the real
danger is that the country remains leaderless and adrift. The
longer this lasts, the bigger the risk of exiting the euro and
jeopardizing the position of Greece in a united Europe.  Such a development would be tragic. The worst would not be
the severe and lasting economic consequences. The broader
political reasons for joining the family of European nations
were to take the country out of isolation, give it better
governance and strengthen its democratic institutions. All the
efforts Greece made in this direction over the past four decades
would be thrown to the winds. The next election is really a vote
for or against Europe.  (Panagis Vourloumis is an investment banker and independent
consultant, and was chief executive of the Greek
telecommunications company OTE, from 2004 to 2010. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany gained from
the euro  and the  problems with the Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter  on  political substance and
slander ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over Bain;  Caroline Baum  on
 overregulating banks ; Tobias Moskowitz on  data-driven policy ;
Junheng Li on  China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Panagis Vourloumis at  vourpan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  