-- Marfrig Mergers Make Investors Biggest Losers: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-05-23T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/marfrig-mergers-make-investors-biggest-losers-corporate-brazil.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  is delivering
the worst returns of major meat companies in  Latin America  after
building up debt to make 20 acquisitions in five years.  The region’s second-largest beef producer lost shareholders
12 cents on every dollar invested in 2011, compared with a
return on equity of about 15 cents from top performer Grupo
Bafar SA and 10 percent from BRF -  Brasil Foods  SA, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JBS SA, the biggest beef company,
lost shareholders 1 cent per dollar, the second-worst result.  Chief Executive Officer and founder Marcos Molina dos Santos, who opened his first slaughterhouse in 2000, is using
 acquisitions  to transform Marfrig into a diversified food maker
as China-led demand for grains used to feed livestock increases
costs for meatpackers. The company spent $2 billion in 2010 to
buy Seara Alimentos from Cargill Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
supplier Keystone Foods, causing debt to quadruple in two years.  “They didn’t deliver announced synergies,” Pedro Herrera,
a New York-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc who rates the
stock underweight, said in a telephone interview. “So far, the
acquisition of Seara didn’t translate into significant market
share gains.”  Marfrig, based in  Sao Paulo ,  slumped  36 percent in local
trading in the past 12 months before today. That compares with a
13 percent gain for Brasil Foods, the world’s largest poultry
exporter, and a 10 percent gain for JBS. Mexican meat processor
Grupo Bafar gained 26 percent.  The negative return on equity stemmed from the Brazilian
real’s 11 percent decline against the  U.S. dollar  last year,
which boosted the value of foreign debt in local-currency terms,
Marfrig said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Cattle Prices  Cattle has jumped 47 percent in the past three years on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange as grain costs rise. Corn, the main
ingredient in  animal feed , soared 64 percent in two years.  Marfrig acquired Seara and other food companies to compete
with  Brasil Foods (BRFS3) , the country’s largest maker of TV dinners, as
rising wages drove consumption of frozen lasagnas and
hamburgers. While the purchases led debt to balloon, they
resulted in “modest improvement” in market share, Herrera
said.  Net debt rose to 8.49 billion reais ($4.1 billion) at the
end of 2011 from 2.12 billion two years earlier. Marfrig’s
portion of the Brazilian market for processed-meat products rose
to 7.7 percent in the first quarter from 7.2 percent two years
earlier, according to a May 14 earnings report.  About 40 percent of Marfrig’s sales last year came from
processed-meat products such as sliced ham and chicken nuggets,
up from less than 10 percent four years ago, according to data
on its website. The remaining 60 percent came mainly from raw
beef, pork and poultry.  State Development Bank  The company has to pay about 2.2 billion reais of debt
annually until at least 2014,  Standard & Poor’s , which has
Marfrig’s B+ junk rating under a negative outlook, said in an
April 24 report.  “They have bitten off more than they can chew,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based SLW Corretora who has a
hold recommendation on the stock, said in a telephone interview.
“Most of their acquisitions made sense from the strategic point
of view but occurred at the expense of taking on more debt.”  Net debt rose to 4.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the first quarter, the highest
since Marfrig’s initial public offering in 2007.  The acquisitions were partly financed by Marfrig’s 2.5
billion-real convertible bonds sale in 2010.  Brazil ’s
 development bank , known as BNDES, bought all the bonds at the
offering.  Asset Sales  Marfrig is seeking to shed some assets this year in a bid
to curtail its surging debt. Last month it concluded the sale of
U.S. and European distribution units to Illinois-based Martin-
Brower Co. for $400 million. The sales, coupled with efforts to
cut costs, may help the company reduce debt and boost returns in
coming years, Pinheiro said.  “They seem to be doing their homework,” Pinheiro said.  Yields on Marfrig’s dollar bonds due 2018 have jumped 353
basis points, or 3.53 percentage points, in the past two months
to 13.67 percent. They reached 13.71 percent on May 18, the
highest since Jan. 9. Borrowing costs for global speculative-
grade food, beverage and tobacco companies fell two basis points
during the same period to 6.74 percent, Bank of America Corp.
data show.  Marfrig’s expansion through acquisitions mirrors  JBS (JBSS3) ’s,
which became the world’s top beef producer through more than 10
acquisitions in five years, including  Pilgrim’s Pride (PPC)  in 2009,
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  units in 2008 and Swift & Co. in 2007.  “Both Marfrig and JBS were too aggressive on acquisitions
and now must work hard to regain confidence from investors,”
HSBC’s Herrera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  