-- Harmony Gold Plans Solar Power, Biofuels Plants in South Africa
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-23T08:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/harmony-gold-plans-solar-power-biofuels-plants-in-south-africa.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer of the metal, plans a solar-power plant
with partners in the north of  South Africa , where a lack of
generating capacity has forced companies to cut electricity use.  Studies on the project at Mafikeng in North West Province
propose an initial size of 18 megawatts, with the potential to
more than double that to 40 megawatts, Melanie Naidoo-Vermaak,
Johannesburg-based Harmony’s environment executive, said in an
interview yesterday. Output may start in 2014, she said.  Harmony is assessing ways to put some of the land it owns
in South Africa to use in generating energy and improving the
security of power supplies. Gold, platinum and other mines were
stopped for about five days in January 2008, when demand
overshot local utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.’s capacity.
Electricity accounts for about 16 percent of Harmony’s costs in
producing each ounce of the precious metal.  The gold miner is part of a group including  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ’s
local unit that expects to submit a proposal for approval under
the government’s renewable energy power program later this year,
Naidoo-Vermaak said. Harmony’s Kalgold operation would draw
about 8 megawatts from the project, she said. Bridge Capital
Group and Clare Energy & Habitat (Pty) Ltd. are part of the
group studying the project.  Harmony is at the early stage of studying growing crops,
possibly sugarbeet, for a biofuels plant it may build near
 Virginia , in South Africa’s central Free State province. The
gold producer would use some of the output to replace diesel and
polyfuel at its nearby mines, and may sell the rest to farmers,
Naidoo-Vermaak said. A decision on the project will probably be
made in the next 12 to 18 months.  It’s too early to provide costs for the two projects, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  