-- Masa Alum Serves $135 Caviar Omakase at Neta: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/masa-alum-serves-135-caviar-omakase-at-neta-ryan-sutton.html
Neta is a civilized, luxurious
restaurant, where a very good sushi dinner for two can approach
$450 after wine, tax and tip.  Tuna belly tartare is seasoned with a hefty sprinkling of
black sturgeon caviar. Spoonfuls of sea urchin porridge are
studded with shavings of a Russian oligarch’s favorite
vegetable: truffle.  You can converse with your dining companions without having
to shout and you’ll never have to compete with thumping music.  And just when you think all is regal and right, chef Nick
Kim places a mash-up of spicy raw salmon in front of you. By
high-end sushi standards, that’s akin to offering you a
California roll.  I dare you to ask for spicy salmon at  Masa , where Kim spent
eight years as top toque and where dinner starts at $450 per
person before sake, tax and tip. Jimmy Lau, Neta’s co-chef,
hails from the cheaper Bar Masa.  Neta is closer in style and cost to Gari, Seki and Nobu. It
doesn’t quite align with sushi-purist dogma.  Tobacco Tones  While you savor the tobacco tones of cured abalone liver.
Your senses might suddenly be overwhelmed by the aroma of foie
gras being seared a few feet away in the open kitchen -- a
rarity at sushi restaurants, where hot food, if there is any, is
prepared out of sight.  Chefs, instead of standing planted at their posts, move
from station to station, checking on barbecued fish collars
(gorgeously fatty) and grilled toro sinew. Warm Boston scallops
pair well with cool Santa Barbara sea urchin, the brilliant
white and orange colors complementing each other like a
Humorette. It’s a peaceful contrast until the bartender starts
shaking a $14 gin and lime cocktail a few feet away.  Even better is the rishiri martini. The drink hits you with
an umami punch. The sake is infused with seaweed, a Japanese
dirty martini. The cocktail helps you adjust to Neta’s sushi
zen, which to some may be no zen at all, or at least not until
you move onto the $45 truffled cognac.  Sushi Standards  Never quite loud, Neta is visually noisy. Some will call
that description nitpicky but it’s no small matter in the more
typically serene world of raw fish.  Think of it this way: You get about twenty-five bites of
mineral-tinged ribeye at Minetta Tavern. The flavors are
assertive. At Neta, you only get one bite of raw sawara
mackerel. If you don’t give the single morsel your utmost
attention, you won’t fully appreciate slightly oily flesh or the
gentle crunch of the tempura flake topping.  That fine fish comes near the beginning of the omakase
selection, which is what you should order here. Pricing starts
at $95, though most of my fellow diners at the sushi bar ordered
the $135 caviar-spiked variant.  Good thing Neta often compensates for its distractions with
flavors that are accessible and indulgent. After a few slices of
akami (lean tuna) chu-toro (fatty tuna) and o-toro sushi
(fattier tuna), Kim served me toro tartare with sea urchin and
more caviar, a dish worthy of Roman Abramovich’s 557-foot
superyacht.  Flavor Balance  Kim amps up flavors with an eye toward balance. The intense
gelatins of eel are checked by a cucumber wrapping.  The Swiss-like neutrality of kanpachi gets a kick from
spicy potato crisps.  And that signature spicy salmon dish, the last composed
course before sushi  service  begins, boasts a gorgeous
unctuousness. The cool tartare sits below bonito flakes and a
layer of sizzling rice.  The grains are so hot they burn your tongue. That’s a
problem when you’re priming your palate for the main-event.  When you start eating the sushi, you realize Neta’s rice
isn’t terribly good. Sometimes it’s gently overcooked. Sometimes
it’s too warm. Sometimes the nigiri seem to disintegrate in your
hands. This needs to improve quickly.  Then again, it’s hard to leave without thinking that Neta
is a work in progress, promise of a very high order, but not
there yet. There is one dessert: Grapefruit granite with tiny
segments of the citrus fruit. It’s the signature dessert at Masa
as well. Game on.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Omakase at $95, $135; a la carte for less.  Sound Level: Around 75 decibels, never too loud.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Killer seaweed martini.  Special Feature: Lots of bluefin toro.  Back on My Own Dime: When the rice is perfect.  Neta is at 61 W. Eighth St. Information: +1-212-505-2610 or
 http://www.netanyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Holterhoff  on music and
 James Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 