-- Asian Stocks Snap Two-Day Rally on Greece, Japan Exports
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-23T10:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/asian-stocks-snap-two-day-rally-on-greece-japan-exports.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the
regional benchmark index to a five-month low, as concerns
mounted Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and the  Bank of Japan 
refrained from deploying further monetary stimulus, dimming the
outlook for exporters.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at
Greece’s Piraeus port, fell 4 percent in Hong Kong.  Mitsui &
Co. (8031) , a Japanese trading company, slid 1.6 percent after the
nation’s trade data missed estimates. Quanta Computer Inc. led
computer makers lower in Taiwan, dropping 4.2 percent, after
bellwether Dell Inc. forecast slower sales. Shanghai
Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. slumped 24 percent in Hong Kong on a
report regulators are investigating the drugmaker for suspected
financial fraud.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.6 percent to 111.91, the
lowest level since Dec. 20, as of 7:37 p.m. in  Tokyo . Six stocks
declined for each one that gained. All 10 industry groups on the
measure slid. The  gauge  has dropped 13 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 as political gridlock in Greece following an
inconclusive ballot this month revived concerns the nation will
abandon bailout conditions and exit the  euro zone . Greece is
scheduled to have a second election on June 17.  “If Greece does get out of the euro, then that will be a
significant event for the market,” said  Andrew Pease , Sydney-
based chief investment strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at
Russell Investment Group, which manages about $150 billion. The
market wants to see “a political resolution out of  Europe  that
will either prevent Greece from exiting or, if they do exit,
will put in place a strong firewall to prevent contagion effects
from going to other countries.”  BOJ on Hold  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 2 percent, extending
losses as the yen rose after the Bank of Japan refrained from
further monetary easing today. Trading volume was 13 percent
above the 30-day average. The central bank last month increased
its asset-purchase program and extended the maximum maturity of
government debt it buys in the program to three years from two.  “No action was the consensus this time, yet still I heard
some people expected something out of the BOJ,” saidMasaaki Kanno, chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. in Tokyo
and a former BOJ official. “If the European situation gets
worse, buying longer-term debt won’t be enough. They may have to
move in June depending on circumstances.”  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1.3 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the larger of  China ’s
stock exchanges, lost 0.4 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 1.3 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index lost 1.1 percent and  Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  dropped
1.8 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index slid 1.5 percent.  Cosco, Nintendo  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  added 0.1 percent in  New
York  yesterday. Futures on the index lost 0.8 percent today as
European Union leaders prepared to meet in Brussels to discuss
how to revive growth in the region.  Companies that do business in Europe fell. Cosco Pacific
lost 4 percent to HK$9.09 in Hong Kong. Nintendo Co., a maker of
video-game players that depends on Europe for a third of its
sales, fell 2.3 percent to 9,100 yen in Osaka.  Stocks also fell as Japan’s finance ministry reported
exports rose a less-than-estimated 7.9 percent in April from a
year earlier, while imports gained 8 percent, widening the trade
deficit to 520.3 billion yen ($6.5 billion). Mitsui & Co. slid
1.6 percent to 1,124 yen, and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , a Japanese
trading company, dropped 1.7 percent to 1,552 yen.  Fitch Ratings  cut Japan’s foreign-currency rating by two
levels to A+ yesterday with a negative outlook.  China Expectations  Asian equities rose yesterday for a second day on
speculation China and Europe will do more to drive growth.
Premier Wen Jiabao said over the weekend that China will focus
more on spurring the economy. The nation’s central bank may cut
 interest rates  if data for May indicate its economic slowdown is
accelerating, China Securities Journal reported, citing
unidentified people.  “We are seeing a change in rhetoric,” said Russell
Investment’s Pease. “The Chinese government sees the economy
continuing to weaken much more through the June quarter, and
they are prepared to step in with more stimulus measures.”  Computer makers slid in  Taiwan  after Dell forecast lower-
than-estimated second-quarter revenue, citing competition and
demand challenges. Quanta Computer declined 4.2 percent to
NT$77.80 in Taipei. Asustek Computer lost 5.3 percent to
NT$283.50, and Compal Electronics Inc. dropped 2.5 percent to
NT$31.20.  Among other stocks that fell, Shanghai Pharmaceuticals
plunged 24 percent to HK$9.11 in Hong Kong after the 21st
Century Business Herald  reported  the China Securities Regulatory
Commission and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange are investigating
the company for suspected financial fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  