-- Asian Currencies Drop to Five-Month Low as Greece May Leave Euro
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-23T09:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/asian-currencies-drop-to-five-month-low-as-greece-may-leave-euro.html
Asian currencies dropped to a five-
month low, led by India’s rupee, as mounting concern Greece will
quit the euro deterred risk-taking.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares snapped a two-day
advance after former Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told
the Wall Street Journal yesterday that leaving the single
currency would be “catastrophic,” although “it cannot be
excluded that preparations are being made to contain the
possible consequences” of an exit.  Fitch Ratings  cut Japan’s
local-currency credit rating by one step yesterday, and the
foreign-currency grade by two levels.  “Investors are demanding the dollar to protect against
uncertainties in the market,” said Kim Do Hee, a Seoul-based
currency dealer at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
“Market sentiment may flip should there be positive comments
from today’s summit,” he said, referring to a meeting of
European Union leaders in Brussels.  India ’s rupee slid 1.3 percent to 56.1125 at 3:06 p.m. in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupiah fell
0.4 percent to 9,260 per dollar, the won declined 0.8 percent to
1,172.73, while the Philippine peso fell 0.7 percent to 43.44.
The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index reached the lowest
level since Dec. 20.  The Korean currency approached a five-month low as overseas
investors cut holdings of the nation’s shares, adding to net
sales of $2.9 billion this month through yesterday.  Greece’s possible exit from the euro and sanctions against
 Iran  are increasing market uncertainties, South Korean Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today. Iran is under multiple
international sanctions owing to concern it is pursuing nuclear
weapons and a European Union ban on oil imports from the country
takes effect July 1.  Malaysian GDP Data  Malaysia’s ringgit touched a four-month low before data due
today that may show the country’s economic growth is slowing.
The currency fell 0.9 percent to 3.1465 per dollar and reached
3.1490, the weakest level since Jan. 16.  Gross domestic product in Malaysia increased 4.6 percent in
the three months through March from a year earlier, compared
with 5.2 percent in the previous quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists before the report due at 6 p.m.
in  Kuala Lumpur .  “If the situation in Europe deteriorates, the Malaysian
economy will be impacted negatively,” said Akira Banno, a
treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur.  Thai Trade Report  The baht dropped for a third day ahead of a government
report on May 25 that economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
will show exports rose 6.4 percent in April from a year earlier,
while imports jumped 18.3 percent. That compared with a 6.5
percent decline in overseas sales in March and a 25.6 gain in
imports.  “In terms of Thailand’s recovery from the floods, it
boosts imports but external demand is not strong enough to
increase exports as much,” said Minori Uchida, chief analyst at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. Tokyo. “It could be baht
negative in the long run.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.1 percent to NT$29.586
against its U.S. counterpart.  China ’s  yuan  weakened 0.18 percent
to 6.3345, while Vietnam’s dong was steady at 20,853.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  