-- Stocks Reverse Loss as Euro Pares Drop on Summit Optimism
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-23T21:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/asian-stocks-euro-fall-on-greece-exit-concerns.html
U.S. stocks erased losses amid
optimism European leaders will do more to halt contagion from
the region’s debt crisis. The euro pared its drop after sinking
to an almost two-year low and U.S. Treasuries trimmed gains. Oil
closed below $90 a barrel for the first time since October.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to close
at 1,318.86, reversing a 1.5 percent tumble. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  ended down 6.66 points at 12,496.15 after
plunging as much as 191 points. The euro was down 0.7 percent at
$1.2592 after dropping to as low as $1.2545. Ten-year Treasury
yields lost 3.6 basis points to 1.73 percent, trimming a drop of
6 basis points. Demand for assets considered safe earlier sent
German 30-year yields below 2 percent for the first time.  European leaders were meeting today to discuss the region’s
debt crisis after deepening concern Greece will exit the euro
wiped about $4 trillion from equity markets worldwide this
month. Spain will recapitalize BFA-Bankia with as much public
money as necessary, as the nationalized group needs at least 9
billion euros ($11 billion) to comply with banking rules,
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said after markets closed in
Europe.  “Huge turnaround,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about
$2 billion as chief investment officer of Solaris Group in
 Bedford Hills , New York. “There’s speculation that European
leaders will take action to stabilize the situation with Greece.
In addition, there’s a lot of cash on the sidelines looking to
get into the equity market. Certainly the decline we’ve had
recently might provide an opportunity.”  1,300 Level  U.S. equities rebounded as the  S&P 500  approached a four-
month low below 1,300 that it reached last week. Stocks also
recovered today as Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
Narayana Kocherlakota said the central bank has the tools to
curb any damage from Europe’s debt crisis.  The S&P 500 rose for a third straight day as commodity
producers and industrial companies reversed earlier losses to
lead gains among the 10 main groups. Caterpillar Inc. rose 1.1
percent and Newmont Mining Corp. rallied 2.9 percent to pace the
advance. Facebook Inc. climbed 3.2 percent in its fourth day of
trading, rebounding from a 19 percent plunge over the previous
two days.  Dell Inc. tumbled 17 percent, the most in more than 11
years, after the world’s third-largest maker of personal
computers forecast fiscal second-quarter revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates. Hewlett-Packard Co., Microsoft Corp. and
 Intel Corp . fell more than 2 percent to  lead losses  in the Dow.  Home Sales  U.S. equities maintained declines in early trading even
after a U.S. government report showed new-home sales exceeded
economists’ forecasts. Purchases rose to a 343,000 annual rate,
up 3.3 percent from a revised 332,000 in March, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists was 335,000. Data released yesterday showed
sales of existing homes rose in April in every region.  The  U.S. economy  will probably tip back into recession next
year if Congress doesn’t address an impending “fiscal cliff,”
the  Congressional Budget Office  said yesterday.  The dollar strengthened all 16 major peers except the yen
and Brazilian real. The real rallied against all major
counterparts, rebounding 2.8 percent from a three-year low
versus the dollar, as Brazil’s central bank auctioned currency
swaps for the third day since May 18 in an effort to curb price
swings.  Dollar Gains  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, rose 0.7 percent to 82.036, the
highest level since September 2010. The pound declined 0.4
percent to $1.5695 as a report showed U.K. retail sales fell the
most in more than two years in April.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index sank 2.1 percent, reversing most
of a two-day, 2.5 percent rally. Rio Tinto Group and Vedanta
Resources Plc led a retreat in mining companies. London Stock
Exchange Group Plc tumbled 7.3 percent, the most since 2009,
after UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA sold a combined 11.5
percent stake. Burberry Group Plc slid 1.2 percent as the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods company said profitability may decline in
the fiscal first half.  European banks fell 2.9 percent as a group and were the
biggest drag on the index among  19 industries . Italy’s Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA tumbled 7.6 percent to lead
losses.  Banks Vulnerable  While lenders have increased capital buffers, written down
Greek bonds and used central-bank loans to help refinance units
in southern Europe, they remain vulnerable to the contagion that
might follow a withdrawal of  Greece  from the euro, investors
say. Even with more than two years of preparation, banks still
are at risk of deposit flight and rising defaults in other
indebted euro nations.  French President  Francois Hollande  challenged  Germany ’s
handling of the financial crisis as he headed to his first
European Union summit with calls for joint borrowing and cash
injections to struggling banks. Hollande teamed with Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to press for EU leaders to break
with German-dominated budget-cutting policies that have failed
to stabilize the 17-nation euro area and led to speculation that
Greece might be forced out.  Europe must chart a path to joint borrowing using euro
bonds, should consider enabling its rescue fund to borrow from
the  European Central Bank  and ought to let the rescue fund lend
directly to troubled banks, Hollande said.  ‘Under Pressure’  “The prevailing thought is that a Greek exit would be more
costly than keeping Greece in,” Chris Hyzy, who helps oversee
about $325 billion as chief investment officer of U.S. Trust in
 New York , said in a phone interview. “The market will likely
force the euro zone officials, led by Germany, to create what
looks like a quick movement toward fiscal union and ultimately
some sort of euro-bond structure. Until the transparency of that
becomes clear, we’re going to have the market under pressure.”  The yen appreciated 0.6 percent against the dollar and 1.4
percent versus the euro. Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
called on the central bank to further ease policy moments before
the  Bank of Japan  refrained from adding monetary stimulus.  “The BOJ must firmly pursue monetary easing to achieve its
1 percent inflation goal,” Azumi told lawmakers in parliament
in  Tokyo  today. The central bank left its asset-purchase and
credit-loan programs unchanged, as anticipated by all 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  German 10-year bund yield  lost eight basis points to
1.38 percent and the rate on the nation’s 30-year debt dropped
to 1.99 percent, crossing below 2 percent for the first time.  German Auction  Bunds rallied as Germany, the only country in the euro area
with a stable outlook on its AAA rating, sold 4.56 billion euros
($5.8 billion) of two-year securities carrying a zero-percent
coupon for the first time, Bundesbank data showed today. The
notes were sold to yield 0.07 percent. The country offered a
fixed interest payment of 0.25 percent when selling similar-
maturity notes on April 18.  Rates on 10-year Italian and Spanish debt climbed at least
nine basis points.  Oil declined 2.1 percent to $89.90 a barrel in New York
after a government report showed U.S. crude supplies rose to a
22-year high.  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities slumped 1.9 percent to
the lowest level on a closing basis since October as coffee and
cotton lost more than 4 percent to lead declines in 22 of 24
commodities tracked by the index.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index tumbled 2.4 percent, the
most on a closing basis since December. Utilities helped drag
Russia’s Micex Index 3.4 percent lower as President  Vladimir
Putin  added companies to a list of strategic assets that
precludes their privatization. Benchmark gauges in Turkey and
Hungary dropped more than 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  