-- Australia’s Corby Wins Clemency on Indonesian Jail Term
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-23T01:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/australia-s-corby-wins-clemency-on-indonesian-jail-term.html
Schapelle Corby, an Australian who
has spent more than seven years in a Bali jail on a drug
smuggling conviction, had her sentence reduced by five years,
 Australia ’s Foreign Minister Bob Carr said.  “I welcome the Indonesian president’s decision to grant
this reduction,” Carr said in an e-mailed statement, without
saying when she may be freed. “The Australian government has
consistently supported Ms Corby’s application for clemency on
humanitarian grounds.”  Corby, a beauty school student, was convicted in 2005 of
attempting to smuggle 4 kilograms (8.8 pounds) of marijuana into
Bali, a popular holiday destination among Australians. Corby,
now 34, protested her innocence, saying the drugs were planted
in her surfboard bag by a drug-smuggling ring in Australia.  Indonesian prosecutors had sought a life term for Corby,
after telling the court they would not seek the death penalty.
She was sentenced to 20 years.  Carr rejected speculation that Corby’s clemency was the
result of a deal between Australia and Indonesia after
Indonesian minors alleged to have been involved in people
smuggling in Australian waters were recently freed.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has visited Australia
three times, more than any of his predecessors, according to the
government in Canberra. Two-way trade between the nations
reached A$13.8 billion ($13.5 billion) in the year to June 30.  “The relationship with Indonesia has never been better,”
Carr told reporters in Sydney today. “In President Yudhoyono
we’ve got a strong friend of Australia who listens to our
concerns.”  Front-Page News  Corby has been front-page news in Australian newspapers
since the court case began, with opinion polls showing most
Australians believe she is innocent. Her 2005 sentencing was
televised live in Australia on three networks.  Corby has been accumulating remissions and may end up
serving 11 of the 20-year sentence, earning release in 2015, the
 Age newspaper  said today. Parole could bring that date forward
even earlier, it said.  “The next step is for her legal team to work out what can
be done about a bid for parole,” Carr said.  Bali attracts more than a third of all visitors to
 Indonesia  with a mix of nightlife and surfing in the southern
beach resorts. More than 648,000 Australian tourists traveled to
the region in the first eight months of last year, five times
more than in 2006, according to the Bali Tourism Board.  Bali Nine  Indonesia’s drug laws, which can carry the death penalty
for importation, have at times strained relations with
Australia.  Nine Australians, known as the “Bali Nine” were also
arrested in 2005 and convicted of attempting to smuggle eight
kilograms of heroin into Indonesia. Three of the nine were given
a death sentence and three were jailed for life.  “Clearly we have been making representations to the
Indonesians, as we do with anyone in a country convicted of a
crime that in that country carries the death penalty,” then
Australian Trade Minister  Simon Crean  said in 2010, according to
a transcript of an interview with ABC 774 Radio  Melbourne . “We
make the point we don’t support the death penalty.”  Australian government officials also stepped in when a 14-
year-old boy was convicted of drug possession last year and
sentenced to two months confinement. The teenager was arrested
with 3.6 grams of marijuana on Oct. 4 and released in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  