-- Fiat to Develop Alfa Romeo Duetto Successor With Mazda
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-05-23T13:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/mazda-says-it-will-jointly-build-sports-car-with-italy-s-fiat.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will develop a successor to
the iconic  Alfa Romeo  Duetto Spider with  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  as
part of a plan to return the brand to the U.S after almost 20
years, a person familiar with the matter said.  The Italian carmaker will target  North America  as the main
market for a new version of the roadster made famous by  Dustin Hoffman ’s character in “The Graduate,” said the person, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t yet public.  The vehicle, based on technology from Mazda’s MX-5, will be
sold under both the Alfa Romeo and Mazda brands, the companies
said in a statement today. The rear-wheel-drive car will be
built at Mazda’s factory in Hiroshima and production for the
Italian marque may begin in 2015, according to the statement.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is
overhauling Alfa Romeo with new models including the 4C compact
sports car and Giulia sedan. The Giulia will be based on the
Dodge Dart platform from Chrysler Group LLC, which Fiat
controls, and built in the U.S. Alfa Romeo will return to the
U.S. market by the end of next year after being pulled in 1995.  “With the brand image and design from Alfa Romeo, and
Mazda’s engine technology, the car may be a hit,” said Satoru Takada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc.  Marchionne plans to remake Alfa into a luxury brand to
compete with industry leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW) 
Developing a full range of models for Alfa and boosting sales of
the brand outside Europe are crucial to the CEO’s strategy of
lifting combined revenue at Turin, Italy-based Fiat and Chrysler
to more than 100 billion euros ($126 billion) by 2014.  Alfa Romeo Commitment  “This agreement clearly demonstrates our commitment to
Alfa Romeo and the determination to grow it into a truly global
brand,” Marchionne said today in the statement. “By partnering
with Mazda, we will be cooperating with the recognized leader in
compact rear-drive vehicle architectures in order to deliver an
exciting and stylish roadster in the Alfa Romeo tradition.”  Fiat  rose  as much as 2 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 3.89 euros
and traded 0.3 percent higher as of 3:07 p.m. in Milan. The
stock has gained 9 percent this year, valuing the Italian
carmaker at 5.36 billion euros.  Marchionne has said the U.S. is a good market to lead Alfa
Romeo’s rebirth because the brand’s image isn’t tainted with the
legacy of the mediocre models of the past decade. The groundwork
has already been laid. Fiat sold 20 percent of the limited-run
8C Competizione, a $240,000 sports car that echoes Alfa’s racing
exploits of the 1930s, on the American market in 2009.  Life Changing  Marchionne, who said last year that the 1967 movie
“fundamentally changed” his life when he saw “The Graduate” as
a “young idiot” shortly after his family relocated to Toronto
from the Abruzzo region in central  Italy , is counting on
Americans having the same nostalgic feelings about the Duetto
model and buying its heir.  Fiat targets similar yearly sales in the U.S. for the Alfa
model as the MX-5, the person said. U.S. deliveries of the MX-5
Miata, as the model is known in the market, have averaged
between 10,000 and 15,000 annually, according to data from
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher Autodata Corp.  The Mazda and Alfa Romeo versions of the sports car will be
equipped with engines unique to each brand and a final agreement
may be signed in the second half of the year, according to
today’s statement. The two plan to discuss further cooperation
in  Europe , they said, without elaborating. Madza and Fiat are
not discussing a “capital alliance,” Michiko Terashima, a
Mazda spokeswoman said by phone today.  “Fiat needs new models to keep pace with its biggest
competitors,” Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of investment firm
Alisei SIM in Milan, said today in a phone interview. “Fiat and
Mazda just got engaged. Only the execution of the deal will show
if they’ll manage to have a long relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  