-- Ballmer Says China Intellectual Rights Protection ‘Weak’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T17:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/ballmer-says-china-intellectual-rights-protection-weak-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which is preparing
to roll out its new  Windows operating system , sees intellectual
property protection in China as “still weak” making it
difficult to sell legitimate software, Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  said.  Still, Ballmer is “super excited” about growth in the
China market, which is unique in being the largest for both
phones and personal computers and is the fastest growing, he
said in a speech at  Peking University  in Beijing yesterday.  U.S. Ambassador to China Gary Locke last month said China’s
lack of protection for intellectual property rights is hampering
companies doing business in the country and that strengthening
enforcement needs to be a top priority. The country’s illegal
software market was worth almost $9 billion last year, versus a
legal market of less than $3 billion, according to the annual
report of the  Business Software Alliance  this month.  “ China  is a market that adopts technology, and yet China
is a market where intellectual property protection is still
weak,” Ballmer told more than 2,000 students. “In Microsoft’s
case we are fortunate we can sell our products outside of China.
For a Chinese developer, it’s probably tougher because your
domestic market is a tough one in which to really sell
software.”  Ballmer also met Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  yesterday, Xinhua
News Agency said. Wang said provincial governments will be using
authorized software by the end of June and city and county
governments will be in compliance by the end of 2013, the
official news service reported yesterday. Central government
organs “accomplished this goal” last year, Xinhua said.  Windows 8  Microsoft plans to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s dominance in
tablet computers with Windows 8, a new operating system version
designed to run touch-screen devices. The software is scheduled
to go on sale around October, people with knowledge of the
matter said in March.  Ballmer yesterday predicted that next year the same
audience will be full of people carrying Windows phones. Windows
8 is almost like a new operating system and a complete
“reimagining” of the Windows system to work on all devices
from phones to tablets to desktop computers, he said.  More than 103 million tablet devices will be sold in 2012,
with sales tripling to 326.3 million in 2015, researcher Gartner
Inc. estimates. Apple’s two-thirds share of the market the year
will probably drop to 46 percent by 2015, while Microsoft’s will
climb to 11 percent, according to Gartner.  Ballmer’s address came a year after the company pledged to
 invest  as much as 1.3 billion  yuan  ($205 million) to stimulate
startup companies in China, and the opening of a new research
and development campus in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  