-- Bank of America to Sell 12-Building Office Campus in New Jersey
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-05-23T20:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bank-of-america-to-sell-12-building-office-campus-in-new-jersey.html
Bank of America Corp . is marketing
the office campus in  New Jersey ’s Hopewell Township that it
inherited from Merrill Lynch & Co., as part of the bank’s plan
to cut costs by selling real estate.  The company, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
would lease back all of the 12-building, 1.7 million-square-foot
(158,000-square-meter) complex near the Pennsylvania border,
T.J. Crawford, a spokesman, said in a telephone interview. A
sale would have “no immediate impact” on employees who work
there, he said.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
said in February it may sell all its offices except its
headquarters building in  Charlotte , North Carolina, and its
stake in the Bank of America Tower at 1 Bryant Park in
 Manhattan . The New Jersey property may fetch about $400 million,
making it the biggest office sale ever in the state, the
newsletter Real Estate Alert said today, attributing its
information to “market players.”  “As Brian Moynihan has said, commercial real estate
ownership is not a core business for Bank of America, which is
why we made our decision to sell our interest in the Hopewell
campus,” Crawford said.  He declined to discuss a price or  terms  of the proposed
leaseback. Nick Derasmo, a spokesman for Cushman & Wakefield
Inc., the broker for the sale, referred all questions to Bank of
America.  Highest Price  A deal at $400 million would exceed the $377.5 million paid
in October by a partnership including Seattle-based Bentall
Kennedy LP for the 36-story, 1.1 million-square-foot Newport
Tower in Jersey City. That was the highest price on record for a
New Jersey office property, said  Dan Fasulo , managing director
for Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based research firm
that tracks commercial-property sales.  The campus serves employees of Bank of America and its
Merrill unit, Crawford said. In September, the bank announced
the hiring of 180 financial-service advisers, 155 of them
Hopewell-based, for its Merrill Edge phone and online wealth-
management service.  Merrill had 6,500 employees in Hopewell in 2008. Crawford
declined to update that figure. In its most recent annual
report, the bank described the property as “materially
important,” along with another campus in Concord,  California .  Bank of America agreed to sell the Hearst Tower,
Charlotte’s fourth-tallest, earlier this month to  Parkway
Properties Inc. (PKY)  for $250 million, and said it will lease back
about a third of the 972,000-square-foot building. In March, the
bank sold 100 Federal St. in downtown Boston to  Boston
Properties Inc. (BXP)  for $615 million. It leased back about 787,000
square feet in that 1.3 million-square-foot skyscraper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  