-- Bank of America, MERS Lose Bid to Dismiss Texas Fee Suit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bank-of-america-mers-lose-bid-to-dismiss-texas-fee-suit.html
Bank of America Corp.  and Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc. failed to persuade a judge
to dismiss a lawsuit claiming they shortchanged  Texas  counties
out of uncollected mortgage filing fees.  “The plaintiffs have brought sufficient evidence to allow
the case to go forward,” U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in
Dallas said. O’Connor threw out several claims in the lawsuit at
the end of a court hearing yesterday.  O’Connor allowed the counties to seek damages and an
injunction limiting future filings by MERS. He rejected county
allegations that MERS was filing false liens, which would have
allowed the counties to seek $10,000 for each contested filing.  “The $10,000 per is out,” Thomas Hefferon, attorney for
Bank of America, said in an interview after the hearing.  Dallas County filed the initial complaint in September,
alleging that Merscorp Inc.’s MERS was established by banks
including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America to
avoid paying filing fees, as well as to ease transfers of
mortgages. Dallas revised the lawsuit in October, seeking to
represent all other Texas counties in which a deed of trust has
been filed identifying MERS as a beneficiary.  MERS, which runs an electronic registry of mortgages, said
it followed Texas law and didn’t shortchange counties on fees.  ‘Perfectly Legal’  “What MERS does and how it does it is perfectly
appropriate, perfectly legal,” MERS lawyer Robert Brochin said
at yesterday’s hearing. “The designation of MERS as a false
lienholder should be categorically denied.”  Most of the case remains following Judge O’Connor’s
decision, Stephen Malouf, an attorney for Dallas County, said in
an interview after the hearing. The counties will be seeking to
enjoin MERS from continuing to operate as it has in the state,
he said. “We’d like to see it stopped.”  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
 mortgage loans  on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell
loans without recording transfers with counties. MERS acts as
the lender’s nominee and remains the mortgagee of record as long
as the note promising repayment is owned by a MERS member.  Dallas County claims this allows banks that own stakes in
MERS to buy and sell loans without properly recording transfers
with counties and paying the fee. Dallas County District
Attorney Craig Watkins said last year his county may be owed as
much as $100 million.  Other Counties  Counties in other states including Kentucky,  Michigan ,  Ohio 
and  Oklahoma  also filed suits claiming the MERS system has
cheated them out of filing fees. The  Kentucky  suit was dismissed
in February.  Delaware ’s attorney general last year filed an
unrelated suit, alleging MERS used deceptive practices that hide
information from borrowers.  “The MERS system has created massive confusion as to the
true owners of the beneficial interests in mortgage loans and
mortgages throughout the  United States , and the loss of revenues
has harmed U.S. counties,” Dallas County lawyers said in court
papers last year.  “As of today, the system they are so proud of is a
complete and total failure,” Malouf said at the hearing before
O’Connor. “It has made the property recording system in the
U.S. spaghetti.”  Every County  The Dallas County class-action lawsuit would cover every
county in Texas where MERS is identified as beneficiary or where
“any record has been filed” that would cause MERS to be
identified in deed files as a grantor of interest in a property,
unless “MERS itself actually holds in the property the interest
that MERS purports to be granting,” county lawyers said in
court filings.  Under Texas law, “there is no duty to record assignments,
or other documents,” lawyers for MERS and Bank of America said
in court papers March 9.  “The Texas Property Code, which contains various statutes
concerning recording interests in land, allows parties to record
interests in land to protect their interests but does not
require that any recording occur,” the defendants said in the
filing. “The counties have suffered no injury -- and thus lack
standing -- from nonpayment of recording fees for documents that
were never recorded.”  MERS doesn’t create new documents when a deed of trust is
assigned to a new lender, Hefferon, the Bank of America lawyer,
said at yesterday’s hearing. “There is no obligation to send a
document that doesn’t exist,” he said. “There is no injury if
you haven’t collected a fee or don’t do the work.”  Jason Lobo, a MERS spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  The lawsuit is  Dallas  County v. Merscorp Inc., 11-cv-02733,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  