-- Bartec Sale Said to Kick Off as Capvis Sends Info to Buyers
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-05-23T17:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bartec-sale-said-to-kick-off-as-capvis-sends-info-to-buyers-1-.html
Bartec Holding GmbH owners have begun
the sale of the German maker of explosion-resistant switching
and signaling gear, people familiar with the process said.  Majority owner Capvis Equity Partners AG sent out
information to prospective buyers on the asset, which may fetch
540 million euros ($680 million) to 600 million euros, said the
people, who declined to be identified as the information is
private. That would value Bartec at about 10 times predicted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
First-round bids are due June 11, one of the people said.  The market for electrical equipment has been in flux since
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  bought Thomas & Betts Corp. for $3.9 billion in January
and  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  announced the purchase of  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) 
for $11.8 billion on May 21. Possible suitors for Bartec include
ABB,  Hubbell Inc. (HUB/B) ,  Ametek Inc. (AME) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  as well as buyout companies, the people said.  Commerzbank AG and William Blair are managing the sale of
Bartec, which Capvis purchased in 2008 from Allianz Capital
Partners. Eaton’s purchase valued Cooper at 14 times Ebitda. A
similar valuation would give Bartec an enterprise value of as
much as 840 million euros, based on predicted Ebitda for this
year.  Bartec’s products, including enclosures and controls made
of stainless steel and gas detection systems, are used by the
chemical and oil and gas industries. The manufacturer, based in
Bad Mergentheim in  Germany , had sales of about 300 million euros
in the fiscal year ending April 30, spokeswoman Daniela Deubel
said. Deubel declined to comment on the sale.  The sale of Bartec comes amid several industrial assets
being auctioned by their private equity owners.  IK Investment Partners, a European buyout firm with Nordic
roots, is preparing the sale of Schenck Process GmbH, a German
provider of industrial weighing, feeding, screening and
automation equipment, the people said. Morgan Stanley, which was
hired to run the sale, is in the process of sending out
information to potential buyers, they said. Several of the firms
looking at Bartec will also look at Schenck and decide which
asset to pursue, one of the people said.  A spokesman for IK Investment Partners couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  