-- Bean Says BOE May Need to Resume Stimulus If Economy Worsens
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-05-23T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bean-says-boe-may-need-to-resume-stimulus-if-economy-worsens.html
Bank of  England  Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean said policy makers may need to resume their asset
purchases if there’s a significant worsening in the U.K.
economy.  “If conditions do deteriorate significantly, we may need
to restart the programme of purchases,” Bean said in a speech
today in Gloucestershire, western England. “The decision at our
May meeting not to extend the program was already quite finely
balanced.”  Bean’s comments come a day after the  International Monetary
Fund  said the U.K. may require further monetary easing as risks
from the deepening euro-area debt crisis cloud the outlook.
Minutes of the May Monetary Policy Committee meeting published
today showed that eight members voted to pause the 325 billion-
pound ($510 billion) bond-buying plan, with  David Miles 
maintaining his push for an increase.  “To date the recovery has been painfully slow, with
negligible growth in the  United Kingdom  over the past year and a
half,” Bean said. He added that the “heightened uncertainty”
associated with the euro area means that the “likely future
date for us to commence selling gilts has receded somewhat.”  Data last month showed that Britain slipped into its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s. The central bank said in
the minutes that risks relating to the euro area “had recently
resurfaced and there was a possibility that they would weigh
more heavily than expected on business and  consumer
confidence .”  ‘Some Considerable Time’  Bean said that bond yields may remain low for “some
considerable time yet” as uncertainty persists.  Recent events in the euro area may have helped increase
demand for sovereign debt regarded as “safe,” such as that of
the U.K., he said. A decline in business investment, prompted by
a deteriorating outlook and heightened uncertainty, may also
have depressed bond yields, he said, adding that it may be hard
to know when investment will resume.  “In general growth has been weaker than after a normal
cyclical downturn,” Bean said. “In part that reflects the fact
that recoveries after financial crises tend to be weaker and
more drawn out as balance sheets are repaired, but also it
probably reflects the exceptional uncertainty in the aftermath
of the financial crisis. It is consequently hard to know when
the animal spirits of businesses, and with it the propensity to
invest, are likely to revive.”  Bean also said the U.K. government’s commitment to cutting
the  budget deficit  may have helped keep bond yields low.  “Market confidence in the U.K. government’s commitment to
fiscal consolidation, together with heightened concerns about
the fiscal positions of some euro-area sovereigns, has exerted
downward pressure on gilt yields,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  