-- Billionaire Batista to Sell $300 Million EBX Stake This Week
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-23T20:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/billionaire-batista-sees-300-million-ebx-stake-sale-this-week.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ,  Brazil ’s
richest person, will sell a 0.8 percent stake in his EBX Group
Co. to a U.S. investor this week for $300 million as he seeks to
boost foreign shareholding in the company.  Batista, speaking in an interview yesterday at the Rio
Investors’ Day conference, didn’t identify the buyer, who he
said is well known. The valuation is similar on a proportional
basis to the stake he sold last month to  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala
Development Co., he said.  Batista last month sold a 5.63 percent stake in the Rio de
Janeiro-based holding company to Mubadala, Abu Dhabi’s sovereign
wealth fund for $2 billion. Batista, 55, is raising money to
diversify into industries from precious metals to entertainment
and sports management, while investing in his existing iron-ore,
oil, coal, shipping and power-generation companies. EBX has $8
billion in cash, Batista said.  Batista said there will be “more news by the end of this
week,” when asked when the investor would be announced. “It’s
an American company. You are going to like it.”  The billionaire initially said March 26 that he was in
talks with sovereign-wealth funds to sell an additional $1
billion stake in EBX and on April 30 said the buyer may be an
industrial partner. Batista said May 11 he was in talks with
groups from the U.S. and  Asia  about the sale.  Net Worth  The Brazilian mining and energy magnate’s net worth surged
18 percent this year to $26.6 billion, making him the world’s
9th richest person, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  daily ranking.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the billionaire’s most
valuable holding,  gained  3 percent to 11.51 reais at the close
in Sao Paulo today.  In January, Batista agreed to  sell  a 10 percent stake in
his power company,  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , to  Germany ’s EON AG for 850
million reais ($410 million). In February he said he was in
talks with wealth funds about selling part of his AUX gold unit.  Batista also said during the interview that he may sell
shares from his gold unit AUX in a public offering after
completing the certification of its reserves. The company, which
has resources of 11 million ounces of gold in a Colombian mine,
will have a certified report on its reserves as early as
September, he said.  “We could also decide to drill more and make it bigger,”
Batista said.  Championship Matches  Batista, the son of a former Vale SA chief executive
officer, became Brazil’s wealthiest man selling shares in a
series of interlinking commodity startups. He’s pursuing
ventures ranging from gold and iron ore to fertilizers and coal
and managing Ultimate Fighting Championship bouts.  Batista’s coal unit CCX Carvao da  Colombia  SA will start
trading in  Sao Paulo  on May 25 after the company is divested
from MPX Energia, CCX Chief Executive Officer Leonardo
Moretzsohn said May 15. The unit, Batista’s sixth company to
trade publicly in Sao Paulo, has projects including development
of a $5.5 billion  coal mine , port and railway in Colombia.  Shares of MPX slid 2.7 percent to 42.80 reais in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  