-- Billionaire Rinehart is World’s Richest Woman, BRW Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-05-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/billionaire-rinehart-is-world-s-richest-woman-brw-says.html
Australian mining magnate  Gina
Rinehart  became the world’s richest woman as her fortune almost
tripled to A$29.2 billion ($28.6 billion), according to a
ranking of the nation’s wealthiest people by  BRW magazine .  Rinehart, who controls Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd., soared
past  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Christy Walton, whose wealth is
estimated at A$26 billion, BRW said in a statement today.  The 58-year-old Australian, who had a fortune of A$10.3
billion last year, remained at the top of the list of
Australia’s 200 wealthiest people for the second consecutive
year, helped by foreign investment in new projects, increased
production and a recovery in iron-ore prices, BRW said. Rinehart
is ranked the 31st richest person in the world, with a net worth
of $18.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “If the demand for natural resources remains strong,
additional multi-billion mines are almost inevitable,” Andrew
Heathcote, BRW Rich List editor, said in the statement. “There
is a real possibility that Rinehart will become not just the
richest woman in the world but the richest person in the
world.”  Mexican  Carlos Slim  now holds that position, with a
personal fortune of $66.2 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Mining Assets  Rinehart inherited mining assets from her father,  Lang
Hancock , who discovered iron ore deposits in the Pilbara region
of Western Australia in the 1950s, and has been expanding them
to help feed growing demand for resources from countries
including China.  Rinehart has an agreement with Rio Tinto Group under which
she collects royalties on some properties in Western Australia
mined by Rio. She agreed in August to sell coal projects in
Queensland to  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)  for $2.2 billion.  Rinehart is also expanding her media holdings, increasing
her stake in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  to 12.6 percent in February from
4.9 percent earlier. She first ventured into media in 2010 after
buying a 10 percent stake in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  and
gaining a seat on the company’s board.  She is fighting a lawsuit by three of her children who have
accused her of abusing her role as trustee of a multi billion-
dollar fund and have sought to have her removed.  Rinehart has given her children the option to remove assets
from the trust, making further litigation unnecessary, her
lawyer Paul McCann said on May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  