-- Bing Adds Social Smarts to Fight Google: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-05-23T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bing-adds-social-smarts-to-fight-google-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Maybe I just need better friends, but
I can’t shake the feeling that “social search” isn’t all it’s
cracked up to be.  For the uninitiated, that’s the trend among  search engines 
toward including results from Facebook contacts, Twitter
followees and other digital buddies among the traditional blue
links. Given my skepticism, you’d think I wouldn’t like the new
social-centric version of Microsoft’s Bing, the perpetual No. 2
to Google.  That’s not the case. In making social-search results more
prominent, Bing has at the same time reorganized its screen
layout to make them easier to ignore when they aren’t relevant.
The result is a cleaner, calmer interface that lets users focus
more specifically on finding the online information they need.  Some searches naturally invite others’ opinions. What are
the best Chinese restaurants on the  San Francisco  Peninsula? Is
“The Avengers” worth seeing in 3D?  For many others queries, though, the social component is
useless. If I want to know the current student enrollment at
 Yale University , it doesn’t really matter that four of my
 Facebook (FB)  friends studied there, and another lists it as a
“Like.”  Jammed In  Until now, Bing displayed that kind of information amid its
main results in the form of a row of tiny Facebook profile
pictures. The thumbnail photos were so small they were
unrecognizable, and the social-search components, along with
other extraneous material jammed in, resulting in more
scrolling.  In the new layout, the screen is broken into three
components. The left-hand column, the widest, is a clean list of
relevant blue links -- the kind of thing Google used to be known
for before it began salting its results with stuff like the
 “Search, plus Your World”  integration with its  Google (GOOG) + social
network.  If you’ve signed in to Bing with your Facebook ID, a gray
thumbs-up icon appears next to any link endorsed by a friend.
Hovering over the icon opens a bubble identifying who it is.
Otherwise, the results are mercifully clear of clutter.  Next to the main results, a column Microsoft calls Snapshot
includes not only the expected text-based ads and related
searches, but also relevant information that changes as you
hover over an entry with your mouse.  Carlyle’s Rates  When I searched for Manhattan hotels, for instance, the
Snapshot displayed a map locating the top hits. When I hovered
next to the entry for the Carlyle, the Snapshot displayed
reviews from  TripAdvisor  and links to let me check room rates
and availability.  The biggest change, though, is the new third column, a gray
bar running down the right-hand side of the screen. It’s called
the Sidebar and it’s all about social.  When you enter a query, the Sidebar immediately suggests
contacts under the heading “Friends Who Might Know.” For now,
these results are limited to your Facebook friends, but
 Microsoft (MSFT)  says other social networks, such as LinkedIn, Quora
and Foursquare, will be added over time. Clicking on any name
opens a window allowing you to post an inquiry directly to the
friend’s Facebook wall.  For some searches, the Sidebar will also suggest people
outside your own networks -- bloggers, Tweeters and others --who
might be authoritative sources. When I entered “ Ashton Kutcher ,” for instance, Bing displayed a link to the actor’s
Twitter account.  Easy to Hide  Perhaps the best thing about the Sidebar is that it’s easy
to hide. One click collapses it into a thin, gray, non-
distracting band; another click slides it back out to its full
width, for those times when you may be looking for advice along
with your information.  As for the relevance of that advice, a week of using the
new Bing suggests that the social component is still very much a
work in progress.  When I searched for “Palo Alto lunch spots,” Bing not
only gave me the expected  Yelp  links but also suggested two
“Friends Who Might Know:” Julia, who works on the nearby
Stanford University campus, and Felicity, who lives in
neighboring Portola Valley.  Curiously, searching more specifically for “Palo Alto
sandwiches” added a third possible resource: Holly, who lives
in town but whose name was missing from the first search.
Perhaps Holly is a sandwich specialist; I’ll ask next time I see
her.  On the Spot  And when I typed in “alternatives to Google,” Bing
suggested a couple of my Facebook friends who actually work at
Google. I decided not to put them on the spot by asking for
recommendations.  Some Bing users already see the new layout and features
when they log in. Microsoft says everyone accessing the site
from a computer’s Web browser will get the new look within the
next few weeks; in the meantime, a preview is available at
 bing.com/new . Users of  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPads and other tablets will get
the new experience at a later date.  Over time, I expect Bing to grow smarter about finding
useful information for me from my social network. For now, at
least, I’m grateful that it also knows how to get out of my way.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 