-- BioLineRx Draws Approaches for Schizophrenia Pill, CFO Says
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-05-23T10:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/biolinerx-draws-approaches-for-schizophrenia-pill-cfo-says.html
BioLineRx Ltd. (BLRX) , an Israeli drug
development company partly held by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , said it’s been approached by larger drugmakers
interested in developing its experimental schizophrenia pill.  The medicine improved patients’ cognitive function in a
mid-stage trial in 2010 and the company expects results from a
more advanced study next year, Chief Financial Officer Philip Serlin said. Partnership talks will probably “heat up” then,
according to Serlin.  BioLine, based in  Jerusalem , says its BL-1020 drug may turn
out to help patients function better in daily life while anti-
psychotic medicines such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Seroquel and
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Risperdal help quell schizophrenia symptoms
such as hearing voices or violent outbursts.  “The idea is that they can begin functioning as normal
human beings,” Serlin said yesterday in an interview at the
 ILSI-Biomed Conference  in  Tel Aviv . “They can go to the store
and to the post office, keep some kind of job. Ours is the only
product that’s shown a cognitive improvement.”  The antipsychotic therapeutic market has annual sales of
about $13 billion in the U.S., according to BioLine.  Schizophrenia is a mental disorder affecting about 1 in 100
people that makes it hard to distinguish reality, think
logically and behave normally in social settings, according to
the U.S.  National Institute of Mental Health . In addition, many
schizophrenia patients suffer from cognitive impairment, which
affects their ability to lead normal lives.  Heart Shield  BioLine is conducting a clinical test combining Phase II,
or mid-stage trials, and Phase III, the most advanced level, to
examine the drug’s safety as well as cognitive efficacy,
according to Serlin. The next step would be a broader advanced
test funded by a partner.  BioLine’s shares have dropped 22 percent this year as it
raised about $15 million in shares and warrants in February to
fund the development of its drugs. The Tel Aviv Biomed index
gained 3.7 percent in the same period.  The company is also in advanced stages of development for
an injectable treatment that creates a protective shield around
the heart while it recovers after an attack. It has partnered
with closely held Ikaria Inc. of Hampton,  New Jersey , and may
get as much as $285 million if the medicine clears all
regulatory hurdles, Serlin said. So far, BioLine has received
$17 million, he said.  BioLine aims to find promising early-stage drugs in  Israel 
and partner with larger drugmakers to complete their
development. Teva, the world’s biggest maker of generic drugs,
is the third-largest shareholder with a 6.75 percent stake,
according to  Bloomberg data .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  