-- BMW Quadrupling China Capacity Risks Audi-Like Dependence: Cars
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-05-24T07:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bmw-tripling-china-output-risks-audi-like-asian-dependence-cars.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  plans to
quadruple production capacity in China, risking efforts to avoid
overdependence on one market.  The world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles  started
production of the X1 compact sport-utility vehicle today at a
new factory in China, part of a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.9 billion)
expansion. Combined with an existing plant in Da Dong, the Tiexi
facility will boost capacity to as many as 400,000 cars a year
from 100,000, BMW said today, lifting its production target and
investment plans for the country.  The Munich-based manufacturer’s expansion, part of
competition with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi for the luxury-car sales
lead, could increase reliance on China for growth. BMW sold
43,800 more cars globally through the first four months of 2012,
compared with a year earlier, with 60 percent of those
additional sales in China. For Audi, China accounted for 74
percent of its delivery growth of 49,300 vehicles this year,
according to company figures.  Prana Tharthiharan Natarajan, a research analyst at  Frost &
Sullivan  in  Chennai ,  India , points out the conundrum facing the
luxury-car producers.  “There are no other regions that can provide for such
massive numbers of sales as China can,” he said. “In the event
of economic turmoil in China, most German automakers could end
up with hundreds of thousands of unsold cars.”  BMW sold 2 percent of its cars to Chinese customers in
2005. That rate rose to 21 percent of the brand’s sales in the
first four months of this year. The company delivered a  record 
1.67 million cars last year and targets further growth in 2012
thanks to China. Today’s opening makes China the only country
with multiple BMW assembly sites outside  Germany .  Shares Gain  The shares  gained  as much as 77 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
62.58 euros and traded 0.1 percent higher as of 9:44 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 20 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 39.5 billion euros.  A dropoff of Chinese demand would risk more than growth.
Profit could also tumble, with automakers earning as much as
five times more per vehicle in China compared with other markets
because of the tendency of customers there to buy high-end
models loaded with extras, according to August Joas, automotive
partner with consulting company  Oliver Wyman .  Quarter of Profit  That means China accounts for about 25 percent of profit
for Germany’s high-end automakers, said  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt.  “China’s importance for all German premium carmakers is
big, but it’s much better to be dependent on China than on
France or  Italy ,” said Pieper. “Russia and India could be a
substitute, but China will remain the number one for five to 10
years.”  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz has the lowest dependence on
China among the world’s top three luxury car brands. With growth
held back by the changeover to a new generation of the B-Class
compact and limited availability of the M-Class and GLK sport-
utility vehicles, China accounted for just 25 percent of
Mercedes’s sales growth of 37,000 vehicles in the first four
months of 2012.  The Stuttgart-based  automaker  plans to boost its presence
in China to challenge Audi’s lead in the world’s largest car
market. Three compact models are due to be made in China and an
engine factory will start production next year. In December,
Daimler began building the GLK in China, adding to local
assembly of the C-Class and a stretched version of the E-Class.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the top automaker in China, has little
presence in the country’s luxury market. The company said last
month it is preparing a renewed effort to sell Cadillacs in
China.  Audi Lead  Audi got an early head start on the back of VW’s entry into
the market in the 1980s. That advantage has fueled its pursuit
of BMW as it was quicker to tailor models for local demands,
including extended versions of the A4, A6 and A8 sedans. It also
exposes the brand more to the Chinese economy.  “Audi would have significantly bigger problems from a
China slowdown than BMW, which has a better global balance,”
said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen. “Audi
risks becoming dependent on a single country. If China coughs,
the VW Group as a whole has big problems.”  To reduce its exposure to China, Audi plans to build a
factory in  Mexico  to supply vehicles to the U.S. and  South
America . BMW is planning a factory in  Brazil  to target a new
source of growth. The risks of banking on a single market were
made clear when Porsche AG nearly collapsed in the early ‘90s
because of its dependence for revenue on American demand for
sports cars.  Seeking Balance  “We want to achieve a balance between Germany, the U.S. and
China,” Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  told
reporters today at the plant opening. “We do not only expand our
capacities in China in order to balance production globally.”  BMW said today that China sales will rise as much as 30
percent this year.  Still, the efforts by BMW and Audi to wean themselves from
a reliance on  China  may have limited effects. The market is
projected to account for more than 50 percent of the growth of
the top-two upscale carmakers in 2015, with Mercedes only
slightly lower at 47 percent, according to data from researcher
IHS Automotive.  With  Europe  under strain from government spending cuts and
the U.S. still recovering from the financial crisis, there may
be little alternative in the coming years, and Chinese demand
has proven to be resilient to a broader slowdown as BMW, Audi
and Mercedes expand their lineups to include smaller, cheaper
cars. Vehicle sales in China declined 1.3 percent in the first
four months of 2012, while Audi deliveries gained 41 percent,
BMW 35 percent and Mercedes 11 percent.  “It’s a vast market with vast opportunities,” said Oliver
Wyman’s Joas. “Compared with European and North American
markets, the Chinese market has the greatest potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  