-- BOE’s ‘Finely Balanced’ Decision Keeps QE Options Open: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-23T11:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/boe-voted-8-1-on-u-k-stimulus-in-finely-balanced-decision-1-.html
Bank of England  policy makers kept
open the possibility that they may resume stimulus again, saying
a decision to halt bond purchases this month was “finely
balanced” because of risks from the euro area.  While just one of the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
voted to add to quantitative easing on May 10, the central bank
said in the minutes of the meeting published today that there
was a case for injecting more and it could do so if needed.
Separately, Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said more bond
purchases may be needed if conditions “deteriorate
significantly.”  The central bank is keeping the option of more QE alive as
a resurgence of the euro-area debt crisis puts the U.K. into
what Governor  Mervyn King  says is “turbulent waters.” European
leaders meet today to discuss the turmoil and grapple with a
political impasse in  Greece  that’s raised speculation the nation
may leave the 17-nation currency bloc.  “The Bank of England is clearly maintaining an open mind
and a flexible approach,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “Any deterioration
in the underlying growth outlook and it will pull the QE trigger
again.”  The central bank held its bond-purchase target at 325
billion pounds ($511 billion) this month, with  David Miles  the
only MPC member to push for more. It also kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, a unanimous decision.  Bonds Gain  U.K. government bonds rose today, pushing two-, five- and
10-year yields to record lows. The yield on the  10-year gilt 
dropped 8 basis points to 1.787 percent and was at 1.79 percent
as of 11:38 a.m. London time. The pound slipped 0.2 percent to
$1.5724 after touching $1.5680, the weakest since March 15. It
was 0.1 percent stronger against the euro at 80.39 pence.  Data today showed U.K.  retail sales  fell 2.3 percent in
April, the most in more than two years, as record rainfall
reduced demand for clothing and fuel sales plunged. British
manufacturing demand fell to the weakest this year in May and
the outlook “deteriorated sharply,” the  Confederation of
British Industry  said separately.  The Bank of England said that for “several members,” the
decision not to expand the asset-purchase program at this
month’s meeting was “finely balanced.” It said the MPC will
“monitor the outlook each month and further monetary stimulus
could be added if the outlook warranted it.”  IMF View  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that the
central bank should loosen policy further to aid the U.K.
economy, which has slipped into its first double-dip recession
since 1975.  “There was a case for injecting further monetary
stimulus” this month, the MPC said in the minutes. Risks
relating to the euro area “had recently resurfaced and there
was a possibility that they would weigh more heavily than
expected on business and  consumer confidence .”  Policy maker  Adam Posen  has indicated he may be open to
changing his view after ending his call for more QE in April.
Posen, who is due to leave the Bank of England in August, has
said it may have been “premature” to switch his vote as the
U.K. economy might be weaker than he previously thought.  “If conditions do deteriorate significantly, we may need
to restart the program of purchases,” Bean said in a speech
today in Gloucestershire, western England. “The decision at our
May meeting not to extend the program was already quite finely
balanced.”  Inflation Outlook  While inflation is likely to remain above the Bank of
 England ’s 2 percent target for longer than previously
anticipated, the central bank said it still sees it slowing to
below the goal within its forecast period. Inflation eased to 3
percent in April from 3.5 percent in March.  The central published the numerical parameters of its
quarterly forecasts today. The projection put policy makers’
central modal forecast for inflation in two years’ time at 1.58
percent, compared with an estimate of 1.78 percent in February.  The central bank also said that economic growth will remain
weak in the near term before strengthening. In its report, the
CBI said an index of  factory orders  dropped to minus 17 from
minus 8 in April, the lowest since December.  Elsewhere in  Europe , data showed Italian  consumer
confidence  plunged to its lowest in more than 15 years in May as
government spending cuts deepen a recession.  In  Asia ,  China  International Capital Corp. said a Greek
exit from the euro could drag China’s economic growth to 6.4
percent this year by weakening global expansion. That would be
the least since 1990, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan  reported lower-than-estimated exports and a  wider
trade deficit  for April, underscoring risks to the economy’s
recovery a day after  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s debt rating.
Exports rose 7.9 percent from a year earlier, less than the 11.8
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., a report today may show demand for  new homes 
increased in April as lower prices and mortgage interest rates
drew buyers, according to economists. Purchases rose at a
335,000 annual rate, up 2.1 percent from 328,000 in March,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The Commerce Department’s
report is due at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  