-- BofA Will Buy Back $330 Million of Mortgages From Freddie
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-23T21:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bofa-will-buy-back-330-million-of-mortgages-from-freddie.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, will buy back $330 million of home loans
from Freddie Mac, the mortgage company seized by the government,
after flaws were found in how they were created.  Payments on the “vast majority” of the loans are current,
according to  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac
disclosed the buybacks in a statement yesterday, without
directly citing the lender.  Bank of America agreed to the refunds “because the
valuation method used at origination did not meet the investor’s
technical requirements,” Frahm said in an e-mail, adding that
the flaws have been fixed.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is seeking to
limit further losses at the bank after booking more than $42
billion in costs tied to defective home loans. Buyers and
insurers of mortgage securities have demanded compensation for
shoddy debt created by Countrywide Financial Corp., which Bank
of America bought in 2008 when the target ranked as the nation’s
 biggest  residential lender.  Freddie Mac  and Bank of America announced a $1.28 billion
settlement in January 2011 over bad loans sold through 2008 by
Countrywide. Other business between the companies wasn’t covered
by the deal, and at least some of the loans covered by Freddie
Mac’s latest announcement have more recent origination dates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Appraisal Methods  “The loans were underwritten using alternative valuation
methods that were prohibited for use in the underwriting of the
particular types of mortgages involved,”  Brad German , a
spokesman for Freddie Mac, said in an e-mail. Affected mortgage
bonds had “fairly high” concentrations of loans on two- to
four-unit properties, according to analysts at Nomura Securities
International Inc.  Home valuations  can involve the use of
licensed appraisers or computer models.  Analysts speculated that the claim was tied to a change in
how mortgages are reviewed that was disclosed earlier this year
after the  inspector general  for the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , the regulator for Freddie Mac, criticized the firm’s
earlier deal with Bank of America.  “These loans were not subject to any revised loan sampling
methodology,” German said. “While the repurchase transaction
followed our normal course of business, we believe the contract
violations that triggered it constituted a one-time occurrence
by the lender.”  Banks sell mortgages to investors and government-backed
enterprises with a promise to buy them back if data on
borrowers, their income or the property later turn out to be
false.  Backlog Expands  Bank of America’s backlog of pending demands for refunds on
soured loans reached a record $16.1 billion in the  first quarter 
as a dispute deepened between the bank and  Fannie Mae , the other
U.S.-controlled mortgage buyer, which stopped accepting new
loans from Bank of America in January. The government bailed out
and seized both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac during the credit
crunch.  Moynihan told investors at a conference this week that
reserves will blunt the costs of claims and litigation. “A lot
of that has been put on the balance sheet,” he said.  Bank of America’s buyback of the loans, which are now
packaged into securities guaranteed by Freddie Mac, will damage
bond investors while the lender winds up owning mortgages that
pay more interest than it could get from making new ones at
today’s prevailing rates.  Interest Rates  The weighted average interest rate on loans in the
securities listed in Freddie Mac’s statement as most affected by
the buybacks is 5.91 percent, compared with typical rates on new
loans of less than 4 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The loans to be repurchased account for 52 percent of the
collateral for those bonds, which are trading at almost 110
cents on the dollar, according to Bloomberg Valuation prices.
Investors will be paid off at par -- 100 cents on the dollar --
and lose the above-market  interest rates .  Investors holding similar mortgage-backed securities may be
concerned they’ll suffer the same fate, Barclays Plc analysts
including Nicholas Strand, Sandipan Deb and Siddarth Ramkumar
wrote in a report. Bond buyers are wondering whether “similar
buyouts are being considered or being implemented at Fannie
Mae,” the Barclays analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  