-- Azumi Calls for Appropriate Step as BOJ Refrains From Easing
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-05-23T11:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/boj-keeps-policies-unchanged-as-analysts-see-more-easing-by-july.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
called on the central bank to further ease policy moments before
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from adding monetary stimulus.  “The BOJ must firmly pursue monetary easing to achieve its
1 percent inflation goal,” Azumi told lawmakers in parliament
in  Tokyo  today. The central bank left its asset-purchase and
credit-loan programs unchanged, as anticipated by all 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Azumi told reporters after the decision that the BOJ had
already taken “drastic” steps last month when they pledged to
increase their purchases of  government bonds  and reiterated that
he hopes they will take “appropriate” policy measures. Half of
the economists surveyed anticipate the central bank will add
stimulus by July, when its price forecasts will indicate any
progress in countering  decade-long deflation .  The finance chief’s call for more easing “is a reflection
of most market participants and maybe even the public in  Japan ,
in that they want the BOJ to do something to stimulate the
economy,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “One of the
BOJ’s important roles is to prevent the strengthening of the yen
with further easing.”  The BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund at 40 trillion yen
($501 billion), after expanding it by 10 trillion yen last
month, and a credit-lending program at 30 trillion yen, it said
in a statement in Tokyo today. The policy board kept the key
 overnight lending rate  between zero and 0.1 percent.  ‘Timely Manner’  “The BOJ already implemented drastic monetary easing
measures last month,” Azumi told reporters. “I expect the
central bank to take appropriate steps in a timely manner.”  The Japanese currency traded at 79.54 per dollar as of
12:34 p.m. in Tokyo, climbing immediately after the BOJ
decision. The yen has advanced more than 2 percent in the past
month amid growing instability in  Greece . The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell to a four-month low last week and dropped 1.5
percent today.  “There is absolutely no change in the BOJ’s stance to
pursue powerful monetary easing,” Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
said at a press conference after the monetary meeting today when
asked why the bank’s statement only said it will “conduct
policy in an appropriate manner.”  The statement also didn’t mention a 1 percent inflation
goal announced in February.  ‘Unlimited Expectations’  The central bank “probably wanted to control the fire of
unlimited expectations for additional easing from politicians
and the market,” said Katsutoshi Inadome, a fixed-income
strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co.  Fitch Ratings yesterday lowered Japan’s credit rating and
escalated pressure on the government to raise the  sales tax , as
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned
the nation’s debt is heading into “uncharted territory.”  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  also said today the central
bank and government need to work together to overcome deflation
and that he hopes the central bank will do what it can to
achieve a 1 percent inflation goal unveiled in February.  “Until the sales tax bill passes through parliament, it’ll
be a tough situation for the BOJ,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief
economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo and a
former official at the central bank. “There’s a good chance
that the BOJ will be pushed into additional easing if political
pressure increases.”  Sales Tax  Japan must uphold its pledge to start raising the sales tax
in 2014 to control a public debt burden forecast to exceed 220
percent of gross domestic product next year, the Paris-based
OECD wrote in a report yesterday. Noda’s plans to increase the
levy have been met by opposition from lawmakers.  “Developments in  Europe  are the key factor in determining
when more BOJ stimulus will come” because a slowing global
economy may make it harder for the central bank to achieve its 1
percent inflation goal, said Akio Makabe, an economics professor
at  Shinshu University  in central Japan.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread has prompted
investors to seek refuge in safe assets. Japan’s 10-year bond
yields fell to a nine-year low and the same-term yield for
German bunds dropped to all-time low last week. A regular BOJ
buying operation, known as Rinban, on May 18 didn’t attract
enough offers, which hasn’t happened since 2006.  Asset Purchases  The central bank doesn’t think it’s difficult to fulfill
asset purchases as planned, Shirakawa said. He indicated a
failure to draw sufficient offers was temporary by saying that
this was caused by low yields and a so-called flight to quality.  Analysts including Yoshiki Shinke, chief economist at the
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, forecast Japan’s
economy to slow because reconstruction demand will fade after it
grew at an  annualized 4.1 percent pace  in the three months ended
March 31.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s biggest maker of
automotive microcontrollers, plans to cut about 6,000 jobs or
the 15 percent of total workforce, the Yomiuri Newspaper
reported yesterday without identifying its source.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  