-- Brazil Sells Swaps, Mexico Auctions Dollars to Boost Currencies
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-05-23T21:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/brazilian-real-gains-from-three-year-low-on-swap-speculation.html
Brazil ’s real had the biggest gain in
seven months and Mexico’s peso pared losses after policy makers
in both countries propped up their currencies amid a selloff in
emerging-market assets.  The real rose 2.8 percent to 2.0326 per  U.S. dollar  at the
close in Sao Paulo after the central bank sold currency swap
contracts at an auction for the third time in the past week. The
peso fell 0.6 percent to 13.9887 per U.S. dollar, paring losses
of as much as 1.2 percent after the monetary authority sold $258
million at an auction.  The real has suffered from an “aversion to risk” as it
plunged 6.1 percent this month, said Carlos Hamilton, the
Brazilian central bank’s director of economic policy. What
concerns policy makers is excess volatility, not any particular
 exchange rate , Hamilton said at an event in Curitiba.  The Brazilian central bank’s swap auctions, aimed at
bolstering the real, are a reversal from last month’s policy of
stepped-up dollar purchases aimed at weakening the currency to
help exporters. Policy makers bought $7.2 billion in the  spot
market  in April, the most since $8.4 billion in March 2011.  “The central bank noticed that the market was not
functioning adequately in terms of liquidity and volatility and
decided to take action,” Hamilton said. “You try to re-
establish liquidity, bring volatility to more reasonable
levels.”  Mexico sold the dollars for the first time since 2009,
auctioning the U.S. currency at an average exchange rate of
14.01 pesos per dollar, according to a statement on its website.
Since November, it has been offering $400 million daily at an
exchange rate that’s at least 2 percent weaker than the previous
day’s official fix level.  Currency Speculators  “The idea is to prevent speculators from artificially
taking the exchange rate to levels that are too high,” Mario
Copca, a currency strategist at Metanalisis SA, said in a
telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “We saw it function.”  Mexico’s currency has lost 7 percent this month as
speculation mounts that newly elected European leaders will shun
austerity measures and that  Greece  will exit the euro. Concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis would drag on global growth and
Mexican exports helped make the peso the worst performing major
Latin American currency in 2011.  The euro sank to a 22-month low, while global stocks and
commodities tumbled. The yen and dollar strengthened while
German bunds and  U.S. Treasuries  rose. Oil dipped below $90 a
barrel for the first time since November.  Swap Sales  In Brazil, the central bank sold swaps twice yesterday in a
bid to slow declines as the currency headed for the weakest
level since May 2009. The real has fallen 8.2 percent this year,
leading declines among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real has weakened amid speculation that stimulus
measures by President  Dilma Rousseff  this week, including lower
 reserve requirements  to boost bank lending and a reduction of
taxes on vehicle purchases, may not be enough to revive economic
growth,  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America fixed-income
strategy at Jefferies & Co., said by phone.  “It’s not working,” Morden said from New York. “The
economy will probably grow less than three percent this year.”  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 8.34 percent as traders increased bets on reductions
to the benchmark lending rate. The yield touched a record low
8.05 percent on May 18.  ‘Grave’ Scenario  “The more grave the foreign scenario, the more room the
central bank will have to cut rates,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said by phone from  Sao
Paulo .  Brazil’s economic expansion faltered in the first quarter
even as the government cut borrowing costs to near record lows,
reduced taxes on home appliances and boosted subsidized credit.
Economists have been cutting their forecast for growth this
year, after activity unexpectedly contracted in March.  Analysts expect GDP to expand 3.09 percent in 2012,
compared with 3.20 percent a week earlier, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey published May 21.  The government is considering additional measures including
freeing up more reserve requirements to boost credit if
liquidity doesn’t improve, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
yesterday in testimony before the Senate. Mantega said Brazil
won’t need further growth stimulus in the second half of the
year as the economy picks up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  