-- BSkyB Wins Regulatory Movie Business Reprieve on Netflix
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-23T07:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/bskyb-faces-competition-in-movies-from-netflix-commission-says.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  no
longer has too much control over pay-TV movie rights following
rising competition from online services  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Lovefilm, according to a U.K. regulator.  The new offerings have loosened BSkyB’s dominance over
first rights to show films, the  Competition Commission  said
today in a statement, in a reverse of its earlier findings. The
regulator provisionally found in August that BSkyB’s control
over the market led to higher prices and reduced choice for
subscribers.  “Competition between providers of movie services on pay TV
has changed materially and, as a result of these changes,
consumers now have much greater choice,” Laura Carstensen, who
ran the regulator’s investigation, said in the statement.
“Lovefilm and Netflix offer services which are attractive to
many consumers and they appear sufficiently well resourced to be
in a position to improve the range and quality of their content
further.”  Web Competition  BSkyB, the nation’s largest pay-TV provider with more than
10 million subscribers, is facing increased competition from
Internet TV services after U.S. streaming-service Netflix
started offering movies and TV shows in the U.K. in January and
Lovefilm expanded its service in the same month. The commission
said previously that it was considering forcing BSkyB to resell
movie content to rivals.  In response, BSkyB is bringing out its own Web-television
service, dubbed Now TV, to gain new customers.  BSkyB shares rose as much as 0.9 percent to 697 pence and
were up 0.7 percent at 8:53 a.m. in  London . The stock has
slipped 5 percent this year.  BSkyB holds exclusive first rights to play releases from
major Hollywood studios and the Isleworth, England-based
company’s size has made it difficult for smaller rivals to bid
against it, the commission said in August.  BSkyB said it will continue to engage with the commission
during the final stage of the investigation. Media regulator
Ofcom had formerly required the broadcaster to wholesale its
sports content, a decision challenged by BSkyB.  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s second-largest pay TV
company, said today it “strongly disagrees” with the
commission’s findings. “The recent emergence of providers, such
as Lovefilm and Netflix, has done nothing to impact Sky’s
advantage,” the company said today in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  