-- Buffett’s Idiot Challenge Seized by Jain in Premium Hunt
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/buffett-s-idiot-challenge-seized-by-jain-in-premium-growth-hunt.html
Ajit Jain, who helped build  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  into a $200 billion firm by underwriting risks
that others shunned, is hunting for insurance-premium growth
that his boss  Warren Buffett  says may be a thing of the past.  The funds that Berkshire holds before paying out claims may
decline after swelling to more than $70 billion last year from
$39 million in 1970, Buffett said in a February  letter  to
shareholders. The billionaire has used the premiums, called
float, for acquisitions and investments to fuel expansion over
the past four decades. According to Buffett, Jain took the
letter as a challenge.  Jain wants me to “look like an idiot,” the billionaire
said May 5, drawing laughter from an audience of thousands of
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Berkshire’s increasing float has mirrored its climbing
stock price during the past quarter century and been used by
investors to value the firm. Buffett’s prediction highlights the
dilemma facing Jain as he seeks new long-term liabilities.  “How many more big parcels of risk can he buy?” Todd Bault, global risk and insurance analyst at Sector & Sovereign
Research LLC, said in a phone interview. “You’d have to find
companies that completely want to run off risk.”  Buffett, 81, has praised Jain for his skill in selecting
risks at the right prices. The reinsurance chief accumulated $34
billion in float since joining Berkshire in 1985, “a feat that
no CEO of any other insurer has come close to matching,” the
billionaire wrote in the letter. He didn’t respond to a request
for comment sent to an assistant. Jain declined to comment.  ‘The Big Hitter’  Much of the growth in float has come from retroactive
reinsurance, in which Berkshire assumes responsibility for
events that have already occurred. Jain’s Berkshire Hathaway
Reinsurance Group has struck some of the largest deals of this
kind, including an asbestos-related contract with Equitas Ltd.
to assume as much as  $13.9 billion  of liabilities that once
threatened the Lloyd’s of  London  marketplace.  “Ajit’s the big-hitter,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW
Inc., said in a phone interview. “The big, notable deals come
from him.”  Buffett has reduced Berkshire’s  reliance on insurance  by
adding manufacturing operations and railroad Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe  as he prepares the company for his eventual departure.
The billionaire plans to have his roles divided after he leaves,
with his son  Howard Buffett  serving as non-executive chairman
and former hedge-fund managers Ted Weschler and Todd Combs
overseeing investments.  CEO Succession  Jain, 60, would win the support of the board if he sought
to become chief executive officer, the billionaire said last
year at a news conference. Berkshire’s directors have selected a
person for the role and have two backups, according to the
February letter that didn’t identify the individuals.  The next CEO will be responsible for  managing risk  and
overseeing an insurance business that benefitted from Buffett’s
ability to invest premiums before the funds were needed to pay
claims. Jain’s reinsurance deals can take years to pay out,
giving Buffett time to invest, said Gallant, while other kinds
of coverage, such as auto insurance written by Berkshire’s Geico
unit, are shorter term.  New sources of float with a longer duration could include
taking on risks from life insurers, such as Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc., said  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., in a phone interview. Berkshire has taken over
life-insurance liabilities from Swiss Re Ltd. and Sun Life
Financial Inc. A spokesman for Hartford declined to comment.  ‘Lot of Turmoil’  Another option might be to take on risks from companies in
 Europe  that need to strengthen their balance sheets amid the
Continent’s debt crisis, said KBW’s Gallant. Greenlight Capital
Re Ltd., the reinsurer with a board led by hedge-fund manager
 David Einhorn , has said regulatory changes and Europe’s
financial troubles may create opportunities to sell coverage.  “There’s a lot of turmoil out in the world,” said
Gallant. “If any reinsurer has any financial difficulty,
problems with liquidity, balance-sheet stress, Berkshire
Hathaway Reinsurance Group is out there to help.”  Jain could also increase float through acquisitions. He bid
on Transatlantic Holdings Inc. last year, then withdrew his
offer before Alleghany Corp. purchased the reinsurer.  Berkshire is unlikely to take on much more asbestos
liability because Jain may be looking to diversify risks, said
Shields. In addition to the Equitas deal, Buffett’s firm agreed
to bear costs that may exceed $8 billion from American
International Group Inc., CNA Financial Corp. and Ace Ltd. The
contracts cover liabilities tied to asbestos, the building
material linked to respiratory illness and cancer.  ‘The Big Slugs’  “They’ve gotten most of the big slugs,” said Shields. “I
don’t know that they want a monopoly on that.”  Float may decline in part because some of Jain’s contracts
are ending. One of the deals, in which Berkshire agreed to
assume 20 percent of almost all the property-casualty losses for
Swiss Re on contracts providing coverage from the beginning of
2008 to the end of this year, probably won’t be renewed,
according to regulatory filings.  If the increase in float stalls, Berkshire will rely more
on operating companies, including BNSF, for growth. Buffett’s
firm surged in the 24 years ended Dec. 31 at a compound annual
rate of about 16 percent as float grew 17 percent a year.
Expansion slowed in the past decade to 4.3 percent for the stock
and 7.1 percent for the float.  “Float is the rocket fuel behind Berkshire’s long-term,
extraordinary track record,” said  Whitney Tilson , founder and
managing partner of T2 Partners LLC, which holds Berkshire
shares. “If float slows down and stagnates, Berkshire will not
be able to grow as fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  