-- Burberry Says Investments to Weigh on First-Half Margins
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-05-23T10:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/burberry-full-year-profit-gains-26-as-sales-rise-in-all-regions.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods company, said profitability may decline in
the first half of the fiscal year as it boosts spending on new
stores and digital platforms.  Investment will be weighted toward the first six months of
the year and the company still expects a “modest” improvement
in the operating margin of its retail and wholesale businesses
for the year, London-based Burberry said today as it reported a
26 percent profit increase that met analysts’ estimates.  Burberry fell as much as 7.2 percent in  London  trading, the
 steepest drop  since Sept. 30. The trench coat maker said it
plans to spend a third of its 180 million-pound ($283 million)
to 200 million-pound capital expenditure budget on larger stores
this year, including in London,  Chicago  and  Hong Kong . Average
retail space will increase by 12 percent to 14 percent, it said.  The margin forecast was “the major surprise,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum Capital in London, wrote in a note
to clients. “Presumably the company is taking a cautious
approach to the sales ramp up,” particularly in more expensive
western markets, said Irwin, who recommends buying the shares.  Burberry fell 2.5 percent to 1,352 pence as of 11:13 a.m.
in London, trimming the stock’s gain this year to 14 percent.  Adjusted pretax profit in the 12 months ended March 31 rose
to 376.2 million pounds, Burberry said. The average  estimate  of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 375.6 million pounds.  Mainline Stores  Europe’s debt crisis and slowing economic growth in  China 
have so far failed to dent demand for high-end goods.  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, (MC)  the world’s largest maker of luxury
products, said last month that sales were accelerating.  Burberry said it will open 15 so-called mainline stores,
net of closures, this year, mainly in  emerging markets  and
cities with high tourist inflows. The increase in average retail
space will boost sales 8 percent to 9 percent, Chief Financial
Officer Stacey Cartwright said at a presentation in London. The
lower sales density per square foot in the larger stores won’t
hurt margins, Cartwright said.  “We will continue to invest in front-end opportunities
within our brand, digital and retail strategies,” Chief
Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts said in the statement, adding
that the company is “vigilant about the external environment.”  Burberry is prepared to react should the need arise,
Cartwright said.  Licensing Revenue  The company predicted that underlying wholesale revenue
will rise by a mid-single-digit percentage in the first half of
the new fiscal year, even as it continues closing some accounts
in  Europe  and the U.S. Growth of at least 10 percent is expected
at key U.S. department-store outlets, emerging-market franchise
partners and travel retail stores in  Asia , Burberry said.  Licensing revenue will be broadly unchanged in the year
ahead, with double-digit percentage underlying growth at global
product licenses offset by the planned termination and reduction
of Japanese non-apparel licenses, Burberry said.  Talks continue with Interparfums regarding the potential
establishment of a new operating model for the Burberry
fragrance and beauty business, the company also said today.  Burberry increased its annual  dividend  by 25 percent to 25
pence a share.  Net income rose to 263.3 million pounds from 208.4 million
pounds, trailing the 273.7 million-pound average estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  