-- Burlesque Circus May Bring Months of Times Square Protest
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-23T20:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/burlesque-circus-may-bring-months-of-times-square-protest.html
“I feel a bit of tension,” the host
of “ Empire ,” a new Times Square burlesque circus, said onstage
last night at the first preview. “I’m going to break the
tension by licking this man’s head.”  Lick he did, and the bald man in the first row smiled
during the scalp cleaning. The tension, from a noisy labor
standoff outside on West 45th Street, may not dissipate soon.  Before and during the 90-minute show, dozens of union
stagehands wearing blue earplugs blew whistles and squeezed air
horns. Barring an eleventh-hour contract to employ members of
 Local One of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage
Employeees , they’ll return tonight to protest the nonunion
labor inside, said Bruce Cohen, a Local One spokesman.  “This is a long-term fight,” Cohen said in telephone
interview. The show is scheduled to run through Sept. 2.  Inside the wooden structure, on a vacant lot owned by
Related Companies and  Boston Properties (BXP) , the show went on,
albeit an hour after the 7:30 p.m. advertised start. The noisy
picketing was largely, but not entirely, muffled by a rock
score.  “It’s their right to protest,” Ross Mollison, a producer
of the show, said in an interview after the preview. “The
whistles added to the ambience.”  Union officials say they merit jobs at “Empire” partly
because the circus tent is within the unionized Broadway theater
district.  Get Lost  Mollison said he has no plans to hire them.  “We’re an off-Broadway house and want to keep off-Broadway
prices,” he said. “There are other off-Broadway theaters in
the Theater District. Why are we being targeted?”  Ben Sprecher, a producer who walked by the protest,
expressed astonishment that stagehands were nonunion. “Look
where you are,” he said. “It’s unbelievable. I’m shocked.”  Responded Mollison: “There has never been a circus under
canvas in Times Square in recorded history,” he said. “Where
does their jurisdiction come from?”  The producer, who introduced a similar show in  New York  in
2006 at the South Street Seaport, said weekly running costs are
about $100,000. “Every time you add $1,000 a week it’s a big
deal.”  James J. Claffey, president of Local One, said yesterday
that hiring two or three union stagehands wouldn’t add much to
production costs. In the meantime, stagehands outside “Empire”
critiqued the work of the nonunion labor.  “Look at the construction of the step,” said Dan Gilloon,
a freelance Local One technician, as he regarded the one built
at the entrance moments before the first preview. “It’s
unsupported. I can’t believe it conforms to the fire code.”  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 