-- California Tobacco Tax Pits Lance Armstrong Versus Altria
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/california-tobacco-tax-pits-lance-armstrong-versus-altria.html
Lance Armstrong, the cycling champion
and cancer survivor, is putting $1.5 million behind a ballot
measure to add $1 a pack to California’s  cigarette  tax, even as
the tobacco industry has put up most of $40.7 million aimed at
stopping it.  Voters in the June 5 presidential primary election will
decide whether to raise the tax to $1.87 a pack and steer the
additional revenue toward  cancer research  and stop-smoking
programs. Leading the opposition are  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the parent of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, the
two biggest sellers in the U.S.  “I resent the tobacco industry’s ability to influence
public policy in their favor, time and time again, for a product
that kills when used as directed,” Armstrong said through a
spokeswoman, Katherine McLane.  His nonprofit cancer charity, Livestrong, is supporting
Proposition 29 along with the  American Cancer Society  and the
 American Heart Association . Armstrong overcame testicular cancer
to win the Tour de France seven times.  If the measure is approved, California would become the
latest state using a tax increase to raise the price of tobacco
products to discourage smoking. Consumers pay the highest state
tax at $4.35 a pack in New York, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Nationally, the  average  state
tax is $1.46.  The proposed  California  increase would push the average
price of a pack to about $7.50, said Brian Miller, a spokesman
for the Equalization Board, the state’s tax administrator,
citing the nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office.  Unchanged Since 1998  Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death and
illness in the U.S., according to the CDC. The agency said
California hasn’t raised its 87-cents-a-pack tax since 1998.  Altria, through its subsidiary companies Philip Morris USA,
John Middleton Co. and U.S. Smokeless Tobacco, has given a
combined $27.3 million to defeat Proposition 29, according to
campaign  data  compiled by MapLight, a nonpartisan research
organization based in Berkeley that tracks campaign donations.  “Altria opposes additional targeted tax increases on
tobacco,” David Sutton, a spokesman for Richmond, Virginia-
based Altria, said by e-mail. He called the ballot initiative a
“flawed” measure.  Reynolds American’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, American Snuff
and  Santa Fe  Natural Tobacco units gave $12.1 million, according
to MapLight data. Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina , announced in March that it plans to cut 10 percent of
its U.S. workforce by the end of 2014 as demand for cigarettes
 wanes . A Reynolds spokesman, David P. Howard, referred questions
to a coalition opposing the measure.  Republican Party Donor  The California Republican Party contributed $1.2 million to
fight the proposal, according to MapLight.  “I can think of a lot better uses for $40 million, like
saving lives from cancer and other lethal diseases caused by
tobacco,” Armstrong said.  Opponents  say the initiative creates a nine-member
committee to administer the funds that would duplicate existing
programs and have little accountability to taxpayers.  “The language in the initiative is so ambiguous that it
leaves opportunity for fraud and personal benefit,” George Runner, a member of the Equalization Board who spoke for the
opposition, said by telephone. “And there is no ability for the
Legislature to step back in and correct those loopholes.”  The proponents have raised about $8.6 million, according to
MapLight, including $500,000 from New York Mayor  Michael
Bloomberg  and $10,000 from Marc Benioff, chief executive officer
of San Francisco-based  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest seller
of online customer-management software. The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  $735 Million Tax  The tax would generate about $735 million a year by fiscal
2014, the legislative analyst estimated.  The committee would be subject to audits, and there are
provisions in the measure to guard against fraud and conflict of
interest, said Jim Knox, vice president of legislative advocacy
in the California division of the American Cancer Society, in a
telephone interview.  “This is a smokescreen from the  tobacco companies ,” Knox
said. “They’re donating this money because they know that
increasing the tax will reduce sales and cut their profits.”  The $49.3 million raised in the cigarette-tax battle falls
short of a state record, said Daniel Newman, MapLight president.
Proposition 8, the 2008 measure that put an end to same-sex
marriages in California, garnered nearly $107 million, according
to the Helena, Montana-based National Institute on Money in
State Politics.  Financial Stakes  The amount of cash flowing into the opposition effort isn’t
unusual, Newman said.  “When there’s a financial interest in the success or
failure of the initiative, the corporation can afford to spend
as much as it needs because of the financial stakes involved,”
Newman said.  Matthew Lanford, 41, owner of Santa Barbara Cigar &
Tobacco, gave $1,000 in March to oppose the measure.  “A dollar on a pack of cigarettes -- people will adjust to
that,” Lanford, who has owned his business for 16 years, said
by telephone. “They are $10 a pack in  New York  and people are
still buying them.”  Smokers will go to neighboring  Nevada  or  Arizona  and buy
cartons at a time, he said. The state excise tax is 80 cents a
pack in Nevada and $2 in Arizona, according to the CDC’s Office
on Smoking and Health.  Test for Brown  The outcome of California’s cigarette tax vote may indicate
the level of support for Governor  Jerry Brown ’s ballot
initiative in November that would temporarily raise income and
sales taxes to help close a $15.7 billion  budget deficit .  “We will know a lot more on June 5, when that tobacco tax
measure is voted on,” said Bill Whalen, a fellow at the Hoover
Institution at  Stanford University , near  Palo Alto .  “If California voters do not sign off on an increase of
cigarette taxes in a very nonsmoking state, and punishing
tobacco companies that nobody likes, courtesy of ads featuring a
cancer victim and  Lance Armstrong , I’m not sure what tax
increase can pass.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  