-- Calpers Joins Two Pension Funds Opposing Wal-Mart Directors
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-05-23T21:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/calpers-joins-two-pension-funds-in-opposing-wal-mart-directors.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  plans to vote against the re-election of nine
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  directors following allegations that
executives bribed Mexican officials.  Calpers, the pension fund for state employees, made the
statement today on its corporate governance  website . The fund
will vote against directors who were in a position of authority
or oversight in 2005, when a senior Wal-Mart lawyer received
bribery allegations that may have been covered up by executives
and directors, according to a  New York  Times story last month.  The California asset manager, which held less than 1
percent of Wal-Mart as of March 31, is the among investors
coming out against Wal-Mart directors. This month, the New York
City Pension Fund said it will vote against five directors. The
California State Teachers Retirement System said yesterday it
will vote down the entire board when the world’s largest
retailer holds its annual meeting June 1.  Connecticut State Treasurer Denise Nappier said today in a
statement that the state’s pension fund also will vote its Wal-
Mart shares against seven directors, including Chairman Rob
Walton, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  and retired CEO  Lee
Scott . Connecticut Retirement Plans & Trust Funds owns $38
million in Wal-Mart shares and bonds.  Advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. has
also recommended against re-electing four directors.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, said on April 23
it is cooperating with investigations by the Department of
Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission that the
company violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by
bribing Mexican officials to open stores more quickly.  The retailer rose 1.3 percent to $64.58 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 8.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  