-- Canada’s Dollar Slides to 4-Month Low on Europe Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-23T21:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/canadian-currency-remains-lower-after-retail-sales-rose-in-march.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened to a four-
month low versus its U.S. counterpart as concern European Union
leaders will fail to introduce new measures to stem the euro
bloc’s debt crisis damped demand for higher-yielding assets.  The currency fell versus half of its 16 most-traded peers
as a gain in retail sales failed to boost bets the Bank of
Canada will raise  interest rates  by year-end. Investors sought
safety as EU-nation leaders met in Brussels at a dinner. New
Greek elections are scheduled for June 17 after an anti-
austerity party took second place in an inconclusive round of
voting on May 6.  “The market is really confused about Greece and with the
talk about whether they want to stay within the euro,” said
 Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto. “Canada’s
fundamentals are pretty strong, so in this risk-off environment,
Canada is one of the less-worse currency choices.”  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0252 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0296, the weakest level since Jan. 9. One Canadian dollar
purchases 97.54 U.S. cents.  Commodities fell, damping demand for assets linked to
growth. July futures for crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
touched a six-month low of $89.28 a barrel in New York, and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials  dropped 1.9
percent. Raw materials including oil account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue.  Canada’s currency pared losses as U.S. stocks reversed a
retreat. The  S&P 500 Index  ended the day up 0.2 percent after
tumbling as much as 1.5 percent.  Loonie Versus Aussie  The loonie reached the strongest level versus its
Australian counterpart since October, advancing as much as 0.6
percent to 99.56 Canadian cents before trading at 99.92 cents,
up 0.2 percent. Australia is also a commodities exporter.  The 14-day relative-strength index for the Canadian dollar
versus the greenback fell to 29, suggesting the loonie is headed
for a reversal of recent losses. A reading below 30 signals a
currency is oversold and may be poised for a correction.  Canada’s dollar has weakened 4.3 percent versus the
greenback since touching a seven-month high of 98 cents April
27. The currency may slide to C$1.0350 if it depreciates through
C$1.0250, Toronto-Dominion’s Osborne said.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on
benchmark  10-year notes  down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.88 percent. It touched 1.85 percent, the
lowest level since December. Two-year yields tumbled six basis
points to 1.15 percent.  Bond Auction  The government sold C$1.4 billion ($1.36 billion) of 30-
year bonds, fetching an average yield of 2.413 percent,
according to a statement on a  Bank of Canada  website. The 3.5
percent securities mature in December 2045.  The auction drew C$3.6 billion in bids for the debt, making
the ratio of the amount bid to the amount sold 2.59 times. That
compared with an average bid-to-cover ratio of 2.58 at the past
four sales of long-term securities.  The loonie remained lower after  Statistics Canada  reported
that  retail sales  increased 0.4 percent in March to C$39.1
billion following a 0.2 percent drop the prior month. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast an increase of 0.3 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last month
interest-rate increases may be necessary as growth and inflation
outpace his earlier projections, and as slack disappears from
the economy. Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1
percent since September 2010.  Interest-Rate Bets  Odds of a rate boost by year-end were at 18 percent today,
compared with 41 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on trading in overnight index swaps.  The yen rose against most major currencies today as
investors sought safety on the prospect of  Greece ’s exit from
the euro.  “We’ll take our cues from what is going on in Europe, as
it dictates  market sentiment , but for now it seems pretty
negative,” said Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal. “The market is certainly
trading with a nervous bias.”  The loonie advanced 0.3 percent over the past month against
nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar strengthened 4.6 percent, and
the yen climbed 7.3 percent amid refuge demand. The euro
weakened 0.8 percent.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today’s meeting
will focus on debating ideas that will presented at the next EU
leaders’ meeting in June and won’t result in decisions. He spoke
as he arrived for the session.  French President  Francois Hollande , who took office last
week, challenged Germany’s handling of the financial crisis,
calling for joint borrowing and looser conditions for cash
injections into struggling banks. He spoke to reporters before
heading to Brussels for his first European summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  