-- CP Strike Blocks Freight as Raitt Plans Back-to-Work Bill
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-23T21:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/canadian-pacific-strike-starts-snarling-rail-shipments.html
A Teamsters strike on  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s freight network is snarling cargo
shipments and frustrating customers who rely on the country’s
second-largest rail carrier to deliver supplies and carry
products to buyers.  Talks between Canadian Pacific and its biggest union
resumed today after negotiations overseen by Labor Minister Lisa Raitt yesterday failed to prevent the work stoppage. The strike
halted the company’s fuel shipments to mines nationwide as well
as deliveries of grain and oilseed from growers.  “I am disappointed that the parties have not been able to
reach agreements despite federal assistance,” said Raitt, whose
office will introduce a bill to end the strike when Parliament
returns May 28, if needed. “We are prepared to act in the
interest of the national economy.”  Raitt said her office is concerned about the economic
impact of the strike, which she estimated at C$540 million ($526
million) a week in a prolonged stoppage.  Canadian Pacific  will cooperate with any decision made by
Parliament,  Ed Greenberg , a railway spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  “We have indicated to all parties that we are willing to
continue negotiations or enter binding arbitration,” he said.
“If the Teamsters don’t agree, we strongly urge the federal
government to take definitive action.”  Grain Deliveries  In addition to hampering supplies to mines, the strike will
prevent them from delivering their products, destabilizing the
natural resources industry as the economy tries to recover from
a recession, the Mining Association of  Canada  said. The  mining
industry  makes up more than 50 percent of annual freight revenue
for Canada’s railroads, the Ottawa-based group said.  The Grain Growers of Canada, which represents grain and
oilseed producers, said the blocked deliveries deprive its
members of cash payments needed to cover bills. The strike also
causes overseas customers to hesitate on buying Canadian crops.  Customers say “‘We’d like to buy from Canada, but if we
can’t be sure we’re going to get it here on time, then we’ll go
elsewhere,’” said  Richard Phillips , the group’s executive
director.  The association’s members ship an average of 1 million tons
of canola and more than 1 million tons of wheat a month,
Phillips said in a telephone interview.  Corporate Customers  “We are as concerned for CP’s corporate customers as we
were for the commuters,” Doug Finnson, vice president of the
Teamsters Canada Rail Conference, said in a statement.  “CP’s management needs to understand that hiding behind
the federal government is not going to resolve things,” he said
in a later statement, promising that the Teamsters wouldn’t
abandon negotiations.  The labor action complicates Canadian Pacific’s operations
as the railroad searches for a new chief executive officer
following a months-long proxy fight. The Teamsters contract
talks began in October and the union first threatened to strike
in April.  Canadian Pacific was little changed at C$74.99 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto  trading . The shares have climbed 8.7 percent this year.  More than 2,000 other employees at Canadian Pacific are
being laid off, and the railway expects to add 1,400 to that
number as their work is unnecessary when the railroad isn’t
operating, Canadian Pacific said in an e-mailed statement.  CSX Traffic  While Canadian Pacific continues to operate commuter trains
in Vancouver, Toronto and  Montreal , the shutdown of its freight
operations is affecting customers and supply chains, Greenberg
said in an earlier statement.  It “will also impact many of the connecting railways with
whom we do business,” he said.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern U.S. carrier, said that
while it’s accepting traffic destined for places on Canadian
Pacific’s network in Canada, it won’t interchange freight with
Canadian Pacific until the strike ends.  Negotiations between the Teamsters, which represents 4,800
engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers, and the
Calgary-based railroad have focused on contractual items
including the company’s pension plan, work rules and fatigue
management.  The Teamsters resisted what they described as a 40 percent
cut in post-retirement benefits, while Canadian Pacific said the
pensions helped push its expense margins higher than those of
its peers.  Those margins were criticized by activist investor  William Ackman  during his campaign to install new directors and
management. That drive culminated last week in the departure of
CEO  Fred Green  and five other board members hours before a
shareholder vote.  Long-Term Payoff  While the walkout may damp second-quarter volumes at
Canadian Pacific, “we believe it’s important for CP to maintain
its position and leverage with its unions by taking a strike,”
Chris Wetherbee, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, wrote in a note to
clients.  “The longer-term payoff of lower pension contributions can
be a driver of margin” improvement, said Wetherbee, who has a
buy rating on the shares.  Canadian Pacific said it’s seeking pension provisions that
are comparable to those of employees represented by the
Teamsters at other Canadian railways.  “The union has agreed to these provisions at the other
railways,” Greenberg said. “We are simply seeking same to
bring CP’s legacy pension costs into line to remain competitive
into the future.”  Canadian Pacific has contributed C$1.9 billion to its
pension plans in the past three years to correct funding
shortfalls, according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  