-- CapitaLand CEO Calls Shoebox Apartments Inhuman: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-05-24T09:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/capitaland-ceo-calls-shoebox-apartments-inhuman-southeast-asia.html
Singapore  should curb the increasing
trend of so-called shoebox apartments because they are “almost
inhuman,”  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  Chief Executive Officer Liew Mun Leong said.  The government last week said it’s concerned that shoebox
apartments are mushrooming in the city-state as private home
sales surged to a three-year high with record purchases of units
that are smaller than 50 square meters (538 square feet).  “I am dead against shoebox developments,” Liew said in an
interview at the downtown Singapore headquarters of  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest developer. “The government should intervene.
Singapore’s land is very precious and you are wasting your
scarce resources” by building shoebox apartments.  The island-state’s population growth, scarce land and
surging property values have prompted developers to shrink
apartment space.  Home prices  surged to a record at the end of
2011 in a city that’s about half the size of  Los Angeles .  The government may introduce measures to regulate the sale
of shoebox apartments after a record number were sold in the
first quarter, Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s National Development
minister, said in Parliament on May 14.  Developers sold 1,764 shoebox units in the first quarter,
or 27 percent of all home sales, the most since the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  began collating the data in 2007.
Apartments that cost less than S$750,000 ($587,000) made up 42
percent of new home sales in the first quarter, up from 25
percent in the previous three months, the data showed.  ‘Almost Inhuman’  “It’s almost inhuman, it’s not good for the welfare of the
family to feel that constrained,” said Liew, 65, who grew up in
a one-bedroom apartment with nine people and often slept along
the corridor.  At CapitaLand’s latest project, the 509-unit apartment in a
central Singapore suburb designed by architect  Moshe Safdie , the
smallest homes are one-bedroom units measuring 710 square feet.
Liew said Singapore should impose a minimum size for homes.  Singapore developers  built smaller apartments in the first
quarter, with median size of homes shrinking 24 percent to 667
square feet, according to CBRE Group Inc. Median prices for the
period slid 18 percent to S$786,340, it said.  The government has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009 when it barred interest-only loans for some projects and
stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments still being built. In December, it imposed additional
taxes of as much as 10 percent on home purchases.  Shares Climb  CapitaLand climbed 1.2 percent to S$2.46 at the close in
Singapore, the third-best performer on the city’s  Straits Times
Index. (FSSTI)  The stock has risen 12 percent since the start of the
year, twice the 5 percent increase in the benchmark gauge.  Government controls haven’t slowed housing transactions in
Singapore, driven by suburban projects, Liew said. He reiterated
the company’s aim to sell as many as 1,000 homes annually over
the next two to three years.  “We don’t think we have an issue with” the target, he
said. “If you’re aiming for the high-end, central core areas
like Orchard Road, the numbers will not be so optimistic. If
you’re selling to the mass market, then the demand is still
there.”  The next set of curbs may be targeted at the smaller
apartments, said Wilson Liew, Singapore-based analyst at Maybank
Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.  “The Singapore government will first address the ‘shoebox
unit’ phenomenon,” he said. “More measures are on the way.”  Limiting Shoebox Homes  Singapore may limit the number of shoebox units to 10
percent of each development, especially for projects in the
suburbs, he said. The government could also set the minimum size
for apartments at 50 square meters to ensure the quality of life
isn’t compromised, the analyst said.  The trend of shoebox units may not be unique to the city-
state, said Pratik Burman Ray, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Singapore. Philippine developers have built homes smaller
than 20 square meters, while those in Thailand and  Indonesia  are
less than 35 square meters, he said. In Hong Kong, apartments
smaller than 500 square feet house two or three people, he said.  “I wonder if this phenomenon is Singapore specific or a
shift in buyer preference, and then the question is should it be
regulated at all,” Ray said. “What’s needed is greater
transparency to protect home buyers, which is perhaps more
critical.”  Developers will be required to provide more information
including floor plans that reflect the actual size of the
apartments, Khaw said. Model homes should also depict the units
“accurately,” he said, adding that the changes will be
introduced in the second half when the law is passed.  CapitaLand is lobbying against the shoebox units, said Liew,
citing a recent visit to a 400-square-foot unit in  Hong Kong .  “I used to joke that when I sat on the sofa, I don’t need
the remote control to switch on the TV, I use my toes,” he said.
“If you build 200 square feet, 300 square feet for a family of
two or three, you might as well stay in a box. There needs to be
some degree of comfort level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  