-- Chavez Challenger Capriles Campaigns ‘Casa Por Casa’
-- B y   J e f f r e y   T a y l e r
-- 2012-05-23T23:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chavez-challenger-capriles-campaigns-casa-por-casa-correct-.html
(Corrects description of Chavez’s medical condition in ninth
paragraph; length of Capriles’s incarceration in 18th paragraph;
attribution for assertions on nature of Iran- Venezuela 
relationship in 42nd paragraph and Capriles’s travel plans in
45th paragraph of story originally published May 18.)  In the town of Anaco in eastern
Venezuela’s oil-rich Anzoategui state, three yellow-shirted
bodyguards rush a trim, perspiring, 39-year-old in a baseball
cap from house to shabby brick house through 500 cheering, flag-
waving fans. Most in the throng are visibly poor, some are young
women with tears of joy running down their cheeks. All are
sweaty under a hot April sun.  The man they want to touch, Henrique Capriles, is the
governor of Miranda state and the candidate selected in February
by the Coalition of Democratic Unity to challenge incumbent
President  Hugo Chavez , 57, in elections scheduled for Oct. 7.
Capriles’s strategy is to build a following among the poor --
Chavez’s longtime supporters -- with visits to private homes and
small shops, meeting Venezuelans face-to-face, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 21 issue.  Capriles has made personal interaction with the electorate
“casa por casa” -- house by house -- the pillar and slogan of
his campaign. He has few alternatives: Chavez has steadily
increased his control of the national airwaves by expanding
state media.  As Capriles’s procession moves down the heat-warped main
street, a group of 30 Chavistas in red T-shirts, shouting
“Chavez! Chavez!” and waving posters depicting El Comandante,
as Chavez is known, appear at a street corner. This is not much
of a showing, given that Anzoategui’s governor is a Chavez ally.  Shots Fired  Even so, Capriles’s inner circle tenses up. At other casa
por casa marches, Chavistas have fired shots in the air or
hurled tomatoes, rocks, and bottles at the candidate and his
followers. Chavez himself has warned Capriles that someone is
plotting to kill him. The bodyguards hurry Capriles safely past
the protesters and into another welcoming home. The Chavistas
roll up their posters and leave.  Capriles’s  campaign , which invites Venezuelans to climb
aboard his “autobus del progreso,” has a website, makes
extensive use of social networking, and recalls that of
candidate  Barack Obama , as does his message of unity. Venezuela
has seen nothing like it: For the first time since Chavez came
to power, the country’s opposition is rallying behind a single
candidate. Capriles beat his closest contender by almost 1
million votes out of nearly 3 million cast in February
primaries.  Capriles’s youth, energy, and record of competent
governance in Miranda make him a credible challenger to the
Chavez, Venezuela’s chief political figure for 13 years. Since
February, Capriles has emerged from relative obscurity to
achieve a statistical tie in a March poll conducted by
Consultores 21 in Caracas, while other surveys grant the
incumbent a double-digit lead.  Term of Contempt  Chavez has called Capriles a “petty bourgeois,” a lackey
of the U.S., and even a fascist -- his all-purpose moniker of
contempt. Under Chavez’s self-proclaimed socialist revolutionary
regime, Venezuela is allied with Cuba, Iran, and Nicaragua, even
as it continues to play a vital role in the  U.S. economy  as the
fourth-largest supplier of oil.  With elections five months away, Capriles has time to rise.
Chavez has an undisclosed cancer. Although he has tweeted from
the Cuban hospital where he underwent surgery, he has refused to
go public with a diagnosis or prognosis, fueling speculation
that he’s gravely ill and may not survive the summer.  State of Emergency  Speculation swirls that El Comandante is no longer in
control and that the military is plotting to oust him, cancel
elections, and impose a state of emergency. Such scenarios could
lead to further violence and chaos in a country that has seen
plenty -- including the Caracazo incident of 1989, when the
armed forces killed hundreds in Caracas during riots after
protests against then-President Carlos Andres Perez’s austerity
measures.  Should the military intervene in this election, Venezuelans
“would not likely accept indefinite military rule,” said
Shannon O’Neil, a Latin American expert at the Council on
Foreign Relations in  New York . “Any regime would have to
promise elections and keep the oil revenues flowing, including
to the  United States . The generals couldn’t control the country
for long.”  Such an outcome, could be life-threatening for Capriles.
“The situation would be too volatile to predict,” says O’Neil,
although he says the military “might not want to make a martyr
of him. He might have to leave the country for his own safety.”  Security Force  As he moves about the country, Capriles employs a security
force of three teams of five lightly armed men. Asked if he ever
fears for his life, he answers, “Not at all. I sleep soundly at
night. My Catholic faith helps me face this situation with
calm.”  At first glance, Capriles’s background and light skin would
seem a disadvantage with the voters he needs most: Venezuela’s
majority, the poor and working class who are predominantly of
mixed race and have traditionally stood by Chavez. Capriles was
born in Caracas to a family he describes as “hardworking” and
that includes the owners of the country’s largest chain of movie
theaters. He completed his studies in law at the capital’s
Andres Bello Catholic University in 1994.  As his second surname, Radonski, would indicate, Capriles
has Eastern European roots. His maternal great-grandparents died
in Treblinka; his mother arrived in Venezuela from  Poland  as a
refugee during World War II and married a Sephardic Jewish
immigrant from Curaçao.  Christian Upbringing  Although he freely talks of his ancestry, Capriles stresses
his Christian upbringing, a matter of no small import in a
mostly Roman Catholic country.  Capriles, who is unmarried, introduces himself as a
professional politician and often announces he has been elected
to every post he has held, including mayor of Baruta, a suburb
of Caracas, and governor of Miranda, which has the second-
largest industrial and agricultural sectors in the country. Back
in 1998, he was the youngest ever vice president of the
parliament.  The government tried to tie Capriles to a failed coup
attempt against Chavez in 2002 and incarcerated him for four
months. Capriles says he was trying to quell violence, while the
government accused him of inciting rioters outside the Cuban
Embassy. He successfully defended himself and was released.  ‘Left of Center’  “I believe the leftist-rightist labels are outdated,” he
said aboard his campaign bus. “I’m left of center. That is, I’m
a progressive oriented toward protecting private property.”
This puts him at odds with Chavez, who has made property
expropriations a key feature of his political agenda.  In other ways, Capriles has aligned himself with Chavez.
Last year he joined the president in condemning U.S. sanctions
against state-owned  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  for doing business
with  Iran . He has said he’d leave in place, at least initially,
many of the government’s economic policies, such as currency
controls and subsidies, that orthodox economists criticize. He’s
also careful to say he’d improve but not discontinue Venezuela’s
welfare state.  Capriles says he is a uniter. “There are millions who
belong to no party,” he says. “I want to include them.” His
political idol, he replies without hesitation, is former South
African President Nelson Mandela. “We need unity, not
revenge,” he says.  Television Show  His strategy stands in contrast to the governing style of
Chavez, who pioneered master-of-ceremony politicking in  South
America . He launched a weekly television and radio show,  “Alo
Presidente,”  during which he regaled Venezuelans for hours with
accounts of his daily doings, his plans, and his policies for
the country. The program has been suspended while he undergoes
medical treatment.  He often provided his audience with entertainment.
Memorably, in 2006, against a background of foraging cattle, he
taunted and maligned then-President  George W. Bush , calling him
a “donkey,” a “drunk,” a “psychologically sick man,” and a
“genocidist,” and finished by daring him to invade Venezuela.  Yet Chavez has reserved most of his invective for foes
among his own citizens and has designated Capriles “Enemy No.
1.” In Caracas, on the cloudy afternoon of April 13, the 10th
anniversary of his return to power after the bungled coup
d’etat, Chavez stood on the balcony of the Miraflores
presidential palace and addressed thousands of red-shirted
supporters. Dressed in a blue-and-white track suit, Chavez
spewed venom at Capriles, calling him El Majunche -- slang for
“loser” -- 27 times.  Yankee Empire  Not once did he refer to Capriles by name. He accused him
of working for the Yankee Empire. Then he dropped a bombshell:
El Majunche, he claimed, was plotting to overthrow him. “Keep
your eyes peeled! A conspiracy is under way!” he shouted
hoarsely.  “The only ones talking of a coup or attacks are in the
government,” Capriles says. “In order to carry out a coup you
need the military behind you, and I don’t have that.”  Violence remains the scourge of Venezuelan life. In 2009,
according to the Caracas-based  Venezuelan Violence Observatory ,
the country’s murder rate was three times higher than Iraq’s.
Caracas during the Chavez years has consistently ranked as one
of the most dangerous cities in the world.  Drug Running  On highways in the countryside, brigands have been known to
erect roadblocks and, when vehicles pull over, rob and sometimes
even murder passengers. Venezuela’s beautiful coastal waters
aren’t safe either, with frequent reports of drug running and
robberies aboard yachts. The  travel advisory  of the U.S. State
Department reports that Colombian guerrillas enjoy refuge in the
western provinces, where they engage in extortion and
kidnapping, according to the report.  Chavez has rarely mentioned the crime rate. Capriles dwells
on the subject and pledges to make restoring order his top
priority, even as he takes a long view of the problem. “The way
to end violence in our streets lies with education and
schools,” he said in April, after inaugurating the Ines Maria
Bolívar school in Santa Lucia, a town in Miranda.  As violent as Venezuela has become since Chavez took
office, more chaos could follow should he depart the scene.
Chavez has overseen the establishment of “Bolivarian
militias,” whose ranks -- there are 300 battalions -- he plans
to increase to half a million men, which would outnumber the
troops in the rank-and-file armed forces, the Fuerza Armada
Nacional Bolivariana (FANB).  ‘Solid Nucleus’  Although formed by decree in 2008 to complement the FANB,
the Bolivarian militias function as a praetorian guard, loyal to
Chavez, who has dubbed them the “solid nucleus of the nation’s
political power.”  “Militia” may connote amateurism, but the recruits --
civilians drawn from teeming barrios where Chavez support is
strongest -- are trained professionally, even in the use of
heavy arms, and are overseen by Chavista officers. They carry
Russian shoulder-mounted antiaircraft missiles in addition to
automatic rifles, and a tank battalion is expected later this
year.  Ostensibly, the militias are meant to defend against an
invasion. A document circulating within the Chavista Socialist
Party, the PSUV, notes that the enemy of the revolution may be
either external or internal and can be fought with methods and
means of combat that are “limitless.”  Top-Ranking Officers  In Santa Lucia, after a tour of the school, the candidate
takes questions from reporters about the military, the militias,
and his own safety. Asked if top-ranking officers would present
a threat should he win in October, he replies, “I do not
believe there are Chavista generals. We have constitutionalist
generals.” And the militias? “They exist because they are
financed by the state. If we cut off their funds, they will
cease to exist.”  In Capriles’s swing through Santa Lucía and the state of
Anzoategui, journalists questioned him about how he plans to
confront what are known as the narco-generales or narco-
militares working with guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of  Colombia , or FARC. Capriles labeled the FARC a
“criminal terrorist organization” and pledged to fight it on
Venezuelan soil.  Capriles dismissed as “rumors” and “distractions”
reports that General in Chief Henry Rangel Silva and his
colleagues are preparing to oust the ailing Chavez and take
over. He also refused to discuss what might happen if Chavez
dies before October. “My only scenario is facing Chavez as a
candidate in elections. I want him to recover and reach the
elections,” he said.  Focused on Winning  When pressed further, Capriles snapped, “In any case,
there will have to be elections. And we are focused on winning
them.”  Some of Venezuela’s closest allies could see their
influence diminished if Capriles eventually succeeds Chavez.
During his tenure, Chavez has developed and strengthened
commercial, military, and political ties with an array of
repressive countries. In 2003 he rescued the communist regime
led by Fidel and  Raul Castro , agreeing to supply their nearly
bankrupt dictatorship with oil in exchange for doctors stationed
in Venezuelan barrios.  Chavez has brought in thousands of Cuban military and
intelligence officers to train their Venezuelan counterparts
and, according to one local press account, even deployed Cubans
to issue the national identification cards on which electoral
rosters depend.  Market Prices  Asked what he would do about Venezuela’s sending  oil  to
Havana, Capriles said, “We will not be cutting off oil to
anyone,” and added, “Nor will Venezuela be giving away its
natural resources.” Does that mean that Cuba will pay market
prices? Armando Briquet, Capriles’s campaign manager, said only
that “announcements will be made in the coming months.”  Chavez has also forged ties with  Russia  and  China . Moscow
has provided at least $13 billion in weapons to the Chavez
regime and signed a $2.6 billion contract to prospect for
petroleum in the Orinoco delta. China has locked in major
supplies of petroleum by signing oil-for-credit deals with
Venezuela valued at up to $32 billion, with $20 billion in loans
offered in the past year and a half alone.  The most worrisome Chavez ally, at least from the U.S.
perspective, is Iran. According to testimony by former U.S.
State Department official Roger Noriega to the Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations, Iran has used Venezuelan banks to launder
$30 billion and has been mining for uranium on Venezuelan soil.
For its part, the Venezuelan government says it supports  Iran’s
nuclear program  for civilian purposes. The two countries are
collaborating on car- and tractor-assembly projects and a
Venezuelan cement factory.  ‘Gained Nothing’  “We have gained nothing from our alliance with Iran,”
Capriles said. “Our orientation must be toward democracy and
democratic countries.” This would indicate a shift away from
ALBA, the  Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America .
Comprising 13 member countries, with Iran and Syria enjoying
observer status, ALBA was founded in 2004 in Cuba by Chavez and
 Fidel Castro .  Asked how he plans to improve relations with the U.S.,
Capriles replied, “The question isn’t how we repair relations
with the United States. It’s how the United States will act.”
He added: “We believe the United States has been wrong to focus
so much attention on the  Middle East . It should look south. We
want relations based on respect and the principles of
noninterference.”  Path to Miraflores  As a candidate, Capriles’s first two trips overseas beyond
Colombia will not include the U.S. Instead, he will visit Spain
and  Germany .  The path to Miraflores runs not through  Washington  or other
foreign capitals but through Venezuela’s barrios. There,
millions depend on branch offices of Chavez’s aid programs, the
23 oil revenue-financed missions that offer everything from
subsidized food to microfinancing to free medical care and
literacy classes.  Capriles has repeatedly pledged to keep the missions
running. But during a televised interview in Anzoategui, he
emphasized that the “missions are not enough. To prosper,
people need more than aid from the state. I like the Brazilian
model.  Brazil  has created 16 million jobs over the past 10
years. What people need is employment, quality employment. We
need to work with the private sector, not follow a statist
model.”  ‘Politics of Deceit’  Chavistas accuse Capriles of practicing the “politics of
deceit” with regard to both the Bolivarian missions, which they
say he will abolish, and Petroleos de Venezuela, known as PDVSA,
which they contend he will privatize. But to win elections and
maintain himself in office, he can do neither.  State ownership of PDVSA is a matter of national pride.
Moreover, Capriles knows that without oil revenue, Venezuela’s
economy would collapse. Income from oil covers 45 percent of the
government’s budget and makes up 95 percent of export earnings.
“We depend 100 percent on oil revenues,” he said. “Imagine
what would happen if we took them away.”  Capriles is confident that Venezuelans, even the Chavistas,
have had enough of El Comandante -- a belief nourished by the
reception he has gotten during the many casa por casa marches,
if not all the opinion polls.  “Henrique’s victory will open a rare window of opportunity
and also mean a huge challenge,” said Rostislav Ordovsky-
Tanaevsky Blanco, a prominent Venezuelan businessman based in
Russia. “Provided he surrounds himself with an ethical team and
manages to rein in the army, he could bring back the sense of
trust.”  “No one expects Chavez to do in the next four years what
he has not done in 13,” Capriles said often on his trip.
Weakened by corruption and incompetence, Chavismo will crumble
without its flamboyant founder, he said, and Venezuelans will
turn to his solutions.  He didn’t expound on Venezuela’s growing  economy . After two
years of recession, it grew 4.2 percent last year, which will
increase Chavez’s spending power.  With Chavez ailing, however, Capriles’s greatest challenge
may not be defeating El Comandante but the possibility of armed
resistance from those who have a great deal to lose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Tayler in Moscow at  rahhal_monde@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  