-- Chesapeake Board Takes Dispute With Activist Investor Public
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-23T21:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chesapeake-board-takes-dispute-with-activist-investor-public.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
energy producer that lost half its value in the past year,
publicly rebuked an activist investor who urged holders to vote
against two incumbent directors.  In a letter signed by Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  and director Merrill A. “Pete” Miller, the company
said it has already made “significant” changes to compensation
for its board and CEO in response to shareholder feedback.  The board also will replace McClendon as chairman and has
taken “swift action” to address shareholder concerns about a
program that allows the CEO to own a stake in almost all company
wells, according to the letter. McClendon and Miller responded
to criticism outlined by New York City Comptroller  John Liu  in a
May 17 letter to shareholders.  As comptroller, Liu oversees 1.9 million shares of
Chesapeake stock owned by New York City pension funds, which is
“less than 0.25% of Chesapeake’s common shares outstanding,”
the Chesapeake CEO and director wrote in their letter. Liu urged
shareholders to vote against Richard Davidson and V. Burns Hargis, the two directors who will be up for re-election at the
June 8 annual meeting.  Both are members of the  audit committee  that Chesapeake
said is reviewing loans McClendon received to help fund his
costs in the well-ownership program. Liu chided the two
directors for their “costly failure to act in the best
interests of shareowners.”  ‘Strong, Highly Qualified’  Hargis, president of Oklahoma State University, and
Davidson, former chairman of  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , are “strong,
highly qualified independent directors,” according to
Chesapeake’s letter today.  Liu countered Chesapeake’s response today with a statement
calling the company’s remedies “overdue and only incremental.”  “Had the board responded meaningfully to repeated concerns
from shareowners over the years, Chesapeake would not be in the
costly governance mess it is in today,” Liu said in the
statement.  Monitoring Failure  Separately, Glass, Lewis & Co. became the third advisory
firm to recommend shareholders withhold votes for Davidson and
Hargis.  As members of the board’s audit committee, Davidson and
Hargis “failed to adequately monitor” transactions by
McClendon that “pose a clear and substantial risk for potential
conflicts of interest,” Glass, Lewis analysts Glen Perry and
Courteney Keatinge wrote today.  They also recommended shareholders vote against executive
pay and support four shareholder proposals whose sponsors argue
they would improve corporate governance.  Institutional Shareholder Services and Egan-Jones Proxy
Services issued similar advice on May 20 and May 21.  Chesapeake fell 1.8 percent to $14.82 at 5:39 p.m. after
the close of regular trading in  New York . Shares closed a year
ago at $30.20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  