-- Chi-X Global Looks for Expansion as Chi-East Closes: CEO
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-05-23T05:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chi-x-interview.html
Chi-X Global Holdings LLC, the
operator of alternative trading venues that’s owned by Nomura
Holdings Inc., plans to expand in  Asia  and  South America , even
as it closes the first-ever pan-Asian dark pool, Chi-East,
tomorrow.  Chi-X announced May 11 it would shut Chi-East, established
in a joint venture with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , citing
disappointing volumes. A dark pool allows traders to buy and
sell securities without displaying prices. The company’s
platforms that do display prices have been gaining market share
in  Canada ,  Japan  and Australia.  Exchanges are turning to technology upgrades, new product
offerings and about $32 billion in attempted mergers globally
amid rising competition from alternative trading venues. Chi-X’s
platforms have reached market shares as high as 11.6 percent in
Canada, 3.7 percent in Japan, and 3 percent in Australia,
according to Beth Haines, spokeswoman for Chi-X in  Hong Kong .  “We are not immune to the slowdown in volume,” Tal Cohen,
chief executive officer said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
global phenomenon. We are experiencing the same difficulties as
the exchanges in terms of total volume. Because of our cost
structure and because of the way that we built up Chi-X, we’re
able to survive better and in many ways thrive.”  Chi-East Closing  Asia is home to the world’s second-, third- and fifth-
largest equity markets by value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chi-East, which opened in November 2010, aimed to link
dealer-only dark pools in  Singapore , Hong Kong and Japan and was
trying to connect to  Australia . It will close May 24 after
trading volumes failed to meet expectations. Chi-East last
published volume figures for the quarter ending September 2011,
when the value of shares traded on the system increased to $71.1
million from $23.5 million in the previous quarter.  “The discussion around why it failed should be on the
minds of regulators,” Cohen said. “It really is a shame and a
loss to the industry, not just for Chi-X Global and SGX, but is
understandable given the conditions today.”  Cohen said Chi-X was watching regulatory developments in
 South Korea  and Hong Kong, neither of which allow competition in
cash equities against the main exchanges.  Korea Competition  Korean regulators are expected to allow competition against
the exchange soon, Bong Soo Kim, chief director of the  Korea 
Exchange told the Korea Capital Market Institute  in August .
There has been no new legislation or public comment on the topic
since.  “I like what I’m hearing, I like what I’m seeing -- but
it’s not without its challenges,” Cohen said of Korea. “They
seem to have a clear idea of where they want to go with their
markets.”  In Hong Kong, the main bourse has a legislative monopoly
under the city’s Securities and Futures Ordinance. No other
bourses or alternative venues may enter the market without
government approval. The only approved equity platforms have
been so-called dark pools, trading venues that don’t display
prices and in Hong Kong exclude retail investors.  The Securities and Futures Ordinance doesn’t prevent others
from offering securities trading, said Scott Sapp, a spokesman
for Hong Kong Exchanges. “In principle, HKEx welcomes
competition as long as there is a level playing field,” he said
May 15.  Chi-X will look to other asset classes as they became more
tradable electronically, with foreign exchange and derivatives
being the most probable next steps, Cohen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  