-- Chilean Peso Falls as Greece Concern Sends Copper to Year’s Low
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-05-23T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chilean-peso-plunges-as-greece-fears-send-copper-to-year-s-low.html
Chile’s peso fell to a four-month low
as prices for copper tumbled on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may
threaten growth in China.  The peso sank 0.6 percent to 508.45 per  U.S. dollar  after
copper futures fell as much as 2.9 percent to $3.3865 a pound.
The currency reached 511.27 earlier, the weakest since Jan. 9.
The Chilean peso closely tracks the price of copper, which makes
up more than half the country’s exports.  The euro tumbled to its lowest since 2010 as European
leaders gathered in Brussels amid concern that  Greece  will leave
the currency union. The  World Bank  warned that growth in China
may slow to 8.2 percent this year from 9.2 percent last year and
lower-than-forecast Japanese exports raised concern about demand
in the second-largest buyer of Chilean copper.  “Copper, the euro and stocks: there isn’t anything that
isn’t falling aggressively,” said Alejandro Araya, a currency
trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “It is worrying
the way things are testing and breaking technical support
levels. If we are heading back to where we started the year, the
only thing that has far to fall is the Chilean peso.”  Central bank data today showed that Chilean exports to
 China  fell 0.6 percent in the first quarter from a year ago
while exports to the U.S., the next-biggest destination, rose
14.9 percent. Chinese imports of Chilean copper cathodes,
concentrate and ore for refining rose 9.1 percent.  Pension Fund Rules  Proposed new rules on currency hedging for Chilean pension
funds announced last week may lead to a $2.3 billion unwinding
of hedges, according to Santiago-based economist  Cesar Perez  at
Celfin Capital. While they may lead to short-term demand for
dollars, the impact probably will be transitory, Perez wrote in
a note to clients today. Nomura Holdings Inc. yesterday
estimated the impact would create $1.25 billion in unwinding.  The proposed rule changes may in fact strengthen the peso
and lead to a $3.8 billion increase in forward purchases of the
peso versus the dollar, according to research from  New York- 
based strategist Brendan Hurley at Banco Santander SA and
Santiago-based economist Juan Pablo Castro. That would tend to
strengthen the peso.  Local investors, mostly pension funds, had a $17.2 billion
long peso position in the forwards market on May 18, central
bank data published today showed.  “We can’t anticipate changes because they would depend on
what part of the current derivatives the pension fund managers
classify as hedging or investment, and in that classification
there is some degree of freedom for each  fund manager ,” the
pensions supervisor wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“However, under the new definition there will be a lower amount
than currently that will be considered hedging.”  Interest-Rate Swaps  Offshore investors reduced their short peso position to
$8.9 billion from $9.5 billion on May 17.  Interest-rate swaps  fell, reversing a two-day rebound, as
rates fell worldwide. The two-year swap rate declined seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage points, to 4.8 percent. The
five-year swap rate fell eight basis points to 5.01 percent.  Swap rates imply traders expect the central bank to lower
the benchmark  interest rate  from 5 percent within six months
whereas a survey published today by the central bank showed that
the median forecast of 55 traders and investors is for the rate
to remain unchanged for the next 24 months.  ‘Local Sentiment’  “Today’s survey is more indicative of local sentiment than
external data while the curve reflects the global mood and the
unwinding that could be produced by a Greek exit from the
euro,” said Sebastian Ide, head of rates trading at Banco de
 Chile  in Santiago. “No one knows how the market will react to a
Greek exit, but we could easily see Treasuries falling 20 basis
points. The dichotomy between the curve and the survey reflects
the premium for that risk.”  The yields on inflation-linked bonds fell faster than the
yields on inflation-linked swaps while fixed bond yields decline
less than fixed swap yields. The different behavior of bonds and
swaps reflects the more international investor base in the swaps
market.  The yield on 10-year inflation-linked  bonds  fell six basis
points, compared to a two basis-point decline in the yield on
10-year inflation-linked swaps. The yield on 10-year fixed-rate
 debt  fell five basis points while the 10-year swap rate fell
eight basis points. Bond holders thus increased the compensation
they require for holding bonds that don’t adjust for inflation,
while swap investors reduced it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  