-- China Is a Black Box of Misinformation
-- B y   J u n h e n g   L i
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/china-is-a-black-box-of-misinformation.html
To this day, many Chinese people
believe that  Mao Zedong  didn’t know millions of people were
starving in the Great Leap Forward.  The agricultural production statistics were all rosy, a
testament to the success of his new economic policy, while
hordes of  hungry masses  migrated from province to province,
chasing false reports of bumper crops. Thirty million or so
people starved, in no small part because of the manipulation of
economic data.  Half a century later, China has the second-largest economy
in the world, and the country has lifted about 400 million
people out of poverty. The magnitude and speed of urbanization
are unprecedented in the history of human civilization.  I am proud of what China has done for its people since the
introduction of state capitalism in the 1980s.  Gross domestic
product  has quadrupled in the past decade, from $1.2 trillion in
2000 to almost $6 trillion in 2011. But as a  China  native and a
U.S.-trained investor, I struggle with the country’s governance,
openness and, therefore, the reliability of its data. Behind the
scenes of an economic miracle, China has remained a gigantic
black box to insiders and outsiders.  Cooking the Books  In the 1980s and 1990s, during China’s opening-up stage,
both my parents left employment in the state-owned sector to
jump into the newly opened private sector. As they toiled
through the “wild west,” I learned the most important lesson
about doing business in China: Numbers don’t mean much. Most
companies have three books: a real one for internal use, one for
the tax bureau and one for the CEO’s wife (and, in some cases, a
fourth for his mistress).  More than a decade later the practice hasn’t changed much,
as has been highlighted by the recent  allegations  of fraudulent
accounting associated with a slew of China-based U.S.-listed
companies. China as a whole is a giant black box -- no one
really knows what is in it. Chinese bureaucrats don’t have any
interest in reporting anything that doesn’t paint a good
picture, and, even if they did, the statistics bureau remains
woefully inadequate.  At the same time, gross domestic product forecasts issued
by major investment banks are  equally unreliable . Just as with
equity research analysts and stockbrokers who package IPOs and
sell them to investors, major banks’ economists try to curry
favor with Chinese bureaucrats. As such their forecasts are
essentially a point-for-point rehash of what fiscal and monetary
policies the bureaucrats say are coming down the pipe. The
information is repackaged and sold as euphoria to support banks’
profit-generating activities, such as IPOs and securities
trading.  So far, these forecasts have worked relatively well, as one
would imagine. China’s hybrid economy depends more heavily on
government policy than most, and can count on the cushion of
intervention from on high.  Once a growth target is set by the top, the central
government then allocates GDP growth from the top down. The
state gives provinces a target, each province mandates to the
regions, regions to departments, and departments to
corporations, including state-owned enterprises and private
companies. Despite the admirable economic growth that China has
delivered, at its core the reward and punishment system hasn’t
changed in stride. Those who comply are rewarded and those who
raise uncomfortable subjects are punished; a cut in pay or a
cork in one’s career advancement are to be expected if one can’t
provide the euphoria package.  Everybody’s Happy  There is a Chinese saying usually applied to the legal
system: While the top has its policies, the bottom has its
counterpolicies. In economics, if the bottom can’t meet the
mandate, they cook the books and send the data back up the
ranks. Everyone’s happy -- for a while.  It’s as if Mao’s proposed farming methods could actually
produce the amount of crops that were being reported -- if the
powers that be must be pleased, so be it. As long as the upper
levels of governance maintain their authority and lower levels
of governance don’t take any heat for a missed target, then
everyone can be happy.  Many unbiased economists would argue that it is
statistically improbable for any economy to have produced a real
GDP data stream as smooth as China’s since 1980. During its
early years of modern growth, China was still overwhelmingly
agricultural, so it should have been subjected to Mother
Nature’s unpredictability in the form of bad harvests or bumper
crops. As manufacturing and industrial productions have grown as
a percentage of GDP, business cycles driven by demand and
productivity fluctuations should have generated far more
significant swings in the economy than what the reported data
have indicated.  Moreover, in the span of the past 32 years, the structures
of the Chinese and world economies have changed rapidly and
unpredictably. China opened up to international trade and
foreign direct investment, and therefore subjected itself to
more external economic shocks. Yet in this same period Chinese
official statistics show aggregate GDP advancing like an Audi at
a high but steady speed on an empty highway.  GDP-ism has become the Chinese government’s strongest
ideology, and as such might not be an accurate indicator of
reality. In the political and economic matrix of China, rosy
statistics are the strongest self-justification mechanism for
authority.  But, as history has shown, statistics and ideology don’t
always work in a harmonious relationship; one has a habit of
eclipsing the other until the lie that has been said a thousand
times becomes the truth. Data manipulation, however, is a
nontruth that can only fool for so long. Let us hope that when
it is exposed, it won’t result in China’s next Great Leap
Backward.  (Junheng Li is the founder and senior equity analyst of JL
Warren Capital LLC, an independent equity research firm in  New
York . The opinions expressed are her own. Hannah Lincoln, a
master’s candidate at Johns Hopkins University-Nanjing
University Center for Chinese and American Studies, contributed
research to this article.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany gained from
the euro  and the  problems with the Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter  on  political substance and
slander ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over Bain;  Caroline Baum  on
 overregulating banks ; Tobias Moskowitz on  data-driven policy ;
Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock therapy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Junheng Li at  junh@jlwarrencapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 