-- China to Smash ‘Glass Walls’ to Aid Investors, NDRC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T16:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/china-to-smash-glass-walls-to-aid-investors-ndrc-says.html
China will smash “glass walls” that
are keeping private investors out of state-dominated industries
including banking and energy, an economic-planning official
said, as authorities try to boost a slowing economy.  Wang Xiaotao, head of the fixed-asset investment department
at the National Development and Reform Commission, said China
will work to remove excessive red tape and prerequisites,
according to a report yesterday by the official Xinhua News
Agency.  Chinese leaders are stepping up efforts to support  growth 
after data showed the world’s second-largest economy losing
momentum in April. The government this month cut banks’ reserve
requirements to free up money for lending and Premier  Wen Jiabao 
pledged to focus more on bolstering expansion.  “If we want to encourage private investment, we must
completely smash those glass walls,” Wang said, as cited by
Xinhua.  One example he cited is a requirement that investors trying
to set up a so-called “village bank” find an established
financial institution to take at least a 20 percent stake.
Village banks are designated by China’s banking regulator as
small rural community lenders focusing on farmers and their
businesses.  The State Council, or Cabinet, said in February it will
release guidelines this year to encourage private investment in
railways, finance, energy, telecommunications, education and
health care. The government reiterated in a statement yesterday
that it will spur investment in the industries.  China ’s private investment rose 28.9 percent in the first
quarter from a year ago and accounted for 61.9 percent of total
fixed-asset investment, Wang said, according to a separate
Xinhua report on May 22.  The housing ministry, water resources ministry and the
state-owned assets supervision commission will soon publish
guidelines to encourage private investment, Xinhua said May 22.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  