-- China Pledges More ‘Fine-Tuning’ in Support for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-24T01:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/china-pledges-more-fine-tuning-in-support-for-growth.html
China’s leaders pledged to intensify
“fine-tuning” of policies in the second government statement
in four days signaling a commitment to  growth  as domestic demand
slows and  Europe ’s debt crisis escalates.  “We must proactively take policies and measures to expand
demand and to create a favorable policy environment for stable
and relatively fast economic growth,” the government said on
its website yesterday, summarizing a meeting of the State
Council, or Cabinet.  The statement builds on Premier Wen Jiabao’s comments
published May 20 showing a bigger focus on bolstering growth,
which spurred speculation the government will step up efforts to
combat a slowdown after April trade and industrial output were
below forecasts. Authorities this month cut banks’ required
 reserves  for the third time since November.  “The State Council meeting confirms stimulus will come,”
Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief economist for  China ,
said in a note to clients yesterday. China’s government is going
through a standard procedure in reaction to bad economic
conditions, which will probably be completed with stimulus
policies being implemented in June, said Zhang, who is based in
 Hong Kong .  The nation “must intensify precautionary adjustment and
fine-tuning of policies according to changes in conditions,”
the government said.  Monetary policy  should remain “prudent”
while focusing more on “meeting demand from the real economy,”
according to the statement.  Infrastructure Projects  China will start a series of “key infrastructure projects
that are vital to the overall economy and can facilitate
growth” and speed up construction of existing railway,
environmental protection and rural projects, the government said
yesterday.  The statement was issued after the close of markets in
China. The  yuan  weakened against the dollar for the first time
in three days yesterday with a 0.2 percent fall to 6.3345,
extending this year’s decline to 0.6 percent after a 4.7 percent
increase in 2011.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said May 22 that the turmoil in Europe risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy. The depth of the blow to
 China’s economy  in the event  Greece  leaves the euro may depend
on the government’s response, economists at banks including
China International Capital Corp. said.  CICC, the nation’s biggest investment bank, sees expansion
in the world’s No. 2 economy after a Greek exit slowing to 6.4
percent in 2012 without policy stimulus, economists led by
Beijing-based Peng Wensheng said in a report yesterday.  “The pressure for counter-cyclical policy easing will
increase significantly if a Greek exit from the  euro zone 
greatly impacts China’s aggregate demand, dragging the economy
well below its potential growth rate and causing unemployment to
increase,” the CICC economists said.  Economic growth of 6.4 percent would be the worst since
1990, one year after the political turbulence related to the
1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Wen in March set a target of 7.5
percent for this year’s expansion, the lowest goal since 2004.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  