-- China’s New Leaders May Back More Reform, Huntsman Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-05-23T23:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/china-s-new-leaders-may-back-more-reform-huntsman-says.html
The new leaders that will take over
 China  in the next year may find themselves forced to open the
country’s economy and political life as they try to maintain its
economic growth, said  Jon Huntsman  Jr., a former U.S. ambassador
to China and Republican presidential hopeful.  “Their opening to the rest of the world will require a
certain standardizing of the way business is done,” Huntsman
said yesterday at an event in New York organized by the National
Committee on United States-China Relations. “You just can’t
make decisions behind the velvet curtain.”  China is in the midst of a once-in-a-decade political
transition to its fifth generation of leaders since its People’s
Republic was established in 1949, with Vice President  Xi Jinping 
set to succeed President  Hu Jintao , who has served in that role
since 2003.  “The Deng Xiaoping dynasty pretty much comes to an end,”
at the Congress, Huntsman said, referring to the Chinese leader
who began the country’s market-oriented reforms in 1978.  Huntsman, who quit his quest for the Republican
presidential nomination in January, said that as U.S. ambassador
to China from 2009 to 2011, he witnessed the rise of industrial
lobbies and what he called “special interest politics” in
China.  The need to develop the economy may push China’s incoming
leaders, whom Huntsman called “pragmatic,” to loosen social
and political constraints to keep the economy moving, easing
restrictions on the Internet and on many dissidents.  Opening the Internet  Xi may have to open the Internet to encourage economic
growth, making the argument to hardliners that for China to stay
competitive, it will need its own “Silicon Valley,” which
requires the free flow of ideas, he said.  The ruling Communist Party’s “most vulnerable area is
credibility and legitimacy, and I don’t think there is a choice
other than to let a little bit of pressure out of the valve from
time to time,” Huntsman said.  In the interim, Huntsman said, the U.S. shouldn’t shy from
pressing democratic issues.  Human rights shouldn’t be locked in a small office of the
State Department, Huntsman said. Instead, pushing China to show
greater respect for the basic rights of its citizens should cut
across all aspects of U.S. discussions with China. U.S.
companies operating in China will support a stronger emphasis on
human rights, he added.  An emphasis by U.S. diplomats on labor rights in China
could be a way to tie human rights to the broader issue of
trade, and would probably have support from U.S. business, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  