-- China’s Stocks Decline on Slowing Economy, Greece Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T08:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-slowing-economy-greece-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging down
the benchmark index for the first time in three days, on concern
the economic slowdown may accelerate and on speculation  Greece 
may leave the euro area.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and China Shenhua Energy Co. led
declines for commodity producers after the Wall Street Journal
cited a government official as saying growth may be below 7
percent without more stimulus.  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding
Co. (601607) , China’s second-largest drug distributor, sank the most
since June 2008 after the 21st Century Business Herald reported
the securities regulator is investigating the company.  “Sentiment is still weak as investors are shunning risk
assets to avoid contagion from  Europe ,” said Wang Weijun, a
strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It’s a bit
hard to reverse the risk-averse sentiment at this moment.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 9.87 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,363.44 at the close. Thirty-day  volatility  was at
15 today, the lowest in a week. About 7.7 billion shares changed
hands in the gauge yesterday, 14 percent lower than the daily
average this year. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped 0.4 percent to
2,616.87. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 0.9 percent
in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai index has fallen 4 percent from this year’s
high set on March 2 on concern a slowdown in growth at the
world’s second-largest economy is deepening. Stocks in the gauge
are valued at 10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a
record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Lack of Leadership’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.6 percent today.
Greece’s former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said that while
it is unlikely the nation will leave the euro, it’s still a
risk, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal
yesterday. European Union leaders are planning to gather in
Brussels to discuss how to revive growth.  Jin Liqun, chairman of  China  Investment Corp.’s supervisory
board, said yesterday European authorities have shown a “lack
of leadership” on the euro area’s debt crisis and other
countries may leave if Greece exits the single currency bloc.  China’s economic growth may fall to 6.4 percent this year
if Greece exits the  euro zone , Peng Wensheng, an economist at
China International Capital Corp., wrote in an e-mailed report.  The scenario assumes a Greek euro exit drags down global
economic growth by half as much as the 2008-2009 global
financial crisis did, CICC said.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, accounting for
about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according
to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Growth Slump  A measure of material stocks in the CSI 300 had the biggest
loss among the 10 industry groups, falling 1.4 percent today.
Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, slid 1.1
percent to 25.59  yuan .  Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. (600961) , the country’s
biggest producer of refined zinc, dropped 3.2 percent to 10.37
yuan. Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, slipped 1.3
percent to 25.93 yuan.  China’s full-year economic growth may be below 7 percent
unless the government introduces more stimulus measures, the
Wall Street Journal reported on its Chinese-language website,
citing  Chen Dongqi , deputy head of the National Development and
Reform Commission’s macroeconomic research institute. The
government is targeting 7.5 percent growth this year.  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals tumbled the maximum 10 percent to
10.75 yuan. The drug retailer is under investigation from the
China Securities Regulatory Commission and the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange for suspected financial fraud involving two
acquisitions earlier this year, the 21st Century Business Herald
cited an unidentified company executive as saying.  Support Measures  Lu Di, an official in Shanghai Pharma’s board office,
declined to comment when contacted by phone by Bloomberg News.
An official at the China Securities Regulatory Commission’s news
office, who asked not to be identified because of the agency’s
rules, said he wasn’t immediately able to confirm if the
regulator was investigating Shanghai Pharma.  Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-largest
developer by market value, gained 1.5 percent to 13.61 yuan.
 Gemdale Corp. (SHPROP) , the fourth largest, advanced 3.4 percent to 6.63
yuan. RiseSun Real Estate Development Co. rose 3.5 percent to
11.70 yuan.  The real estate market may be supported by strong demand,
the China Securities Journal reported today, citing unidentified
people. Property curbs have stabilized, the newspaper said.  The government may introduce “stronger” policies for
stable economic growth, China Business News reported, citing an
unidentified person. The policies, especially in the areas of
investment and credit, will be discussed by high-level officials
“soon,” the report cited the unidentified person as saying.  Rate Outlook  An interest-rate cut can’t be ruled out if data for May
indicate further slowing growth, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing unidentified people.  China may keep easing monetary policy, including lowering
the reserve-requirement ratio, the newspaper said. The central
bank should consider lowering benchmark lending rates or allow
more loans at discount rates, according to the report.  Interest
rates  haven’t been cut since 2008.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are due to release a
preliminary reading for their purchasing managers’ index
tomorrow for May. It was at 49.3 a month last month, below the
50 dividing line for expansion and contraction.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led declines among the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. on speculation the solar-panel maker will
 disappoint investors  for a fifth quarter.  Trina will probably say that sales dropped 28 percent to
$398 million, according to the median estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, when it reports first-quarter earnings
today. The company reported net income that fell short of
 analysts’ estimates  in the last four quarters. Chinese solar
manufacturers have reported losses since the second quarter of
2011 as the industry has been plagued by overcapacity and as
European countries started to cut solar energy subsidies.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.7 percent to $33.63,
rising only once in the past 15 days.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  