-- Chinese Estates Chairman Charged With Bribery in Macau
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-05-24T07:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chinese-estates-chairman-charged-with-bribery-in-macau.html
Joseph Lau, the billionaire chairman
of  Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd. (127) , will stand trial for bribery
and money laundering in Macau in connection with a land purchase
in the world’s biggest gambling hub.  Macau’s Court of Criminal Instruction accepted charges
brought by the public prosecutor against Lau, rejecting a
request to dismiss the case on lack of evidence, the developer
said yesterday in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.
Chinese Estates didn’t immediately respond to a fax request for
comment from Lau.  Lau, an avid art and wine collector, was named last month
in the corruption trial of Ao Man-long, Macau’s former secretary
of transportation and public works, in relation to land being
developed by Chinese Estates in the only Chinese city where
casinos are legal. Ties between  Hong Kong  tycoons and government
officials have come under scrutiny since the arrest in March of
the co-chairmen of developer Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  “Macau is a small place and the ties between business and
the political establishment are very close,” said  Joseph Cheng ,
a professor of political science at  City University  of Hong
Kong. The government is sending “a warning to all those
involved in corruption and bribery.”  Chinese Estates suspended trading in Hong Kong today
pending a price-sensitive announcement. The stock has lost 21
percent this year, compared with a 1.9 percent gain by the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Hong Kong Tycoons  Lau, who controls almost 75 percent of the HK$18.7 billion
($2.4 billion) Hong Kong-based developer, will be tried in the
Court of First Instance “in due course,” Chinese Estates said
in the statement. He denied allegations that emerged in Macau
court proceedings that he or his company might have given bribes
to Ao, according to an April 17 statement by Chinese Estates.  Lau paid HK$129.5 million for two pairs of imperial crane
statues at a Christie’s International auction in Hong Kong in
December 2010. In November 2006, he paid $17.4 million for
“Mao,” one of  Andy Warhol ’s portraits of the late Chinese
leader  Mao Zedong , a record at the time.  His case is the latest involving Hong Kong tycoons and
government officials. The city’s Independent Commission Against
Corruption in March arrested Thomas and  Raymond Kwok , co-
chairmen of  Sun Hung Kai (16) , and Rafael Hui, formerly the city’s
No. 2 official.  Walter Kwok , the former chairman of Hong Kong’s
biggest developer, was arrested this month as the commission
widened its probe.  Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang is also under
investigation for taking rides on the yachts and planes of his
business friends.  Ao’s Trial  The Standard newspaper reported April 17 that Lau and
Steven Lo, chairman of the South  China  Football Club, were named
in Ao’s third trial. Ao, sentenced to 28 years in 2009, faced
six corruption and three money-laundering charges in the latest
proceedings, the newspaper said. Lo didn’t reply to a message
left with the South China Football Fan Club.  Chinese Estates said in the April 17 statement that a unit
owns the leasehold interest in the land that newspapers reported
was cited in the Ao case. The company is building on the land a
luxury residential project called La Scala, which it has been
selling. It said in March that one of La Scala’s 7,000 square-
foot (650 square-meter) penthouse units had been sold at HK$83.8
million.  Macau Home Prices  Macau ’s casino revenue grew to more than four times that of
the  Las Vegas Strip  after the government allowed the entry of
overseas operators in 2002, including Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
Wynn Resort Ltd., ending billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s four-decade
monopoly. Visitors from the mainland fueled a 42 percent jump in
gambling revenue last year.  That has led to a building boom and a gain of as much as 15
percent in home prices in the former Portuguese colony this
year, according to Midland Holdings Ltd.  “The government is now considering measures to cool it
down,” said Ronald Cheung, chief executive officer of Midland
in Macau, adding that projects like Chinese Estates’ La Scala
will continue to attract buyers.  Lau’s public holdings in his flagship Chinese Estates and a
dozen other companies are worth $5.5 billion, according to data
compiled and calculated by Bloomberg using Hong Kong exchange
filings and company reports.  He owns his stake in Chinese Estates shares directly and
through two trusts, an almost 5 percent stake in  Ping An
Insurance Group Co. (2318)  and 7.34 percent of Lifestyle International
Holdings, a retailer in Hong Kong and China.  Lau canceled an order for Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner, the
Chicago-based aircraft manufacturer said in 2009. Lau had placed
the order for the plane, valued at about $178 million at the
list price, in May 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  