-- Chipotle Worker Investigations May Continue for Two Years
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-23T20:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/chipotle-worker-investigations-may-continue-for-two-years.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , the
eatery that fired workers after an immigration probe began, said
investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and  Department of Justice  may continue for as long as two more
years.  “We’re back to earlier innings, I guess, in this
investigation,” Co-Chief Executive Officer Montgomery Moran
said during an investor conference today. It may take “a year
or two more before it wraps up.”  Federal prosecutors are investigating possible criminal
securities-law violations, the Denver-based company said in a
filing with the SEC yesterday. Last week, the SEC subpoenaed
Chipotle regarding work authorizations.  The investigations into Chipotle employees are part of
President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to crack down on illegal
immigrants working in the U.S. The plan includes securing U.S.
borders and demanding accountability from businesses that hire
undocumented workers, according to the administration’s  website .  The 1,260-store burrito chain fired about 450 workers after
an immigration investigation began in 2010 in  Minnesota . It has
since spread to other U.S. cities including Washington, where it
let go about 50 workers last year.  Chipotle has been using the government’s E-Verify system to
validate the identity of all of its employees since March 2011,
Chris Arnold, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Chipotle
had about 30,940 employees, including 2,570 salaried and 28,370
hourly workers, as of Dec. 31, according to a company filing.  The shares rose 2.6 percent to $405.95 at the close in  New
York . Chipotle has gained 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  