-- Citigroup Names Santomero Chairman of Citibank Subsidiary
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-05-24T16:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/citigroup-appoints-anthony-santomero-chairman-of-bank-subsidiary.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, named Anthony Santomero chairman of the board that
oversees  Citibank NA , the lender’s main banking subsidiary that
holds almost 70 percent of its $1.94 trillion of assets.  “As a former president of the Philadelphia Federal
Reserve, Dr. Santomero has a deep understanding of the
regulatory system governing financial institutions, making him
an excellent chairman for the Citibank NA board,” Citigroup
Chairman Michael O’Neill said yesterday in an e-mail.  Santomero, 65, succeeded O’Neill as chairman of the banking
subsidiary, according to a document dated April 17 on New York-
based Citigroup’s website. He served as president of the
Philadelphia Fed from 2000 to 2006 and is a former adviser to
McKinsey & Co.  The board of the parent company got a makeover last month
as Chairman  Richard Parsons  retired along with long-time
director Alain Belda. O’Neill now heads the personnel and
compensation and executive committees. Santomero, in addition to
his new role, leads the bank’s risk-management and finance
committee and is a member of the audit and executive committees.  Santomero was among directors tapped in 2009 to bolster the
board’s experience in the wake of the $45 billion U.S. bailout.
He received a doctorate in economics from  Brown University  in
1971 and was a finance professor at the Wharton School at the
University of Pennsylvania. He’s a director of  RenaissanceRe
Holdings Ltd. (RNR)  and Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co.  FDIC Coverage  The Citibank subsidiary is covered by federal  deposit
insurance  and had $1.31 trillion in assets at the end of March,
according to  regulatory records . Citigroup restructured the
unit’s board in 2009 to add more independent directors after
regulators criticized its ability to monitor risk. The
subsidiary was previously led by Bill Rhodes, who at the time
was a Citigroup executive and is now a senior adviser.  “The Citibank NA board had no effective oversight role
specific to the risk profile of the bank,” according to a Feb.
14, 2008, letter to Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit from
John Lyons, an Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
examiner. “The Citibank NA Board was also inadequately informed
of material risks facing the bank.”  Citibank directors include former Wells Fargo & Co.
executive Robert Joss, Lawrence Ricciardi, Robert Ryan and Joan Spero.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 