-- Clemens Judge Set to Rule on McNamee-Backing Witnesses
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-24T04:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/clemens-judge-set-to-rule-on-witnesses-backing-mcnamamee.html
The judge presiding over the perjury
trial of ex-pitcher  Roger Clemens  may rule today on a request by
prosecutors to allow two people to give testimony they say will
back their star witness  Brian McNamee ’s drug accusations.  Federal prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton
yesterday in Washington that they want the jury to hear from the
witnesses -- one of whom McNamee claims he told by 2004 that
Clemens used human growth hormone. They argued the testimony
should be allowed because the defense alleged McNamee fabricated
evidence of Clemens’s drug use in 2007 to keep from being
prosecuted.  Walton, who said he would consider the request overnight,
appeared to agree with the government’s contention that the
defense had suggested McNamee’s motivation to lie started when
he was contacted by investigators as part of a probe into the
use of steroids in  Major League Baseball .  “As I see the evidence, the real thrust of cross
examination was suggesting a motive to fabricate that dates to
2007 when Mr. McNamee first learned that he was an issue of the
investigation,” Walton said.  Federal court rules allow for so called “prior consistent
statements” that predate a motive to fabricate to be admitted
during trial to rebut allegations that a witness is lying.  False Statements  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in baseball. He faces as long
as 21 months in prison if convicted. Clemens has denied having
used performance-enhancing drugs.  McNamee, Clemens’s former personal trainer, has testified
that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and HGH
during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both men
worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the  New York Yankees .  The witnesses the government wants to put on the stand are
Anthony Corso and David Segui, a former Major League Baseball
player.  McNamee told Corso at some point from 2002 to 2004 that
Clemens used human growth hormone, or HGH, “regularly to
recover from vigorous workouts,” according to a court filing by
the government. In 2005, McNamee told Corso that he had saved
some of the needles he had used to inject Clemens, the
prosecutors said in the filing.  Saved ‘Darts’  In 2001, McNamee told Segui that he’d saved “darts” from
players he’d injected “in order to placate his wife,”
according to the filing.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, said the testimony
shouldn’t be allowed because the defense alleges McNamee had
motive to fabricate evidence against Clemens in 2001 when he was
fired as assistant strength coach from the Yankees.  “If what you’re saying is true, then why beat up on him so
much about his desire to appease the government?” Walton asked.  The government’s case includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said.  That material came from McNamee, who said he saved needles,
gauze and vials from one of the injections in 2001. He told
jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite beer can that
he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  Locker Room Procedures  Yesterday, jurors heard from Eugene Monahan, who was the
Yankees athletic trainer from 1973 until last year. He was asked
about locker room procedures and access to  prescription drugs .  Monahan appeared to surprise Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven
Durham when he testified that he gave Clemens an injection of
vitamin B12. Monahan in a telephone interview with congressional
investigators in 2008 had said he didn’t remember ever giving
Clemens such a shot, Durham reminded him.  Clemens told Congress that McNamee injected him with B12
and the anesthetic lidocaine -- legal substances.  Prosecutors said they still have four to six more witnesses
to put on the stand before resting their case. Hardin said he
plans to put on a defense case lasting seven to eight days.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  