-- CME, ICE Clearinghouses Designated Systemic by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-05-23T16:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/cme-ice-clearinghouses-designated-systemic-by-u-s-regulators.html
Derivatives clearinghouses owned by
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. have been
designated systemically important by U.S. regulators, a step
that moves them closer to heightened supervision.  ICE Clear Credit, the world’s largest credit-default swap
clearinghouse, and CME Inc., the clearinghouse owned by the
world’s largest futures exchange, received the designation from
the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The moves were
confirmed by  Kelly Loeffler , a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange, and  Michael Shore , a spokesman for
Chicago-based CME Group.  The designations were approved this week by FSOC as part of
an initial set of so-called financial market utilities that
require increased oversight by regulators including the  Federal
Reserve . The designations, which are subject to appeal, may be
completed “as early as this summer,” according to the U.S.
Treasury Department.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires most swaps to be guaranteed by
clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers to reduce
risk in the financial system. The systemic designation will be
the FSOC’s first delineation of which companies aside from banks
would threaten the economy in the event of a failure.  The Clearing House Payments Company LLC, which operates a
cross-border and domestic wire transfer system, also received a
letter of designation, according to Erica Hurtt, vice president
for communications at The Clearing House. The Clearing House
Interbank Payment System, known as Chips, handles $1.5 trillion
of transactions daily, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  