-- Commodities Drop to Five-Month Low on Greece Concern
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-05-23T19:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/commodities-drop-to-five-month-low-on-greece-concern.html
Commodities dropped to a five-month
low, extending this year’s decline, on mounting concern that
 Greece  will leave the euro, roiling financial markets and
eroding the outlook for raw-material demand.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge  of 24 raw materials fell
1.6 percent to 617.96 at 3:15 p.m. in New York, after touching
613.95, the lowest since Dec. 19. The index is down 4.2 percent
this year, heading for the first annual decline since the
recession of 2008.  Equity markets fell from  Asia  to the Americas and the euro
dropped to its weakest level against the dollar since July 2010
on speculation that European Union leaders meeting today will
provide no new measures to stem the sovereign-debt crisis.
Greece is preparing for elections on June 17, after winners in a
vote this month failed to create a government.  “The market is being driven by a lot of fear right now,”
Claudio Oliveira, the head of trading at Castlestone Management
LLC in  New York , which manages about $300 million, said in a
telephone interview. The commodity selloff “has the potential
to go further if this uncertainty remains, and that depends on
what European leaders are willing to do,” he said. “The Greek
issue needs to be resolved.”  Crude-oil futures for July delivery tumbled to as low as
$89.28 a barrel in New York, the first time since November that
a most-active contract fell below $90. A government report
showing that U.S. crude supplies rose to a 22-year high
contributed to the declines. Gold futures for June delivery 
lost as much as 2.8 percent to $1,532.80 an ounce. The metal is
down 7 percent this month and heading for the first annual
decline since 2000.  Commodity Companies  The decline in commodities triggered a drop in related
equities.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT) , the world’s biggest mining company,
fell as much as 1.7 percent, and Rio Tinto Group, the third-
largest mining company, decreased as much as 5.2 percent in
 London .  Silver, platinum and palladium declined along with copper,
zinc and lead, as  Europe ’s debt crisis may hurt global growth
and sap demand.  “The way I characterize this economy is it’s a triple-B
expansion,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s bumpy, it’s
below par and brittle, and I think central banks will step up
and keep the expansion alive. We’re already seeing contagion
into global financial markets.”  Cotton tumbled to a two-year low, and soybeans fell to the
lowest price for a most-active contract since March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  