-- Concacaf Soccer Body Tells Members About Financial Mismanagement
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-23T16:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/concacaf-soccer-body-tells-members-about-financial-mismanagement.html
The top lawyer for the body that
oversees soccer in North and Central America and the Caribbean
said auditors found discrepancies in the group’s finances.  John Collins , the legal counsel of the Confederation of
North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football, said
former general secretary Chuck Blazer failed to correctly report
tax for at least four years, and ex-president  Jack Warner 
registered a $22.5 million soccer center in his own name.  The Bahamas-registered governing body, known as Concacaf,
is meeting today before world ruling body FIFA’s annual
congress. Warner quit soccer last June after more than two
decades of involvement. A probe into his alleged role in bribing
voters ahead of FIFA’s presidential election wasn’t concluded.
He’s currently acting prime minister of  Trinidad and Tobago .
Blazer, an American who is on FIFA’s executive board, quit as
general secretary in December.  “I am shell-shocked, dismayed and upset,” said Jeffrey
Webb of the  Cayman Islands , who took over today as Concacaf
president from Warner. “This should not happen in this day and
age. We must decide that it does not happen again.”  Members at the Concacaf meeting are asking FIFA to allow a
motion proposing the removal of Blazer from his post during its
annual meeting in Budapest in two days. Blazer’s term with
FIFA’s board ends in mid-2013. He was involved with the regional
group for 21 years.  “I presided over extraordinary growth and development,”
Blazer said in a text message. “A closer look will show
that the president’s office and his personal accountant were
responsible for the elements that have delayed” an audit.  Denials  Blazer denied the allegations. He said he would meet with
Concacaf officials, adding that it is “imperative.”  Warner didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Collins said Blazer, who lives in Trump Towers in  New York ,
where Concacaf has offices, has started legal proceedings
against the soccer body, saying he’s owed commissions for
marketing agreements.  He also revealed that the Joao Havelange Center of
Excellence, a soccer center funded by FIFA and Concacaf, had
been registered as being owned by two companies owned by Warner,
not the soccer federation. In 2007 Warner took out a mortgage on
the soccer center without authority.  Collins said the U.S. Internal Revenue Service is also
investigating Concacaf because it’s headquartered there. He said
the IRS became involved after Concacaf reported potential
liabilities.  Concacaf makes most of its money in the U.S. and has to
file a return there even though it’s a non-profit organization.
Collins said tax filings had never been made in the country.  “We are going to have to pay very steep penalties because
we didn’t pay our taxes properly,” said Pedro Chaluja,
president of the Panamanian soccer federation.  Officials said they were angry that they had not been told
before about the financial issues.  “You are sitting on a bomb,” Cuba soccer executive Luis
Hernandez told Concacaf president Webb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Budapest via the London newsroom 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  