-- Default Swaps in U.S. Fall as EU Leaders Meet on Crisis
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-23T22:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/credit-swaps-rise-in-u-s-as-greece-euro-exit-concerns-increase.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk in
the U.S. declined as European leaders met in Brussels to discuss
ways to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of
118.3 basis points at 5:44 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts linked to  General Motors Co. (GM) 
declined yesterday as the company may get a ratings upgrade
within a year, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The gauge fell from a high of 122.7 basis points following
speculation that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may agree to a
measure to support banks.  “There were rumors in the market that Merkel had verbally
agreed to a pan-European bank deposit guarantee,” said Mark Alexandridis, a portfolio manager at First Principles Capital
Management, overseeing about $7.9 billion in fixed-income
assets. “The market has deteriorated into a one-dimensional
place focused on any bit of news coming out of  Europe .”  The index, which had increased by as much as 4.3 basis
points, slipped later in the day based on the unconfirmed
speculation, according to Alexandridis.  The credit swaps gauge has widened by more than 25 basis
points this month as speculation mounts that  Greece  will leave
the region’s common currency.  Headline Worry  “The continual worry seems to be about headlines over
Greece and the implications it may have for the rest of the
financial system,” Susanna Gibbons, a portfolio manager at RBC
Global Asset Management, which oversees more than $250 billion
in assets, said in a telephone interview. “The worry is over a
messy exit from the euro and how that would impact the banking
system.”  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit swaps linked to GM fell by the most since October as
the automaker awaits a move to investment grade. Contracts on
Detroit-based GM fell 38 basis points to a mid-price of 361
basis points yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps rose 10 basis points
today.  “GM’s credit quality continues to improve and the company
remains on track to regain an investment grade credit rating
over the course of the next 12 months,” Moody’s analyst  Bruce Clark  said in a May 22 statement.  Ford Boost  The firm, which rates GM at Ba1, raised its ratings on  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  to high grade yesterday. The move will lift the
company out of junk bond indexes as two of the three biggest
ratings companies have now lifted its rating to investment
grade.  Ford’s $1.8 billion of 7.45 percent notes maturing in July
2031 rose 2.5 cents to 130.5 cents on the dollar at 2:43 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. It was the most
actively traded non-financial bond, Trace data show.  “The ratings upgrade is yet another milestone in the Ford
story, affirming the overhaul through which the  auto industry  as
a whole has gone during the past several years,” Jody Lurie, an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  