-- CVC Said to Seek Up to $13.5 Billion for European Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-23T15:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/cvc-said-to-seek-up-to-13-5-billion-for-european-fund.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
private-equity firm whose investments include Formula One racing
and Samsonite luggage, is planning what may become the largest
buyout fund on the market, said two people briefed on the
matter.  The firm, based in  London , may seek as much as 10.75
billion euros ($13.5 billion) for its next European fund, said
the people, who asked not to be named because the plans are
private. That would be the same amount raised for CVC’s previous
fund focused on European buyouts.  CVC, which may formally begin marketing the fund in the
second half of the year, is entering a crowded field, with a
record 1,858 private-equity funds vying for capital last month,
according to research firm Preqin Ltd. Warburg Pincus LLC is
targeting $12 billion for its next fund, the biggest on the
market, while  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and KKR & Co. are each seeking
$10 billion.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  raised the industry’s biggest
fund at $21.7 billion in 2006.  Mary Zimmerman, an outside spokeswoman for CVC, declined to
comment on plans for CVC European Equity Partners VI LP.  CVC is one of the few private-equity firms approaching or
surpassing the mega-funds raised during the 2005-2007 buyout
boom. Leonard Green & Partners LP is gathering more than $6
billion for a fund that will top its predecessor from five years
ago, and Advent International Corp. stepped up its latest goal
to 7 billion euros, people familiar with the firms said earlier
this year.  Nordic Capital , which invests in Northern Europe, is
seeking 4 billion euros, according to a marketing document.
Among other European firms, Cinven Ltd., Permira Advisers LLP
and Apax Partners LLP are raising funds that target at least 5
billion euros.  Return of 8.2%  CVC Capital’s European funds typically make equity
investments of $150 million or more, according to the firm’s
website. Founded in 1981, CVC also manages funds that focus on
the Asia-Pacific region.  The prior fund, CVC European Equity Partners V, was
generating 1.1 times capital and an  8.2 percent  internal rate of
return as of Dec. 31, according to performance data from Oregon
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund.  The firm agreed yesterday to sell 21 percent of Formula One
to BlackRock Inc. and two other investors for $1.6 billion as it
prepares an initial public offering of the auto-racing series it
took control of in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  