-- Czech Premier Warns of Snap Polls If Lawmakers Reject Tax Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-05-23T15:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/czech-premier-warns-of-snap-polls-if-lawmakers-reject-tax-plan.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas said he
expects the lower house of parliament to approve his plan to
raise taxes or face the prospect of early elections if bills
needed to cut the  budget deficit  are rejected.  The government approved today draft laws including a higher
 sales tax , the second increase in as many years, the abolition
of the ceiling for compulsory health-insurance payments and a
special tax for higher earners. Necas needs the support of
lawmakers who left a former ruling-coalition party and secured a
majority for the Cabinet in a confidence vote last month.  Necas wants to trim the public finance  deficit  below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output next year
even as the recession unexpectedly deepened in the first quarter
of this year. The plan is triggering growing protests from trade
unions, which threatened to call a nationwide strike, as leaders
in  Europe  are falling in a wave of anger over austerity prompted
by the euro-area debt crisis.  If parliament rejects the tax bills, “the government won’t
be able to prepare the state budget for next year in line with
the fiscal-consolidation strategy,” Necas told reporters in
Prague today. “In such a case, frankly speaking, I wouldn’t see
a reason for this government to continue to exist. Then the only
real alternative would be elections.”  Lower Borrowing Costs  Necas’s budget plans have helped cut Czech borrowing costs.
The yield on the country’s Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an
all-time low 3.134 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the  economy  has contracted for three consecutive
quarters, with preliminary data showing a 1 percent gross
domestic product decline in the first three months of this year,
the Cabinet plans to push through measures that should boost
budget revenue by 25 billion koruna ($1.2 billion) next year and
33 billion koruna in 2014, Necas said.  Under the plan, sales-tax rates will rise by one percentage
point to 15 percent and 21 percent from 2013, Necas said. The
government is also proposing the introduction of a special 7
percent tax for personal income of more than 48 times the
average salary, according to the bill.  The Cabinet wants to narrow the public-finance deficit, the
fiscal yardstick for assessing an EU member’s readiness to adopt
the euro, to 2.9 percent of economic output in 2013 from the
targeted 3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  