-- Derivatives Competition Plan May Be Scrapped by EU Lawmakers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-23T17:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/derivatives-competition-plan-may-be-scrapped-by-eu-lawmakers-1-.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  may win a reprieve
from draft European Union proposals to force exchanges to open
up their derivatives clearing services to competition.  Some members of the European Parliament are seeking to
scrap part of the proposals by  Michel Barnier , the bloc’s
financial services chief, amid fears they would threaten market
stability, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg news.  The legislators are concerned that Barnier’s plans to boost
competition will “fragment liquidity in trading platforms,”
which “played a vital role in promoting stability during the
financial crisis,” according to the document that lists
proposed amendments to Barnier’s draft law.  EU antitrust officials vetoed merger plans by Deutsche
Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in February after concluding that the
combination could threaten competition for trading in some
derivatives. Barnier urged  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, to take the competition-boosting effect of the draft law
into account when deciding whether the merger should be
permitted.  The move by the lawmakers “underpins” Deutsche Boerse’s
position that open access to exchanges’ derivatives trade feeds
“will endanger market integrity and lead to increased systemic
risk,” Stefan Mai, Head of Market Policy and European Public
Affairs at the Frankfurt-based exchange, said in an e-mail.  Competition Barriers  Barnier’s plan would require exchanges to share data on
derivatives trades with rival clearinghouses, so allowing them
to compete for business. The commissioner has said the measure
is needed to tackle barriers to competition and so reduce costs
for investors.  Some lawmakers from the parliament’s  Christian Democrat ,
Socialist and Liberal groups are warning instead that the
measure may threaten financial stability, by weakening
clearinghouses and making them less able to cope with a large
bank failure, according to the document.  “It would be a pity and yet another example of short-
sightedness in policy making if the EU opts to row back on
measures to improve competitiveness,”  Richard Reid , research
director for the International Centre for Financial Regulation
in  London , said in an e-mail. “Ultimately for end users, well
regulated, transparent and open markets are better for choice
and costs.”  Broader Overhaul  Barnier’s plans are part of a broader overhaul of the
bloc’s financial market rules, known as Mifid, published last
year. The draft law also includes curbs on high-frequency
trading and a crackdown on so-called dark pools, private venues
that don’t display prices in advance.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and  Deutsche
Boerse ’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
scheduled to vote on its opinion on the draft law on July 9,
according to the assembly’s website. The legislation must be
approved by the parliament and by the EU’s national governments
before it can come into effect.  Governments clashed last year over whether to include
similar provisions to bolster competition in a separate Barnier
proposal to regulate trading in over-the-counter derivatives.  The U.K. gave up demands for the data sharing provisions to
be imposed for exchange-traded derivatives in return for a
promise from Barnier that the measures would be included in the
Mifid proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  