-- Diller Beats Google With Top Web Stock: Riskless Return
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/diller-beats-google-with-top-web-stock-riskless-return.html
Billionaire Barry Diller’s
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , the owner of dating website Match.com and
search tool Ask.com, delivered the best returns of any Internet
media company worldwide, trumping Google Inc. and Baidu Inc.  Diller’s collection of more than 50 online businesses
outperformed its 12 publicly traded peers in the past two years,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. New York-
based IAC had the highest total return and the second-lowest
volatility for a risk-adjusted gain of 4.2 percent. Baidu ranked
second with 1.5 percent and Google was fifth with about 1
percent.  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , which lost almost 1 percent, had the
worst return.  IAC’s  diversity  may cushion it from the volatility that has
plagued Internet companies since the dot-com boom and bust. Its
sites range from eatery guide Urbanspoon to spelling aid
Dictionary.com, while applications from Daily Bible Quotes to
cartoon-avatar creator Zwinky feed traffic to its search
toolbars. Chairman and founder Diller has aggressively bought
back stock since 2008 -- cutting the share count by more than
half -- and began paying  dividends  last year.  “We’re looking at risk-adjusted momentum -- the fact that
the company has exhibited share-price increase at low volatility
suggests there’s stability there, and the potential for
continued price increases,” Michael Abata, a portfolio manager
at Invesco Ltd. in  Boston , said in an interview. “We continue
to see estimates being revised upwards, and the company
continuing to meet and indeed exceed those expectations.”  Growth Prospects  Invesco is the fifth-biggest owner of IAC’s publicly traded
shares with a 3.4 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Atlanta-based investment firm’s Global Equity
Fund held 63,900 shares at the end of last year and remains a
buyer, said Abata, who also works with the quantitative
strategies team at Invesco.  The fund likes IAC because of its low volatility, share-
price momentum and  growth prospects , he said. IAC also trades
cheaply relative to peers, while producing strong  cash flows ,
boosting margins and returning cash to investors, he said.  IAC has bought back more than 88 million shares in less
than five years. Its board this month authorized the repurchase
of an additional 10 million shares, adding to the 1.8 million
remaining on a prior buyback authorization.  IAC trades relatively cheaply among global Internet media
companies with a market value of at least $500 million,
according to Bloomberg data. Investors are paying 10 times its
cash flow, compared with the median of 14 times. IAC also
generates more cash than most peers, with $4.3 a share last
year, versus the median of $1.1.  The stock advanced about 1 percent to $45.23 yesterday and
has  added  6.2 percent this year.  Dating Success  One of IAC’s steadily expanding businesses is online
dating, a service that meets a “universal need,” Chief
Executive Officer Greg Blatt said in a May 4 telephone
interview. He sees the U.S. as the biggest growth opportunity,
while building abroad for longer-term returns as more consumers
get online and have the means to make Internet payments. IAC is
grappling with exactly how Web courtships will blossom across
culturally diverse markets in  Asia ,  Europe  and  South America .  “We’ve done great in the areas that are like the U.S.,”
Blatt said. “We’re trying it in different ways in all these
 other places , and are putting more resources and energy into it,
I think, than anybody else.”  At Match, IAC’s online-dating unit that includes sites
OKCupid and Chemistry, first-quarter revenue rose by 56 percent
and subscribers by 47 percent. IAC named Blatt, former head of
Match, as CEO in December 2010. The company is working to turn
around Meetic, the European dating site it acquired last year,
shedding unprofitable subscribers. It bought a 20 percent stake
in Chinese online matchmaking site Zhenai Inc. in September.  ‘Digital Snacks’  IAC’s niche-interest sites are adding visitors and
subscribers. Its Mindspark unit makes applications like
Appsassin, SmileyCentral, Ourbabymaker and Guffins virtual-pet
adoption, which come bundled with an Ask.com toolbar. That model
helps increase the number of questions posed through the toolbar
-- and  revenue  via click-throughs.  “We call them digital snacks,” Blatt said in the phone
interview. “They’re not change-the-world products, they’re
things that people like to do and play around with. One person’s
entertainment is another person’s waste of time.”  IAC also advertises to increase the popularity of Ask.com,
which is designed to provide answers to specific queries  Google (GOOG) 
doesn’t deliver, Blatt said. Rather than competing directly with
the search giant, IAC created what Blatt calls its own subset
for targeted queries.  “Google is sort of an intersection, you get there and
there are a bunch of signs that tell you where to go next,” he
said. “If you ask something very specific, we try and give you
the answer right on the page. It’s more of a destination.”  Smaller Scale  “Within the search business itself, IAC is quite different
from Google and Baidu,” said Sandy Mehta, CEO at Hong Kong-
based Value Investment Principals Ltd., an advisory firm that
holds IAC stock. “The toolbar business remains misunderstood
and largely ignored, allowing IAC to register high growth.”  While Google and Baidu’s main product is search and
companies such as  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  make money from
display ads, IAC has tapped both, albeit on a smaller scale. IAC
has increased U.S.  Internet-advertising  revenue in the past two
years, registering $791.7 million in 2011, as Yahoo and AOL
declined. Google extended its lead to $17.6 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Concerns  Globally, IAC captured just 1.4 percent of Internet-ad
spending in 2011, compared with Google’s 48 percent and Yahoo’s
6.6 percent. About 35 percent of the world’s population were Web
users last year, and the total online-ad market will exceed $88
billion this year, according to Bloomberg Industries.  “IAC has positioned itself to participate in the growth of
the Internet, broadly,” said  Paul Sweeney , a senior analyst
with Bloomberg Industries who focuses on Internet and media.
“It will benefit from the growth of the Internet audience and
Internet advertising. You combine that with a very aggressive
cash-return strategy, that’s a pretty good story.”  Still, some investors question whether revenue growth at
IAC’s toolbar business can continue as updated Web browsers
threaten to make downloading more cumbersome, said Kerry Rice,
an analyst at Needham & Co. in  San Francisco . He has a hold
recommendation on IAC, primarily because of its recent price
appreciation.  “Toolbar growth has concerns associated with it,” Rice
said. He also said IAC’s Meetic turnaround efforts will hurt
margins of its dating business in the near term.  Not Volatile  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses.  IAC has delivered the most among the 13 members of
Bloomberg’s Global Internet Media Index that have been publicly
traded for at least two years. Bloomberg excluded seven peers
that have traded for less than the two-year comparison period:
Groupon Inc., LinkedIn Corp., Zynga Inc., Yelp Inc., Yandex NV,
Pandora Media Inc., and Facebook Inc., which debuted last week.  Diller has spent decades in media and entertainment,
working his way through the industry from being a television
executive at ABC Entertainment in the 1960s to running companies
including QVC Inc., Vivendi Universal Entertainment,  Paramount
Pictures , and creating Fox Broadcasting Co. He built the current
IAC via a series of deals after selling off cable channels and
in 2005 buying Ask Jeeves Inc., now Ask.com. He owns all of
IAC’s Class B shares and controls about 43 percent of votes.  ‘Spin Master’  A self-proclaimed “spin master,” Diller has spun off
units when they’ve reached a sufficient size, such as ticket
company Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc., travel booking service
Expedia Inc. and television’s Home Shopping Network Inc.  IAC’s businesses now include television projects “Fashion
Star” on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network and the  Food Network ’s
“Chopped”, to the magazine  Newsweek  and news site Daily Beast,
and video services Vimeo and Aereo -- the targets of multiple
lawsuits from the TV providers they are seeking to displace.  While Diller said in February he wasn’t contemplating any
fresh IAC spinoffs, investors are underestimating potential
future payoffs from standout businesses in IAC’s collection,
Mehta said.  “IAC’s diversified Internet businesses give investors a
virtually free option on a number of growth engines, and if any
one of these businesses clicks, the stock can be a potential
multibagger,” Mehta said. “This was a free option when we
first entered the stock around $20, and remains free today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  