-- Euro Falls Versus Dollar Before Summit; Yen Rises on BOJ
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-23T21:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/dollar-index-reaches-20-month-high-before-eu-summit-today.html
The euro fell to its weakest level
against the dollar since July 2010 on speculation a summit of
European Union leaders will provide no new measures to stem the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The shared currency extended losses after dropping below
100 yen for the first time since February and weakening to less
than $1.26,  price levels  where traders who follow technical
analysis said sell orders were clustered. The yen climbed versus
all its major peers except  Brazil ’s real after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
left its asset-purchase fund unchanged. The real rose against
all its major counterparts after the central bank sold swaps to
stem the currency’s decline.  “Risk appetite itself has traced its undulation to the
movements in the euro,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst
in  Washington  at  Western Union Co. (WU) ’s Western Union Business
Solutions unit. “It’s going to be difficult to estimate the
real policy action that will come out of these meetings, and the
tone of the rhetoric is going to be key for the markets to gauge
where currencies should go.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.2582 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after touching $1.2545, the least since July 13, 2010. It
was 1.4 percent weaker at 100 yen, after falling to 99.54, the
least since Feb. 1 and approaching the lowest since December
2000. The yen appreciated 0.6 percent to 79.47 per dollar.  Financial turmoil in the euro bloc will come up at the
meeting in Brussels only “at the very end,” European Council
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a letter before a gathering
of EU officials.  Brazil Auctions  Brazil’s real rose for the first time in five days, gaining
2.8 percent to 2.0326 per dollar. The central bank also sold
swaps twice yesterday in a bid to slow declines as the currency
headed to the weakest level since May 2009. The real has fallen
8.6 percent this year, leading declines among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real extended gains after Brazil completely removed a
tax on currency derivatives for exporters, Alexandre Andrade, an
official at the tax agency said. On March 16, the government had
exempted exporters from the tax as long as their exposure to
currency derivatives, used to hedge against exchange-rate
fluctuations, didn’t exceed 1.2 times the value of their
previous year’s exports.  Canada ’s currency fell for a second day against the dollar
as stocks and commodities declined, even as the nation’s retail
sales rose to a record in March. The so-called loonie dropped
0.5 percent to C$1.0252.  ‘Not Good Enough’  “The Canadian dollar is really reliant on domestic data to
keep it supported at the moment, and these numbers are OK,”
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , said of the retail-sales results. “But they’re just not
good enough to push the currency any higher.”  The MSCI World Index sank 1 percent and the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials declined 1.9 percent.  South Africa ’s rand fell against most of its 16 major
counterparts after inflation accelerated less than economists’
estimates in April, fueling speculation the central bank will
leave  interest rates  unchanged this year.  The rand declined 0.7 percent to 8.3853 per dollar.  The yen snapped a two-day drop against the dollar after
slipping earlier this week on bets the central bank would decide
to boost stimulus at its policy meeting.  The BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund at 40 trillion yen
today, after expanding it by 10 trillion yen last month. The
central bank also left a credit-lending program at 30 trillion
yen, it said in a statement in  Tokyo  today. The policy board
kept the key overnight lending rate between zero and 0.1
percent.  ‘Shock Move Up’  “The risk was the BOJ was going to do something, markets
had to price in the probability of a surprise easing, so a shock
move up in the yen,” said  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York. “Now that risk is gone, so people can take off their
hedges, and we’ve seen dollar-yen dribble back down.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose as much as 0.9 percent to 82.221, the
highest level since Sept. 10, 2010.  The dollar has gained 4.5 percent over the past month as
investors sought the safest assets amid a deepening financial
crisis, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show. The yen,
the best performer, added 7.2 percent, while the euro declined
0.9 percent, according to the indexes, which track 10 developed-
nation currencies.  Brussels Summit  The Brussels gathering takes place as  Greece  prepares to
hold new elections on June 17 after an anti-bailout party surged
to second place in balloting on May 6, boosting speculation that
the country may exit the currency bloc.  “We know the summit is not going to resolve anything and
it will be hard to find particularly positive headlines,” said
 Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in  New York . “We’ve seen a lot of the reaction to the meeting
has come in the form of anticipation of nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  