-- Dominican Losing Candidate Alleges Electoral ’Manipulation’
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/dominican-losing-candidate-alleges-electoral-manipulation-.html
Opposition candidate Hipolito Mejia
told a crowd of supporters that the results of the May 20
presidential elections were unacceptable and plagued with
constitutional violations.  Speaking in  Santo Domingo  in his first public address since
losing the election to ruling party candidate Danilo Medina,
Mejia said yesterday the voting process was “the most
irregular” the country had seen since the 30-year dictatorial
rule of former President Rafael Trujillo. He listed several
alleged voting violations and said Medina’s Dominican Liberation
Party violated the constitution by using government money to
fund their campaign, without providing evidence.  He lost by a margin of 51 percent to 47 percent, according
to the nation’s electoral board.  While criticizing the contest, Mejia, a former president
from the Dominican Revolutionary Party, did not ask for a vote
recount or encourage supporters to protest the election results.
He also did not concede defeat and assured his supporters that
he would continue to head the opposition party.  “I want to say with all clarity and firmness, that results
offered to the country by the Central Electoral Board are the
product of manipulation and abuse of power,” he said. “It is
unacceptable for me as a democrat.”  Electoral observers from the  Organization of American
States  said Monday that it received a few dozen reports of vote-
buying at polling stations. They weren’t sizable enough to
affect results in what was otherwise a successful election,
according the head of the mission, former Uruguayan President
Tabare Vazquez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 