-- The Balancing Act in New Emerging Markets Funds
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-05-23T17:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/the-balancing-act-in-new-emerging-markets-funds.html
     Money manager Jai Jacob has a problem. Most of his clients
at Lazard Asset Management believe the best growth prospects
are in emerging markets -- but are afraid of investing in
them, typically having only 3 percent to 5 percent of
portfolios invested there. “There’s this cognitive
dissonance," says Jacob. "Investors have their smallest
weighting to an asset class in which they have strong
long-term conviction. They size their allocations based on
volatility, not expected return."  Such fears are not unfounded. Although the long-term
returns of emerging markets are among the best of any asset
class, the average emerging stock has an annual volatility of
25 percent, meaning it could be up or down 25 percent in any
year -- enough to scare off conservative investors. That’s why
last March, Lazard launched an Emerging Markets Multi-Strategy
Fund. It seeks to mitigate stock market risk by also investing
in emerging market bonds and currencies, increasing exposure
to these assets when stock market conditions seem unfavorable.  So far, so good. During the heightened volatility of the
past 12 months, the fund fell 9.6 percent, much less than the
17.3 percent loss of the average emerging market stock fund.
It's up 3.1 percent in 2012, compared with the average
emerging fund’s 1.6 percent. Although it’s too soon to tell if
such performance will persist, the fund's goal is to achieve
the same upside as pure stock funds with less downside.  Staying Flexible  There are now six different emerging market funds with
the flexibility to invest in both stocks and bonds. Some, such
as Pimco Emerging Multi-Asset, take risk control to the next
level by hedging the downside with derivatives. Every year the
fund can spend as much as 1.5 percent of assets on put options
that protect it from losing more than 20 percent. Such
insurance is cheaper to set up than more aggressive hedges but
will still limit the fund’s upside on big bull runs. “We’ve
found investors are willing to take some volatility and
losses, but losing 40 or 50 percent is unacceptable to them,”
says co-manager Curtis Mewbourne.  Giving managers such flexibility assumes a certain level
of trust that they'll get their market calls right. Pimco is
famous as a bond shop and for its macroeconomic top-down
analysis but is a relative newcomer to picking stocks. Its
Multi-Asset Fund invests in other Pimco funds, including the
Pimco EqS Emerging Markets Fund for its stock exposure.
Launched in March 2011, the Pimco stock fund is run by Masha
Gordon, who before joining Pimco was lead manager of the
Goldman Sachs Emerging Markets Equity Fund, which produced
mediocre results during her tenure from 2003 to
2010, according to Morningstar.  Currently, the Multi-Asset Fund has a 45 percent
weighting in equity and 48 percent in bonds. That's because
Mewbourne is skeptical about the sustainability of the global
economic recovery. “The credit crisis in Europe remains a
large potential threat to near-term returns,” he says. Should
he become more bullish, a lot will be riding on Gordon’s
skills as a stock picker.  Other funds use a more integrated approach to allocation
decisions. The AllianceBernstein Emerging Markets Multi-Asset
Fund invests directly in stocks and bonds, which manager
Morgan Harting says helps find the best security within a
company's capital structure. For example, Harting's fund owns
stock in oil giant Petrobras. “We’re bringing our equity and
credit analysts to look at Petrobras and meet with
management, competitors and suppliers,” he says. “They see it
has a very strong balance sheet and a very low stock
valuation. That suggests downside risk for both the debt and
equity is low, but the upside is clearly more favorable for
the equity.”  Holistic Strategy  Harting claims such a holistic strategy is superior to a
fund-of-funds approach. “Other fund companies are generally
bolting together two separate portfolios -- their existing
emerging debt and existing emerging equity portfolios,” he
says. “But they’re buying stocks and bonds that are attractive
only in the context of those stand-alone portfolios.”  Detailed bottoms-up securities analysis like
AllianceBernstein’s has long been the forte of top stock fund
managers. But with thousands of emerging market securities
available in more than 30 countries, having a firm grasp of
macroeconomics is also essential. Bond issuers, after all, are
often governments directly impacted by broad economic
policies. “Emerging markets are defined by the presence of
country risk,” says Alexander Kozhemiakin, ﻿﻿﻿co-manager of
the Dreyfus Total Emerging Markets Fund. “If Russia is in a
crisis, it doesn’t really matter what you own in Russia -- a
gas company or a bank. The question is how much do you have in
Russia.”  Although the Dreyfus Fund still buys individual
securities, its management is split between two separate shops
within Dreyfus -- Standish Mellon Asset Management for bonds
and the Boston Company Asset Management for stocks. The two
sides meet to discuss the portfolio but ultimately pull the
trigger separately for their individual security bets. Given
his predilection for top-down analysis, it should come as no
surprise that Kozhemiakin comes from the Standish bond side of
the equation. He has final say over the portfolios’ overall
allocation to stocks versus bonds.  Will any of these funds achieve that perfect balance of
macro- and microeconomics needed to deliver both strong
returns and low volatility? It seems doubtful, given modern
portfolio theory’s belief that the amount of return one gets
is directly correlated with the amount of risk one takes. But
with half the world’s GDP now coming from emerging
countries, it’s a question nervous investors seeking to tap
into that growth will surely be asking.
 