-- Heat Wave Forecast From Midwest to East for Memorial Day Weekend
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-23T16:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/heat-wave-forecast-from-midwest-to-east-for-memorial-day-weekend.html
Heat will spread from the U.S.
Midwest to the Northeast in time for the Memorial Day holiday
weekend, sending temperatures into the 90s in Chicago,  St. Louis 
and  Washington  and boosting electricity demand.  The high in St. Louis is expected to reach 97 degrees
Fahrenheit (36 Celsius) this weekend, according to the  National
Weather Service . The normal high is 80 degrees, according to
AccuWeather Inc. Highs may reach 92 in Chicago and Washington.  “It looks like we’re going to have some building heat
across the middle of the country,” said Paul Walker, senior
meteorologist at  AccuWeather  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Low natural gas prices, brought about by record production
and low demand during the past winter, have led many utilities
to use switch to the fuel from coal to produce electricity. Hot
weather increases power demand to meet air conditioning needs.  Natural gas for June delivery rose 2.6 cents, or 1 percent,
to $2.733 per million British thermal units at 11:33 a.m. on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange. The futures have rebounded 44
percent from a 10-year intraday low of $1.902 on April 19.  Four of seven peaking power plants operated by Wisconsin
Public Service, a unit of Chicago-based  Integrys Energy Group
Inc. (TEG) , are set to run on natural gas, according to the company’s
website. The plants are used during hot weather, when
electricity demand is highest, according to the company.  Weekend Weather  Walker said 90-degree temperatures will spread across the
Midwest and into the interior Northeast through the weekend.  New York City  may have temperatures in the high 80s this
weekend; cooler breezes off the Atlantic Ocean will keep highs
from reaching the 90s there, he said.  “It is still pretty warm for this time of year,” Walker
said. “The normal high is 74.”  A high of 92 is expected in Baltimore and Richmond,
Virginia this weekend, 89 in Philadelphia; 88 in Cleveland and
Pittsburgh; and 86 in Boston, according to the weather service.  Following the heat wave, which comes during the U.S.
Memorial Day holiday, cooler weather may arrive throughout the
eastern part of the country, according to  Matt Rogers , president
of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Rogers said temperatures may still be about 3 degrees above
normal from the Midwest through the Northeast and into southern
Canada June 2 to June 6 because cooler weather may not last.  MDA EarthSat Weather  calls for seasonal weather across the
Midwest and Northeast in its corresponding forecast.  “While not a truly cool pattern it does not appear to be
extremely warm either, with plenty of variability expected
within this time frame,” MDA said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  