-- Heat Rout Pacers 115-83, Move Within Win of NBA Conference Final
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-23T05:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/heat-rout-pacers-115-83-move-within-win-of-nba-conference-final.html
LeBron James  scored 30 points and the
 Miami Heat  defeated the Indiana Pacers 115-83 to move within one
victory of reaching the Eastern Conference finals in the
National Basketball Association playoffs.  Miami leads the best-of-seven series 3-2 and can eliminate
the Pacers in Game 6 tomorrow at Indiana.  “This is our challenge right now, to leave it behind us,”
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra told reporters. “A lot of good things
tonight, but we have to focus on the next one.”  James had 10 rebounds and eight assists and  Dwyane Wade 
added 28 points as the Heat shot a franchise playoff-record 61
percent, outpacing any team in the playoffs this season.  “This was a total team effort,” Wade said in a televised
interview. “But it’s good for me to get two games in a row like
this.”  Paul George  scored 11 points for the Pacers, and  Danny Granger  and  David West  contributed 10 points each before they
were taken out of the game with injuries at AmericanAirlines
Arena in Miami. Granger left with a sprained left ankle in the
third quarter, and West left with a left knee sprain at the end
of the period.  “They played at their tempo,” West said. “We weren’t
able to get enough stops. You can’t allow a team to shoot 60,
60-plus, whatever from the field.”  The game had its rough moments. The Pacers’ Tyler Hansbrough sent Wade to the court in the second quarter after
raking his fingernails across Wade’s eyes. The incident drew
blood above Wade’s eyebrow and a flagrant foul for Hansbrough.  Physical Play  Less than a minute later, Miami’s Udonis Haslem, who
received stitches for a cut he got in Game 4 when Indiana’s Lou Amundson elbowed him in the head, went after Hansbrough and sent
him to the floor. Haslem got a flagrant foul as well.  “Game 6 is going to be physical,” Wade said. “We’ve got
to understand that this team has a lot of pride. Their crowd is
going to be ready. They’re going to come out with a lot of
energy. We’ve got to withstand that first hit and still be
standing. We’re ready for it.”  The series winner will play the  Boston Celtics  or the
 Philadelphia 76ers  for a place in the NBA Finals. That series
resumes tonight in Philadelphia with the Celtics leading 3-2 in
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval
 in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  