-- Lawyer Says Oklahoma City Shootings Not Connected to NBA Playoff
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/teens-arrested-in-oklahoma-city-shooting-after-nba-playoff-game.html
An attorney for one of the two
teenagers charged in the shooting of eight people in  Oklahoma
City  minutes after the Thunder eliminated the  Los Angeles Lakers 
said the incident was not related to the playoff game.  The Thunder announced yesterday that fans will no longer be
able to watch the National Basketball Association postseason
games on a giant screen outside the Chesapeake Energy Arena.  Rodney Hill, 19, and Avery Myers, 17, were charged with
eight counts of shooting with intent to kill,  Oklahoma City
Police Department  Captain Dexter Nelson said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Both suspects are Oklahoma City residents.  Nelson said police remain unsure if the shootings, which
occurred a few blocks from the arena that hosted the game, were
basketball related. The shootings took place at 11:35 p.m.,
about 13 minutes after the May 21 game ended.  Hill’s attorney, Billy Bock, told the Oklahoman the
shootings were not related to the game.  “It didn’t have anything to do with Thunder and Lakers,”
he told the newspaper. “It wasn’t a fan-based situation. Some
people knew each other from school and some other things and,
you know, people get hostile.”  Bock said Hill was not the shooter, and had gone with the
shooter to watch the game on the giant screen outside the arena.
A court affidavit filed yesterday by Oklahoma City Police said
that Myers “confessed to shooting into the crowd,” the
Oklahoman reported.  Pregame Festivities  The team said in a release posted on its website yesterday
that there will be pregame festivities outside the arena when
the Thunder host the  San Antonio Spurs  in the Western Conference
finals. Those activities will end when the game begins.  An estimated 6,000 people gathered outside the arena to
watch the game on May 21 when the Thunder beat the Lakers 106-90
to wrap up the best-of-seven second-round NBA postseason series
in five games.  The team said the pregame festivities will begin three
hours before tipoff. The next Thunder home game is May 31.  “It’s a chance in a safe, family-friendly environment for
our fans to embrace the Thunder experience and get ready for the
game,” Dan Mahoney, the team’s vice president of corporate
communications and community relations, said in the release.
“For those with tickets, they can enter the arena when doors
open. Other Thunder fans can enjoy the pregame entertainment and
then go to their favorite viewing establishment to watch the
game.”  One shooting victim remained in very serious condition
yesterday, Nelson said, while seven had been treated and
released. A pregnant woman was treated after being trampled in
the melee that followed the shootings, which occurred in the
Bricktown district of Oklahoma City, a club and restaurant area
near the arena.  “We still are not saying how many weapons were used,
because we still don’t know,” Nelson said. “We are continuing
the investigation and looking for more suspects and potential
witnesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  