-- Egyptians Vote in Second Day of Landmark Presidency Race
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   M a r i a m   F a m ,   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/egyptians-wrestle-with-ballot-choices-as-vote-hits-half-way-mark.html
When Ashraf Fouad voted in Egypt’s
first presidential election since  Hosni Mubarak  was removed from
power, the 46-year-old mechanic took a pragmatic approach.  With what he described as the fate of a fledgling democracy
at stake, Fouad threw his support behind former Arab League
chief Amre Moussa, a veteran diplomat who also served as foreign
minister under Mubarak, mainly as a way to block the possibility
of a win by the Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate Mohamed Mursi.  “I don’t really like him,” Fouad said. “But I like Mursi
even less.”  In the two-day round of voting that ended yesterday,
Egyptians chose between a field of 13 candidates, with the race
divided between Islamists and secularists, including former
members of Mubarak’s government. The choice, after 60 years of
rigged ballots for presidents drawn from the ranks of the
military, was seen by many as a chance to chart a new course
while also ending 15 months of political uncertainty.  The once-banned Brotherhood, which with other Islamist
groups now dominates the Egyptian parliament and benefits from a
countrywide network of supporters, is challenged most directly
by candidates with former regime links, such as Moussa and Ahmed
Shafik, Mubarak’s last premier.  Second Round  “It’s looking increasingly likely that Mursi will get to
the second round,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said in a telephone interview
from Cairo. “This is an existential battle for the Brotherhood,
and especially the Brotherhood’s current conservative
leadership.”  “It’s not just about the president, it’s about the future
of political Islam and the future of the organization,” Hamid
said.  For many like  Ahmed Maher , a founder of the April 6 youth
movement that helped organize last year’s anti-Mubarak protests,
a win by Shafik would be a blow to the hopes of those involved
in the popular uprising.  “Even if the president is affiliated with the revolution,
pressure will continue so that he doesn’t turn into a new
pharaoh,” Maher said in a phone interview. “But having someone
like Shafik is provocative, and means that he’s mocking the
revolution.”  Close Race  Opinion polls conducted ahead of the race have variously
placed Moussa, Shafik, Mursi or moderate Islamist and former
Brotherhood member Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh in the lead. That
makes it likely that a run-off between the two leading
candidates will be held on June 16 and 17. Final results are
expected on June 21, and the military council that took power
after Mubarak’s fall has vowed to hand over power by the end of
next month.  Egyptian officials said they were determined to show the
election would not be marred by irregularities. More than
150,000 troops were deployed across the country to prevent
trouble. The elections commission, which is overseeing the vote,
vowed it would investigate all complaints.  Hatem Bagato, the election commission’s secretary-general,
said it had recorded about 54 violations across the country over
the course of the election, a level he described as “very
excellent” and better than his expectations.  Law and Order  As well as restoring security, the election is also
considered key to restoring some equilibrium in politics, where
the deadlock between the Islamist-led parliament and the
military-appointed government has stalled efforts to revive the
economy.  The aftermath of the January 2011 uprising drained almost
60 percent of  Egypt ’s net international reserves, and forced the
government to seek a $3.2 billion  International Monetary Fund 
loan the fund is unwilling to approve until it sees political
consensus. The funds, while not enough to plug the hole in the
country’s finances, are viewed by officials as key to opening
the door for other donor aid.  “We’re in uncharted territory. We don’t know who’s likely
to win, what they may actually do once elected and how the
population and military would react to the election results,”
Slim Feriani, who oversees about $800 million as the chief
investment officer at Advance Emerging Capital in  London , said
by e-mail on May 18. “The outcome of these elections will be
crucial to Egypt’s future, at least in the short and medium-
term.”  Foreign Policy  Investors aren’t the only ones concerned. In the run-up to
the vote, candidates also focused on  foreign policy , seeking
resonance with Egyptians leery with the country’s peace treaty
with neighboring  Israel .  “Whoever is elected Egyptian president is under immense
popular pressure to take a tougher stance toward Israel,”
Egyptian Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, who decided against
running for the presidency, said in an interview with Vienna,
Austria-based Profil magazine to be published today.  “At the moment there is just chaos” and it is “unclear
who rules the country,” ElBaradei said.  Egypt’s future president will inherit a nation whose
citizens may be expecting more than he can realistically
deliver. The ruling military has warned that Egyptians should
not expect the incoming president to hold a “magic wand.”  Fading Influence  Once viewed as the political hub of the Arab world, many
Egyptians accused Mubarak of squandering the country’s
diplomatic capital in much the same way that critics allege that
he, his family and his closest confidants stole its wealth. A
court is set to rule in a little over a week on Mubarak’s fate,
with the former president facing a possible death sentence if
convicted of the most serious charge of complicity in the death
of some of the roughly 850 protesters killed in the uprising.  For Heba Atef, one of about 50 million Egyptians eligible
to vote, the solution lies with Nasserist presidential hopeful
Hamdeen Sabahi.  “The president should be able to make Egypt a glorious
country again -- a country with dignity and a good reputation
around the world,” said the 30-year-old government employee.
Sabahi “has a strong personality and ideas, and he also listens
to others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 