-- Tehran Residents Counting On Talks for Sanctions Relief
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-05-23T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/tehran-residents-counting-on-talks-for-sanctions-relief.html
Tehran real-estate dealer Ismael
Taheri has been following the news closely as  Iran  opens talks
on its nuclear program and says he hopes discussions will bring
an easing of sanctions that have hobbled his nation’s economy.  “I’ve watched all the news and programs on our country’s
nuclear negotiations in the past few days” said Taheri, 60,
from his office in Tehran as he flicked through channels for
more updates. An agreement with international powers will
benefit Iran and its citizens, said Taheri, who hasn’t made a
sale in two months.  Negotiators from  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K.
and the U.S. -- the so-called P5+1 group -- began talks with
their Iranian counterparts in Baghdad today on the country’s
nuclear program. The U.S. and the European Union have adopted
dozens of financial, trade, insurance and energy-related
sanctions since November to squeeze Iran and force its leaders
to abandon what Western countries suspect are illicit aspects of
the atomic program.  The P5+1 may offer Iran confidence-building measures in
return for concessions, according to U.S. officials, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the issue’s sensitivity.  Newspaper Headlines  The summit made the front-page headlines of most Tehran-
based newspapers today with privately held newspapers taking a
neutral stance and state-related ones striking a more defiant
note.  “ Baghdad , host of historic talks,” Shargh said. “Tehran
tranquil, P5+1 noisy,” state-run Iran wrote. The Kayhan
newspaper, whose editor-in-chief is appointed by Iran’s Supreme
Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , said: “Today’s Baghdad talks,
the world’s top headline.”  While many Iranians support the country’s nuclear policy,
which has been portrayed in government-controlled media as an
issue of national independence, the sanctions have led many
Iranians to become increasingly focused on its costs.  The talks are “critical,” Fatemeh Abazari, a 40-year-old
teacher and mother of two, said as she purchased bread at a
bakery in northwest Tehran. “Everybody is talking about it,
especially in shopping centers and supermarkets.”  The Baghdad summit is taking place after months of
tensions, with  Israel  warning that time to reach an agreement
isn’t unlimited. The U.S. and allies accuse Iran of secretly
developing the capacity to make an atomic bomb, while Iran says
its nuclear program is civilian and needed to generate power and
for medical research.  The Iranian rial has plunged to 16,850 to the dollar from
13,200 on Nov. 2. Inflation was 21.8 percent in the 12 months
through the Iranian month of Farvardin, which ended April 19,
and has been above 20 percent since May, the central bank says.  A nuclear deal can “lead to economic growth,” said
Dariush Saneie, a 64-year-old financial consultant with a
private exporting and importing company in Tehran. It “will
directly affect our businesses and profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  