-- Helvetia May Sell to Rich Clients After Raiffeisen Buys Wegelin
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-05-23T10:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/helvetia-may-sell-to-rich-clients-after-raiffeisen-buys-wegelin.html
Helvetia Holding AG (HELN)  may start selling
 life insurance  policies to super-rich clients of Raiffeisen
Group after its distribution partner acquired Swiss private bank
Wegelin & Co. in January.  “There could be a long-term potential to tap into the high
net-worth individual market via Raiffeisen,” Stefan Loacker,
chief executive officer of Helvetia, said in an interview in  St.
Gallen , Switzerland. “In the context of the Wegelin purchase,
we have both decided to look into this potential.”  Raiffeisen bought Wegelin after the 270-year-old Swiss
wealth manager came under investigation in the U.S. for
allegedly helping Americans evade taxes. While Wegelin became
the first Swiss bank to be indicted in a U.S. crackdown on  tax
evasion , the risks and responsibility for the U.S. business
remain with former partners and not Raiffeisen.  Helvetia, Switzerland’s fourth-biggest insurer, focuses on
middle-income groups and doesn’t sell life products known as
wrappers to wealthy private banking clients. Swiss regulators in
2010 probed whether wrappers were being used to hide undeclared
assets as sales of the policies boosted premiums at  Swiss Life
Holding AG (SLHN)  and  Baloise Holding AG. (BALN)   When a client buys a wrapper, the beneficial ownership of
the assets is transferred to the insurer while the funds often
remain on the balance sheet of private banks. Insurers invest
the premiums through advisers and clients receive benefits tied
to the performance of the underlying investment. Taxes are
minimized or deferred because life insurance policies are
classified as non-income producing assets.  Wrapper Sales  Helvetia has no “concrete plans” to sell policies to
wealthy clients, said Loacker.  Swiss insurers, which sell wrappers through units in
Luxembourg, Liechtenstein and  Singapore , may open themselves to
lawsuits when they provide such products to French and German
citizens seeking to evade taxes, the  Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority  said two years ago. Swiss Life said last
year that a tax accord between  Switzerland  and Germany will curb
wrapper sales as some German clients repatriate assets.  The Wegelin purchase added about 21 billion Swiss francs
($22 billion) to the 146 billion francs of assets that
Raiffeisen had under management at the end of last year. The
cooperation with Raiffeisen made up almost 20 percent of
Helvetia’s Swiss single life insurance new business in 2011 and
this contribution is growing, said Loacker.  Helvetia offers mainly risk life insurance, which
Raiffeisen often sells to customers in combination with a
mortgage. That covers a family should the breadwinner become
disabled or dies.  Distribution Agreement  Helvetia extended its Swiss distribution agreement with St.
Gallen-based Raiffeisen for another five years in 2009.
Raiffeisen, which holds a 4 percent stake in the insurer, has
Switzerland’s third-biggest banking network.  Helvetia may use part of the $3.65 billion in equity it
held at the end of last year for “bolt-on acquisitions” in
countries, including  Germany , Italy and  Spain , where the insurer
already has a presence, Loacker said.  “We want to continue strengthening our position in the
markets where we are already present,” he said. “Acquisitions
are a possible catalyst to develop our positions.”  Helvetia dropped 3 percent to 279.25 francs as of 12:13
p.m. in Zurich trading, bringing this year’s decline to 2.9
percent.  Loacker reiterated the insurer’s mid-term financial
targets, including a return on equity of 10 percent to 12
percent. Helvetia had an ROE of 8.7 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  