-- Emerging Stocks Fall Most in Six Months on European Debt Concern
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-05-23T21:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-six-months-on-european-debt-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks slid the most
in six months as concern deepened that Europe’s debt crisis will
reduce developing-nation exports and curb demand for riskier
assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 2.4 percent to 896.96
by 4:31 p.m. in New York, the biggest drop since Nov. 23. A
 gauge  of materials producers slid to the lowest since September
2009 as metals retreated and  Posco (005490) ,  South Korea ’s biggest
steelmaker, slumped to a seven-month low.  Russia’s Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
tumbled to the lowest since 2010 on declines for power utility
companies.  Brazil ’s Bovespa slipped 0.8 percent as Oi SA fell to
the lowest level since 2004.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the region’s debt crisis that has wiped more than $4 trillion
from equity markets worldwide this month. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index, which tracks 24 raw materials, lost 1.9 percent
to the lowest level since Oct. 7. Silver, platinum and palladium
declined, along with base metals including copper, zinc and
lead, on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may hurt global growth and
sap demand.  “There are already signs of exports slowing in Asia and
Europe,”  Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-market analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London  today. “Risk
appetite is hurt by the possibility of a messy break up of the
euro that could lead to a broader financial crisis. Investors go
to safe haven assets at the expense of emerging-market assets.”  Utilities Tumble  Russia ’s Micex fell 3.4 percent to the lowest level since
July 2010 as power utility companies from Federal Grid Co. to
OAO RusHydro plunged to three-year lows.  Federal Grid, Russia’s state-run high voltage power
transmission company, retreated 9.2 percent to the lowest level
since April 2009. OAO RusHydro, the nation’s largest hydropower
producer, slipped 8.4 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark gauge fell 0.8 percent in  Sao Paulo  for
a second day of declines.  Banco do Brasil SA ,  Latin America ’s
largest lender by assets, fell 4.2 percent. Oi SA, the Brazilian
telephone company, led declines after the shares fell 5.5
percent to the lowest level since May 2004.  Benchmark indexes in South Korea, Taiwan, Russia and  Turkey 
retreated more than 1 percent.  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index  exchange-traded
fund , the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
lost 0.7 percent to $37.52 today.  Worst Growth  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.6 percent to 33.75.  China ’s economy may have the worst growth in more than two
decades if  Greece  leaves the euro, according to China
International Capital Corp., the nation’s biggest investment
bank. Expansion in the world’s second-biggest economy would slow
to 6.4 percent in 2012 without policy stimulus if an exit drags
down global growth by half as much as the 2008-2009 financial
crisis did, economists led by Beijing-based Peng Wensheng said
in a e-mailed report today.  Jin Liqun, chairman of China Investment Corp.’s supervisory
board, said yesterday European authorities have shown a “lack
of leadership” on the euro area’s debt crisis and other
countries may leave if Greece exits the single currency bloc.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  slipped 1.3 percent to the lowest level
since Nov. 30.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s biggest producer of
the metal, dropped 1.8 percent in Hong Kong.  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. (2607) , China’s second-
largest drug supplier by market value, plunged 24 percent in
Hong Kong. The 21st Century Business Herald newspaper said the
company is being probed by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the
China Securities Regulatory Commission for suspected financial
fraud involving two acquisitions earlier this year.  Lu Di, an official in the company’s board office, declined
to comment when contacted by phone by Bloomberg News.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 402, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  