-- Novak Djokovic Will Have Design Input in Five-Year Uniqlo Deal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-05-23T12:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/tennis-no-1-novak-djokovic-signs-five-year-deal-with-uniqlo.html
Top-ranked tennis player Novak Djokovic signed a five-year deal with Japanese clothing brand
 Uniqlo , owned by Asia’s biggest clothing retailer Fast Retailing
Co.  Wearing a white tennis outfit made by Uniqlo at a press
conference in Paris, Djokovic told reporters he will have design
input in the deal. He’ll wear Uniqlo clothing both on and off
the court.  The agreement with the 25-year-old Serb gives Uniqlo
additional global brand exposure. He’s the reigning Wimbledon,
 U.S. Open  and Australian Open champion, and rose to the top spot
in the men’s rankings last July after his first Wimbledon title.
The  French Open , which he’s never won, starts May 27 in Paris.  Fast Retailing, controlled by Tadashi Yanai,  Japan ’s
richest man, has expanded in Asia outside of Japan to reduce its
dependence on its home market.  Uniqlo wants to open “many stores” in France, Fast
Retailing president Yanai said at the press conference today.
Uniqlo sales were “extremely good’ in France, but “poor” in
some stores in the U.K., Yanai added. Uniqlo is planning to
expand its stores in  Europe  from this fall, he said.  Djokovic’s previous clothing sponsor, Sergio Tacchini
International, yesterday said its agreement with the Serb ended
because he’d “outgrown” their brand. Tennis champions
including  John McEnroe  had previously worn the Italian company’s
clothing.  Former Partners  In November 2009, when ranked third, Djokovic signed a
long-term deal with Sergio Tacchini and ended his link-up with
 Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting goods maker. Two
weeks prior to that, Adidas said it signed fourth-ranked  Andy Murray  of Britain on a “long-term contract.”  There’s no buyout clause in Djokovic’s agreement with
Uniqlo, according to a person familiar with the situation who
declined to be identified because the financial terms of the
deal haven’t been made public.  “It’s time to move on,” from the Sergio Tacchini
partnership, Djokovic said today. He’ll continue to wear tennis
shoes made by Adidas, he said.  Yamaguchi, Japan-based Fast Retailing opened the world’s
largest Uniqlo brand casual clothing store in Tokyo’s Ginza
district in March as it attempts to change its image to that of
a global company, using English as an official language and
hiring international staff. The company also sponsors Japanese
tennis player Kei Nishikori, ranked 18th in the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
5015 or  aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ; Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  