-- Lenovo Boosts Profit 60% on Medion, NEC PC Acquisitions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-23T11:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/lenovo-fourth-quarter-profit-gains-60-percent-on-acquisitions.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, posted a 60 percent
increase in fourth-quarter profit as acquisitions in Germany and
 Japan  helped boost shipments and market share.  Net income climbed to $67 million in the three months ended
March 31 from $42 million a year earlier, Lenovo said in a
statement today. That beat the $63.1 million average of nine
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 54 percent
to $7.5 billion.  Lenovo sold more computers including Thinkpad laptops to
businesses in the U.S. and  emerging markets , bringing it closer
to Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing’s target of becoming
the world’s largest PC maker. Yang also helped boost sales by
acquiring control of  Medion AG (MDN) , an Essen, Germany-based computer
maker, and the PC unit of Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)  last year.  “Solid revenue growth was lifted by above-industry volume
growth and maiden contributions from NEC and Medion,” Jonathan Ng, a Singapore-based analyst at CIMB, said in an e-mail.
“Profit is growing in line with top-line growth, reflecting
that Lenovo is able to maintain its margin despite increased
investment in mobile devices.”  Smartphones, Tablets  Lenovo  shares  fell 1.5 percent to close at HK$6.78 in Hong
Kong trading, compared with a 1.3 percent drop in the city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Yang is also increasing development of smartphones, tablets
and Internet-ready TVs to widen the company’s consumer lineup
and challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  Lenovo will work with more carriers in  China  as it aims to
triple smartphone shipments this fiscal year, Yang said at a
briefing in Hong Kong today. The company shipped more than 5
million smartphones in the year ended March, he said.  PC shipments jumped 44 percent in the three months ended in
March, compared with a 4.6 percent rise in industry shipments in
the period, the company said.  Lenovo expects to increase revenue by between 10 percent
and 20 percent this fiscal year, helped by demand in emerging
markets, Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said. The company
will also post improvements in its profit margins, he said.  “We are very confident we can outperform the market,”
Wong said in an interview in Hong Kong. The 37 percent gain in
annual revenue last fiscal year included contributions from the
acquisitions of Medion and NEC, he said.  Market Share  Lenovo expanded its global PC market share to 13.4 percent
in the period from 9.6 percent a year earlier, market researcher
IDC said last month. The company, with headquarters in Beijing
and Morrisville, North Carolina, trails only  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s 18 percent share, according to IDC.  The biggest sales gain for the period was in Lenovo’s
mature-markets division, which included the effect of Yang’s
acquisitions. Revenue from the U.S., Japan and Western  Europe 
jumped 85 percent to $3.4 billion in the quarter.  Demand from corporate clients in Europe and the U.S. have
slowed because of the “macroeconomic situation” and as some
customers wait for products with Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8
operating system, Yang said today.  Lenovo is seeking to acquire “high-growth” businesses and
companies that will help improve profitability, Wong said.  “We will continue to look for acquisitions,” Wong said.
“We are looking at a lot of opportunities,” he said, declining
to identify targets or provide a timeframe.  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of International
Business Machines Corp. in 2005, said revenue from China rose 32
percent to $2.9 billion in the quarter, or 39 percent of the
company’s total.  Sales in its emerging-market division, which includes India
and Russia, rose 43 percent to $1.2 billion.  -- Edmond Lococo and  Mark Lee , with assistance from  Andy Clarke 
and Paula Sailes in  Hong Kong . Editors: Dave McCombs, Terje
Langeland  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  