-- Hey, Germany: You Got a Bailout, Too
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/merkel-should-know-her-country-has-been-bailed-out-too.html
In the millions of words written
about  Europe ’s debt crisis, Germany is typically cast as the
responsible adult and  Greece  as the profligate child. Prudent
Germany, the narrative goes, is loath to bail out freeloading
Greece, which borrowed more than it could afford and now must
suffer the consequences.  Would it surprise you to know that Europe’s taxpayers have
provided as much financial support to Germany as they have to
Greece? An examination of European money flows and central-bank
balance sheets suggests this is so.  Let’s begin with the observation that irresponsible
borrowers can’t exist without irresponsible lenders. Germany’s
banks were Greece’s enablers. Thanks partly to lax regulation,
German banks built up precarious exposures to Europe’s
peripheral countries in the years before the crisis. By December
2009,  according to the Bank for International Settlements ,
German banks had amassed claims of $704 billion on Greece,
Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and  Spain , much more than the German
banks’ aggregate capital. In other words, they lent more than
they could afford.  When the European Union and the  European Central Bank 
stepped in to bail out the struggling countries, they made it
possible for German banks to bring their money home. As a
result, they bailed out Germany’s banks as well as the taxpayers
who might otherwise have had to support those banks if the loans
weren’t repaid. Unlike much of the aid provided to Greece, the
support to Germany’s banks happened automatically, as a function
of the currency union’s structure.  How It Worked  Here’s how it worked. When German banks pulled money out of
Greece, the other national central banks of the euro area
collectively offset the outflow with loans to the Greek central
bank. These loans appeared on the balance sheet of the
Bundesbank,  Germany ’s central bank, as  claims on the rest of the
euro area . This mechanism, designed to keep the currency area’s
accounts in balance, made it easier for the German banks to exit
their positions.  Now for the tricky part: As opposed to the claims of the
private banks, the Bundesbank’s claims were only partly the
responsibility of Germany. If Greece reneged on its debt, the
losses would be shared among all euro-area countries, according
to  their shareholding in the ECB . Germany’s stake would be about
28 percent. In short, over the last couple of years, much of the
risk sitting on German banks’ balance sheets shifted to the
taxpayers of the entire currency union.  It’s hard to quantify exactly how much Germany has
benefited from its European bailout. One indicator would be the
amount German banks pulled out of other euro-area countries
since the crisis began. According to the BIS, they yanked $353
billion from December 2009 to the end of 2011 (the latest data
available). Another would be the increase in the  Bundesbank’s
claims on other euro-area central banks . That amounts to 466
billion euros ($590 billion) from December 2009 through April
2012, though it would also reflect non-German depositors moving
their money into German banks.  By comparison, Greece has received a total of about 340
billion euros in official loans to recapitalize its banks,
replace fleeing capital, restructure its debts and help its
government make ends meet. Only about 15 billion euros of that
has come directly from Germany. The rest is all from the ECB,
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  Better Prepared  Germany’s changing financial exposure has major
implications for its role as a leader of Europe’s response to
the crisis. Before Germany’s banks pulled back their funds, they
stood to lose a ton of money if Greece left the euro. Now any
losses will be shared with the taxpayers of the entire euro area
-- particularly  France , whose banks still have a lot of
outstanding loans to Greece. Perhaps this is what some German
officials mean when they say that the euro area is better
prepared for a Greek exit.  Ultimately, though, the cost of letting Greece go would
come home to Germany. If bank runs and market turmoil forced
 Portugal , Spain, Italy and others out of the euro area as well,
the losses could wipe out much of  the capital of German banks .
Not to mention the longer-term damage the euro breakup would do
to the exports that drive Germany’s economy, and the potential
demise of a European project designed to prevent a repeat of the
horrors of two world wars.  To prevent such an outcome, with or without Greece, Germany
will have to do everything it has so far refused, and more. This
would include allowing the ECB to stand behind the debt of
sovereigns. The euro area also needs a mechanism that would
transfer money to economically troubled countries just as
automatically as the region’s payment system bailed out Germany
-- an element economists have long said is crucial to making the
euro area a workable currency union. As we have advocated, a
joint  unemployment insurance fund  could be a first step toward
such a fiscal union.  As German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  considers the next step
in the euro crisis -- one that could help the euro area return
to growth or, alternatively, risk the survival of the entire
currency union -- she should keep in mind that her country is
indebted to the euro system as much as Greece is.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  problems with the
Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on  Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter 
on  political substance and slander ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over
Bain;  Caroline Baum  on  overregulating banks ; Tobias Moskowitz on
 data-driven policy ; Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock therapy ;
Junheng Li on  China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 