-- Merkel Ally Seeks to Break Solar Impasse as State Leaders Meet
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-23T10:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/merkel-ally-seeks-to-break-solar-impasse-as-state-leaders-meet.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s new
environment minister said he’ll seek a compromise with German
states over plans to cut solar subsidies, as he takes control of
the country’s 200-billion-euro ($250 billion) energy overhaul
amid signs it is stalling.  Peter Altmaier , who assumed the post yesterday after
Merkel sacked the previous holder, Norbert Roettgen, aims to
break an impasse with the states over the level of subsidy cuts
by the summer recess, he told Deutschlandfunk radio today.  Solar-industry jobs “can’t be saved by subsidies alone,”
Altmaier said. While expanding solar energy is important, it can
become problematic for energy security and power prices if it is
“uncontrolled and advancing too quickly.” Getting a compromise
“is a very big challenge, because there’s a lot at stake.”  One year after Merkel abandoned her support for nuclear
energy, the chancellor is hosting talks with Altmaier and the 16
state leaders in Berlin today to discuss progress on the energy
shift. The task is to phase out atomic power generation by 2022
and raise the share of renewables to at least 35 percent of the
power mix in  Europe ’s biggest economy by the end of this decade.
A press conference is planned for 1:30 p.m. Berlin time.  Projects to build new  power lines  and connect sea-based
 wind turbines  to the electricity grid are delayed. Utilities
including EON AG and RWE AG are refusing to build new gas-fired
generators, deemed key by the government to back up the
fluctuating renewables.  Blocked in Bundesrat  State leaders balked this month at federal government plans
to cut solar subsidies by a record, saying the move threatened
thousands of jobs in the world’s biggest solar market by
installed capacity. They blocked the bill in the upper house on
May 11 and have called on Altmaier to soften the planned cuts.
The bill was sent to a parliamentary panel for arbitration.  The states are concerned that plans to cut solar incentives
by as much as 29 percent from April 1 and introduce monthly cuts
to subsidies thereafter will put additional pressure on domestic
manufacturers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  as Chinese rivals led by
Suntech Power Holdings Co. grab market share.  At least four German solar companies including  Q-Cells SE (QCE) ,
once the world’s biggest cell maker, have filed for creditor
protection since December.  Altmaier, the former chief parliamentary whip of Merkel’s
party, was appointed to manage the shuttering of Germany’s
remaining nine nuclear reactors, building offshore wind farms
that will cover an area six times the size of  New York  City and
erecting power lines that could stretch from  London  to Baghdad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  