-- Merkel Seeks Accord on Solar, to Spur Base-Load Generation
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-23T15:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/merkel-pledges-german-solar-aid-pact-plans-to-base-load-power.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
seek agreement on supporting solar power and plans to spur base-
load generation that doesn’t vary with wind and sunshine levels
following criticism of her proposals to curb industry subsidies.  “The energy overhaul is a major task, you could say a
Herculean task, we all feel an obligation toward,” Merkel said
today after meeting with 16 state leaders and Environment
Minister Peter Altmaier. “We want it to succeed.”  Merkel is seeking to strike a deal with state leaders ahead
of the government’s summer recess after they said plans to cut
aid threaten thousands of jobs in the world’s biggest solar
market by installed capacity. She will meet the leaders every
six months to monitor her year-old  energy policy .  The government will propose a better way to coordinate the
expansion of renewables with the need for base-load generators
such as coal- and gas-fired  power plants  that ensure security of
supply, Merkel said. “The keyword is capacity markets,” she
said, referring to rewarding companies that offer such supply.  Germany’s 200-billion-euro ($250 billion) energy overhaul
involves phasing out atomic power by 2022 and raising renewables
to at least 35 percent of total generation. It includes closing
nine reactors, building offshore wind farms that may cover an
area six times the size of  New York  City, and building or
upgrading 4,500 kilometers (2,800 miles) of  power lines .  Installation Boom  States are concerned Merkel’s plan to cut solar subsides in
reaction to an installation boom will hurt local producers such
as  Solarworld AG (SWV) , already struggling to compete with Chinese
rivals led by Suntech Power Holdings Co. On May 11, the states
blocked the central government bill in the upper house.  Utilities including EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE)  declined to build new
gas-fired plants, key to the government’s plans to ensure steady
generation as the country relies more on variable wind and solar
sites, because of concerns investment won’t be profitable.  The state of Baden-Wuerttemberg requires additional energy
storage facilities as well as “flexible” natural-gas fired
power plants to secure its  energy supply  as it shuts reactors,
said Winfried Kretschmann, the state’s governor. “The question
of capacity markets is to be decided by the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  