-- Hero Pilot Warns of Bird Strikes in Fight Against NYC Trash Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hero-pilot-warns-of-bird-strikes-in-fight-against-nyc-trash-plan.html
Chesley Sullenberger III, the pilot
who safely landed his US Airways plane in the  Hudson River  after
a bird strike in 2009, is warning of catastrophes if a  New York 
City trash facility near LaGuardia Airport is allowed to open.  Radio commercials financed by a group called Friends of
LaGuardia Airport pit Sullenberger, 61, against Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who has championed trash-transfer stations as the
most equitable and environmentally sound way to dispose of the
city’s 10,000 tons of residential garbage a day.  “This facility will attract birds into the path of
oncoming flights, putting thousands of lives at risk, including
passengers in the sky and citizens on the ground,” Sullenberger
says in the ads. He calls on New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to
stop the plant’s scheduled 2013 start.  At stake is a multibillion-dollar  plan  Bloomberg proposed
in 2006 to establish 30-year control over solid-waste disposal
after former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  closed Fresh Kills, a city-
owned landfill on  Staten Island .  “The plan reduces pollution from trucks in city traffic
and provides more fairness, with no one borough shouldering
responsibility for all the city’s trash,” said Ed Bautista,
executive director of the New York City Environmental Justice
Alliance, a group created to represent residents of the Bronx.
The city’s poorest borough has been “disproportionately
burdened” by trash facilities, he said.  Suctioning Devices  In addition to transfer stations using rail connections,
Bloomberg’s plan creates four enclosed waterfront facilities,
including one less than a half-mile (0.8 kilometer) across
Flushing Bay from LaGuardia, which served 24.1 million
passengers last year. The station would be able to receive more
than 2,000 trucks daily between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.  Trucks dump refuse that goes into containers, which are
sealed and sent by barge to landfills outside the city. The
stations feature suctioning and deodorizing devices to prevent
the smell of garbage from permeating neighborhoods.  After public hearings, a panel of federal and state experts
 concluded  in 2010 that the North Shore Marine Transfer Station
in Queens “is not inherently in conflict with safe operations
at  LaGuardia Airport ” as long as biologists oversee bird-
mitigation and deterrent efforts, such as anti-perching and
ultrasound bird-alarm devices.  Mayor Responds  “The reality that’s being ignored is that a waste station
was on this exact same location for nearly 50 years until 2001,
and it was wide open, and there wasn’t a bird-strike issue for
the waste station then,” Bloomberg, 70, a licensed pilot, told
reporters May 15, after Sullenberger’s ads began running.  “Captain Sullenberger has a right to his views, but the
authorities and the experts say it is not a risk,” the mayor
said. “And we’re going to go ahead and do this.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Sullenberger, who glided an  Airbus A320  safely into the
Hudson River with 155 on board after a Canada geese flock
disabled the jet about 90 seconds after takeoff, doesn’t accept
Bloomberg’s assurances.  The FAA reported 142  bird strikes  at LaGuardia in the year
ended March 31, up from 139 for the same period last year, and
107 in the prior year.  “Every bird is a potential risk; even small birds can
bring down an airliner,” Sullenberger, who is known as
“Sully,” said in an interview yesterday.  “Whether the facility is enclosed or not, birds will be
attracted by the trucks,” he said. “There will be periodic
lapses, predictable failures. Gulls, pigeons, vultures are all
attracted to waste facilities. You could not put this facility
in a worse place.”  Legal Action  Sullenberger has served as an air-accident investigator for
the  National Transportation Safety Board  and the U.S. Air Force.  The group has filed lawsuits in federal and state courts
trying to stop the facility from operating. It has also asked
Cuomo to deny a state permit to the facility. Matthew Wing, a
spokesman for the governor, didn’t respond to requests for
comment on the issue.  Kenneth Paskar, 55, creator of the Friends of LaGuardia
website, is a Manhattan resident and a self-employed aviation
consultant. He declined to say how much he would spend. Twenty-
seven spots ran on five  radio stations  last week, he said. He
said he first became alarmed in 2008, while volunteering as a
safety evaluator for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.  “I couldn’t believe the city planned to build a garbage
dump right near the airport” he said. “The city’s introducing
a food source where one doesn’t exist, and this increases the
risk far above what we have now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  