-- MetLife to Expand in Emerging Markets, Pare Annuities
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-23T20:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/metlife-seeks-savings-emerging-markets-boost-to-reverse-slump.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  will expand in emerging
markets, add sales of accident-and-health protection in the U.S.
and scale back from capital-intensive products such as variable
annuities as it works to reverse a stock slump.  The largest U.S. life insurer plans to raise return on
equity to between 12 percent and 14 percent by 2016, from 10.3
percent in 2011, it said today in a statement. New York-based
MetLife is targeting $600 million in expense savings and an
increase in its emerging-markets business to 20 percent or more
of operating earnings from a projected 14 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is reducing
variable annuity sales to limit the risk of equity-market
declines and exiting banking to reduce U.S. oversight. The
insurer has  dropped  about 30 percent in the past year as the
 Federal Reserve  rejected Kandarian’s plans for share repurchases
and a dividend increase as part of its review of how the largest
companies in banking would withstand another financial crisis.  “The  riskier  your overall portfolio is perceived or is,
either one, whether it is or perceived, it still goes through to
your stock price,” Kandarian said today in a presentation to
investors. “The goal is to shift toward a more predictable
earnings stream and stronger free cash flows.”  MetLife slipped 11 cents to $30.96 at 4 p.m. in New York.
The stock is down less than 1 percent since Dec. 31, compared
with the 6.2 percent slide at  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
No. 2 U.S. life insurer.  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
said at its investor day yesterday that it is targeting a 13
percent return on equity for next year.  U.S. Cost Cuts  In the U.S., Kandarian will introduce accident and health
products, the company said in the statement. MetLife may also
expand vision coverage and is developing a direct sales business
as more people are expected to buy life insurance online.  About 60 percent of the cost reductions will be in the
U.S., and the unit focusing on sales to individuals “will have
the largest portion of this contribution,” said William Wheeler, president of the Americas. “We do expect our mature
businesses to shoulder most of the impact.”  Wheeler highlighted the company’s leadership in lines of
coverage sold through employers, such as disability and dental
policies, and said MetLife may be able to increase prices for
some segments. These businesses are attractive because they have
less risk tied to  capital markets , the company said.  Turkey, Brazil  MetLife may acquire businesses in  developing countries 
including Russia, Turkey,  Brazil  and  China , where the firm
projects increasing demand as the number of middle-class
consumers grows, according to a slide presentation today.  MetLife may consider acquisitions that cost about $2
billion to $3 billion, Kandarian said. Regulators who blocked
buybacks and dividends haven’t told the company it can’t pursue
deals, he added.  “If we’re able to pick up a property in  Southeast Asia  at
a price that makes sense to us, that can be accretive in a
relatively short period of time, we’ll certainly do that,”
Kandarian said.  MetLife compares deals against buybacks, so the share price
“is not a positive” as the company evaluates possible
acquisitions, he said.  “I don’t think the market really fully takes into account
our presence, MetLife’s presence, in  emerging markets ,”
Kandarian said. “This is a market that’s growing rapidly.”  MetLife purchased American Life Insurance Co. from bailed-
out  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 to expand beyond
the U.S. The unit had about 12,500 employees and operations in
more than 50 countries at the time.  ‘More Complex’  Kandarian,  promoted  to CEO last year after serving as chief
investment officer, worked on a previous review that found about
$700 million in annual savings as the company cut jobs.  “We worked hard back in 2008 on streamlining things,”
Kandarian said in February. “We now have Alico, which makes
more complex something we just simplified.”  MetLife grew in  Japan ,  Australia  and the U.K. with the
$11.7 billion purchase of Travelers Life & Annuity from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2005. The company bought Mexico’s biggest life
insurer, Aseguradora Hidalgo SA, for about $962 million in 2002,
and entered the Brazil dental market with a 2008 acquisition.
MetLife said in December that  revenue  from emerging markets will
grow by about 20 percent a year through 2015.  Regulatory Review  Kandarian declined to give an update on efforts to escape
federal oversight by getting rid of bank assets, including the
planned sale of deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)  The insurer has
until mid-June to submit a revised Comprehensive Capital
Analysis and Review plan to the Federal Reserve, he said.  Last month he said he couldn’t restate a previous
projection that the insurer would jettison its bank status by
June 30.  “I don’t have any greater visibility today than I did at
the earnings-call,” Kandarian said at the investor conference.
“We have done everything on our side. I believe everything that
GE could do has been done on their side, and we’re waiting for
the regulatory bodies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  