-- Metro Sticks to Forecast of Unchanged Profit on Economy
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-05-23T20:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/metro-sticks-to-forecast-of-unchanged-profit-on-economy.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer,
stuck to a forecast that profit won’t increase this year as
consumers limit spending amid concern that the economy will fail
to grow.  “Continued economic instability” will hold back  consumer
confidence , as “2011 was not an easy year, and 2012 will not be
any easier,” Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said at the
annual shareholders meeting in Metro’s headquarters city of
Dusseldorf today.  Metro reiterated that sales will rise in 2012 while
earnings will remain at the same level as last year. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development scaled
back its estimate yesterday for the economy in the euro area,
predicting a contraction of 0.1 percent this year instead of
expansion of 0.2 percent.  Metro rose as much as 2.1 percent to 24.34 euros and was
trading up 0.7 percent at 3 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has
fallen 15 percent this year, the second-worst performance on
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , as concern about the effects of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis weighs on  consumer spending .  “Investors’ confidence is gone,” with Metro’s stock
trading at near a three-year low and a “collapse” in earnings
and sales,  Ingo Speich , a  fund manager  at Union Investment in
Frankfurt, said at the annual meeting.  The retailer has prepared strategies in the event that
individual countries drop the euro currency or should the zone
break up, Chief Financial Officer Mark Frese said.  Sales Rise  Group sales in the first four months of 2012 increased by
more than 1 percent. Performance at Metro’s Media Markt-Saturn
household-electronics unit will improve in the second quarter,
the company said.  Metro reported a wider-than-estimated first-quarter  loss  on
May 3 after cutting prices of electronics goods to win back
shoppers. Koch said today that Metro is “right on schedule”
with the implementation of its multichannel strategy and the
expansion of the product range in online shops.  “In terms of productivity gains, that is, increased sales
and margin improvements, we have not yet achieved the levels we
want,” Koch said. “We intend to generate growth in all
business areas. We work to continually increase our cost
efficiency and our  cash flow .”  Investment Focus  The CEO reiterated statements from March that Metro will
focus investment on the Cash & Carry wholesaling unit and Media-
Saturn while reducing spending on the Kaufhof department-store
brand and Real supermarket chain, businesses that the retailer
wants to sell.  Koch said he’s “open to constructive dialog” with Erich
Kellerhals, the founder of the Media Markt chain who holds a
blocking minority stake in the electronics unit.  Kaufhof offers “potential,” and shouldn’t be
“undervalued” in any disposal, Koch said. Real’s business
hasn’t reached targets, he said. He declined to give any time
frame for a sale of either of the divisions.  The board today confirmed Franz Markus Haniel as its
supervisory board chairman, Metro said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  