-- European Fracking Bans Open Market for U.S. Gas Exports
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-23T15:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/european-fracking-bans-open-market-for-u-s-gas-exports-1-.html
Opposition to a drilling technique
known as hydraulic fracturing has slowed the development of
natural gas in Europe, creating export opportunities for U.S.
producers hurt by low prices and a glut of gas at home.  Fracking, as the practice is known, was temporarily
suspended in the  United Kingdom  after it was linked to a series
of earthquakes. Bulgaria and France -- home of the continent’s
largest estimated reserve -- outlawed it over environmental
concerns. Some other countries are poised to impose moratoriums
on the process, in which water, sand and chemicals are pumped
underground to free gas trapped in rock.  This opposition, along with a projected growth in demand
driven in part by Germany’s plan to phase out nuclear power, has
created opportunities for U.S. gas producers such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  Imports to the European Union are projected to grow 74
percent by 2035 as Italy, Poland and Lithuania build terminals
to receive tankers carrying gas in liquefied form.  “ Europe ’s an obvious market for such U.S. LNG exports,”
said Daniel Yergin, an energy analyst and Pulitzer Prize-winning
author of books chronicling development of the global energy
industry.  Europe has an estimated 639 trillion cubic feet of shale
gas resources, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. That is more than four times the reserves of the
Marcellus Shale formation from  New York  to Tennessee that has
fueled much of the fracking boom in the U.S.  France, Poland Supplies  Much of Europe’s gas, however, lies under Poland, where
Exxon Mobil said early results suggest extraction may be
unprofitable, and France, which outlawed fracking in July after
environmentalists and wine producers raised alarms about water
pollution.  Also working against fracking in Europe: a population
density that leaves many countries without the open areas in
which drilling can be accomplished, and a lack of pipelines to
move the gas to customers, said Octavio Simoes, president of
Sempra LNG based in San Diego.  “In the United States, you had what you call a perfect
storm,” Simoes said in an interview. “You had highly qualified
people who have been doing it for a long time, a lot of
developed support maintenance equipment suppliers, that could
easily provide everything that shale developers needed, you also
had plenty of land with few inhabitants.”  Fracking Slowed  Not so in Europe, where environmental concerns about
fracking persist even after a study commissioned by the EU
concluded that current legislation is adequate to protect the
environment.  Bulgaria banned hydraulic fracturing in January, and
withdrew a license granted to  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , after hundreds of
protesters marched in Sofia to oppose the technique, fearing it
will pollute the water and soil in the nation’s most fertile
farm region of Dobrudja, where Chevron was planning to drill.  The Czech Environment Ministry is preparing a moratorium on
new shale gas exploration licenses to adjust its legislation and
eliminate legal risks, the ministry said on May 8.  Romanian officials said on May 21 the nation may lift its
moratorium if environmental concerns can be resolved.  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., a U.K. shale-gas explorer that
suspended drilling in northwest England after minor earthquakes
linked to pumping operations, expects to resume work this year.
The company says it’s found more natural gas trapped in U.K.
shale rock than Iraq has in its entire reserves.  Dependence on Russia  While the Polish government supports fracking, seeing it as
a way to reduce dependence on supplies from Russia, the national
Geological Institute slashed the U.S. estimate of gas reserves
85 percent to 768 billion cubic meters (27 trillion cubic feet).  “We do anticipate some shale gas to come out of Poland,
but the initial results don’t suggest it’s going to be a game
changer,” Noel Tomnay, head of global gas research at Wood
Mackenzie Ltd., said in an interview from Edinburgh.  By 2020, Europe will be using more shale gas produced in
the U.S. than from domestic fracking, Wood Mackenzie estimates.  According to the  International Energy Agency , the 27-member
EU’s dependence on gas imports will increase to 86 percent in
2035 from 61 percent in 2009, and the volume of imports will
rise 74 percent.  Yergin, who wrote “The Prize,” a history of the oil
industry, and its sequel, “The Quest,” said Europe may not yet
realize how much natural gas it will need in the future.  ‘Bigger Part’  “Gas is going to become a bigger part of energy mix,” he
said. “One consequence of Germany turning off its nuclear
plants is increased natural-gas use.”  That is one reason why U.S. liquefied natural gas terminal
owners such as  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) 
are lining up for permits to export the fuel.  The companies building LNG terminals see Europe as second
only to Asia in terms of demand.  China , the world’s biggest
holder of shale reserves, seeks to produce 6.5 billion cubic
meters of shale gas by 2015 and set a target of 60 billion to
100 billion cubic meters by 2020.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, may need to boost
LNG imports by 80 percent by 2030 to meet domestic demand for
the fuel, according to Wood Mackenzie.  European LNG imports declined 34 percent in the first
quarter as the cargoes were diverted to Asia, where  Japan ,
world’s largest LNG consumer, was paying more. Japanese paid $16
per thousand cubic feet, 32 percent more than a year ago, to woo
supplies. Japan’s demand for natural gas rose following the
shutdown of nuclear plants after a tsunami and crippled a plant
at Fukushima, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Price Advantage  European gas prices remained unchanged at about $10 per
thousand cubic feet in the same period, according to Bernstein’s
analyst  Oswald Clint .  Those prices are attractive to producers in the U.S. where
natural gas on the  New York Mercantile Exchange (NYX)  was $2.503 per
million British thermal units in the first quarter, an
equivalent of $2.57 per thousand cubic feet.  Cheniere, based in Houston, won federal government approval
to export 2.2 billion cubic feet of gas a day from a $10 billion
plant in Louisiana, and expects shipments to start as early as
in 2015. Clients are Berkshire, U.K.-based  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,
Barcelona-based Gas Natural Fenosa,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  and  Korea
Gas Corp. (036460)   Hackberry, Louisiana  Sempra Energy (SRE) ,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Mitsui & Co. Ltd. (8031)  seek
permits to export natural gas from Hackberry, Louisiana, upon
completion of a $6 billion investment in 2016.  Freeport LNG in partnership with  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
Australia’s largest investment bank, is planning to  start  an
export terminal in 2017 and Dominion Resources Inc., a Richmond,
Virginia-based power producer, plans to have an export facility
operating by 2017.  All these investors need federal approvals, which have been
delayed as lawmakers including Senator Ron Wyden, a Oregon
Democrat, and the Industrial Energy Consumers of America, raised
concerns that sales overseas might increase prices at home.  Dominion, whose facility would ship gas produced from
Marcellus, the largest U.S. shale formation, said the project
would benefit the economy by promoting continued development of
domestic natural gas and creating jobs.  LNG satisfied 21 percent of Europe’s natural gas demand in
the 12 months ended in March, according to Bernstein. Russian
exports, the main source of European gas supply, met 32 percent
of demand, while the remainder was covered by the conventional
production from Norway, Dutch and British North Sea fields,
 Germany , Italy, Poland, Hungary, Austria and imports from
Africa.  Europeans are “going to find as many routes as possible to
diversify, their shale resources are one of those options, as
would be North American-based LNG,” said Andrew Ware, director
of corporate affairs at Cheniere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  