-- Stocks Decline in Europe Amid Greek Concern; LSE Plunges
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-05-23T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/european-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-greek-concern.html
European stocks  slid the most in a
month amid growing concern that Greece may leave the euro as the
region’s leaders prepared to meet in Brussels.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc tumbled the most in 2 1/2
years after UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA sold a
combined 11.5 percent stake.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and
Petropavlovsk Plc led a drop in basic-resources  shares  as copper
and gold sank. Michelin & Cie. paced tiremakers lower, falling
4.5 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slid 2.1 percent to 239.51 at
the close of trading after surging 2.5 percent over the previous
two days. That’s the biggest drop since April 23. The gauge has
retreated 12 percent from this year’s high on March 16 amid
mounting speculation that Greece will be unable to form a
government willing to implement pledged austerity measures.  Concern about Greece “is a big weight on the market and
makes things uncertain,” said Emmanuel Soupre, who helps
oversee $5.5 billion at Neuflize Private Assets in Paris.
“Companies are functioning well but the macro economy is
complicated. It’s best to remain cautious.”  Greece ’s former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said that
while it is unlikely the nation will leave the euro, it’s still
a risk, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday after the
close of European trading.  National benchmark indexes fell in all the western European
markets today, except for Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 2.5
percent and Germany’s DAX slid 2.3 percent. France’s CAC 40 sank
2.6 percent. The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600
companies was 2.1 percent below the average over the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brussels Summit  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the region’s debt crisis that has wiped about $4 trillion from
equity markets worldwide this month. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  has been unable to stifle calls for measures she opposes,
including euro bonds, the use of European money to recapitalize
banks, a bigger rescue fund and extra time for debt-swamped
countries to cut spending.  Japan’s  exports  rose a less-than-estimated 7.9 percent in
April from a year earlier, underscoring the risk that weakness
in global demand may limit the rebound in the world’s third-
biggest economy. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 27
analysts was for exports to increase 11.8 percent after rising
5.9 percent in March.  U.K. Economy  U.K.  retail sales  fell the most in more than two years in
April as record rainfall reduced demand for clothing and fuel
sales plunged. Sales including auto fuel declined 2.3 percent
from March, the Office for National Statistics said. The median
forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.8
percent decline.  In the U.S., demand for new homes increased more than
forecast in April as low prices and mortgage interest rates drew
buyers. Purchases rose to a 343,000 annual rate, up 3.3 percent
from a revised 332,000 in March, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington.  The  U.S. economy  will probably tip back into recession next
year if Congress doesn’t address an impending “fiscal cliff,”
the  Congressional Budget Office  said. The nonpartisan agency
said in a report late yesterday that the economy would contract
at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the first half of 2013 if
lawmakers allow the George W. Bush-era tax cuts to expire as
scheduled and don’t head off $1.2 trillion in  government
spending  cuts set to begin taking effect in January.  LSE Sinks  LSE (LSE)  plunged 7.3 percent to 947 pence, the biggest drop
since November 2009. UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy’s
biggest banks, sold about 31 million shares at 960 pence apiece,
according to statements from the lenders.  Basic-resources shares lost 3.9 percent for the biggest
decline among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as copper,
lead, nickel and gold fell in London.  Vedanta, an aluminum and copper producer in India,
retreated 9.1 percent to 951.5 pence and Petropavlovsk, a miner
of gold in Russia, sank 9.1 percent to 380.5 pence.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, dropped 4.4 percent to
1,681 pence and Rio Tinto Group fell 5 percent to 2,790.5 pence.  Tiremakers fell as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said a
deterioration of the global economy and political uncertainties
in  Europe  are key risks to the industry.  Michelin, Pirelli  Michelin (ML) , the world’s second-largest tiremaker, sank 4.5
percent to 48.34 euros after Goldman Sachs lowered its
recommendation on the stock to sell. Italy’s  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC) 
tumbled 6.1 percent to 8.15 euros as the brokerage cut the
shares to neutral.  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  slid 5.2 percent to 14.46
euros after Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten signaled
the outlook for health-care equipment for 2013 has been clouded
by Europe’s debt crisis. Demand for imaging equipment in China
is “a bit slower than it used to be,” adding to a decline in
southern Europe, van Houten told analysts at the Electrical
Products Group Conference in Florida yesterday.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  decreased 5.9 percent to 73.1 pence as
Moody’s Investors Service said the world’s largest publicly
traded hedge fund’s  credit rating  remains under  review .  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  rose 12 percent to a record 250 pence. The
U.K. explorer with gas discoveries off Mozambique agreed to be
acquired by PTT Exploration & Production Pcl after the Thai
producer raised its offer to 1.22 billion pounds ($1.92
billion), beating out Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  FirstGroup Gains  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  rallied 7.4 percent to 220.1 pence.
Britain’s largest train operator boosted full-year earnings 90
percent and said it would accelerate an asset-disposal program
in its bus division.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-largest retailer, advanced
3.4 percent to 14.40 euros. The stock was raised to  outperform ,
the equivalent of buy, from underperform at Credit Suisse Group
AG and added to the firm’s focus list.  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  added 2.8 percent to 392.9
pence. The real-estate developer focused on London’s West End
said net asset value rose about 12 percent in fiscal 2012 as the
value of its properties and developments increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  