-- Teva Tumbles on Morgan Stanley Doubts: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-05-24T07:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/teva-tumbles-on-morgan-stanley-doubts-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
dropped to the lowest level this year in New York after Morgan
Stanley said the Israeli company is losing its share of the U.S.
generic drug market.  American depositary receipts of Teva, the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, slumped 1.5 percent to $38.58 in New
York yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 29. Teva’s Israeli shares
rose 0.5 percent to 150.2 shekels, or the equivalent of $39 at
10:31 a.m. in  Tel Aviv .  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of
the most-traded Israeli companies in New York retreated 0.7
percent to 81.85.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  fell to the lowest
in almost nine years in the U.S. after first-quarter profit
tumbled 43 percent.  Teva, which reported first-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ estimates, is lagging behind competitors Mylan Inc.
and  Watson (WPI)  Pharmaceuticals Inc. this year as Jeremy Levin, a
former Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. executive, replaced Shlomo Yanai
this month as chief executive officer. The company’s share of
generic drug sales in the U.S. fell to 14 percent in the 12
months ended March 31, compared with 21 percent in 2010,
according to Morgan Stanley.  “What’s really spooked the market is that you have new
management, they didn’t provide guidance and now you see their
generic sales are down,” Richard Gussow, senior analyst at DS
Securities & Investments, said by phone from Tel Aviv yesterday.
“This is another layer of uncertainty and investors don’t like
uncertainty.’  Phone calls and an e-mailed message to Teva’s press office
seeking comment on the company’s generic business were not
immediately returned yesterday.  Consolidation  Teva’s generic drug sales are down 25 percent year-over-
year due to product recalls and less contribution from some
treatments, David Risinger, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  New
York , wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  The company still has the largest market share of U.S.
generic drug sales at 14 percent, ahead of Watson with 12
percent and Mylan with 11 percent, Morgan Stanley research
showed.  Teva has fallen 4.4 percent this year in the U.S., compared
with a retreat of 2.7 percent for Mylan and a gain of 17 percent
for Watson. The Israeli drugmaker’s ADRs declined 23 percent in
last year, the biggest annual slump since 2006.  The generic drug market is ‘‘fragmented and major players
lack critical mass,” Risinger wrote. “The dynamics should
support consolidation in coming years.”  ‘Wait and See’  Patents on Copaxone, Teva’s multiple sclerosis treatment
that generated 21 percent of its revenue in 2011, are set to
expire in two years. A U.S. court decision, which will decide
whether competitors can sell a similar drug, is expected by the
end of June.  “A lot of investors would rather wait and see about the
decision of the Copaxone treatment before they invest,”  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, who has a buy rating
on the stock, said by phone from New York on May 22. “The huge
disappointment in earnings and lack of guidance hasn’t helped.”  The drugmaker said May 9 that first-quarter  sales  rose 25
percent to $5.1 billion, compared with the median estimate of
$5.5 billion from 21  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  A slowdown in European demand for generic medicine and
sales of Copaxone held back revenue for the first three months
of the year, the company said.  Levin declined to comment on Teva’s profit forecast for
2012 during a conference call with analysts.  Partner Earnings  Partner,  Israel ’s second-largest mobile-phone company,
tumbled 6.1 percent to $4.61 in New York yesterday, the lowest
level since June 2003. The company’s Tel Aviv shares fell 5.4
percent to 17.13 shekels, or the equivalent of $4.45, the lowest
intraday level since April 2003.  The company said first-quarter net income fell to 146
million shekels ($37.8 million) from 254 million shekels in the
year-earlier period, according to a filing with the Tel Aviv
Stock Exchange yesterday. Revenue retreated to 1.57 billion
shekels, compared with the median estimate of 1.6 billion
shekels by four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 gauge rose as much as 0.9 percent
today.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of soda
machines, advanced 4.5 percent to $33.20 in New York after
saying it received approval to sell its products in  Brazil .  The company expects its machines, among other items, will
be on the shelves of 200 stores by June 13, Yonah Lloyd,
executive director of corporate development and communication,
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  