-- Texas Latino Gain Buoys Cruz Bid in U.S. Senate Campaign
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/texas-latino-gain-buoys-cruz-bid-in-u-s-senate-campaign.html
Texas  Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, a Republican running for a U.S. Senate seat, faces a
challenger from an improbable quarter -- a Tea Party-backed
lawyer with Latino roots named Ted Cruz.  A political newcomer, the 41-year-old son of a Cuban
immigrant if he wins would become the first Hispanic senator
from Texas, where the Latino population rose 42 percent in the
past decade. Polls showing gains by Cruz pushed Dewhurst to
spend $11.8 million by May 9 in the race to replace retiring
Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Republican.  Dewhurst, 66, has won four straight Texas campaigns and has
led in voter surveys since last year. The most-recent poll shows
Dewhurst short of the margin he needs to avoid a July 31 runoff.
Cruz has courted the same political forces that helped Indiana
Treasurer Richard Mourdock defeat six-term Republican Senator
 Richard Lugar  in a May 8 Senate primary.  “We’re going to see some record-breaking numbers in the
Texas Senate race, which is a classic battle between the
mainstream GOP and the Tea Party,” said  Craig Holman , an
analyst with  Public Citizen ’s Congress Watch in Washington.  The contest has fueled a multimillion-dollar advertising
battle between outside groups backing either Dewhurst or Cruz, a
former state solicitor general.  Battling PACs  The Texas Conservatives Fund, a political action committee,
has spent $1.7 million, according to Federal Election Commission
filings. Much of that has gone into ads against Cruz.  Dewhurst wore the bull’s-eye in an almost $2 million ad
campaign paid for by the Washington-based Club for Growth
political action committee, according to a May 16  statement . The
group described him as a “moderate” who would oppose
“conservatives” in  Washington .  Cruz, a graduate of  Princeton University  and Harvard
University’s Law School, heads the Supreme Court practice in
Houston for Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, a Philadelphia-based
firm with 1,300 lawyers in offices worldwide. His campaign began
as the U.S. Census Bureau reported a surge in the state’s
Hispanic population to almost 9.5 million in 2010, out of 25.1
million residents.  Dewhurst began his political career in 1998, becoming the
first Republican since Reconstruction to win the office of Texas
Land Commissioner. He was first elected to his present post in
2002. A U.S. Air Force veteran and former Central Intelligence
Agency employee, he started a business in the 1980s.  Stances on Issues  Dewhurst favors repealing President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul and imposing restrictions on civil litigation of
the sort that have made lawsuits potentially more costly for
losers and beefed up protection for businesses and professionals
such as doctors, according to his campaign website. Dewhurst
backs new limits on the  National Labor Relations Board  and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and greater development of
oil and gas resources.  As Texas’s top appellate lawyer from 2003 to 2008, Cruz
argued for the rights of gun owners and property holders, and
fought abortion. He favors new limits on the Labor Relations
agency and the EPA, greater energy development and repealing the
health care law, according to his campaign website. Cruz also
backs federal budget cuts, reducing corporate tax rates and
repealing the Dodd-Frank banking overhaul.  While three-term Texas Governor  Rick Perry  is supporting
Dewhurst, former governors have weighed in for both candidates.
 Mike Huckabee , of  Arkansas , has sided with Dewhurst while Sarah Palin,  Alaska ’s one-time chief executive, has backed Cruz.  Record Cost  Spending ahead of the May 29 primary election has climbed
to a record $25.5 million, making it the nation’s most expensive
Senate race, according to Holman, at the nonprofit Public
Citizen. Massachusetts was second, with $14.4 million spent by
campaigns, he said.  Dewhurst led Cruz 40 percent to 31 percent among likely
Republican primary voters in a  University of Texas /Texas Tribune
survey released May 21. The sample of 274 likely voters had a
margin of error of plus or minus 5.9 percentage points.  Former Dallas Mayor Tom Leppert was third with 17 percent
among nine candidates. The primary winner will head into the
November election in Texas, where Republicans have won every
statewide contest since 1994. A candidate needs to win 50
percent plus one vote on May 29 to avoid a runoff.  “It’s going to be close, but I think Dewhurst is going to
just miss it,” Mark Jones, who teaches politics at  Rice
University  in Houston, said May 17 by telephone.  Narrowing Gap  Dewhurst held a wider lead over Cruz, 38 percent to 26
percent, in a survey released April 25 by Public Policy Polling,
an independent company in Raleigh,  North Carolina . Dewhurst led
by 29 percentage points in September, the pollster said.  In a two-candidate runoff, “the turnout would be dominated
by the most conservative elements in the  Republican Party ,”
Jones said. He said he thinks Dewhurst would prevail. The
lieutenant governor won his last race in 2010 with 62 percent of
the vote.  Dewhurst has raised $13.2 million for this campaign,
including $9.2 million in personal loans, mostly since April 1,
according to Matt Hirsch, a spokesman, and Federal Election
Commission data. Filings show Cruz raised $5.8 million by May 9.  Cruz has been cultivating Tea Party voters on a local level
since he began his campaign early last year, according to Rice’s
Jones. “A lot of work has happened under the radar --  Tea Party 
meetings, shoe-leather politicking,” he said.  ‘Activated Right’  “The Republican primary electorate is very, very
conservative,” said  Jim Henson , who runs the Texas Politics
Project at the University of Texas in Austin. “I don’t think
anyone would confuse Dewhurst as a liberal, but he has not made
his name associated with a resurgent, activated right wing.”  Cruz assails Dewhurst’s record in Texas, where the
lieutenant governor presides over the Senate.  “Dewhurst has spent a career in public office, cutting the
baby in half, working across the aisle to increase spending and
taxes,” Cruz said in a May 17 telephone interview. He said the
lieutenant governor has focused on him because he has attracted
supporters that helped defeat  Indiana ’s Lugar and give a little-
known candidate, state Senator Deb Fischer, a Nebraska Senate
primary win.  “They are terrified that conservatives are uniting behind
our campaign,” Cruz said.  Dewhurst remains confident he can avoid a runoff, Hirsch,
the campaign spokesman, said May 17 by telephone.  Standing on Record  “It does not make it any easier when you have outside
forces spending $6 million to spread false and negative
attacks,” Hirsch said, referring to groups that have bought ads
to help Cruz. “David will stand on his conservative record and
his tax cuts and his conservative legislation.”  Whatever the outcome of the campaign, Cruz will remain a
contender for elective office, according to Henson of the Texas
Politics Project.  “I think Cruz will almost certainly be back to run
again,” should he lose this time, Henson said by telephone May
16. “Cruz combines the things that are fueling the surge of the
right wing of the Republican Party,” he said.  “He is very conservative on social issues, he is very
conservative fiscally, but he also has something of the
intellectual thinker image,” Henson said. “He comes off as an
intellectual firebrand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  