-- Mexican Truckers Avoiding Border After Presidential Deal
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/mexican-truckers-avoiding-border-after-presidential-deal.html
A cross-border trucking pact that
ended a 17-year trade dispute between the U.S. and  Mexico  last
year may unravel unless more Mexican big rigs start crossing the
border under a U.S. Transportation Department pilot program.  U.S. and Mexican leaders will try to avoid a repeat of the
trade war that has erupted before over trucking, said Ed Gerwin,
a trade analyst at Third Way, a Washington-based research group.
Industries that have nothing to do with trucking would bear the
brunt should the border remain closed, he said.  “If Mexican trucks effectively can’t get into the  United
States , I’m sure the Mexicans would be tempted to go back to the
same retaliation they had under the Nafta rules,” Gerwin said.  The initiative grew from negotiations between U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and President  Felipe Calderon  of Mexico
that ended with an agreement signed last July. The two countries
have discussed opening the border to truck traffic for more than
17 years under the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  A U.S. Transportation Department official said yesterday
that only 33 Mexican trucks have crossed since the U.S. opened
its southern border to long-haul trucks in October.  “Participation is not where we want it or need it to be to
make it a viable program,” said William Quade, the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s associate administrator
for enforcement and program delivery. “The agency is extremely
concerned about not having sufficient data.”  The U.S. must evaluate the pilot program to determine
whether it would be safe to open the border to all truck
traffic. So few Mexican trucks are participating that it may not
be possible to have a statistically valid sample for the
analysis, Quade said yesterday at a meeting of the agency’s
Motor Carrier Safety Advisory Committee in Alexandria, Virginia.  Rigorous Vetting  “The cross-border trucking agreement we signed with Mexico
last year ended crippling tariffs on American farmers, and we
are fully confident that over the next 2 1/2 years, we will
gather the data needed to make the program permanent,” Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The U.S. is rigorously vetting Mexican trucking companies
to ensure safety, Nisly said. That includes asking the public
for comment on the next three Mexican firms that have passed
safety audits, Nisly said. More companies have applications
pending, and the U.S. and Mexico are trying to get others to
apply, he said.  U.S. companies such as  Celadon Group Inc. (CGI)  want to run more
long-haul trucks across the border as transit gets easier.  Swift
Transportation Co. (SWFT)  operates a fully owned Mexican  subsidiary 
that drives trucks up to the border before handing trailers off
to U.S. drivers.  Previous Failure  If the pilot program were to fail, it wouldn’t be the first
time. The FMCSA ran an earlier trial for two years starting in
2007, and Mexican carriers in that program had better records
than their U.S. counterparts. Nevertheless, the program was
criticized for not having enough participants. Congress cut off
funding in 2009.  Mexico later collected tariffs on $2.4 billion of American
imports, citing violations of Nafta. The tariffs were suspended
after the U.S. began allowing Mexican trucks back in last year
over the objections of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters union.  Three Mexican trucking firms are entering the U.S. under
the FMCSA pilot program. Three drivers and three trucks account
for all the crossings to date, Quade said.  Thirty companies have applied to be in the pilot program,
which will operate for up to three years according to the
agency’s April 2011  Federal Register notice . Eight of the
applications were dismissed or withdrawn, Quade said.  Insurance Costs  The largest Mexican trucking firms aren’t participating,
Quade said. Mexican operators cite insurance costs and
uncertainty over whether the border will stay open as reasons
for not wanting to participate, Quade said.  In contrast, three U.S. companies have made more than 2,000
trips into Mexico since October, he said.  “It’s a normal startup problem that should lead to some
tweaking of the system and not an entirely new approach,” said
 William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign Trade Council 
in Washington. “The administration is probably too far down the
current road to start over.”  About 45 companies are needed for a sufficient sample to
make the pilot program work, Guillermo Malpica, Mexico’s
director general of services negotiations at the economy
ministry in Mexico City, said in an interview. The ministry is
trying to make the process easier so companies aren’t turned
off, he said.  It would be hard to justify retaliatory measures if the
border doesn’t open because of a lack of participation, Malpica
said.  “At all costs, we have to prevent such a negative scenario
from happening,” Malpica said. “It’s a situation that we are
legally permitted to do, but it would complicate our
relationship” with the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  