-- Mexico Seeks Bids for $3 Billion Natural-Gas Pipeline Network
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-05-23T19:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/mexico-seeks-bids-for-3-billion-natural-gas-pipeline-network.html
Comision Federal de Electricidad,
Latin America’s largest utility by revenue, is seeking bids from
private companies to build about 1,460 miles (2,349 kilometers)
of natural-gas pipelines in northern  Mexico .  Mexico’s state-owned power company, known as CFE, will
“pay around $3 billion to expand its natural-gas network in
four contracts for the states of Sonora, Sinaloa and
Chihuahua,” Chief Executive Officer Antonio Vivanco said today
in an interview in Houston.  Pipeline operators working in Mexico, such as Calgary-based
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , based in Courbevoie, France,
are among the potential bidders, the company said. CFE will
close the bidding process this fall and announce the winners of
a 25-year contract by October, it said.  Mexico, which has the ninth-longest pipeline infrastructure
in the world, is expanding its 6,000-mile gas network by 40
percent as imports increase to a record amid the lowest natural
 gas prices  since 2001 in New York.  CFE plans to invest this year 97.5 ($7 billion) billion
pesos to improve the efficiencies of its plants and its power
distribution system.  “CFE is expanding the capacity of the Northwest region by
more than 8,000 megawatts,” Vivanco said. “We’re updating 4
plants and setting up 10 power terminals in that area to replace
the use of  fuel oil  with natural gas.”  The new capacity will double the volume of gas imports from
the region, Vivanco said without elaborating. CFE is going to be
“extremely aggressive when it comes to growth capacity from
natural gas,” he said.  Gas futures traded in  New York  have declined 9.3 percent
this year. Gas has rebounded 42 percent from a 10-year intraday
low of $1.902 per million British thermal units on April 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 