-- Facebook IPO Concern Grows as Morgan Stanley Defends Role
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-23T22:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-ipo-frenzy-builds-as-regulators-review-launch.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering is getting less friendly with each passing day.  Investors and regulators raised new concerns about the $16
billion IPO after  shares  fell a second straight day yesterday,
extending losses to 18 percent below the $38 offer price.  Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter, released a statement
defending its handling of the May 17 IPO after the Massachusetts
securities division yesterday subpoenaed the investment bank
over its communications with clients. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the brokerage industry’s watchdog both
said they may review the offering, and buyers of the stock have
sued Facebook,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and the underwriters over
the sale.  The anticipation that preceded history’s biggest technology
IPO has been replaced by investor ire, including about whether
the offer was priced too high.  “Rather than anything illegal or untoward, the valuation
was the truly unfathomable part of what’s causing this frenzy,”
said  Michael Holland , chairman of Holland & Co., a New York-
based  investment company  that oversees more than $4 billion.  Facebook increased the number of shares being sold in the
IPO by 25 percent last week to 421.2 million and raised its
asking price to a range of $34 to $38 from $28 to $35. The
shares closed yesterday at $31 in the U.S. and added 3.2 percent
to $32 at the close today in  New York .  Decision Making  Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman was the point person
on the deal, while Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and
Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  weighed in on major
decisions, said people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the process was private. Dan Simkowitz,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s chairman of global  capital markets ,
was one of the main bankers.  Michael Grimes , global co-head of
technology investment banking, also played a key role.  Morgan Stanley, already taking heat for helping price the
IPO, received more scrutiny yesterday. The company may face
regulatory review over claims an analyst shared negative news
about Facebook with institutional investors before the IPO, said
 Richard Ketchum , chairman and CEO of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the industry watchdog.  Morgan Stanley analysts reduced their 2012 Facebook profit
projection to 48 cents a share from 51 cents days before
boosting the price range on the IPO, according to people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the process is private.  Figures by Phone  The analysts also cut their 2013 profit projection to 83
cents a share from 88 cents, the people said. Investors received
the new figures by phone as underwriters weren’t permitted to
print anything about Facebook during the marketing period, the
people said.  Those communications may be a “matter of regulatory
concern” to both Finra and the SEC, Ketchum wrote in an e-mail.
He wouldn’t say whether the agency is probing Morgan Stanley.  William F. Galvin, Massachusetts’ secretary of the
commonwealth, said separately that his securities division
subpoenaed Morgan Stanley to learn more about talks between
 Scott Devitt , the research analyst, and the firm’s institutional
investors about Facebook’s revenue.  Market Confidence  “There is a lot of reason to have confidence in our
markets and the integrity of how they operate, but there are
issues we need to look at specifically with regard to
Facebook,” SEC Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro  told reporters in
 Washington  today.  The U.S. Senate’s banking committee is also reviewing the
IPO, Sean Oblack, a committee spokesman, said today. The
committee, led by Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat,
will have staff-level briefings with Facebook, regulators and
other stakeholders.  The New York-based investment bank said its procedures
complied with all regulations. “Morgan Stanley followed the
same procedures for the Facebook offering that it follows for
all IPOs,” Pen Pendleton, a spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  The bank said it sent a copy of a revised  prospectus  that
Facebook filed May 9 to all of its institutional and retail
investors. The filing disclosed that Facebook’s advertising
growth hasn’t kept pace with the increase in users.  Pendleton said many analysts in the syndicate reduced their
earnings estimates to reflect that information, and that those
revised views were reflected in the pricing of the IPO.  Nasdaq Problems  Bloomberg News, citing two people with knowledge of the
matter, was first to report on May 10 that Facebook was telling
analysts sales may not meet their most optimistic projections.  The IPO was marred on its first trading day when Nasdaq’s
platform was overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates that
made the stock-market operator unable to finish the auction
required to open. The SEC said it will review the trading.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  estimated that it lost about $30
million to $35 million trading Facebook because of technical
problems. Knight, a brokerage based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
made the disclosure in a filing today with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Investors filed suit in Manhattan federal court today
against Facebook, Zuckerberg, and bankers including Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
accusing them of misleading them about the company’s financial
prospects.  Investor Discontent  The underwriters made about $100 million through their work
to stabilize public trading of the shares, said a person
familiar with the matter. The gains will be shared by all IPO
syndicate banks, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the process was private. Morgan Stanley will use some of
the gains to reimburse clients who lost money because of
glitches in trade execution, the person said.  Phillip Goldberg, a Maryland investor, sued  Nasdaq 
yesterday, claiming that the stock exchange “badly mishandled”
Facebook trading, failing to cancel orders when requested by
customers. In a complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan,
Goldberg said that he tried to both order and cancel requests
for Facebook shares through an online Charles Schwab Corp.
account the morning after the May 17 IPO.  Goldberg is seeking to represent a class of investors who
lost money because their buy, sell or cancellation orders for
Facebook weren’t properly processed, according to the filing.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the suit.  ‘Accentuated the Magnitude’  Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld  said on May 20 that the opening
delay “had no apparent impact on the stock price,” noting the
share decline began after all brokers had received confirmation
about their trades in the opening auction. Ashley Zandy, a
spokeswoman for Facebook, the world’s biggest social network,
declined to comment.  Investors looking for a fall guy will have a tough time,
said Daniel Genter, who oversees about $3.9 billion as president
of RNC Genter Capital Management in  Los Angeles .  “Because of the expanded offering and price, everything
had to go right,” Genter said. “The fact is, everything didn’t
go right. That’s just accentuated the magnitude of the damage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  