-- Facebook Said to Have Talked With NYSE About Exchange Switch
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-23T22:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-said-to-have-talked-with-nyse-about-switching-exchange.html
NYSE Euronext and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  have
exchanged phone calls and e-mails about the possibility of the
company switching its listing from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Facebook, which listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market on May 18
after completing the world’s biggest initial public offering by
a technology company, is listening to the  New York  Stock
Exchange, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  Nasdaq’s systems were overwhelmed by order updates and
cancellations before Facebook shares began changing hands,
delaying the start of trading and preventing the exchange from
immediately telling investors whether transactions went through.
The social network’s stock has  retreated  16 percent since the
May 17 IPO, which priced the shares at $38 and raised $16
billion for Facebook and existing stockholders.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook, didn’t respond to a request for comment. Nasdaq’s
Robert Madden declined to comment.  “There have been no discussions with Facebook regarding
switching their listing in light of the events of the last week,
nor do we think a discussion along those lines would be
appropriate at this time,” Robert Rendine, an  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  In a ‘Loop’  Nasdaq and Facebook ran into trouble when computer systems
used to set the opening price were put into a “loop” because
investors kept updating and canceling orders, Nasdaq Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in a call with reporters
on May 20. Greifeld said a “poor design” caused the issue.  Nasdaq, the second-biggest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges, lists eight of the 10 biggest U.S. technology
companies by market value, including Apple Inc. and Microsoft
Corp., the two largest, as well as Google Inc.,  Intel Corp . and
Facebook. The New York Stock Exchange is the home venue for
International Business Machines Corp., ranked third.  Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook  announced it chose to
list on Nasdaq in an April 23 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  