-- Facebook at $22 Seen in Europe’s Structured Warrants
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-05-24T10:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-at-22-by-december-seen-in-europe-s-structured-warrants.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  may fall more than 42
percent below its initial public offering price by the end of
the year, according to bets by structured-product investors.  The most actively traded structured products tied to
Facebook since its IPO have been so-called put warrants, whose
buyers profit if the shares drop below a pre-defined level, in
some cases as low as $22, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  are among lenders
that listed 1,504 warrants and certificates in  Europe  linked to
shares of the social networking site that were offered at $38.  Since raising $16 billion on May 17 in the biggest
technology IPO of all time, Facebook has  tumbled , closing at $32
yesterday. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
brokerage industry’s watchdog both said they may review the
deal, after a person familiar with the matter said Facebook and
Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter, increased the offering
price to persuade the company’s backers to sell more of their
stock.  “There has been strong demand on the put side, with the
ratio between puts and calls at around 70/30” with “some
people expressing deep downside views,” Heiko Geiger, the head
of public distribution for Germany and Austria at Bank Vontobel
AG in  Frankfurt , said in an interview yesterday.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for the  Menlo Park , California-
based company, declined to comment.  Best Seller  Bank Vontobel’s best-selling Facebook-linked product is a
put warrant that will reward investors if the shares are  below
$22 , the so-called strike price, in December, said Geiger. Put
warrants give investors a cash payment depending on how far a
stock falls below a set level.  Julius Baer  sold the securities with the largest trading
volumes, two put warrants with strikes of $35 and $30 on the
Scoach exchange in Zurich. Investors traded 402,000 contracts
yesterday valued at $335,780 of the former and 603,000 warrants
for $322,620 of the latter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Zurich-based structured products distributor EFG Financial
Products AG added Facebook shares to a basket of 10 social media
companies that are tracked by a certificate that has traded on
Scoach since last month, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook rose in German share trading today, climbing 1.6
percent to $32.50 as of 12:14 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Massachusetts Subpoena  The Massachusetts security division subpoenaed  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  this week over its communications with clients. The firm
said it handled the May 17 sale properly.  The cost to short-sell Facebook has surged to the most-
expensive level in a 10-point scale developed by Data Explorers
Ltd., which said bets against the social-media company  amount  to
4.3 percent of shares sold in the IPO.  About 18 million Facebook shares are on loan, an indication
of short selling, London- and New York-based research company
Data Explorers said in an e-mail, citing trades settled as of
May 22. Facebook’s underwriters sold 421.2 million shares to the
public last week last week.  The loans represent about 1 percent of Facebook’s 2.14
billion Class A and Class B shares outstanding, according to
Data Explorers. That compares with 5.3 percent for  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and 4.1 percent for  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  