-- Facebook Shorting Costs Jump to Highest on 10-Point Scale
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-05-23T16:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-short-interest-equals-4-of-free-float.html
The cost to short sell  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
has surged to the most-expensive level in a 10-point scale
developed by Data Explorers Ltd., which said bets against the
social-media company  amount  to 4.3 percent of shares sold in the
company’s initial public offering.  About 18 million Facebook shares are on loan, an indication
of short selling, London- and New York-based research company
Data Explorers said in an e-mail, citing trades settled as of
yesterday. Facebook’s underwriters sold 421.2 million shares to
the public last week last week.  Facebook lost 18 percent through yesterday from its IPO
price of $38. The social-media service and Morgan Stanley, the
lead underwriter, increased the offering price to persuade the
company’s backers to sell more of their stock, a person familiar
with the matter said last week.  Bill Gross , who helps run the
world’s largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in reference to  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook last
week: “I know a bubble when I see one.”  “There’s definitely plenty of people taking the other side
here of the tech IPO and thinking it’s a bubble,” Will Duff Gordon, senior research analyst at Data Explorers, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu.  The loans represent about 1 percent of Facebook’s 2.14
billion Class A and Class B shares outstanding, according to
Data Explorers. That compares with 5.3 percent for  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and 4.1 percent for  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the data show.  Facebook stock on loan may change as more shares become
available to borrow in the next few days, said Alex Brog,
director of communications at  Data Explorers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  