-- Facebook Misjudged Demand in IPO, Wedbush’s Pachter Says
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-23T20:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-tumble-means-morgan-stanley-gets-blame-for-flop.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  flooded the market with
too many shares amid its initial public offering, according to
Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst  Michael Pachter .  It was the company’s failure to gauge demand -- and not
concern over its growth prospects -- that caused the stock to
sink 18 percent in its first two days of trading, Pachter said
in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio.  “The market would have probably greedily absorbed $5
billion or $10 billion of stock,” Pachter said. “It’s solely
the misjudging of demand.”  Shares of the owner of the largest social-media site rose
3.2 percent to $32 at the close in  New York . Facebook, based in
 Menlo Park ,  California , began trading on May 18 after raising
$16 billion in the largest-ever technology IPO. Just before the
IPO, the company boosted the number of shares to be offered by
25 percent to 421.2 million.  The stock would have risen to $45 had Facebook sold fewer
shares, Pachter said.  “The guys who bought at $38 freaked out and you saw them
puking the stock because they didn’t know why it was going
down,” said Pachter, who has an outperform rating on the
shares, which he predicts will rise to $44. “There’s nothing
fundamentally different about Facebook today from the night they
priced it.”  Investors have failed to understand that Facebook’s  growth 
is tied to its ability to get more money from advertisers -- not
whether it can attract more users, Pachter said.  Real Growth  “The problem for investors is that nobody really
understands how Facebook intends to monetize its user base,” he
said. “The real growth is in delivering more relevant ads and
charging more for them.”  Investors are overly concerned that Facebook hasn’t made
enough progress in mobile advertising and hasn’t won enough
users in markets outside  North America  and Western Europe,
Pachter said.  Separately, Needham & Co. analyst Laura Martin today
initiated coverage of Facebook and recommended buying the stock.  The company’s  earnings  growth will track the amount of time
users spend on its site, according to Martin. About 14 percent
of time Internet users spend online is on Facebook, indicating
that its global potential revenue is about $14 billion, she
wrote in a research note published today.  The increase in its operating margins -- to 47.3 percent of
sales in 2011 -- suggests that its profit will grow faster than
revenue, she wrote. Martin estimates the stock will rise to $40.  ‘Hoodie Man’  Pachter reiterated his criticism of Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ’s clothing choices, saying the
28-year-old’s signature hooded sweatshirt, or hoodie, doesn’t
show respect for advertising-decision makers and  Wall Street .  “When he turns up in a hoodie he’s saying: I don’t care
about you, I care about my users,” Pachter said. “If the users
were the people that pay Facebook, then investors and the
hoodie-man would be entirely aligned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  