-- Facebook’s Sandberg Tells Harvard Women Executives Lack Equality
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-05-23T22:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/facebook-s-sandberg-tells-harvard-women-executives-lack-equality.html
Women are treated differently from
men in the top echelons of corporations, Facebook Inc. Chief
Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said.  “We need to acknowledge openly that gender remains an
issue at the highest levels of leadership,” Sandberg, 42, said
today in a speech at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston , ahead of
a graduation ceremony tomorrow. “The promise of equality is not
equality.”  The speech was Sandberg’s first since Facebook began
selling shares May 17, said Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman. The
company has lost 16 percent of its market value since going
public. Sandberg didn’t discuss the offering and declined to
answer questions after the event.  The proportion of women at high executive levels has
remained about 15 percent or 16 percent since she graduated from
Harvard Business School in 1995, Sandberg said. As a result,
women’s expectations for careers are often lower than those of
men, she said.  “We will not close the leadership gap until we close the
professional-ambition gap,” she said. “We need more women not
just to sit at the table, but as President Obama said a few
weeks ago at Barnard, to take their rightful seats at the head
of the table.”  President  Barack Obama  spoke at Barnard College, an
affiliate of  Columbia University  in  New York , on May 14.  Gaining Courage  Sandberg said she recently gained the courage to begin
speaking about the treatment of women in business. She was glad
to be able to address the Harvard Business School class because
50 years have passed since the institution started admitting
women, she said in the speech.  A female graduate of that first class told her that the
school had converted one of the men’s restrooms to a women’s
room, Sandberg said.  “They left the urinals in,” Sandberg said. “She thought
the message was super clear: We’re not sure this whole girl
thing is going to work out. And it case it doesn’t, we’re not
going to have to reinstall the urinals.”  “Those urinals are long gone,” she said.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , has come under
scrutiny for appointing a board of seven white men. The company
gained 3.2 percent today to close at $32 in New York.  -- Editors: Jeffrey Tannenbaum, Kevin Miller  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  