-- Fatty Diet Preventing Seizures May Lead to Epilepsy Drugs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-23T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/fatty-diet-preventing-seizures-may-lead-to-epilepsy-drugs.html
A fatty diet that helps control
epileptic seizures may do so by triggering a chemical change in
the brain, a discovery that could lead to new treatments,
according to a Harvard University study.  The diet may force a protein to switch the brain’s fuel to
fat byproducts called ketones from its preferred energy,
glucose, according to a study in genetically manipulated mice in
the journal  Neuron . Making the brain operate on ketones is known
to shut down overexcited neurons that cause seizures.  This so-called  ketogenic diet  is used by epilepsy patients
who aren’t helped by seizure-reducing drugs. The patients are
only allowed a saltine cracker’s worth of carbohydrates daily,
said Gary Yellen, a study author. That’s hard to do, and new
treatments based on the diet’s effects in the body may lead to
better control of seizures, he said.  “There are kids who go off this diet because they and
their parents can’t manage it,” said Yellen, a professor of
neurobiology at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston . “Having a
pharmaceutical to help them would be important.”  Epilepsy is a brain disorder that causes repeated seizures,
where neurons fire in a disorganized and sudden way, according
to the  National Institutes of Health . About 3 million Americans
are epileptic,  according to  the Landover, Maryland-based
Epilepsy Foundation, an advocacy group.  Mimicking the Protein  Yellen’s coauthor, Nika Danial, an assistant professor of
cell biology at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, is working on
mimicking the protein. That may lead to a treatment, or help
researchers look through chemical libraries for something
similar, she said.  The diet is very high in fat, with some protein and almost
no carbohydrates, triggering the body to use fat as its source
of energy and imitating the effects of starvation on the body.
That releases ketones, which can provide energy to the brain in
lieu of sugar.  In epileptic mice, the scientists tinkered with a protein
called  BCL-2-associated agonist of cell death , or BAD, to
promote ketones and lower levels of glucose. While their
seizures decreased, there was no effect in mice that had been
genetically altered to take out the protein, providing evidence
for how it worked, according to the study.  The switch is much like changing from diesel to unleaded
fuel, causing fewer seizures, Yellen said. Something about the
swap prevents neurons from firing too much, though the full
extent of the changes isn’t clear. Additionally, a ketogenic
diet may be effective in some neurodegenerative disorders,
Danial said.  “This could have broader implications for the protective
effects of being able to reprogram what the brain burns,”
Danial said.  The study was funded by Harvard Catalyst,  Citizens United 
for Research in Epilepsy, and the NIH.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 