-- Few Witnesses to Obama, Romney as They Raise $1.5 Billion
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-05-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/few-witnesses-to-obama-romney-as-they-raise-1-5-billion.html
Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  are on
track to raise more than $1.5 billion to finance their
presidential campaigns, and only an elite segment of the
electorate will see them do it: their own donors.  At an Obama fundraiser in February, reporters waited in a
damp garage for more than an hour before being ushered into the
Seattle-area mansion owned by  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  Chairman
Jeff Brotman and his wife. They stayed inside for just a few
minutes -- barely enough time to scan the great room, which
featured floor-to-ceiling windows and a super-sized fireplace,
and spot Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  among the 65
guests.  The interiors of the homes of Romney’s events are off-
limits. The closest reporters came to the Miami mansion of
 Phillip Frost , the  Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  chairman
who held a private fundraising dinner there May 16, was to
survey the exterior on a YouTube video.  This is the first presidential race since the public
financing system was enacted, in time for the 1976 election, in
which both candidates shunned all taxpayer money in favor of
funding their operations with individual donations. That means
they’ll devote more time to gathering cash. Obama already has
held more fundraisers for his re-election -- 138 since April
2011 -- than George W. Bush or  Bill Clinton  during their second
presidential campaigns.  So far, Obama and Romney have chosen to conduct their check
collecting mostly out of the public eye, hosting off-the-record
fundraisers with such celebrities as  George Clooney  and
billionaires, including Frost.  Private Conversations  “They’re going to be raising money right up until Election
Day, which amplifies the question of what they say in public
versus what they say behind closed doors,” said  Bill Allison ,
director of the Sunlight Foundation, a pro-disclosure group
based in  Washington . “Often, they’re two very, very different
things.”  It was at a closed San Francisco fundraiser in April 2008
that Obama described some small-town voters as “bitter” and
needing to “cling to guns or religion.” At a private backyard
fundraiser in Palm Beach,  Florida , last month, Romney was
overheard by reporters offering a few specific policy proposals,
including eliminating the mortgage-interest deduction on second
 homes  and shuttering the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, that he hadn’t spoken of in public. The resulting
news stories caused a stir.  Such incidents are among the reasons the public now is
allowed only a peek at the candidates as they mingle with their
financial benefactors.  Catching a Glimpse  Obama often allows reporters to listen in on a few minutes
of public comments and then boots them from the room --
sometimes turning to watch them file out -- before making a
personal appeal to donors. With the media gone, Obama once told
supporters, he tends to be less “polite.” His campaign raised
$745 million in 2008, a target for this cycle.  Romney lets two reporters follow him into fundraisers held
in places such as hotel ballrooms and country clubs. When it
comes to money-raising at private homes, reporters are turned
away at the gated community or left idling in a van at the foot
of the driveway. He has set a goal of raising $800 million.  “Alright guys, too bad you can’t come to the
fundraisers,” Romney said May 17 in West  Palm Beach , joking
with reporters about his campaign’s policies as he headed to his
fourth set of money-raising events in two days.  Allows ‘Open Discussion’  Keeping a portion of the fundraiser out of public view
allows “for a freer form for having an exchange of ideas,”
said Jack Rosen, a real-estate developer who threw a Nov. 30
fundraiser for Obama at his Upper East Side  New York  townhouse.
“I imagine as president of the  United States  you want to feel
free to have an open discussion without being dissected by the
press.”  Policies to limit coverage at a fundraiser help promote a
feeling of exclusivity for top donors, and insulate candidates
from verbal gaffes that have the potential to overpower their
public messages.  “It’s much more comfortable for the donors and for the
candidates to have these private conversations,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
contributions. Yet “it’s a detriment to the public debate about
the campaign.”  Bagging Mobile Phones  Obama and Romney have taken steps to ensure that glimpses
into their private world of fundraising remain a rarity. Obama’s
“guns” comment became public because a donor in attendance
gave an audio recording to a news website. Now, campaign workers
gather up donors’  mobile phones  in plastic bags at some
fundraisers, including one held May 14 at the New York home of
the  Blackstone Group (BX) ’s president and chief operating officer,
 Tony James .  At a March 30 fundraiser, as the press was being ushered
out of earshot at Maine’s Portland Museum of Art, Obama asked
his 130 supporters in attendance not to post any video of their
private discussion on YouTube.  After Romney’s HUD proposal was overheard by reporters
standing near the backyard event, the campaign established a
two-person press pool for certain large fundraisers and
tightened access to events in private homes, posting aides and
U.S. Secret Service agents to shoo reporters farther away from
them.  Because Obama is president, he has a group of journalists,
including photographers, print reporters and television
producers who travel with him, even to campaign events at
private homes such as Spike Lee’s Upper East Side Manhattan
brownstone, where a 40-person dinner was held Jan. 19.  Public Pep Talks  Access is limited to brief introductory remarks, which
often include familiar jokes, like a reference to dusting off
“rolled-up ‘Hope’ posters” from four years ago, and
predictable calls to action.  “I hope that you are game to work just as hard, if not
harder, in the coming months to make sure we finish what we
began,” Obama told 40 high-dollar contributors, including  Oprah Winfrey , who were dining March 16 among red roses and white-
pillar candles in producer Tyler Perry’s 30,000-square-foot
French chateau-style Atlanta mansion. “I’ll be counting on it,
and more importantly, the American people are counting on it.”  As his 10-minute speech drew to a close, he told the
donors, “I’m going to let the press pool go.” He turned to
watch them gather their notebooks and laptops before continuing.  Romney is “even less transparent” by not letting
reporters into many of his private fundraisers at all, Krumholz
said. The ones reporters are allowed to attend have yielded few
headlines.  Lakefront Fundraiser  On May 16, Romney traveled to Avila Golf and Country Club,
a gated community that features a Jack Nicklaus-designed course
in Tampa, Florida, for a 200-person fundraiser. Reporters had
access to a 15-minute speech during the three-part event. A
photo line and luncheon at real-estate developer Dick Corbett’s
Spanish lakefront home weren’t public.  The clubhouse reception where Romney spoke publicly
included a spread of heavy hors d’oeuvres of beef tenderloin,
petite crab cakes and garlic-ginger-hoisin shrimp. He addressed
donors including former U.S. Ambassador to Italy Mel Sembler and
former Ambassador to the Bahamas John Rood, both now developers.  “I know that you get the impression that government
doesn’t like you,” he said. “I love you, all right. I love
what you do. I want to see entrepreneurs and innovators. I want
to see more success. My ambition is to see more and more people
able to enjoy the extraordinary benefits of America, as you
have.”  Record Fundraising Year  The former Massachusetts governor’s campaign has declined
to provide a tally of the fundraisers he’s held since declaring
his candidacy in April 2011. He had at least 28 campaign finance
events planned between May 9 and June 11, according to an
internal schedule obtained by reporters.  Obama’s 138 fundraisers since April 2011 far outpace  George
W. Bush ’s 86 events during his 2004 re-election bid, according
to Brendan Doherty, a U.S. Naval Academy political science
professor who writes about fundraisers in his forthcoming book,
“The Rise of the President’s Permanent Campaign.”  “There’s absolutely a tension between a campaign’s desire
to hold fundraisers that are private that perhaps give a more
intimate feel to donors with the publics’ right to know and the
press’s desire to be present,” Doherty said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  