-- Fidelity’s Stairs Gets Hong Kong Securities Trading Ban
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-05-23T11:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/fidelity-s-stairs-gets-hong-kong-securities-trading-ban.html
Former Fidelity Management & Research
Co. portfolio manager George Stairs was banned from dealing
securities in Hong Kong for two years for selling  Chaoda Modern
Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)  shares using inside information.  The Hong Kong Market Misconduct Tribunal, which announced
the ban today, didn’t impose a financial sanction on Stairs for
the losses he avoided because the  insider trading  was executed
on behalf of his funds. He remains a Fidelity employee and is no
longer managing assets on behalf of funds or clients, according
to Fidelity.  The action against Stairs compares with the 7.2 million-
pound ($11.3 million) fine the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority slapped on U.S. hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc. and
its founder,  David Einhorn , in January for insider trading. Like
Einhorn, Stairs had argued that he didn’t agree to restrict
himself from trading in exchange for material non-public
information, and that he thought the information was already
public knowledge.  “The government and the MMT’s hands are tied,” said  Paul
Li , a Hong Kong-based financial markets regulations lawyer at
Simmons and Simmons LLP. “If Mr. Stairs did not gain personally
their options are limited.”  The three-member  Hong Kong  tribunal, led by High Court
Judge Michael Lunn, ruled on April 26 that Stairs received non-
public information in June 2009 about a share placement from the
Chinese vegetable producer’s Chairman Kwok Ho and Chief
Financial Officer Andy Chan on a phone call arranged by Merrill
Lynch. Stairs sold down his Chaoda holdings before the placement
was announced, according to Hong Kong’s government.  ‘Enforced Against Wrongdoers’  “Hong Kong’s securities laws will be enforced against
wrongdoers wherever they are situated,” Mark Steward, head of
enforcement at the Securities and Futures Commission, said in a
statement. “No one, no matter where they are, should think they
can breach Hong Kong’s securities laws with impunity.”  David Morrison, a lawyer for Stairs, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail requests for comment on the sanction.  Stairs netted HK$1.98 million ($255,000) for his  funds  by
selling Chaoda shares ahead of the announcement. No wrongdoing
was found on the part of Fidelity and the firm isn’t liable to
any disgorgement orders from Hong Kong authorities.  Didn’t ‘Knowingly Trade’  Vincent Loporchio , a Boston-based spokesman for Fidelity,
said on May 20 the company respectfully disagrees with the Hong
Kong tribunal’s conclusions regarding Stairs.  “He did not knowingly trade on non-public price sensitive
information,” Loporchio said in an e-mail at the time.
“Fidelity conducted a thorough internal review of this matter
consistent with its strong protocols.”  The approximate loss avoided on behalf of shareholders was
only 0.017 percent of the fund’s assets under management,
Loporchio said.  The U.K.’s  FSA  fined Einhorn, along with his firm, more
than $11 million for trading on non-public information received
from a broker about a planned equity fundraising by  Punch
Taverns Plc. (PUB)  The FSA said Einhorn traded within “minutes” of
receiving the information.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  employees, who also participated in
conference calls with Kwok and Chan in June 2009, reported the
information to their compliance department “immediately” and
were restricted from trading, the tribunal heard.  “It was not a coincidence that, on the very day on which
he had received material price sensitive information from Kwok
Ho and Andy Chan, George Stairs placed an order to sell a parcel
of those shares,” the tribunal wrote in its report.  The tribunal in Hong Kong that imposes “deterrent or
deterrent-like orders on offenders” is an alternative to
criminal prosecution, according to Ashley Alder, chief executive
officer of the SFC. Proceedings are brought to the tribunal when
a criminal prosecution isn’t possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  