-- Financial Aid Officers Suggest College Aid Letter Changes
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-05-23T15:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/financial-aid-officers-suggest-college-aid-letter-changes.html
College financial-aid officers have
issued recommendations to make award letters to students less
confusing, as U.S. Senator  Al Franken  prepares to introduce a
bill to standardize the correspondence.  The National Association of Student Financial Aid
Administrators issued a  report today  to “communicate its
position” to Congress and other stakeholders, Justin Draeger,
president of the trade group, said in an interview.  The first steps to financial aid and borrowing for college
are the award letters, which aren’t always clear because schools
often lump their own scholarships together with federal grants.
Unlike with mortgages, there is no federal requirement to
disclose  interest rates  or total payments on loans.  “Some award letters are confusing,” said Draeger, whose
organization is based in Washington. “We can address all of
these concerns without a mandate, which becomes very inflexible.
Our purpose is to try to avoid an overly prescriptive mandate
that doesn’t meet the needs of the majority of students.”  Franken, a Democratic from  Minnesota , plans to unveil a
bill in the next few weeks that would require colleges to use a
universal award letter to ensure that students can compare
packages among schools, Alexandra Fetissoff, a spokeswoman for
the senator, said today in an interview.  The “Understanding the True Cost of College Act” would
help families learn the differences between grant aid and
student loans, Franken said in an April 30 statement.  The administrators’ group made  six suggestions  to improve
the letters, including adding the potential debt students may
incur, total cost to attend and net costs after scholarship aid,
according to the report. A  task force  has been working on the
guidelines since November, Draeger said.  Last month, when Bloomberg News reported on how the aid
letters confuse families, the organization said it opposed a
standardized letter, a position it still holds. The group said
it prefers to give colleges the flexibility to design their own
correspondence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 