-- Fitch Wavers Over Plans to Relax Banks’ Derivatives Rules
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-23T17:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/fitch-wavers-over-plans-to-relax-banks-derivatives-rules.html
Fitch Ratings  is wavering on part
of its plan to loosen rules for banks that sell derivatives
contained in securitizations and covered bonds.  The company is readying a series of adjustments to its
guidelines for transactions that rely on counterparties in the
$700 trillion  derivatives market . Swaps can be used to turn
mortgages in one currency into securities in another or to
create floating-rate bonds out of fixed  car loans .  The ratings firm said in a March  report  that as part of the
overhaul it may expand the types of assets that downgraded
counterparties can post as collateral to maintain grades on
securitized or covered bonds, or that lower-rated banks can use
with new deals. Eligible collateral, which now includes only
cash and government debt rated at least AA-, may extend to
corporate notes, covered bonds and securitized debt.  Allowing securitized debt as collateral would be
“disastrous,” said William Harrington, who worked at Moody’s
Investors Service for 11 years before retiring in 2010 as a
senior vice president in its derivatives group. The risks
include a potential chain of exposures and ratings between deals
and banks “that will play out in a hall of mirrors.”  Debt from the more than $4 trillion securitization market
such as mortgage bonds can be harder to trade and tougher to
value. In 2007 and 2008 those characteristics roiled financial
firms, funds and so-called structured investment vehicles, whose
top-rated debt then formed a $400 billion market before often
losing most of its value.  Revisions This Month  While a move to include these assets has merits, “that’s
the one area we could see perhaps not included in the final
criteria,” said Stuart Jennings, a Fitch analyst who is working
with colleague Grant England on its changes.  The revised protocols should be finished this month with
otherwise minor adjustments, the London-based analysts said last
week in a telephone interview. England called the various
changes in many cases not a “relaxation” of requirements,
saying they were “definitely not related to any commercial
interest or need to keep the structured finance market going.”  Fitch is facing pressure for the overhaul as European
banks’ ratings are lowered amid their region’s debt crisis and
regulators worldwide begin forcing lenders to hold more liquid
assets to gird for events such as downgrades.  A “scarcity” of “safe assets” is also being created by
cuts to highly rated nations’ grades and rising collateral needs
as more swaps trading shifts to clearinghouses and lenders
increase secured borrowing from central banks, the  International
Monetary Fund   said  in an April report.  Avoiding New Risks  Fitch is trying to help the securitization market overcome
how these trends are reducing the number of banks willing or
able to serve as counterparties, while avoiding new risks for
transactions, its analysts said. Outstanding deals may be
damaged if a counterparty defaults and can't be replaced.  “It’s not an easy task but that what’s we’re trying to
achieve,” Jennings said. “Eligible banks in certain countries,
particularly Spain and  Italy , have dwindled to one or two.”  David Land , a  money manager  at  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
Advantus Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $22
billion, said he was “surprised that they might accept
collateral that’s harder to mark and less liquid.”  Fitch is considering the change because it would include
protections that “from a theoretical perspective could be
mitigants,” England said. Bonds would be counted only with a
“haircut,” or discount, to their stated value of perhaps 30
percent to 40 percent, and only be accepted if highly rated and
of a type with a solid pricing history, the analysts said.  The debt also couldn’t be “correlated” with a transaction
by being from the same issuer or counterparty, England said. At
the same time, highly rated government bonds are proving “not
as safe as they used to be” amid  Europe ’s crisis, Jennings
said.  Covered Bonds  Fitch’s derivatives criteria would apply to covered bonds,
or securities backed by both loans and issuers’ repayment
pledges, in cases where ratings on notes exceed those on the
seller in that more than $3 trillion market.  The ratings firm’s “exposure draft” said the company also
plans to start to allow counterparties with junk ratings as low
as BB- to support BBB, or investment-grade, bonds if they post
collateral, as well as allow banks with BBB- ratings, a step
above speculative grade, to support debt within the category
without collateral.  The firm, which isn’t changing its “fundamental”
benchmark of requiring grades of at least A to support top-rated
securities without collateral, wanted to offer more options for
other scenarios, England said.  ’Extreme Events’  Fitch may also lower the required amount of collateral,
which is needed to protect against losses if a derivative
counterparty defaults and must be replaced, in a way that in
some instances ignores the type of volatility seen after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  “We felt we didn’t need to cover the extreme events of
2008” because they are unlikely to happen, and even if they do
they may benefit a securitization’s swap positions or a
counterparty may not collapse, Jennings said.  Harrington, the former Moody’s analyst, said he’s come to
believe transactions relying on derivatives, which represent
most of the market, particularly in Europe, should all be
downgraded as currently structured because the swaps create
additional risks. It’s disheartening that Fitch is moving in the
opposite direction of reducing protections, he said.  “Nobody understands the issues well enough to stand up and
defend the deals,” Harrington said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 