-- Ford to Ascend to Investment-Grade Bond Indexes at Month End
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-05-23T19:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/ford-to-ascend-to-investment-grade-bond-indexes-at-month-s-end.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the largest corporate
borrower in U.S. high-yield indexes, will ascend to investment-
grade benchmarks at the end of the month following its upgrade
by Moody’s Investors Service.  Bonds of the second-biggest U.S. automaker will shift to
Barclays Plc’s U.S. Corporate Investment-Grade index at the
close of business on May 31 and will be reflected in June
returns, Brandon Ashcraft, a New York-based spokesman for the
bank, said today in an e-mail. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
also resets its indexes monthly based on bonds’ average ratings,
according to a Jan. 20 report.  Ford’s rating was lifted two levels to Baa3, the lowest
level of investment grade, from Ba2, Moody’s said yesterday in a
statement. The move followed Fitch Ratings’s upgrade of the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company from junk status on April 24.
Bond-fund managers are adjusting their holdings to match changes
in the indexes, said  James Lee  of Calvert Investments, which
manages about $12.5 billion.  “Most fixed-income guys are mindful of what index they’re
being measured against,” Lee, a senior high-yield analyst in
Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a telephone interview. “By not
buying Ford, you’re making a pretty bold call.”  Ford’s $25 billion of index-eligible  junk bonds  would make
it the biggest issuer to ever move between the two categories,
Barclays analysts led by Bradley Rogoff wrote in a February
report.  Ford Bonds Rise  High-yield, high-risk, or junk bonds are graded below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  Ford’s $1.25 billion of 8.125 percent notes due January
2020 rose 4.5 cents since the upgrade to 127.5 cents on the
dollar as of 3:10 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The debt has climbed from 123 cents on May 21 and
traded below par as recently as two years ago.  Ford bonds account for 2.94 percent of the market value of
the Barclays U.S. Corporate High Yield index and 2.82 percent of
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II
Index.  Some high-yield funds are likely selling Ford’s bonds now,
leaving them with cash they’ll have to invest in other debt,
said  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners.  ‘Cash Inflow’  “It’s the equivalent of a big cash inflow into the
market,” Fridson said in a telephone interview.  About half of Ford’s debt is held in funds that won’t need
to sell it, the Barclays analysts estimated in the February
report.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S. wireless
carrier, is the next-largest high-yield issuer, with $20 billion
of index-eligible debt, according to a May 1 report by the
Barclays analysts. Its $2 billion of 6 percent notes due in
December 2016 fell by 0.5 cent to 90.3 cents on the dollar at
11:48 a.m. in New York, Trace data show. The debt has climbed
from 85 cents at the beginning of the year.  Fitch raised the automaker’s rating to BBB- last month,
leaving S&P alone among the three biggest ratings company with
Ford at speculative grade. Barclays requires that a borrower be
ranked investment grade by two of the three to be included in
the high-grade index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  