-- Forint Drops Most in 2012 on Aid Delay Amid Worsening Crisis
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-05-23T15:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/forint-falls-to-weakest-in-four-months-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
The forint dropped the most in more
than five months and Hungarian bonds slumped on concern the
government will face more delays to an international bailout
amid a worsening  European debt crisis .  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, depreciated 1.7 percent to 303.2 per euro by
4:53 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest decline on a closing basis
since Dec. 8 and the worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds slumped, lifting yields 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 8.715 percent.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the region’s debt crisis that has wiped more than $4 trillion
from equity markets worldwide this month as concern grew  Greece 
may exit the euro area. Hungary, the first EU member to be
bailed out in 2008, has failed to start talks on a second rescue
for six months since requesting the aid.  “The depreciation of the Hungarian currency was due to the
decline in risk appetite because of the Greek situation, though
the forint’s underperformance in the region showed its
vulnerability,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst at Erste Group
Bank AG, wrote in a research report today. “In this unfavorable
market environment, investors would like to see more details on
the start of the talks with the  International Monetary Fund .”  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s five-year
debt with credit-default swaps rose 21 basis points to 589. The
CDS fell as low as 492 on May 2 after the European Commission
gave approval in April for the aid talks to begin.  June Negotiations  Hungary may start negotiations with the IMF and the EU on
financial aid “within a few days” after passing amendments to
a disputed a central bank law, which is scheduled for June 4, 5
or 6, Dow Jones reported yesterday, citing Gyula Pleschinger,
state secretary at the  Economy Ministry .  Mihaly Varga, appointed as the country’s new bailout
negotiator, told reporters in Budapest yesterday that talks may
begin after June 23, once the EU reaches a decision on the so-
called excessive deficit procedure against  Hungary .  “The forint is finally beginning to pay the price for the
lack of clarity on the IMF/European Commission financing front,
with the government playing a little too hard to get,”  Timothy Ash, a London-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, wrote in an e-mail today. The “question is what level the
forint has to go to to make the government get really serious
about cutting a deal with the IMF, 320 plus?” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  