-- Fortress Seeks Servicing Rights From $4 Trillion Sale: Mortgages
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-05-23T14:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/fortress-seeks-servicing-rights-from-4-trillion-sale-mortgages.html
Fortress Investment Group (FIG) , whose
funds own 77 percent of mortgage servicer Nationstar Mortgage
Holdings Inc., is leading the race for $4 trillion in home loan
collection rights as banks exit the business.  Nationstar is positioned to become the largest non-bank
residential loan servicer by the end of this year with rights of
$550 billion, according to Chief Executive Officer Jay Bray.
Over the next five years, lenders are expected to sell $4
trillion in servicing rights on the $10 trillion U.S. mortgage
market as they seek to avoid new regulations and reduce damage
to their reputations, according to a presentation from  New York- 
based Fortress obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The major servicers created a disaster and these guys are
fixing it,” Henry Coffey Jr., an analyst with Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. who rates  Nationstar (NSM)  a buy, said in  a telephone
interview. “They’re buying from people who want out.”  Nationstar, based in Lewisville,  Texas , added $36.3 billion
to its servicing portfolio in the first quarter from a year
earlier, exceeding the $33.2 billion gain for market leader
Wells Fargo & Co., according to trade publication Inside
Mortgage Finance. That took the portfolio to $103.3 billion.  The company has also  agreed to acquire  $437 billion in new
servicing rights deals: $63 billion coming on its books this
month from Aurora Bank FSB, a unit of defunct Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., and $374 billion from Residential Capital LLC, a
division of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , expected to close by yearend.  Monthly Fees  Mortgage servicers earn monthly fees ranging from about 25
to 35 basis points, or 25 cents to 35 cents per $100 in unpaid
balance of the loans, according to the confidential Fortress
presentation. They handle billing and collections for mortgages,
as well as work related to troubled loans, such as foreclosures
and loan modifications. Investors can expect unlevered gross
returns of 15 to 20 percent before management fees, the
presentation said.  Nationstar, Fortress and the New York-based private-equity
firm’s  Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT)  offered $2.3 billion for the
ResCap rights, ResCap Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Marano said in an interview this month. While other
companies can still bid for the ResCap portfolio, they would
have to pay Nationstar a $72 million breakup fee on top of a
higher price for the rights under the terms of the offer, called
a stalking horse bid.  “Our confidence factor that this deal goes to Nationstar
is 75 to 85 percent,” Coffey said in an interview from his
office in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Outmaneuvered Rivals  Fortress’s acquisitions of Aurora and ResCap outmaneuvered
rival non-bank mortgage servicers vying for mortgage pools that
decline in revenue like a “melting ice cube” as borrowers
refinance or sell their homes, Coffey said.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  sought to buy ResCap before the
company, which is majority-owned by the U.S. government, filed
for bankruptcy, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , which had $95 billion in
servicing rights at the end of the first quarter, was outbid for
the Aurora portfolio by Nationstar.  “I really can’t comment specifically on what Nationstar
was thinking in their bid there,” Ocwen Chief Executive William Erbey said about Nationstar’s Aurora deal during a May 3
earnings conference. “But it did very much surprise us.”  The unpaid balance of  mortgages  in the U.S. peaked in the
first quarter of 2008 at $11.24 trillion and declined to $10.29
trillion at the end of last year as home values declined and
borrowers paid down debt, according to data compiled by the
 Federal Reserve .  Wells Increases Lead  The largest mortgage lenders --  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  --
controlled 50.3 percent of the servicing market at the end of
the first quarter, down from 54.2 percent a year earlier,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance. Servicing rights at Bank
of America, JPMorgan and Citigroup fell a combined $545 billion,
or 14 percent, in the past 12 months.  Wells Fargo, the largest originator of mortgages, increased
its market share lead, as the biggest banks eschewed new
business that brings servicing rights with it.  Banks are reducing their loan-servicing portfolios to meet
 capital requirements  proposed under the Basel III accord. The
new regulation forces banks to hold more capital against
mortgage servicing rights that exceed 10 percent of tier 1
capital, a measure of high-quality, loss-absorbing reserves that
banks must hold against risky assets.  House Prices  With  U.S. housing prices  down 35 percent from their July
2006 peak, the largest U.S. banks have booked more than $72
billion in losses tied to faulty home loans and foreclosures,
including more than $40 billion by Bank of America alone.  Banks are also cutting servicing portfolios because their
reputations have suffered from complaints about their management
of delinquent borrowers, Ocwen Chief Financial Officer John Britti said.  In February, the five largest servicers agreed to pay $25
billion to settle allegations they used faulty or forged
paperwork to seize homes from delinquent borrowers. Under the
agreement, servicers must foot more of the cost of homeowner
loan modifications and refinancing and compensate people who
lost property in wrongful foreclosures.  “To the extent that they can’t do as good a job as they’d
like, it harms their reputation,” Britti said in a telephone
interview. “So they’d prefer to get a subservicer or sell the
servicing to somebody who can do a better job.”  Ocwen Acquires  Ocwen, an Atlanta-based specialist in servicing distressed
commercial and residential loans, is purchasing $10.7 billion of
servicing rights from Bank of America, according to a May 22
regulatory filing. The contracts are tied to 53,100  mortgage
loans  owned by a government-sponsored agency with the transfer
expected in June.  It also acquired rights in April to service $30.3 billion
in loans from JPMorgan and Saxon Mortgage Services Inc., a
former unit of  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Last year, it paid  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  $263.7 million for rights to Litton Loan Servicing
LP’s $51.2 billion mortgage portfolio.  Foreclosure filings, including notices of default and bank
repossessions, plunged in April to their lowest level since July
2007, RealtyTrac Inc. reported May 17, as a housing recovery
started to take hold and as servicers delayed filings while
trying to comply with the nationwide settlement. A decline in
foreclosure filings won’t threaten business for Ocwen or other
loan servicers that earn higher fees for handling distressed
mortgages, Britti said.  “Unfortunately for this country, there’s plenty of  bad
loans  to go around,” he said.  Earnings Fluctuate  While mortgage-servicing fees provide a steady revenue
stream, the firms’ earnings fluctuate depending on the cost of
acquiring and administering portfolios, according to Bray.
Nationstar reported first quarter  net income  of $50.2 million,
or 67 cents, a share on May 15. Earnings are expected to fall to
35 cents in the quarter ending June 30, the median estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nationstar fell 2.6 percent to $16.40 as of 10:29 a.m. in
 New York  trading. It’s risen more than 17 percent since pricing
shares at $14 in a March 7 initial public offering.  Fortress shares dropped 0.7 percent to $3.02 and have
declined 8.1 percent this year including reinvested dividends.
They’re down more than 80 percent since its February 2007
initial public offering, when the company sold stock at $18.50 a
share to become the first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund
manager.  Mortgage Economics  One potential challenge is how servicing-fee reductions
under review by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which
oversees  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , will affect the value of
mortgage-servicing rights, according to a report by Bose George,
an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “While we do not believe that lower servicing fees would
directly impact the economics of the mortgage business, it could
still change the structure of the industry in very meaningful
ways,” George wrote in the April 17 report. “There could be
increased earnings volatility as servicing earnings would fall
sharply.”  PHH Corp. (PHH) , the largest non-bank servicer with $149.7
billion in unpaid principal balance at the end of the first
quarter, reported a $26 million first quarter loss on its
mortgage-servicing unit, driven by requests from Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac to repurchase loans that defaulted because of
alleged misrepresentations.  “We expect repurchase requests and foreclosure costs to
remain high during 2012 and potentially into 2013,”  Mount
Laurel , New Jersey-based PHH said in a May earnings statement.  PHH Expansion  PHH continues to expand into mortgage servicing, which
accounted for about one-fourth of the company’s revenue in
fiscal 2011, increasing its portfolio 4.9 percent from a year
earlier. On May 7, it acquired subservicing rights to $52
billion of loans from  HSBC Bank USA . A subservicer handles work
for a servicer on a contract basis, without being directly
responsible to the ultimate investor or bank.  This “allows us to generate additional revenue through
our servicing platform, without the capital intensity or
repurchase risk,” Dico Akseraylian, a PHH spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  The number of companies vying for the servicing business is
limited because it requires ability to manage interactions with
large numbers of borrowers, Coffey said.  “You can’t board a $100 billion servicing portfolio if
you’re some yahoo,” he said. “We see growth and momentum with
special servicers acquiring by the shipload.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  