-- Fracking Boom Seen Slow to Develop in New York, Regulator Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-05-23T19:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/fracking-boom-seen-slow-to-develop-in-new-york-regulator-says.html
A decision to permit hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas in  New York  state will trigger a cool
response from drillers, the state’s environmental regulator
said.  Low natural-gas prices have dulled interest in New York’s
gas reserves, Joseph Martens, commissioner of the Department of
Environmental Conservation, said at a conference today. The
agency is reviewing more than 66,700 comments on a draft plan
for drilling in the state’s portion of a geological formation
called the Marcellus Shale.  Since New York began developing gas-drilling rules in July
2008, prices have plunged more than 80 percent, sinking to a
decade low $1.902 per million British thermal units on April 19.
During that time,  Pennsylvania  and Ohio allowed producers such
as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Talisman Inc. (TLM)  to drill,
attracting billions of dollars in investment.  “I don’t think there’s going to be a flood of drillers
coming into New York,” Martens said at a conference at  Columbia
Law School  in New York City. “The reality is, with the price of
natural gas so low, that if we put out the regulations and move
forward with the process in New York it will start slowly.”  The state is considering rules for high-volume hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, a process in which millions of gallons
of chemically treated water and sand are forced underground to
break up shale rock and free trapped gas. Part of the Marcellus
Shale, which may contain a two-decade supply of gas for the
U.S., extends into New York state.  Clean Water Threats  Environmental groups say the process threatens clean air
and water and are seeking to block drilling. More than 20 towns
in the state have adopted laws to ban drilling, according to
Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-systems consultant in
Ithaca, New York.  Martens said nothing submitted in public comments on the
proposed rule suggests fracking should be banned. Draft
guidelines released in July proposed buffer zones between wells
and water sources such as the aquifer that supplies  New York
City .  “The conclusion at the end of the draft was that we could
do this safely in New York, and I haven’t seen anything yet to
change that conclusion,” Martens said.  The review will take months to complete, Martens said.  Fracking has been used to drill more than 4,400 wells in
Pennsylvania since 2009. Energy companies spent about $11.5
billion in the state in 2010, including $346 million in
royalties to property owners who leased their mineral rights,
according to a July  report  from the Pennsylvania State
University College of Earth and Mineral Sciences.  In Ohio, companies including Chesapeake,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are drilling in the Utica Shale, which is
deeper than Marcellus. The Utica shale will support 65,680 jobs
and add $4.9 billion to  Ohio ’s economic output by 2014,
according to a Feb. 28 study by the Ohio Shale Coalition.  Natural gas for June delivery rose 3 cents to settle at
$2.737 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  