-- Galleon Partner’s Eyes ‘Popping’ After Trade, Trader Says
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-23T16:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/galleon-partner-s-eyes-popping-after-trade-trader-says.html
After Raj Rajaratnam got what
prosecutors say was an illegal tip about  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , a partner at Galleon Group LLC who was excluded from the
trade turned red-faced and angry, a witness at the Rajat Gupta
trial testified.  Prosecutors claim that Gupta, who was a Goldman Sachs
director, tipped Rajaratnam on Sept. 23, 2008, that  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  would make a $5 billion
investment in the firm. Gupta is on trial for securities fraud
and conspiracy in  Manhattan  federal court.  Ananth Muniyappa, then a Galleon trader, told jurors
yesterday that Rajaratnam instructed him to hurriedly buy
Goldman Sachs shares that day, before the Buffett deal was
announced. Today, Muniyappa described the reaction of Leon Shaulov, the Galleon senior portfolio manager who hadn’t bought
shares in Goldman Sachs, when the Buffett transaction became
public and the shares rose after the close of  trading  on the New
York Stock Exchange.  “He was pretty angry,” Muniyappa told jurors. “Hair all
over the place, red face, eyes popping out.”  Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994
to 2003, is accused of passing multiple insider tips to
Rajaratnam in a conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January 2009.
Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence for  insider
trading .  Prosecutors say Gupta, 63, leaked inside information to
Rajaratnam about New York-based Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-
based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-
products company. Gupta, who was a director at both companies,
denies wrongdoing. The maximum term for  securities fraud  is 20
years.  ‘Heads Up’  Muniyappa’s testimony, which didn’t directly implicate
Gupta in wrongdoing, is part of the government’s attempt to
detail the circumstances surrounding the alleged Goldman Sachs
tip. Another witness, Caryn Eisenberg, Rajaratnam’s personal
assistant at Galleon, yesterday testified about an “urgent”
call she received immediately before Galleon bought 267,000
Goldman Sachs shares. Prosecutors say Galleon earned almost $1
million on the trade.  In his testimony today, Muniyappa read from an e-mail that
Shaulov, then a Galleon managing director and partner, sent to
another partner, Gary Rosenbach, at 6:16 p.m. on Sept. 23, 2008.  “Thx for the heads up,” wrote Shaulov, who, according to
his e-mail, had made a $170 million bet that financial stocks
including Goldman Sachs would fall. “Not one word from anyone.
Thanks very much. All I get is sick dilution.”  Shaulov also wrote, “What I give vs what I get back is
disgusting.” He ended his e-mail with two expletives.  Neither Shaulov nor Rosenbach has been accused of
wrongdoing.  ‘Diffused Him’  Rosenbach replied by writing “number,” apparently a
request for Shaulov’s telephone number, Muniyappa testified. The
next morning, Rosenbach sent an e-mail to Rajaratnam saying, “I
spoke to Leon & believe I diffused him.”  Shaulov’s lawyer, Andrew Levander, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on today’s testimony.
Rosenbach didn’t immediately return a phone message left at his
home.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff let prosecutors introduce
the e-mail into evidence over the opposition of Gupta’s lawyers.  In court papers, prosecutors say they want to introduce a
wiretapped phone conversation between Rajaratnam and Galleon
trader  Ian Horowitz  about Shaulov made the day after the Buffett
investment. The call hasn’t yet been played in court.  “Leon was very upset,” Rajaratnam told Horowitz on the
Sept. 24, 2008, call, according to court papers. “I always am
good with him. I always call him in. I tell him everything, you
know? AMD, IBM, everything.”  Prosecutors say this is a reference to Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.
Rajaratnam was convicted of illegal trading in both stocks.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  