-- Gamesa Hires Martin as CEO as Calvet Steps Down
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-05-23T19:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/gamesa-hires-martin-as-ceo-as-calvet-steps-down.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , the
Spanish maker of wind turbines that’s lost 75 percent of its
market value in the past year, named Ignacio Martin as chief
executive officer.  He replaces Jorge Calvet, who is leaving the Zamudio,
Spain-based company, according to a statement today.  Gamesa’s shares have tumbled 89 percent since Calvet was
named CEO in October 2009, as competition from Chinese rivals
drove down turbine prices and margins.  “Clearly, whenever you have companies that aren’t doing
well, you look for a scapegoat,” Amy Grace, a wind analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in a telephone interview. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if you see other firings as well because
of the problems in the industry.”  The average price of  wind turbines  fell 4 percent in the
second half of 2011 from the previous six months as Chinese
manufacturers undercut European rivals like Gamesa and
Aarhus, Denmark-based  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest
turbine maker.  Vestas replaced two chief financial officers in the past
year as well as its chairman and deputy chairman. Its CEO Ditlev Engel said he won’t resign.  Martin, formerly of  CIE Automotive SA (CIE) , also will be a
member of Gamesa’s executive committee.  “I am taking over at a company that successfully managed a
buoyant economic period,” Martin said in the statement. “Now
that the expansion stage is behind us, it is time to focus and
place more emphasis on competitiveness and profitability.”  Gamesa reported a loss of 21 million euros ($26.4 million)
in the first quarter. Its profit margin was 1.7 percent in 2011,
down from 3.6 percent in 2009. The Bloomberg Wind Energy  Index (BWIND) 
of 64 companies fell 28 percent in the last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  