-- Gazprom 2012 Investment Plan Reaches $27 Billion, May Rise
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-23T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/gazprom-2012-investment-plan-reaches-27-billion-may-rise-1-.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s state-run
natural-gas exporter and producer, may raise its investment
program for this year further even as output declines.  Gazprom will probably boost planned outlays after the first
half of the year, Yaroslav Golko, head of the investments and
construction department, told reporters today in Moscow. The
spending plan has already climbed to about 843 billion rubles
($27 billion) from an initial 777 billion rubles based on first-
quarter results, he said.  Gazprom is trying to start output at new deposits to
compensate for maturing fields amid weakened European demand for
its fuel. Investors have criticized the company for pouring
money into pipeline networks, inefficiencies and a lack of
transparency, as spending overshot an initial forecast by 56
percent last year.  “Investors should worry about investment plans after
elections: it’s all starting from scratch,” Lev Snykov, a
partner at Greenwich Capital in Moscow, said by telephone.
“Chances are very high that capex will escalate and that is bad
for the dividend story and the free cash flow story.”  Vladimir Putin  returned to the Kremlin on May 7 after a
four-year stint as prime minister.  Dmitry Medvedev , who was
Gazprom’s board chairman before taking on the presidency in
2008, has been re-appointed prime minister.  ‘Revising Output’  Gazprom may produce 1 percent to 2 percent less than the
528 billion cubic meters planned for this year, Vsevolod Cherepanov, head of production, said at the briefing. Since May,
output has fallen short of targeted levels by about 12 percent
because of lower-than-expected demand, reaching 1.2 billion
cubic meters a day, he said.  “Supply and demand is now uncertain and we have to revise
output all the time,” Cherepanov said. Gazprom estimates
production will rise to 541 billion cubic meters next year and
548 billion cubic meters in 2014, he said. That’s lower than 549
billion and 570 billion cubic meters, respectively, forecast a
year earlier.  Gazprom plans to start its giant Bovanenkovo field on the
Arctic Yamal Peninsula next month as it invests in new fields to
compensate for declines at maturing fields in western Siberia.
The region’s Nadym-Purtaz area is now producing about 400
billion cubic meters, or about 78 percent of the company’s total
output. The declining production rates would lower than level to
about 300 billion cubic meters by 2015 and 230 billion cubic
meters by 2020, Cherepanov said.  Investments in gas pipelines may total 413.7 billion rubles
this year, or about half of the revised investment plan, Golko
said. The pipeline from Bovanenkovo may require 138 billion
rubles. Gazprom owns the country’s trunk pipeline network. The
company estimates construction of Russian onshore sections of
the planned South Stream export gas pipeline at about 9 billion
euros, Golko said.  Plans to build a pipeline from new deposits in eastern
Siberia’s Yakutia region will depend on regional demand, Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Vitaly Markelov told reporters.  The gas producer’s board recommended more than doubling the
2011 dividend to 8.97 rubles a share, a total payout of 211
billion rubles. Shareholders are set to vote on June 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  