-- Gehry, Rodarte Team Up for Spooky Mozart in L.A.: Review
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/gehry-rodarte-team-up-for-spooky-mozart-in-l-a-review.html
Frank Gehry , Gustavo Dudamel and --
hold on to your suspenders of disbelief -- the  Rodarte  sisters
of “Black Swan.”  The unlikely combo conjured up a spookily beautiful
production of “Don Giovanni” at the  Walt Disney Concert Hall 
in  Los Angeles  on Friday. (The two remaining performances are
tomorrow and Saturday).  I thought I was done with the Don, especially after the
 Metropolitan Opera ’s dreary staging last autumn, which sucked
the life out of Mozart and much of the audience.  Looking back, I think I’ve seen maybe eight productions,
starting with Cesare Siepi whose getup -- Spanish doublet,
tights and puffy shorts -- set a standard for traditional shows.  In these, the doomed sex maniac laughs at fate, slaps goofy
servant Leporello on the back a lot, and throws his goblet into
the wings after tossing off that anthem of happy-go-lucky
boozers: the Champagne aria.  Not so in L.A., where  Don Giovanni  spends a fair amount of
the evening with his eyes closed, dreaming.  Working with director Christopher Alden, Gehry created a
metaphorical landscape devoid of Seville’s balconies, potted
geraniums, gaily costumed peasants, tapas plates.  Imposing piles of crumpled paper cover the playing space,
creating an abstract realm where Don Giovanni enacts scenes of
his life. The shapes look like crags, fissures, icebergs,
depending on the lighting (which could have been much more
dramatic).  The Great Gehry  Gehry, of course, designed this spectacular hall for the
Los Angeles Philharmonic and there’s no proscenium arch or pit.  To make room for the opera, he crumpled more paper, this
batch colored black, and relocated the orchestra to risers high
up at the back of the stage. Dudamel and his players, also
dressed in black, are barely visible to us, though the maestro
appears on two video screens in case the singers need a down
beat. Even in this difficult situation, the supremely gifted
Venezuelan conducted without a score.  Remarkably, coordination was near perfect.  As the overture started, we saw Donna Anna standing high up
on a pedestal, then slowly slumping into a dream in which she
loosens her bodice and seems to command the appearance of her
seducer.  From across the stage, Don Giovanni slowly inches toward
her.  Like an expressionless zombie he pulls himself up the rungs
to her pedestal.  As staged by Alden, it’s a powerful image of unspoken, even
unsung, desire.  No Laughs  The trancelike state conjured up by Alden is surprisingly
effective throughout the opera, albeit short on laughs.  If you think about the individuals, except for Don
Giovanni, they hardly ever do what they promise to: Donna Elvira
won’t cut out Don Giovanni’s heart as she promises in her
entrance aria; the hapless Don Ottavio can’t do more than state
his intentions for revenge. They are stuck in their own aspic.  Kate and Laura Mulleavy of Rodarte, the fashion house they
started in 2005, inject the perverse extravagance we expect from
the women who stitched up those scary tutus and evil head-
toppers for “ Black Swan .”  Swarovski Crystals  Especially the women are lavishly costumed. Elvira’s black
gown glitters with Swarovski crystals. Zerlina is a vision of
spring with green pompons and what might be a salad platter in
her hair.  The men are all in white, from their breastplates to their
boots, except for the doomed commendatore, who wears black.  Men are all the same and they don’t change either, the
sisters seem to be saying, playing off of Don Giovanni’s
presumption that one woman is just like the next, maybe plumper.  L.A. has fielded a splendid cast of fit Mozarteans, most
thin enough for the runway on which we might admire more closely
the detailed stitching. (Astonishingly, there are no plans for a
telecast.)  Even when utterly inert, Mariusz Kwiecien, as Don Giovanni,
was a compelling presence and vocally glorious.  Sidekick Kevin Burdette made an amusing entrance as
Leporello, crawling into view from underneath a heap of paper.
When he sang the “Catalog” aria listing his master’s conquests
-- in  Spain  alone, 1,003 -- he might as well have been walking
through crumpled up drafts of the manuscript. Not long out of
Juilliard, Burdette already presents a major voice.  Aga Mikolaj (Elvira), Carmela Remigio (Anna) and Anna
Prohaska (Zerlina), all three fearlessly balancing atop
fashionista killer heels, sang with color and confidence.  Pavol Breslik (Ottavio) was the vocal revelation of the
evening, dispatching his two arias with remarkable breath
control and gorgeous tone.  Borda, Dudamel  “Don Giovanni” is the first in a trio of Mozart
productions linking major architects and designers. Next up:
“Marriage of Figaro” with  Jean Nouvel  and Azzedine Alaia. Then
Zaha Hadid ponders “Cosi Fan Tutte,” with a designer yet to be
named. Alden directs all three.  This unconventional series is the brainchild of Dudamel and
the imaginative dynamo who hired him and has made this orchestra
great: its president, Deborah Borda. What a pity neither is
available in  New York  City.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on film and Ryan
Sutton on restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 