-- German 2-Year Note Bids Beat Target as Yield Falls to Record
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a ,   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-23T11:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/germany-2-year-note-sale-average-yield-0-07-lowest-on-record.html
Germany  got bids for more than the
maximum 5 billion-euro ($6.3 billion) target at a note sale,
with the yield falling to a record, as investors sought a refuge
from the  European debt crisis .  Germany, the only country in the euro area with a stable
outlook on its AAA rating, sold 4.56 billion euros of two-year
securities carrying a zero-percent coupon for the first time,
Bundesbank data showed today. The securities were auctioned to
yield 0.07 percent. The country offered a fixed-interest payment
of 0.25 percent when selling similar-maturity notes on April 18.  Germany’s  borrowing costs  have plunged to the lowest on
record as investors sought the nation’s debt as a haven from
 Europe ’s financial turmoil and concern mounted that Greece will
exit the euro area after inconclusive elections on May 6.  “The surprisingly good result illustrated a huge demand
for safety, and that’s the key message of the auction result
today,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , the head of European interest-rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “This is the first
time we have seen a large, liquid, benchmark bond issued with a
coupon of zero. That is symbolic of the desperate need for
security in today’s troubled times.”  Investors also bought 1.29 billion euros of index-linked
bonds due in 2013 at a so-called real yield of minus 0.24
percent.  Sale Floor  The Federal Finance Agency, which manages debt sales on the
government’s behalf, said after the auction that the zero coupon
represents the floor in rates for German securities as it has no
intention to issue bonds with negative coupons.  Germany’s existing two-year note yield tumbled to a record
0.031 percent on May 18. Ten-year yields dropped six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.41 percent at 12:12 p.m.
London time, after reaching a record-low 1.396 percent, also on
May 18.  Germany’s government bonds returned 1.4 percent this month,
compared with a 0.2 percent loss from Italian securities,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Greece ’s bonds
slumped 36 percent while  Spain ’s lost 1.8 percent, the indexes
showed.  ‘Extreme Nervousness’  The average yield on German bonds dropped to 1.43 percent
on May 17, the lowest since at least 1992, according to
Bloomberg and EFFAS indexes. A post-Greek-election poll of 1,253
Bloomberg subscribers found 57 percent expect at least one
country to leave the monetary union this year.  “Demand was strong and this was a very good result for the
safe-haven issuer of bunds,” said Carl Heinz Daube, a managing
director of the Frankfurt-based FFA. “The result gives, at the
same time, a picture of extreme nervousness.”  The sales took place as European leaders prepare to discuss
the region’s debt crisis at a summit today. Deepening concern
Greece will exit the euro has wiped out $4 trillion from equity
markets worldwide this month and pushed average yields on
Spanish debt up 40 basis points.  Greece is in the fifth year of a recession that has been
amplified by austerity measures linked to its international aid,
with the  unemployment rate  reaching 21.7 percent in February. A
caretaker government was sworn in last week to lead the country
to new elections on June 17 after an inconclusive poll propelled
the Syriza party, which wants to annul the bailout, into second
place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  