-- German Business Confidence May Fall on Greek Exit Fears
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/german-business-confidence-may-fall-on-greek-exit-fears.html
German business confidence probably
fell for the first time in seven months in May as speculation
that  Greece  could leave the euro area clouded the economic
outlook.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 109.4 from 109.9 in
April, according to the median forecast of 37 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in
Munich today.  Uncertainty about Greece’s future in the euro region
increased after elections this month failed to produce a
government and saw support grow for parties opposed to austerity
measures. Another ballot will be held on June 17. While the
German economy expanded more than forecast in the first quarter,
helping to keep the euro area as a whole out of recession,
investor confidence plunged in May.  “The game changer has been the open talk about a Greek
exit,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European economist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “I have a hard time
believing that that won’t hurt business and  consumer confidence .
I don’t think anybody believes that  Germany  can decouple from
what’s going on.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may have slipped to
117.1 from 117.5 and an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 102 from 102.7, the survey of economists shows.  Greek Exit  The Bundesbank suggested yesterday that Germany could
handle a Greek exit from the monetary union.  By “threatening not to implement the reform and
consolidation measures it agreed to in return for sizable rescue
programs,” the country is “jeopardizing the continuation of
aid payments,” the Germany’s central bank said in its monthly
report. “Greece would have to bear the consequences of such a
decision. The challenges for the euro area and Germany would be
significant but manageable with the help of cautious  crisis
management .”  Gross domestic product in Germany,  Europe ’s largest
economy, expanded 0.5 percent in the three months through March
after contracting 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.
That offset GDP declines in at least five other countries and
helped to prevent the euro-area economy from shrinking for a
second straight quarter.  Global Demand  The European Commission predicts the 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.3 percent this year before returning to growth in 2013.
It forecasts 0.7 percent expansion in Germany in 2012.  As demand wanes in the euro region, Germany’s biggest
export market, companies are focusing on faster growing Asian
markets to fill order books. First-quarter profits at Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  all beat analyst
estimates. VW’s Audi unit will create 2,000 new jobs in Germany
this year.  Germany’s statistics office said last week that first-
quarter growth was mainly driven by net trade as exports rose,
while domestic consumption also increased. The office will
release a more detailed report at 8 a.m. in Wiesbaden today.  “Germany is suffering from weak demand in the euro region
and benefiting from solid orders from the rest of the world,”
said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Exports will continue to contribute strongly to
German growth but private consumption will also play an
important role.”  While companies from  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  to  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  say they
are profiting from increasing  consumer spending ,  Metro AG (MEO) ,
Germany’s biggest retailer, said yesterday it’s sticking to a
forecast that profit won’t rise this year as households fret
about the outlook.  Consumer confidence dropped for a second month in May even
as unemployment held at the lowest level in two decades and
workers secured pay increases.  “German companies are quite optimistic but there are
limits,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “The debt crisis will damp business confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  