-- German Stocks Fall; Snapping Two-Day Rally; Banks Decline
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-05-23T15:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/german-stocks-fall-before-euro-meeting-banks-sap-drop.html
German stocks fell, snapping a two-
day rally, as concern mounted that  Greece  will leave the euro
area and Japan’s exports grew at a slower pace than estimated.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lenders, both slid 2.8 percent.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  fell 4
percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  slumped after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded
its outlook on the shares to negative from stable.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 2.3 percent to 6,285.75 at the 5:30
p.m. close in  Frankfurt , paring its 2.6 percent over the
previous two days. The broader HDAX Index also decreased 2.3
percent today.  “Banks do not have a positive sentiment because of euro-
zone fears,” said Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt. “Banks are under
pressure because it is unclear what the future will bring in
terms of Greece,  Spain  and  Italy .”  Greece’s former prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , said that
while it’s unlikely the nation will leave the euro, it remains a
risk, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal
yesterday. The leaders of the European Union meet in Brussels
today to discuss the region’s debt crisis that has wiped almost
$4 trillion from equity markets worldwide this month.  Japan ’s exports in April trailed economists’ estimates.
Exports grew 7.9 percent last month from a year earlier. That
fell short of the median estimate for an 11.8 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Bank Losses  Europe ’s banks, sitting on $1.19 trillion of debt to Spain,
 Portugal , Italy and Ireland, face a wave of losses if Greece
abandons the euro.  While lenders have increased capital buffers, written down
Greek bonds and used central-bank loans to help refinance units
in southern Europe, they remain vulnerable to the contagion that
might follow a withdrawal, investors say. After more than two
years of preparation, banks remain at risk of deposit flight and
rising defaults in other indebted euro nations.  Deutsche Bank fell 2.8 percent to 28.84 euros. Commerzbank
also lost 2.8 percent to 1.41 euros.  Deutsche Boerse  dropped 4 percent to 39.32 euros. The
operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange may fall out of the
 Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  next week, said Petra Grafin von Kerssenbrock, a technical analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
London Stock Exchange Group Plc plunged the most in 2 1/2 years
after UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA sold an 11.5 percent
stake in Europe’s oldest independent exchange.  ThyssenKrupp fell 5 percent to 14.64 euros. Fitch reduced
its outlook for Germany’s largest steelmaker to negative from
stable, while affirming its long-term rating at BBB-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  