-- Bund Yields Drop to Records on Crisis Concern Before EU Summit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-23T15:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/german-10-year-bonds-rise-before-eu-leaders-summit-debt-sales.html
Germany ’s  bonds  rose, with five-, 10-
and 30-year yields dropping to records, on speculation European
Union leaders meeting today will fail to agree on new measures
to contain the sovereign debt crisis.  Thirty-year  yields  dropped below 2 percent for the first
time after former Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told the
Wall Street Journal there’s a risk, albeit unlikely, the nation
will leave the euro. Germany got bids for more than its maximum
5 billion-euro ($6.29 billion) target at a note sale as
investors sought the region’s safest assets.  Spain ’s bonds fell
as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he will discuss the lack of
liquidity in trading the securities at today’s summit.  “EU leaders are unlikely to come up with any support
regarding key topics and may disappoint the market, so bunds
should remain on the front foot,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “It was a strong
auction. The retention rate was the lowest for more than three
years,” he said, referring to the amount of debt kept by the
central bank.  Germany’s 10-year yield fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 4:01 p.m. in London after
dropping to 1.376 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1989. The 1.75 percent bond due July 2022
rose 0.8, or 8 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 103.425.  The five-year yield declined seven basis points to 0.44
percent. It reached a record low 0.434 percent. The  30-year rate 
slid as much as 11 basis points to 1.986 percent.  Europe Summit  European Union officials damped expectations for the 27-
nation summit starting at 7 p.m. in Brussels, pointing toward
the next meeting on June 28-29 as the time to take pro-growth
steps. The crisis in the 17 euro countries will come up tonight
only “at the very end,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in
a pre-summit letter.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  will seek a way to resolve the sovereign debt
crisis at today’s meeting, balancing  France ’s desire to
jumpstart growth with Germany’s preference for spending cuts.  Germany, the only country in the euro area with a stable
outlook on its AAA rating, sold 4.56 billion euros of two-year
notes today at a yield of 0.07 percent, an all-time low,
according to Bundesbank data. The securities were the first
auctioned by Germany carrying a zero-percent coupon. The
previous two-year notes auctioned on April 18 had a coupon of
0.25 percent and were sold at a yield of 0.14 percent.  ‘Historically Low’  The sale “reflects the now familiar crisis-induced trend
of investors favoring a return of their money over a return on
their money,”  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note.
“Even at these historically low levels, bund yields have
further room to the downside.”  The German government also sold 1.29 billion euros of
index-linked bonds maturing in April 2023 today, with a so-
called real yield of minus 0.24 percent.  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 13 basis points to 6.21
percent after rising as much as 15 basis points. Italy’s 10-year
bonds snapped a five-day advance, with the yield rising 11 basis
points to 5.69 percent.  Spanish bonds stayed lower after Rajoy said he planned to
raise the lack of liquidity in the country’s bond market during
today’s summit of European leaders. “Liquidity, sustainability
and debt financing are three points that I am going to talk
about,” he said at a press conference in Paris today after
meeting Hollande.  Break-Even Rate  Germany’s  10-year break-even  rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
conventional and index-linked bonds, fell as much as 11 basis
points to 1.41 percentage points, the lowest since Nov. 30.  The bonds of other AAA rated European nations also rallied.
 Finland ’s 10-year yield dropped to a  record  1.7 percent, while
Dutch 10-year yields fell to an all-time low of 1.862 percent.  Volatility on German  government bonds  was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by Finland and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps.  Longer-maturity German bonds outperformed shorter-dated
notes, with the difference in two- and 10-year yields shrinking
to the narrowest in more than seven months.  The  spread  contracted seven basis points to 133 basis
points, the least since Oct. 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on closing prices. The spread is likely to be
capped by its 50-day moving average at 157 basis points, the
data show.  German debt has returned 2.8 percent this year, indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies show, as investors sought a refuge from
 Europe ’s financial woes. Spanish bonds dropped 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  