-- Germany Won’t Bend on Euro Bonds, Deputy Minister Steffen Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-23T12:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/germany-won-t-bend-on-euro-bonds-deputy-minister-steffen-says.html
Germany ’s economy isn’t strong enough
to assume the debts of other countries and  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government won’t bend on its opposition to joint euro-
area bonds, Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen said.  “Euro bonds mean in effect that we would sign up for 100
percent liability for new debt in the euro area,” Steffen said
in Berlin today. “We can’t do this, we’re not strong enough
economically.” As a result, “I just cannot see that this
federal government will relent on euro bonds.”  Merkel, who will attend a dinner of European leaders in
Brussels today, is under pressure from counterparts including
French President  Francois Hollande  to agree to underwrite debt
in the 17-nation euro region. The summit comes a day after the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said the
crisis in  Europe  risks spiraling and seriously damaging the
world economy.  Steffen said that euro bonds should not be confused with
so-called project bonds, which Germany finds acceptable. “They
are completely different and we in Germany will try to re-
channel the interest shown in euro bonds to feasible project
bonds.”  He reiterated that sound budgets are the “right way” in
Europe during the debt crisis and Germany won’t drop its belief
in that approach.  With  Greece ’s anti-bailout Syriza party leading in polls
before a second round of elections on June 17, Steffen said that
Germany “will accept the outcome” of the vote and that
financial markets must do likewise.  “It is a free vote of the Greek people and markets must
accept that,” he said. “Still, while we will adhere to our
pledges to the Greek people by honoring aid arrangements to
2014, we also expect from the Greeks that they will honor their
budget pledges. It shouldn’t be a one-way street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  