-- Glaxo Avoids Market for Lemons by Buying Collaborators
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-24T16:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/glaxo-avoids-market-for-lemons-by-acquiring-its-collaborators.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  may find its next
acquisition target where the U.K. drugmaker found the last two:
among more than a dozen companies it collaborates with to
develop new treatments.  Glaxo has  stakes  in more than 10 publicly-traded companies,
including  DiaDexus Inc. (DDXS) , which develops diagnostics for
detecting heart attack and stroke risk, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The London-based company also has stakes
in an undisclosed number of closely held businesses.  Glaxo this year has agreed to buy the 80 percent share of
Cellzome it didn’t own, made a hostile bid for  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI) , and increased its stake in  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  Glaxo
had existing relationships with all three companies. Boosting
revenue and profit growth by looking to smaller rivals with
promising products or technologies is an industry-wide trend as
large companies face generic competition.  “This is one of the smartest things that can be done with
M&A strategy,” said  Gbola Amusa , a health-care analyst at UBS
AG. “As innovation-based M&A is sometimes a market for lemons,
a buyer is typically at an information disadvantage to a seller.
When there is a collaboration, however, there’s the potential to
have the same information or more than the target.” Amusa said
he sees Glaxo continuing with this strategy.  Acquisition Strategy  Glaxo didn’t already own a stake in Sirtris Pharmaceuticals
Inc. when it acquired the U.S. company for $720 million in 2008.
Two years later, Glaxo stopped development of Sirtris’ leading
drug candidate, designed to mimic the benefits of red wine,
after studies showed minimal efficacy against cancer and some
patients developed kidney damage. Glaxo is conducting trials of
other compounds acquired through Sirtris.  Glaxo shares rose 1.3 percent to 1,409.50 pence in London.
The stock has returned 13 percent in the past year, compared
with a 9.1 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index of 18 companies.  The company said it considers smaller acquisitions that fit
its business and provide an attractive return compared with
share repurchasing or dividends.  “Within R&D we have multiple alliances including equity
holdings with external partners both publicly listed and
privately owned,” Glaxo said in a statement. “Occasionally, we
choose to acquire R&D platform technology companies which
provide significant additional scientific capability for drug
discovery.”  Glaxo’s Stakes  Among companies Glaxo has stakes in are  Anacor
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ANAC) , with which it’s developing an antibiotic
for infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria, and  Octoplus
NV (OCTO) , which offers drug-delivery technologies for biological
compounds. Glaxo in August agreed to buy a 25.4 percent stake in
closely held Autifony Therapeutics Ltd., which is studying
hearing-loss treatments.  Glaxo isn’t the only company to use the strategy of taking
over companies in which it owns a stake.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s purchase
of eye-care company Alcon Inc., completed last year, was carried
out over three stages.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  already owned 56 percent
of Genentech Inc. before it bought out the rest of the company
in 2009.  “The fact that a company has shares does allow them the
flexibility of going out and bidding for the rest of the shares
they don’t hold,” said Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. in London. “Ultimately, what determines whether a
bid transpires is whether the underlying asset is strong or
whether the platform is absolutely necessary to a pharma
company.”  Recent Deals  Last week’s 61 million-pound ($96 million) acquisition of
Cellzome gives Glaxo technologies that will boost its drug-
discovery efforts.  Glaxo agreed last month to pay $212.9 million to boost its
stake in Theravance to almost 27 percent from 18 percent. The
two companies started collaborating a decade ago to develop new
respiratory drugs that will help replace Glaxo’s best-selling
Advair drug, whose U.S. patent expired in 2010.  While Glaxo’s $2.6 billion hostile bid for  Human Genome 
centers around the Benlysta drug for lupus, the two companies
are also developing albiglutide for diabetes and darapladib for
hardening of the arteries. Human Genome’s board last week
rejected the offer as “inadequate” and said it’s in talks with
other potential suitors.  By collaborating with companies such as Human Genome to
develop new products, Glaxo reduces the risk that a rival
drugmaker will make a competing bid, Amusa said. Any other
bidder would only receive half of the revenue from Benlysta
sales that Human Genome receives, according to the company.  “It’s a better strategy to buy when you have the
information as opposed to when you don’t,” Amusa said. “You
also have a better idea of when it’s best to simply walk away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  