-- Goldman Sachs’s Trott Tells Jury Buffett Deal Was Kept Secret
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/goldman-sachs-s-trott-tells-jury-of-secrecy-around-buffett-deal.html
The investment by  Warren Buffett  in
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in September 2008 was so confidential
that even his chief financial officer was unaware of it before
being briefed on the details by a Goldman Sachs executive, a
witness at the Rajat Gupta trial testified.  Byron Trott , who was vice chairman of  investment banking  at
Goldman Sachs and the architect of the $5 billion investment by
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , testified yesterday at
Gupta’s  insider-trading  trial. Prosecutors, who called Trott as
a witness, claim that Gupta, then a Goldman Sachs director,
tipped Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam before the
Buffett deal became public on Sept. 23, 2008.  “It was a major, major event to Goldman Sachs and to the
markets,” Trott told jurors in  Manhattan . “Five billion
dollars was not easily found at that time.”  Prosecutors summoned Trott to tell jurors about the secrecy
surrounding a deal that came soon after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and while the markets were in free-fall.
At the time, Goldman Sachs needed at least $5 billion to
“continue to exist,” he said.  “Our entire foundation was built on confidential
information, and it could never be breached,” said Trott, who
left Goldman Sachs in 2009 after 27 years at the bank. He said
he operated on a “need-to-know basis.”  Trott declined to comment after completing his testimony.  Berkshire CFO  Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994
to 2003, is accused of passing multiple insider tips to
Rajaratnam in a conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January 2009.
Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider
trading. Gupta denies wrongdoing.  Prosecutors say Gupta, 63, leaked inside information to
Rajaratnam about New York-based Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-
based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-
products company. Gupta, who was a director at both companies,
is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud.  Also yesterday, at a hearing outside the jury’s presence,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said that another Goldman
Sachs executive,  David Loeb , was heard on a government wiretap
passing information to Rajaratnam.  Brodsky told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that Loeb
passed tips about  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  The prosecutor made his remarks after defense attorney  Gary
Naftalis  complained to the judge that prosecutors withheld
evidence about Loeb, who hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.
Brodsky denied that allegation.  Intel, Apple  “Mr. Loeb, the evidence will show, provided Intel, and
Apple and Hewlett-Packard information to Mr. Rajaratnam,”
Brodsky said, adding Loeb didn’t have access to or tip
Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs earnings or the Buffett deal.  “There is no evidence, zero, none from the government that
Loeb had access to material nonpublic information about
Goldman’s earnings,” he said. “The defense wants to blow this
up and confuse the jury,” Brodsky said in response to
Naftalis’s comments about Loeb.  Brodsky’s statement is the first time the government has
publicly named Loeb and confirmed that the U.S. has evidence
that he gave information  about Apple, Intel and Hewlett-Packard
to Rajaratnam.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the statements about Loeb.  Before that exchange, Trott became the third witness to
describe events that preceded Galleon’s purchase of 267,000
shares in Goldman Sachs in the minutes before the stock market
closed on Sept. 23, 2008.  Testifying about a “time of turmoil” and “fear” in the
markets, Trott told jurors that he twice reached out to Buffett
to see whether he’d be willing to invest in Goldman Sachs.
Buffett, with whom Trott had a “special relationship,”
rejected a first overture but was receptive to a renewed request
on Sept. 22 of that year, he said.  Seal of Approval  The second proposal had terms closer to Buffett’s liking,
including $5 billion in preferred stock carrying a 10 percent
interest rate and the right to buy common shares of stock in a
new public offering. Buffett also insisted that top Goldman
Sachs executives not sell their own shares.  “Was this discussion confidential?” Brodsky asked.  “Very,” said Trott, who was based out of Chicago and
working out of  New York  at the time. Trott said that winning
Buffett’s investment was “like getting the Good Housekeeping
seal of approval.”  They hammered out the deal in a 20-minute telephone call on
Sept. 23 in which Trott said he wanted Buffett to be the
“cornerstone” of the transaction. After they reached a
tentative agreement, Buffett told Trott not to telephone until
later that afternoon because he had an important appointment.  “He told me he promised his grandkids to take them to
 Dairy Queen , and he was not to be interrupted,” Trott said.  Lloyd Blankfein  Goldman Sachs executives including Chief Executive Officer
 Lloyd Blankfein  and Chief Financial Officer David Viniar signed
off on the deal, and then took it to the full board of directors
at 3:15 p.m. that day, Trott said. The board, including Gupta,
met by telephone, he said.  “The impact on Goldman Sachs was market-moving,” he said.
“The markets were in chaos.”  Trott said he spoke to Buffett after the deal was approved,
and Buffett asked him to brief Berkshire’s CFO, Mark Hamburg,
with the details.  “Warren had alerted him that I’d be calling him about a
deal he’d agreed to,” Trott said, laughing and turning to
explain to the jury. “Mark Hamburg didn’t know the details
until well after the close of the market.”  Rajaratnam, by contrast, knew of the investment before the
market closed, prosecutors allege.  Gupta Wiretap  At the end of the day, jurors in the case heard Gupta’s
voice for the first time when prosecutors played the full
version of a wiretapped call between Rajaratnam and Gupta. An
abbreviated version of the recording had been played at
Rajaratnam’s trial last year.  During the July 29, 2008, call, which lasted more than 23
minutes, Gupta sought career and business advice from
Rajaratnam, including on how he or his firm, New Silk Route
Partners, should deal with “Henry” and “KKR,” an apparent
reference to KKR & Co., the buyout firm co-founded by  Henry
Kravis  and  George Roberts .  Gupta, who had left McKinsey at that time, was then also an
investor with Rajaratnam. In a relaxed conversation between
longtime associates, Gupta offered to work with Rajaratnam in
the future.  “I want you to keep us, to keep having the dialogue as to
what, you know, how I can be helpful in Galleon,” Gupta said on
the wiretapped call.  During the call, Gupta discusses new opportunities.  “The KKR, I would do it in a heartbeat,” Rajaratnam says.
The  fund manager  also said he wanted to build Galleon “into a
10 billion dollar company, hopefully by the end of 2009.”  “Yes,” Gupta said. “Yes you will.”  Trial testimony continues today.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  