-- Golf Membership Fees Signal Drop in Tokyo Land: Chart of the Day
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   M i n h   B u i
-- 2012-05-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/golf-membership-fees-signal-drop-in-tokyo-land-chart-of-the-day.html
A plunge in membership costs at
 Japan ’s three most-expensive golf clubs may portend a further
drop in  Tokyo  land prices this year.  “Commercial real estate and golf memberships are closely
related because both require a lot of land and high corporate
income,” said  Martin Schulz , a senior economist at Fujitsu
Research Institute in Tokyo. “Everybody is hoping that the
Tokyo real estate market will bottom out in 2012. When looking
at the golf memberships, we don’t seem to have reasons to be too
optimistic.”  The CHART OF THE DAY compares an index of commercial land
prices in the Tokyo metropolitan area, compiled by the Japan
Real Estate Institute, with the average membership price among
Japan’s three most-expensive  golf clubs . The average joining
fees at Koganei Country Club, Tokyo Yomiuri Country Club and
Yomiuri Golf Club this year have fallen about 40 percent
compared to the full-year average in 2011, according to prices
compiled by Nikkei Golf Corp., a Tokyo-based broker for
membership trades.  Tokyo’s office vacancy rates increased to a record high of
9.23 percent in April from 9 percent a month earlier, pushing
rents to a record low, according to Miki Shoji Co., a closely
held office brokerage company. The vacancy rate was also 9.23
percent in January. The commercial property index peaked in
early 1991, about a year after average prices for the country
clubs reached a record high of 288 million yen ($3.62 million),
the data show.  Golf-membership prices soared in Japan during the 1980s
bubble economy, then slumped as the country suffered through
series of recessions the past two decades. At least 800 golf
clubs went bankrupt since 1991, according to  Meiji Golf , a
Tokyo-based broker. Some of the most expensive clubs in Japan
don’t allow memberships for women or foreigners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  