-- Goodwin, Gibson Dunn, Baker & McKenzie, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/goodwin-gibson-dunn-baker-mckenzie-dewey-business-of-law.html
Goodwin Procter LLP added Thomas A. Beaudoin to the firm’s business law department in its Boston
office.  Previously, he was at WilmerHale, where he was a partner
and chairman of the fund formation practice group, Goodwin said.
At Goodwin, he will be a member of the private investment funds
practice, working with venture capital funds, private equity
funds and institutional investors across the U.S., Europe and
 Israel .  Goodwin Procter has offices in Boston, Hong Kong,  London ,
Los Angeles,  New York ,  Washington , San Diego, San Francisco and
 California ’s Silicon Valley.  Former U.S. Attorney Joins Gibson Dunn’s New York Office  Avi Weitzman, a former assistant U.S. attorney who helped
convict Galleon Group LLC founder Raj Rajaratnam of  insider
trading , joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s New York office as
of counsel.  Weitzman was a member of the securities and commodities
fraud unit at the U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan .  In addition to his work on Rajaratnam, who was sentenced to
11 years in prison, the longest ever for insider trading,
Weitzman was part of a team of prosecutors on “Operation
 Perfect Hedge ,” which resulted in the conviction of almost 60
individuals for insider trading offenses.  Weitzman also was a senior member of the Organized Crime
Unit, where he led racketeering investigations and prosecutions
involving international organized crime, the firm said.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers and 17 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and  South America .  Baker & McKenzie Adds Compensation and Benefits Tax Attorney  Anne G. Batter rejoined Baker & McKenzie LLP as a partner
in the firm’s Washington tax practice.  Most recently, she was the vice chairman of Miller &
Chevalier’s employee benefits practice, the firm said. She was
with Baker & McKenzie from 2000 to 2008.  Batter has experience in planning  executive compensation 
and benefits arrangements, assisting clients in executing their
plans, and defending clients before the  Internal Revenue Service 
and in court. She also handles excise tax matters, particularly
involving the air transportation excise tax.  Baker & McKenzie’s global tax group has a worldwide team of
more than 750 tax practitioners, economists and financial
analysts in 41 countries. The firm has more than 3,800 locally
qualified lawyers and more than 5,800 professional staff in 69
offices in 42 countries.  White-Collar Partner Joins Davis Wright From DLA Piper  Jeffrey B. Coopersmith, a former white-collar partner at
DLA Piper LLP, joined Davis Wright Tremaine LLP as a partner. He
will practice out of the firm’s Seattle and  San Francisco 
offices.  Earlier in his career, Coopersmith served eight years as an
assistant U.S. attorney for the Western District of Washington,
where he coordinated corporate and securities fraud
investigations and prosecutions.  Among his recent clients was the former chief financial
officer of Countrywide Financial Corp., whom Coopersmith
successfully represented in Securities and Exchange Commission
litigation, the firm said.  Davis Wright has nine offices and about 500 lawyers in the
U.S. and  Shanghai .  O’Melveny Shanghai Partner Moves to Paul Hastings  Paul Hastings LLP hired Sean Tai as a partner in the
Shanghai corporate department. He was previously with O’Melveny
& Myers LLP.  Tai has experience in cross-border mergers and
acquisitions, private equity investments, real estate
investments and related financings in  China , Paul Hastings said
in a statement. He also has dealt with debt financings,
corporate governance and securities law compliance.  His clients have included Apollo Global Management LLC,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Tishman Speyer Properties LP, the
firm said.  Paul Hastings has more than 1,000 lawyers with 19 offices
in Asia, Europe and the U.S.  Latham Leveraged Finance Lawyer Rosen Leaves for Manatt  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP said Dayan R. Rosen joined
the firm’s  Los Angeles  office as a partner in the leveraged
finance practice. He was previously counsel at Latham & Watkins
LLP in Los Angeles.  Rosen has experience representing financial institutions in
leveraged finance and banking transactions, including
acquisition financings, international financings, dividend
recapitalizations, refinancings and asset-based lending. He also
represents private equity firms and companies.  He has worked with Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the firm said in a statement.  Manatt has eight offices in California, New York and
Washington.  Dewey & LeBoeuf Moves  Dewey Partners Move to Washington, New York, Boston, London  Since the beginning of the week, at least 11 law firms have
announced the addition of 23 lawyers from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP as
partners. Yesterday, six firms said 14 lawyers from Dewey joined
as partners.  More than 246 of Dewey’s 300 partners have left this year
as the firm struggled to avoid collapse. A team of 16 lawyers
went to Duane Morris LLP, the firm announced, with experience in
corporate, insurance regulatory, energy, trial, antitrust,
mergers and acquisitions, private equity, tax and employee
benefits. Nine joined as partners in the New York,  Boston  and
Washington offices.  The new lawyers were led to Duane Morris by Elizabeth W. Powers, who was on Dewey’s executive committee, and Alice T. Kane, former general counsel at New York Life Insurance Co.and
interim global general counsel of Zurich Financial Services
Ltd., Duane Morris said in a statement.  Cameron F. MacRae III, previously vice chairman and
chairman of the corporate department of Dewey’s predecessor
firm, LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, is among the new lawyers
at Duane Morris.  In addition to the nine partners, three of the new lawyers
joined as counsel and four as associates, Duane Morris said. In
New York, the new partners are Kane, MacRae, Powers, Hugh T. McCormick, K. Oliver Rust and Mitchel C. Pahl.  The Washington partners are litigators Jocelyn C. Bramble
and Mark A. Walsh. Thomas H. Redekopp, who focuses on corporate
finance transactions and mergers and acquisitions, joined the
firm in Boston.  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP said it added Harry
Clark and a senior associate to its corporate practice in
Washington. Clark was formerly co-head of Dewey’s international
trade practice group.  Margaret A. Keane, a former litigation partner and co-
chairman of Dewey’s global employment dispute resolution
practice, joined Littler Mendelson PC as a shareholder in its
San Francisco office, according to the firm.  Former Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Alan Wolff and another lawyer joined the international practice of
McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP in Washington, the firm said. Wolff
was previously the co-chairman of the international trade
practice at Dewey.  WilmerHale hired Robert Finkel, who joins the firm’s New
York office as a partner in the corporate group. Finkel has
represented international corporations and financial
institutions in complex commercial transactions with a focus on
technology and outsourcing.  In London, two Dewey partners found new homes. Sarah Linton
joined Locke Lord LLP’s London office as a partner in the labor
and employment practice. She previously headed Dewey’s U.K.
compensation, benefits and employment practice.  Dan Coppel joined Jones Day’s London office as a partner in
the mergers and acquisitions practice, the firm said. Coppel
advises both investment banks and corporations.  Firm News  Munger Tolles Partner Watford Confirmed for Ninth Circuit  Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP litigation partner Paul Watford
was confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  for a seat on the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit, The Recorder newspaper  reported .  Republican lawmakers threatened to filibuster Watford’s
nomination, delaying the vote. Nine Republicans joined Democrats
to confirm the seat 61-34, after an outpouring of support, The
Recorder said.  Watford’s nomination was supported by 32 lawyers who served
with him as clerks at the U.S. Supreme Court, where he clerked
for Justice Ruth Ginsberg from 1995 to 1996. Another 40 more
lawyers who clerked with him at the Ninth Circuit the year
before, when he clerked for Judge Alex Kozinski, also wrote
letters of support, The Recorder said. The general counsels of
Google Inc., Mattel Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. also
sent letters of support, The Recorder said.  Watford’s practice focuses primarily on appellate
litigation in state and federal courts. Earlier in his career,
he worked as an assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, where he
was a member of the major frauds section in the Criminal
Division. From 2005 to 2008, he served as co-chairman of the
American Bar Association’s appellate practice committee.  Steptoe Expands International Arbitration Practice in London  Patrick Norton was named co-chairman of Steptoe & Johnson
LLP’s international arbitration group and has relocated to the
firm’s London office. In London, Norton will be responsible for
expanding the firm’s international arbitration practice in the
U.K. and Europe, Steptoe said in a statement.  Norton has almost 40 years’ experience in international
arbitration and has served as lead counsel in more than 100
international arbitrations involving Asia, Europe and the  Middle
East , according to Steptoe.  Norton also has a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-
corruption practice. He has counseled companies on FCPA
compliance since the legislation was enacted in the late 1970s.  Norton lived and practiced law in China from 1999 to 2005,
and much of his recent arbitration and FCPA practice has
involved China or other countries in Asia. He speaks Mandarin
and reads written Chinese.  Steptoe has more than 500 lawyers and other professionals
in offices in Beijing, Brussels,  Chicago , London, Los Angeles,
New York, Phoenix and Washington.  Deals  Alibaba Buys Back $7.1 Billion Stake From Yahoo as IPO Looms  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce
provider, agreed to repurchase about a 20 percent stake in
itself from U.S. web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  for about $7.1 billion
ahead of a potential initial public offering.  Yahoo will receive at least $6.3 billion in cash and as
much as $800 million in newly issued Alibaba preferred stock,
the companies said in a statement May 20. At the time of an IPO,
Alibaba will be required to either buy back a quarter of Yahoo’s
current stake or let Yahoo sell the shares. The deal values
Alibaba at about $35 billion.  Alibaba was represented by Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz,
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Fenwick & West LLP.
Credit Suisse Group AG was Alibaba’s financial adviser.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP and Munger Tolles & Olson LLP gave Yahoo legal
advice. UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Allen & Co. gave
Yahoo financial advice on the transaction.  Wachtell partners advising Alibaba included on corporate,
Mark Gordon; on tax, Eiko Stange; and on restructuring and
finance, Eric Rosof.  David Hayes, chairman of Fenwick’s intellectual property
group, advised Alibaba on IP issues for the Yahoo transaction.  Freshfields partners are China Chairman Teresa Ko, with
Asia head of finance David Winfield providing finance advice.
Ken Martin, head of the China corporate practice, provided
securities advice.  Skadden represented Yahoo with a team of merger and
acquisition partners in Palo Alto, Los Angeles and  Hong Kong . In
Palo Alto, Leif King and Kenton King were on the firm’s team
along with Ed Lam in Hong Kong and Gregg Noel and Jonathan Ko in
Los Angeles. Tax partners Matthew Rosen in New York and  Eric Sensenbrenner in Washington were also on the team.  Weil lawyers Karen Ballack and Kwang-chien Ger worked on
the deal. Weil was brought in to handle all intellectual
property and technology aspects of the transaction for Yahoo.  Munger Tolles partners who also worked on the Yahoo! deal
include Ronald L. Olson and Robert B. Knauss.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  