-- Google Gets New Privacy Questions After ‘Vague’ Responses
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-23T17:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/google-asked-additional-questions-by-france-s-cnil-correct-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has two weeks to answer
more questions on its privacy policy after providing  France ’s
data-protection authority with “often incomplete” responses.  Google met today with the National Commission for Computing
and Civil Liberties, known by its French acronym as CNIL, to
discuss the regulator’s review of changes to the company’s
privacy policy and its answers to 69 questions sent in March.  CNIL “regrets that the answers are often incomplete,” the
regulator said in a  statement  today. CNIL finds it
“impossible” to know how Google processes personal data and
links information, or whether it adequately informs users about
how data is handled.  CNIL is acting on behalf of the Article 29 Working Party, a
group of European privacy regulators, who sought the review
after Google announced changes to its privacy rules without
allowing all of them time to review it or offer feedback,
according to the Paris-based agency. The  Mountain View ,
California-based company defied two CNIL requests to halt
changes while it determined whether  Europe ’s standards were met.
Google implemented the policy overhaul as planned on March 1.  “We have received the CNIL’s follow-up questions, and we
are reviewing them,” Google’s Global Privacy Counsel  Peter Fleischer  said in an e-mail. “We are confident that our privacy
notices respect the requirements of European data-protection
laws.”  ‘Inaccurate’ Versus ‘Vague’  CNIL’s English-language statement described the answers as
“inaccurate,” while Google said the French word should have
been translated as “vague.” In a letter to Google Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page  about the additional questions,
Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, head of CNIL, only references a need
for “more precise and comprehensive” responses.  Google was fined $25,000 by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  for impeding an investigation of improper data
gathering by its Street View cars. The company is also
negotiating with the Federal Trade Commission over a fine for
its breach of Apple Inc.’s Safari Internet browser when it
planted so-called cookies on Safari that bypass Apple’s privacy
settings, a person familiar with the matter said this month.  CNIL asked for  clarifications  to about 30 of Google’s
responses. The regulator asked whether Google can measure how
effective its campaign to inform users of the change to the
policy was, saying “given Google’s extensive development and
use of analytic tools,” CNIL is “surprised” it couldn’t
provide information on page views and how many users it has.  CNIL also asked for explanations on why biometric data
isn’t mentioned, how credit card data might be used, where and
how data is stored, and what privacy settings might bar Google
from using photos or other content marked as “private.”  Responses are due by June 8, the regulator said.  Once CNIL receives the answers, it will present a report to
fellow regulators by mid-July and recommend “potential
improvements” Google should implement to comply with European
Union data-protection rules, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  