-- Gulf’s $46 Billion Ports Bring Capacity Seeking Market: Freight
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-05-23T23:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/gulf-s-46-billion-ports-bring-capacity-seeking-market-freight.html
Persian Gulf states  risk creating a
glut in container capacity as they spend $46 billion on port
projects amid sputtering global economic growth.  More than 35 ports stretching from Kuwait at the head of
the Gulf to Oman on the Indian Ocean plan to add space for as
many as 60 million standard containers in little over a decade,
more than doubling capacity from the current 50 million boxes.  The plans will extend an oil-funded infrastructure splurge
that’s also set to endow the Gulf with some of the world’s
biggest airports. Unlike those hubs, which will serve a global
market, its ports rely on a local population of 40 million
people and lack the urbanized hinterland that helps sustain
major global harbors such as Rotterdam and  Hong Kong .  “You have a fragmented group of nations each seeking to
establish a large-scale port, and the danger is that there’s no
overall coordination,” said Neil Davidson, senior adviser on
ports at Drewry Shipping Consultants. “The key question is how
robust demand will be over the next 10 years, and that really
depends on oil revenue and the spending power it brings.”  Gulf ports are expanding even as shipping lines rein in
supply after a glut of vessels led to a price war, causing
losses of at least $6 billion. Capacity cuts prompted rates on
Asia-Europe routes to more than double to $2,732 per 40-foot
container in the week to March 1, according to Drewry estimates.  Close Competitor  Abu Dhabi  is leading the charge with its new Khalifa port,
scheduled to open in the fourth quarter with capacity for 2
million containers, increasing to 15 million by 2030.  Yet the complex, built on a man-made island and with an
industrial zone two-thirds the size of  Singapore , is situated
just 25 miles south of Dubai’s  Jebel Ali , the world’s ninth-
biggest container port and the busiest outside East  Asia .  Further west, Qatar, the top exporter of liquefied natural
gas, is spending 19 billion riyals ($5.2 billion) on a port with
a planned volume of 6 million containers, due to open in 2016.
Little over 100 miles away in Bahrain, Khalifa Bin Salman Port,
run by Denmark’s A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S, could double capacity
to 4 million boxes in two or three years, said Hassan Almajed,
director of the country’s General Organisation of Sea Ports.  Abu Dhabi, holder of 7 percent of known oil reserves, will
spend $7.2 billion on the first phase of Khalifa, which it says
will focus on terminating cargo, reducing any overlap with Jebel
Ali, where goods are trans-shipped from one vessel to another.  ‘Complementary’  Mohammed Sharaf, CEO of  DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s No. 3
container-terminal company and the operator of Jebel Ali, says
there’s room for both ports, even as his company boosts capacity
at the Dubai site 36 percent to 19 million boxes by 2014.  “If anything, we’d like to see infrastructure built more
quickly,” Sharaf said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News. “We see the development in Abu Dhabi as
complementary to what we’re doing. Shipping lines are ordering
bigger and bigger vessels to achieve economies of scale and
ports need to meet those new needs and meet them efficiently.”  Abu Dhabi Ports Co. Chief Executive Officer Tony Douglas
concurs, suggesting the Gulf’s economies and populations will
grow quickly enough to sustain the expansion of its ports.  “At the moment there isn’t enough capacity in the
region,” he said in an interview. “Unless economies in the
region slow down, it’s unlikely there will be overcapacity.”  Colonial Inheritance  The expansion of ports is also being driven by the Asian
boom, said  Nasser Saidi , chief economist at Dubai International
Financial Centre, with India accounting for 11 percent of Gulf
trade in 2010, versus 2 percent in 2001, and China 10 percent,
up from 4 percent, according  Qatar National Bank (QNBK)  figures.  “Much of our infrastructure is based on what the old
colonial powers wanted when the idea was ‘we sell you goods, you
sell us oil,”’ Saidi said. “Today’s world has changed and we
need to think of where we stand in the global supply chain.”  Still, the  International Monetary Fund  says GDP growth in
Gulf Co-Operation Council countries will slow from 5.3 percent
this year to 3.7 percent in 2013, and that “even with high  oil
prices , fiscal sustainability is an immediate issue,” with
“tighter and higher-quality government expenditure” warranted.  While population growth and higher  living standards  should
spur imports of everything from foodstuffs to luxuries, Gulf
nations will remain “pretty small,” and “even if they become
more prosperous, that alone does not create a very compelling
case for trade,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based The National Commercial Bank.  Iran, Africa  Plans among GCC nations  Saudi Arabia , the U.A.E., Qatar,
Oman, Bahrain and Kuwait to end their reliance on petrochemicals
may soak up extra container capacity. Abu Dhabi aims to derive
only 40 percent of GDP from oil by 2030 compared with 60 percent
today, and Khalifa will be surrounded in by enterprises
including the Gulf’s largest smelter, spurring box traffic.  Arabian ports are also positioning to tap future demand
from neighboring areas with underdeveloped infrastructure, such
as  Iran ,  Iraq ,  Pakistan ,  Afghanistan  and East Africa.  While Oman has a short stretch of Gulf coast, it’s focusing
expansion 650 miles to the south, where the port of Salalah will
lift capacity by 50 percent to 9 million boxes as early as 2016
if demand continues at the current rate, according to CEO Peter Ford. The facility, part-owned by A.P. Moller-Maersk, expects to
handle 4 million boxes this year, a 23 percent gain on 2011.  “We’re ideally positioned to connect East African, Indian,
Red Sea and Gulf markets with Europe and Asia,” Ford said in an
interview. “But I do see developments where it’ll be difficult
to fill the capacity. That’s a great risk for those countries.”  At the other end of the Gulf,  Kuwait  aims to build a port
able to handle 1.33 million containers a year which could later
tap a hinterland spanning  Syria  to Iran, though the plan has led
to tensions with Iraq, which wants to develop its own facility.  Overall, though, there’s too much capacity, said maritime
consultant Juergen Sorgenfrei of IHS Global Insight, so much so
that the Gulf risks repeating errors made in the Mediterranean
20 years ago, when ports such as Gioia Tauro in  Italy  mushroomed
without ever becoming major centers for trans-shipment.  “Today it’s nothing, and we’re going to see the same thing
in Arab states if they create overcapacity,” Sorgenfrei said.
“There will be winners and losers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  