-- Goldman’s David Loeb Passed Tip to Rajaratnam, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-23T20:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/gupta-lawyer-says-david-loeb-on-tape-passes-tip-to-rajaratnam.html
David Loeb ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s head of Asia equity sales in New York, passed information
to Raj Rajaratnam about  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co., Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said.  Brodsky made his remarks today to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan after  Gary Naftalis , an attorney for Rajat Gupta, complained that prosecutors withheld evidence about
Loeb. Prosecutors denied that allegation.  Gupta, an ex-Goldman Sachs director who ran the consulting
firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on trial for passing
multiple insider tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam
in a conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January 2009.  “Mr. Loeb, the evidence will show, provided Intel, and
Apple and Hewlett-Packard information to Mr. Rajaratnam,”
Brodsky said at a hearing outside the jury’s presence. Brodsky
said the tips allegedly passed by Loeb were different from those
Gupta is accused of leaking.  The defense “wants to blow this up and confuse the jury,”
Brodsky said at the hearing.  It’s the first time the government has publicly named Loeb
and confirmed that the U.S. has evidence that he gave
information about Apple, Intel and Hewlett-Packard to
Rajaratnam.  Loeb hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing. Gupta denies
wrongdoing.  Other Tippers  Naftalis told Rakoff that Loeb is heard on a U.S. wiretap
passing information.  “He’s on a tape giving out information” about those
companies, Naftalis said to the judge.  Naftalis said that prosecutors withheld exculpatory
evidence he said could help his client. He said that Gupta did
nothing wrong and told jurors that Rajaratnam had tippers “all
over town” in his opening arguments May 21, including those at
Goldman Sachs who weren’t his client.  Rakoff ruled that prosecutors hadn’t violated any rules
regarding evidence in their handling of Loeb. The judge said
Gupta’s lawyers had learned about Loeb’s actions as a result of
disclosures the government made to them.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence for
insider trading.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment about the prosecutor’s and defense lawyer’s s statement
about Loeb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 