-- Iceland Takes On Fishing Industry in Push for Economic Control
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-05-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/iceland-takes-on-fishing-industry-in-push-for-economic-control.html
Iceland is heading for a showdown
with its fishermen as the government claws back control over its
economy following its financial collapse in 2008.  Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir, a flight attendant
turned union organizer, is seeking to raise fees for the right
to fish off the north Atlantic island and also to limit the
ability to rent or sell fishing quotas in a revamp of the
nation’s 1984 fishing law.  The government is fighting for control over an industry
that accounts for about 25 percent of gross domestic product
after the island’s push into high-finance ended in an economic
collapse in 2008. The island, which was bailed out by the
 International Monetary Fund  and its Nordic neighbors after the
collapse of its three largest banks, has since tried to return
to motors of growth such as tourism, energy and fishing.  The idea is to “once and for all clarify that the natural
resources in the water surrounding the island are the communal
property of the Icelandic people,” Steingrimur J. Sigfusson,
the fisheries and economy minister, said by phone. The plan will
ensure that “quotas are utilization rights which the fishing
industry pays for, but not anyone’s private property.”  The two bills, in the works since the Social Democratic-led
government took power in 2009, were introduced to parliament in
March and are now being discussed in committees.  The industry says the changes will hamper the recovery and
drive many companies in the nation’s fishing fleet out business.
Fridrik J. Arngrimsson, chief executive officer of the
Federation of Icelandic Fishing Vessel Owners, said the proposal
would eat up 70 percent of the industry’s estimated profit.  Exorbitant Levies  “If the government’s ideas materialize most of the
island’s fishing companies will go bankrupt,” Arngrimsson said
by phone. “The ideas on the charges that should be levied on
the industry are exorbitant.”  The fishing industry is governed by a quota system which
sets catch levels annually based on historical catches in the
years before the regime was established in 1984. There’s also an
annual allowable quota for each type of fish, which is set by
multiplying the total annual haul of the year and each vessel’s
quota share. Companies pay a fee of 13.3 percent of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of
catching operations. Under the current system, fishing companies
are also allowed to rent out or sell quotas.  Political Interference  “We oppose these bills because they will increase
political interference in the fishing sector by imposing rules
that will result in a large share of the fishing quotas being
controlled by politicians,” said Arngrimsson. “This will
fundamentally change the current system and risk reducing the
sectors’ chances of continuing to contribute healthily to the
gross domestic output.”  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month IMF program in August. The Washington-based
fund expects Iceland’s economy to expand 2.4 percent this year
and 2.6 percent next year. That compares with a 0.3 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro area, the European Commission
said May 11.  HB Grandi hf had 11.78 percent of the island’s total
quotas, followed by  Samherji hf  at 7.17 percent and Isfelag
Vestmannaeyja hf at 5.78%, according to the Directorate of
Fisheries. None of the companies is listed.  Thorsteinn Mar Baldvinsson, CEO and one of the largest
shareholders of Samherji, was also the chairman of lender
Glitnir Bank hf when it failed in 2008.  HB Grandi, which lists a fleet of 12 vessels, saw its
profit rise more than fourfold last year to 37 million euros.
The country’s fishing companies benefited as the weakening krona
boosted exports.  Debt Sinks  Over the past 30 years, the industry has directly accounted
for about 12 percent of the GDP and for 24.4 percent when supply
and service areas are included, according to a 2011 report by
Arion Bank hf. The fishing and supporting industries also
account for 15 percent of all jobs on the island. Between 80
percent and 90 percent of all those jobs are in towns and areas
outside the Reykjavik metropolitan area.  The 18 largest fishing companies hold 72 percent of the
allowed catch each year. According to Statistics Iceland, the
catch value from Icelandic ships in 2011 was 153 billion kronur,
up 15.3 percent from the previous year. Exports of marine
products rose to 252 billion kronur last year, or 40.7 percent
exports, from 220.4 billion kronur in 2010.  Fishing companies reached peak indebtedness in 2008 of 13
times their earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, up from five times Ebitda in 2001. By the end of
2009, that had dropped to nine times Ebitda, according to Arion.  The industry is equipped to handle the clampdown and some
of the profit should be “returned to the owners of this natural
resource: the people of Iceland,” Sigfusson said. “It goes
without saying that the government doesn’t want to jeopardize
the market conditions of the fishing sector, which is one of the
foundations of the country’s economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  