-- Microsoft Awaits June Result of $1.14 Billion EU Fine Challenge
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-23T10:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/microsoft-awaits-june-result-of-1-14-billion-eu-fine-challenge.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will next month hear
the result of its European Union court challenge over an 899
million-euro ($1.14 billion) penalty for failing to comply
with an antitrust decision.  The EU’s General Court will rule June 27 on Microsoft’s
appeal of fines for breaching an earlier order by overcharging
rivals for licenses they needed to connect products to Windows
computers, according to a filing on the court’s website today.  Microsoft is the only company in more than 50 years of EU
competition policy to be penalized for failing to comply with an
order. The case is the last remnant of years of disputes with
the European Commission that resulted in fines totaling 1.68
billion euros. Microsoft agreed in 2009 to settle an antitrust
clash over Internet browsers in a bid to repair the company’s
uneasy relationship with the EU regulator.  The commission, the EU’s antitrust authority, imposed the
fine as a so-called  periodic penalty  payment on Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft for failing to comply with a 2004
antitrust order. Under the initial decision, Microsoft was
fined 497 million euros and ordered to provide data to
competitors to allow servers to connect to computers using its
 Windows operating system .  The world’s largest software company told judges at an
appeal hearing last year that the 2008 fine was “especially
unfair” because the regulator failed to give it sufficient
guidance to avoid the fine. The court should annul the
“unnecessary, unlawful and totally disproportionate penalty,”
Jean-Francois Bellis, a Microsoft lawyer, told the court.  Robin Koch, a spokesman for Microsoft in Brussels, today
declined to comment before the ruling.  The court’s ruling can be appealed to the EU’s highest
tribunal, the  European Court  of Justice.  The case is T-167/08, Microsoft v. European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 