-- Milan Swaps Breached Rules, Judge-Appointed Expert Witness Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-05-23T16:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/milan-swaps-breached-rules-judge-appointed-expert-witness-says.html
Swaps used by the city of Milan may
have breached rules on how municipalities may use derivatives to
manage their debt, partly because they were used to raise funds,
a judge-appointed witness said during a trial of the banks that
arranged the trades.  Francesco Corielli, a finance professor at Milan’s  Bocconi
University , said he applied a “financial” reading of Italian
laws and decrees to find the swaps breached regulations, since
he’s not a lawyer. He was responding to questions from a defense
lawyer in a Milan courtroom today. “I had to think about it
hard,” Corielli said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JMP) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Depfa
Bank Plc, the four banks that arranged the swaps, are accused of
misleading Milan and earning 101 million euros ($128 million) in
hidden fees from the deals. The companies, which have denied the
charges, in March settled with the city government and agreed to
unwind its  interest-rate swaps , which adjusted payments on 1.7
billion euros ($2.2 billion) of bonds sold in 2005.  The swaps were “very distant” from being hedges on the
municipality’s interest-rate risk after they were restructured
multiple times, Corielli wrote in a report filed to the court
earlier this month. The city used swaps in part to fund
expenses, which may have breached rules governing such
contracts, he wrote.  Default Risk  Municipalities were prohibited from raising funds by
selling options, and could use swaps only to contain the cost of
their debt, said Corielli. Milan used derivatives with the four
banks in part to help pay for closing an existing swap with
another lender that was losing money for the city, according to
Corielli.  In addition to the banks’ fees on the swaps, which Corielli
estimates at about 30 million euros for the first transaction in
2005, the city assumed the risk that the banks might default,
Corielli wrote. That so-called credit risk should have been
accounted for as an additional 18.1 million-euro cost incurred
by the city, he said.  Milan should have sought offers for alternative financing
packages, Corielli wrote, and an accurate valuation of any bid
would have required detailed costs of each transaction, he said.  The trial continues on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  