-- Unwanted Cable Channels Bloat Customer Bills, CEO Says
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-23T20:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/time-warner-cable-ceo-calls-for-fewer-channels-in-pay-tv-bundles.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Chief
Executive Officer Glenn Britt says not everything on cable is
worth watching.  “There are too many networks,” Britt said in an interview
at the National Cable & Telecommunications Association annual
cable show in  Boston .  For years, U.S. cable carriers have provided TV in large
chunks, pushing up the average monthly price to about $80 as
even the cheapest packages have ballooned to include hundreds of
channels. The increase in the number of little-watched channels,
which content providers often sell to cable companies only in
bundles with more popular networks, is causing cable bills to
rise without any customer benefit, Britt said.  “There are a lot of general-interest networks that have
lower viewership, and the industry would take cost out of the
system if they shut those networks down and offered lower prices
to consumers,” he said. “The companies involved would make
just as much money as they do now because of the costs.”  Content providers, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ,
 Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  and AMC Networks Inc., structure
deals with cable carriers that bundle many of their networks
together. To get AMC, with popular shows such as “Mad Men” and
“The Walking Dead,” pay-TV companies also need to buy  AMC
Networks (AMCX) ’ IFC, Sundance Channel and WE tv.  That structure allows the content providers to boost the
number of households that receive the less-watched channels --on
which the networks then sell advertising and receive carriage
fees from pay-TV operators. Many customers wouldn’t subscribe to
those less-popular networks if they were able to pay separately
for each channel.  Increasing ‘Diversity’  Britt says the only way networks will be eliminated is if a
“courageous” media CEO agreed to offer popular networks to
cable providers without forcing them to pay for other channels
that aren’t as highly watched. Britt didn’t name the networks he
said should be shut down and said some stations with lower
viewership are beneficial if they attract a loyal following.  Josh Sapan, CEO of AMC Networks, said he doesn’t believe
there are too many networks because they enhance the diversity
of thought and ideas.  “The growth of the cable TV industry has gone hand in hand
with the diversity of networks out there,” Sapan said in an
interview. “Certain networks that may have been thought to be
niche have, over time, proven to be potent and popular.”  It’s important to give networks the time to evolve, said
Sapan, citing AMC’s progression from airing old movies to
featuring Emmy-award-winning dramas such as “Mad Men” and
“Breaking Bad.”  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable provider,
 fell  0.6 percent to $75.74 at the close in New York.  ‘Bloated’  Coleman Breland, the chief operating officer of  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Network Sales, agreed with Britt and said networks
like his own should begin to rethink the issue. Time Warner
Cable was spun off from Time Warner in 2009.  “The elevator’s full, there’s no more room,” Breland
said. “It’s something content providers have to deal with. The
system is bloated.”  Basic cable customers must navigate through hundreds of
channels even if they watch only 10 or 15, a problem American
Cable Association president Matthew Polka says he’s been
fighting for years.  “It used to be that programmers sold on the merits of the
substance of their channels,” Polka said. “Now that so many
programmers are large conglomerates, customers lose choice.”  Usage-Based Pricing  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, is working on an
improved user interface with better search functionality to help
customers navigate through programs, Britt said. The new guide
may be available by the end of the year, he said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable provider, will
introduce a Web-connected TV guide May 30 in Boston and make it
available in hundreds of thousands of households this year.  Another way to lower customers’ bills is to offer usage-
based pricing for services such as  Internet access , Britt said.
The company is already letting light Internet users in southern
Texas pay for broadband by the amount they consume. Customers
that use less than 5 gigabytes a month -- the equivalent of
streaming two high-definition full-length movies -- save $5 on
their bill by opting out of an unlimited plan.  Time Warner Cable may eventually offer many pricing tiers,
on the basis of the amount of data consumed, though an unlimited
option will also remain an option for consumers, Britt said.
 Julius Genachowski , chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, yesterday reiterated his support for usage-based
pricing.  Britt also said Time Warner Cable may make another
acquisition in the managed Internet-services business to enhance
its business-services division. The company purchased NaviSite
Inc. last year to help support e-mail, data security and storage
capability for business customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  