-- Independence Bets on Gold for Profit as Nickel Prices Tumble
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-05-24T08:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/independence-bets-on-gold-for-profit-as-nickel-prices-tumble.html
Independence Group NL (IGO) , an Australian
nickel producer, is seeking gold assets to turn profitable and
generate more than half its earnings in 2014 after nickel prices
fell to the lowest in almost six months.  A 30 percent stake in  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s Tropicana
gold mine in Western Australia will probably generate earnings
before interest, depreciation and amortization of as much as
A$140 million ($137 million) in the first full year of
production after the mine starts in October next year, Managing
Director Chris Bonwick said. Nickel and other base metals may
fetch A$80 million, he said.  “We’d like some more gold in our portfolio,” Bonwick said
in the May 22 phone interview from Perth, where Independence is
based. “Having diverse commodities when prices of base metals
are weak and gold is really good gives diversity of  cash flow .”  Independence is joining  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
fourth-largest nickel producer, and other miners shifting focus
from nickel after prices of the metal used to harden steel fell
and costs rose. Gold, up almost 5 percent in the past year, has
“a long way to go” with central banks buying bullion as a
store of value, Bonwick said.  Shares of Independence  fell 3.7 percent to A$3.37 at the
close in Sydney, compared with a 0.3 percent decline in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. The stock has tumbled 42 percent in
the past year.  Falling Nickel  Nickel prices declined 26 percent in the past year to
$16,848 a metric ton, or $7.6 a pound, on the London Metal
Exchange as of 5:42 p.m. local time in Melbourne, reflecting
lower demand in Europe and  China . Nickel may not rebound
substantially from current levels with additional capacity
flooding the market, and prices will probably hover between $8
and $10 a pound this year, Bonwick said.  The company will spend A$230 million to build Tropicana, in
which  AngloGold Ashanti  owns the remaining 70 percent stake. The
mine is estimated to produce 470,000 ounces to 490,000 ounces of
gold annually in its first three years.  The Ebitda estimates for the calendar year 2014 are
Independence’s internal targets and are dependent on changes in
metal prices and exchange rates, Bonwick added. The company,
which follows a financial year of July to June, is also looking
to acquire assets in  Argentina , where it owns a stake in a
company searching for  gold mines , Bonwick said.  Net Loss Reported  Independence reported a net loss of A$144.6 million in the
six months ended Dec. 31, compared with a A$22.6 million profit
a year earlier.  Gold will probably climb to $1,840 an ounce in the next six
months as the U.S. central bank embarks on a third round of
stimulus in June, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a May 10
report. Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.4 percent to
$1,555.85 as of 5:42 p.m. in Melbourne.  Independence’s Long nickel mine in  Western Australia 
accounts for about two-thirds of its annual revenue, Bonwick
said. Long has about five years of production remaining and
while efforts are on to extend the life of the mine, the company
doesn’t expect output for “many years into the future,”
Bonwick said.  The cost of producing nickel increased to A$5.14 a pound in
the three months ended March 31, exceeding a forecast of A$4.8
to A$5, because of higher labor expenses and an operational
issue at the Long mine, Bonwick said. The company resolved the
problem and expects to maintain the cost at A$5 a pound or lower
for the rest of the year and the next financial year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  