-- Indian Oil Increases Gasoline Prices for First Time in 7 Months
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-23T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/indian-oil-increases-gasoline-prices-for-first-time-in-7-months.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, increased gasoline prices for the first time in
almost seven months as the rupee slumped to a record low and
increased the cost of buying crude oil.  Gasoline was raised 11 percent to 73.18 rupees a liter in
New Delhi from midnight, Indian Oil said in an e-mailed
statement. Prices of diesel, kerosene and cooking gas were left
unchanged. Indian Oil’s actions are usually followed by state-
owned rivals Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and Bharat Petroleum
Corp.  Higher fuel prices will cut losses at state refiners and
help reduce government expenditure on subsidies. Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  for the first time pledged to cap the
subsidy program that spans diesel to fertilizers at less than 2
percent of gross domestic product in the year that began April 1
as the government seeks to narrow its deficit.  “This price increase has been long overdue, and its
definitely a step in the right direction,” said Gagan Dixit, a
Mumbai-based analyst with Quant Broking Pvt. “For the total
revenue loss, the impact from gasoline will be pretty small.
It’s diesel price rise that the refiners need.”  Indian Oil rose 0.6 percent to 273.2 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday. Bharat Petroleum declined 0.8 percent and  Hindustan
Petroleum (HPCL)  climbed 1 percent.  Rupee Plunge  The rupee declined 1.1 percent to 56.0050 per dollar in
Mumbai, and touched a record low of 56.2213 earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has lost 9.2 percent
this quarter in  Asia ’s worst performance.  A decline in the rupee increases Indian refiners’ cost of
buying crude oil, about 80 percent of which is imported and paid
for in dollars.  State refiners are free to set gasoline prices, while they
sell diesel, cooking gas and kerosene at below-market rates to
curb inflation. The government partly compensates them for
selling the fuels below cost.  The price increase comes after a parliament session ended
on May 22. Gasoline and  diesel  pricing are sensitive issues in
 India  and previous increases in rates have been opposed by
allies and opposition parties to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government.  Gasoline was freed from government control in June 2010.
Prices are reviewed every two weeks and can be adjusted
according to global benchmarks in the previous fortnight.  The refiners previously cut gasoline prices on Dec. 1 and
refrained from changing them after elections in five states were
announced on Dec. 24. Gasoline cost 65.64 rupees a liter in New
Delhi before the increase. Prices were last raised on Nov. 4,
the third increase in six months.  Indian Oil will need to raise the price of gasoline by an
additional 1.5 rupees a liter to cover losses in revenue
incurred so far this fiscal year, according to the statement.  1 Trillion-Rupee Loss  Diesel has been sold at 40.91 rupees a liter in the capital
since July 1, according to Indian Oil’s website. A group of
ministers will meet tomorrow to discuss raising diesel and
cooking gas prices, the CNN-IBN channel reported yesterday,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Indian Oil is losing 13.64 rupees a liter in diesel sales,
31.41 rupees a liter on kerosene and 479 rupees a cylinder of
cooking gas, it said. The state-run refiner will probably lose 1
trillion rupees in revenue this fiscal year for selling the
fuels at less than market rates, according to the statement.  Crude oil has declined 2.1 percent since Nov. 4, when
gasoline prices were previously increased. Oil for July delivery
fell as much as 1.14 cents to $90.71 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange and was at $91.13 at
2:53 p.m. London time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  