-- India Cabinet Said to Consider New Telecom Policy Tomorrow
-- B y   S a n t o s h   K u m a r   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-05-23T13:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/india-cabinet-said-to-consider-new-telecom-policy-tomorrow.html
India ’s cabinet may tomorrow consider
a new telecommunications policy that seeks to ease phone permit
norms and allow pooling, sharing and trading of spectrum by
operators, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The cabinet plans to meet at 6:15 p.m. in  New Delhi  to
consider proposals under the policy that may include provisions
for additional frequency to carriers, the people said, asking
not to be identified, citing rules. Pricing of spectrum isn’t on
the agenda, they said.  The proposal to change rules for the first time in more
than a decade comes amid a court trial against 14 persons,
including a former cabinet minister, and three companies on
charges of conspiring to cause financial loss to the government
in a case related to the sale of phone licenses in 2008.  India currently limits the amount of spectrum an operator
can hold and the market share of merged companies. A new
operator cannot sell a stake in their business for three years.  Phone companies including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and the local
ventures of Vodafone Group Plc, Telenor ASA and NTT DoCoMo Inc.,
have seen competition cut call rates to less than one penny a
minute, eroding profitability.  The new policy proposes phones to every villager by 2020
from about 37 per 100 now, people said. It also seeks to provide
broadband on demand by 2015, they said. It seeks to promote
production of equipment with 65 percent value addition locally
to meet 80 percent of the industry’s demand by 2020, the
officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santosh Kumar in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net 
Indian stocks retreated for a second day
BHARTI IN <Equity>
RCOM IN <Equity>
IDEA IN <Equity>
VOD LN <Equity>
TEL NO <Equity> 