-- India’s Bond Yields Drop to One-Week Low as RBI to Purchase Debt
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-05-23T12:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/india-s-bond-yields-drop-to-one-week-low-as-rbi-to-purchase-debt.html
India ’s benchmark bonds gained,
pushing yields to the lowest level in almost a week, after the
central bank said it will purchase sovereign debt at an open-
market auction this week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will offer to buy 120 billion
rupees ($2.1 billion) of securities on May 25, it said in a
statement yesterday. It has bought 209 billion rupees of notes
so far this month to help ease a cash shortage at banks. The
overnight borrowing  rate  in the money market touched 8.40
percent today, the highest level since May 15, amid speculation
the monetary authority’s dollar sales aimed at stemming a slide
in the rupee drained funds from the financial system.  “The RBI’s open-market buying is helping bonds,” said
 Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank in
Mumbai. “The intervention in the  currency market  has probably
tightened liquidity.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.51
percent in Mumbai, the lowest level since May 17, according to
the central bank’s trading system.  The Reserve Bank sold a net $20.1 billion of foreign
currency in the seven months through March, the latest data on
its website show. The monetary authority intervenes in the
currency market to limit volatility and has no target levels,
Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said in Mumbai on May 16.  India’s rupee lost 9.2 percent this quarter,  Asia ’s worst
currency performance, and fell to a record low of 56.2213 per
dollar today.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose one basis
point to 8.01 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  