-- Insurers Must Improve Benefits for New Health Exchanges
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-23T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/insurers-must-improve-benefits-for-new-health-exchanges.html
Half the people who buy their own
health insurance, rather than depend on an employer, are in
plans that have fewer benefits than what the U.S. health-care
law will require beginning in 2014, a  study  found.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and other companies
that participate in the insurance exchanges mandated by the law
will have to improve benefits in some plans to meet requirements
that they cover at least 60 percent of the cost of a person’s
care, according to a study published today in Health Affairs.
The research was paid for by the  Commonwealth Fund , a  New York- 
based nonprofit group that supports expanded insurance coverage.  About 51 percent of people with individual coverage have
average deductibles of $3,881, the study showed, five times the
amount for employer group plans. In addition, coverage sold to
single people today may exclude pre-existing conditions, and
most individual policies don’t include maternity care without
costly riders, said Jon Gabel, the researcher who led the study.  “Deductibles will have to be lowered,” said Gabel, a
researcher at NORC in Bethesda,  Maryland , in a telephone
interview. “The out-of-pocket limits may have to be lower. They
will have to offer maternity benefits” as well as coverage for
mental-health and substance-abuse treatment.  About 62 percent of people who now try to buy insurance for
themselves in the so-called individual market report that they
can’t find an affordable policy, said  Sara Collins , vice
president for affordable health insurance at Commonwealth. Those
who do “often end up with coverage that’s really not
adequate,” she said in a telephone interview.  Bronze, Silver, Gold  Health insurance to be sold in the government-run exchanges
will be called bronze, silver, gold or platinum, depending on
how much of the cost of care is covered. The law also caps
annual out-of-pocket costs and eliminates limits on lifetime
benefits. The exchanges are supposed to start in 2014.  The health law caps out-of-pocket costs for exchange plans.
If the exchanges had been running in 2010, the limit would have
been $5,950 for a single person or $11,900 for a family,
according to the study.  Improving current plans to meet the health law’s
requirements will probably raise consumer’s up-front premiums,
Gabel said.  “Other things held constant, the cost of the plan will go
up,” he said. The health law forbids insurers from cherry-
picking only healthy customers, and adding sick people to
insurance pools will also raise costs, he said.  Price Competition  People with policies today that don’t meet the health law’s
requirements will have to “buy up” in 2014, said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans,
the industry’s lobby group in  Washington , in an e-mail. “Any
time new benefits are added to a policy that adds to the cost of
coverage.”  Premium increases may be mitigated by other changes, Gabel
said. The exchanges should reduce administrative costs for
insurers and “make for more price competition” among plans, he
said. The health law also limits, to 20 percent of premium
revenue, the amount insurers can keep for administrative costs
and profit, and creates subsidies to reduce the cost of
insurance for low- and middle-income people.  “Presumably a lot of people on these really crummy plans
in the study could potentially be eligible for premium
subsidies,” Collins said. “It’s really going to be important
that other provisions of the law address the premium growth
issue.”  Researchers from the benefits consulting firm  Towers Watson (TW) 
also participated in the study, which examined insurance plans
in five states:  California ,  Florida ,  Michigan ,  Pennsylvania  and
 Utah . Those states account for about 31 percent of customers in
U.S. individual insurance markets, according to the study. NORC
is a research organization affiliated with the  University of
Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  