-- Irish Bad Bank Will Invest $2.5 Billion, Pay Down Debt
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-05-23T09:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/irish-bad-bank-to-invest-2-billion-euros-pay-down-debt.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency, the country’s so-called bad bank, plans to invest about
2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) by 2016 to develop sites and
finish projects in the country as it targets paying its debt by
2020.  The agency’s loan portfolio has more potential than was
originally expected, NAMA Chairman Frank Daly said today in a
statement. The Dublin-based agency, set up in 2009 to rid the
nation’s banks of risky commercial property loans, also plans to
lend at least 2 billion euros more than it has already loaned to
help finance to sale of commercial property.  “We must invest in the assets securing our loans so as to
make them more attractive to purchasers over a medium-term”
Daly said . “The long-term prospects for much of this property
are good.”  NAMA used bonds to buy commercial-property loans with a
face value of 74 billion euros from the country’s banks for 32
billion euros. The agency said today it expects to be able to
repay the bonds in full by 2020.  Daly said in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
that he’s “cautiously positive” about the  property market .
NAMA plans to invest in commercial and residential projects to
meet supply shortages in some markets, he said.  “Most commentators are likely to be reserved in judgment,
though as taxpayers most of us will welcome it,” Goodbody
Stockbrokers analysts Eamonn Hughes and Colm Foley said in a
note today. “It is likely to cause some friction with the banks
given that some of these loans are now deemed to have higher
than originally envisaged potential.”  Bailout Funds  Ireland has invested about 62 billion euros into its
lenders and requested an international bailout in 2010 as bad
loans became too large for the state to handle alone. The
country’s 10 largest banks, including four foreign-owned
lenders, lost more than $155 billion on soured loans, mainly in
commercial real estate, in the past four years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  NAMA has already committed more than 500 million euros in
new working capital and development capital advances for
projects in Ireland, including offices, shops and homes,
according to today’s statement.  Residential property prices are now 49 percent below their
levels at the height of the country’s property boom in 2007.
About 9,200 residential units linked to NAMA loans are
generating rental income, with 4,000 being rented for the first
time in the last 18 months, NAMA said today. About 700
residential units have been sold, while a further 4,000 will be
ready to rent or sell in the short term, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  