-- Lithuania’s Planned LNG Terminal Could Supply Baltic Region
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-23T09:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/lithuania-s-planned-lng-terminal-could-supply-baltic-region.html
Lithuania ’s planned floating
liquefied natural-gas terminal on the Baltic sea will have the
capacity to supply neighboring Baltic countries.  The floating storage regasification unit could supply
neighboring Latvia either via gas pipelines or by shipping the
vessel to the country’s port in Riga, Rokas Masiulis, chief
executive officer of Lithuania’s oil terminal  Klaipedos Nafta
AB (KNF1L) , said in a press conference in Vilnius today.  The Baltic region is working to diversify its imports from
 Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, its sole supplier. Lithuania agreed to
lease a floating gas storage facility from Norway’s Hoegh LNG to
begin operations in the Klaipeda port at the end of 2014.  “Technically this terminal in Klaipeda has no barriers to
service the whole region,” Masiulis said. “The vessel could be
located in  Riga  in summer and supply Latvia’s underground
storage facility and then relocate to Klaipeda in winter.”  The gas pipeline infrastructure connecting Latvia and
Lithuania still requires upgrades, he said.  Klaipedos Nafta, which is 70.63 percent owned by the state,
plans to borrow 293 million litai ($107.3 million) for
investment in the gas terminal from commercial banks or
international lenders such as the European Bank of
Reconstruction and Development and the Nordic Investment Bank.  Klaipedos is in talks with as many as 9 nine potential gas
suppliers for the terminal and plans a tender on gas contracts
in the third quarter this year, Masiulis said. Qatar Liquefied
Gas Co. and Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  are among possible suppliers
for the terminal.  Estonia is studying its separate LNG solution for the
country. Vopak LNG Holding BV, a unit of Royal Vopak NV, is
conducting a feasibility study for a terminal at Muuga harbor,
near Tallinn. The study is expected to be presented to the
 Economy Ministry  in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  