-- Liverpool Lines Up Van Gaal as Sporting Director: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-23T08:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/liverpool-lines-up-van-gaal-as-sporting-director-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Sporting Director  Louis van Gaal is the top contender to become Liverpool’s
first sporting director as owner Fenway Sports Group revamps the
club’s management structure, the  Guardian reported .  The 60-year-old Dutchman, who has won league titles in the
Netherlands,  Spain  and  Germany , is said to be keen on a move to
Liverpool and would work with the new team manager when Kenny Dalglish’s successor is appointed, the newspaper added.  Baines Bid  Manchester United  opened talks with Everton over a 12
million-pound ($18.9 million) move for defender  Leighton Baines ,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Everton Chairman Bill Kenwright doesn’t want to lose the
 England  international and will ask for at least 15 million
pounds, the newspaper added.  Cut-Price Midfielder  United is one of several Premier League clubs tracking Rayo
Vallecano midfielder Michu, who could be available for 3 million
pounds because of the Spanish team’s financial woes, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Vallecano had originally wanted 8 million pounds for Michu,
who was the top-scoring midfielder in Spain last season with 17
goals in 39 games, the newspaper added.  Solskjaer Withdraws  Former United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer pulled out of
the running to become Aston Villa’s new manager, citing family
reasons, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Solskjaer, 39, told Villa chairman  Randy Lerner  that he no
longer wants to be considered for the post after opting to
remain in his native Norway following talks with Molde chairman
Kjell Inge Rokke, the newspaper added.  French Trio  Newcastle United  will sign Stade de Reims midfielder Romain
Amalfitano on a three-year contract and plans to buy two further
players from French Ligue 1 clubs during the off-season, the
 Independent reported .  The Magpies are involved in talks with Montpellier central
defender Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa and have also approached Lille about
signing right-back Mathieu Debuchy, the Independent added.  Arsenal Clearout  Arsenal will try to offload seven players including Nicklas Bendtner, Denilson, Sebastien Squillaci and Johan Djourou to
free up cash for transfer targets, the  Mirror reported .  The Gunners will also try to sell Lukasz Fabianski and
 Carlos Vela , while Andrey Arshavin may make his loan move to
Zenit St. Petersburg permanent, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  