-- Japan April Trade Gap Widens as Exports Below Forecast
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-23T08:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/japan-april-trade-gap-widens-as-exports-below-forecastest.html
Japan  reported lower-than-estimated
exports and a  wider trade deficit  for April, underscoring risks
to the economy’s recovery a day after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
nation’s debt rating.  Outbound shipments rose 7.9 percent from a year earlier,
less than the 11.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 27 analysts. The deficit of 520.3 billion yen ($6.5
billion) exceeded a 84.5 billion yen shortfall in March, the
 finance ministry  said in Tokyo today.  Constraints on exports show the challenge for the
government of sustaining growth without worsening the nation’s
finances as a boost from earthquake rebuilding fades. Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  called today for the  Bank of Japan  to “take
appropriate steps in a timely manner” and Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. said the central bank may boost asset
purchases in coming months after holding off today.  “If exports stay flat when the effect of the post-quake
reconstruction is likely to peak out in the latter half of the
year, there’s a possibility Japan’s economy will fall into a
lull,” said  Kiichi Murashima , an economist at the Citigroup
unit said in Tokyo. “There’s a chance for a further monetary
easing in July.”  The yen traded at 79.44 per dollar as of 17:02 p.m. in
Tokyo, up 0.7 percent after weakening 0.8 percent yesterday.
That compares with a post-World War II high of 75.35 in October.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1.6 percent on Japan’s data and
concern that Greece is at risk of exiting the euro region as
 Europe ’s crisis persists.  Lawmakers’ Calls  The central bank left the asset fund at 40 trillion yen
($501 billion) and a credit-lending program at 30 trillion yen.
All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast that
outcome. The policy board kept the key overnight lending rate
between zero and 0.1 percent.  “Calls for more monetary stimulus won’t stop as
politicians want to end deflation before raising the  sales
tax ,” Daiju Aoki , a Tokyo-based economist at UBS AG, said
before the monetary policy decision. “The BOJ won’t really be
able to take a breather this year.”  The sovereign-rating cut escalated pressure on lawmakers to
double the sales tax to boost revenue, with the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development warning yesterday that the
nation’s debt is heading into “uncharted territory.” Fitch
said that Japan’s “fiscal consolidation plan looks leisurely
relative even to other fiscally-challenged high-income
countries, and implementation is subject to political risk.”  Consumption Tax  If the consumption tax bill does not get through the Diet
by the summer, “we would likely view that negatively,”  Andrew
Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns at Fitch, said on a
conference call with reporters. Even if the levy was raised,
“we still see longer term negative pressure on the ratings.”  The local-currency rating was reduced one step, and
foreign-currency grade two levels, to A+, the fifth-highest
ranking, Fitch said in a statement yesterday.  A surge in demand for Japanese  government bonds  that sent
10-year yields to the lowest level since 2003 this month is
masking the risks from rising debt. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has failed to persuade opposition lawmakers to support his
legislation, leaving gross public debt poised to reach 223
percent of gross domestic product next year, the OECD said.  “It’s an alarm bell for Japanese politics and the slow
progress in Japan’s fiscal consolidation,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. “There’s no commitment to fiscal
consolidation -- in the long run, Japan’s creditworthiness and
fiscal sustainability aren’t looking good.”  Asian Economies  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  China  International Capital Corp said
that a Greek exit from the euro could drag down China’s economic
growth to 6.4 percent this year by weakening the global
expansion. That would be the least since 1990, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The China Securities Journal reported today that an
interest-rate cut in China can’t be ruled out if data for May
shows growth is slowing further. It cited unidentified people.  Malaysia and Singapore are due to release inflation figures
today and Taiwan gives details of industrial output.         In
the U.K, the  Bank of England  will release the minutes  of the
most recent monetary policy meeting held on May 9-10 after
halting a bond-purchase program at 325 billion pounds ($512
billion) this month.  U.K. Central Bank  The central bank needs to inject more stimulus into the
economy through more bond purchases or by cutting  interest rates 
as “large” risks from the euro-area crisis may derail growth
and inflationary pressures remain weak, the  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday.  The U.K. will give retail sales figures, Italy will report
 consumer confidence , Sweden releases jobless data and the latest
reading on new-home sales is due in the U.S. today.  In cutting Japan’s rating Fitch went one step further than
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , which both have
Japan on their fourth-highest rankings. Fitch and S&P both have
a negative outlook for the nation’s grade.  Raising the 5 percent sales tax is a “top priority” and
balancing the budget and reducing the public debt burden are
“essential,” the OECD said in a report yesterday. Delays in
restoring the fiscal health of the world’s third-largest economy
could risk a run-up in government borrowing costs, it said.  So far, Japan’s worsening credit score hasn’t led to a drop
in bond prices, with yields on benchmark 10-year debt falling to
0.815 percent on May 18, the lowest since 2003.  Private Savings  Turmoil in Europe has boosted the appeal of Japanese assets
as a so-called haven for investors and the nation remains the
world’s largest net creditor. Japan’s foreign investments and
assets grew to the second-highest level on record in 2011,
Finance Ministry data showed yesterday.  “Very strong private sector savings in Japan” help
support the sovereign rating, Andrew Colquhoun said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  today. Private-
sector demand for Japanese government bonds won’t change soon,
he said.  Yields “are being kept low by extremely loose monetary
policy and safe haven demand,” said David Rea, an economist at
London-based Capital Economics. “Japan is not Greece and is
unlikely to share a similar fate,” he said, adding that it has
“its own currency, independent monetary policy, a relatively
strong economy and ample external assets.”  Other Ratings  Moody’s cut the nation one step to Aa3 in August last year,
citing the build-up in government debt since the 2009 global
recession. S&P lowered Japan to AA- in January last year and
said the outlook was “negative” three months later. No comment
was immediately available from those companies yesterday.  Japan’s economy grew more than expected in the first
quarter as private consumption rose and reconstruction spending
boosted public investment. Gross domestic product rose an
annualized 4.1 percent from the final three months of 2011, a
Cabinet Office report showed May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  