-- Japan Stock Futures Rise on Europe Bid to Contain Crisis
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-05-23T23:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-europe-bid-to-contain-crisis.html
Japanese and Australian  stock   futures 
rose amid optimism European leaders will do more to halt
contagion from the region’s debt crisis, offsetting concern
 Greece  will leave the euro.  American depositary receipts of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, climbed
1.9 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. ADRs of
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender, rose
1.1 percent. Those of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese carmaker that
gets more than 40 percent of its sales from the U.S., gained 0.6
percent as new U.S. home sales beat forecasts.  “Not only Europe, but also the world is agreeing to
coordinate help to deal with the European crisis. The should
boost markets,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Capital
injections to banks are the best way to prevent a financial
panic.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 8,595 in Chicago yesterday compared with 8,570 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,580 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 0.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid
0.1 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index rose 0.2 percent in  New York  yesterday,
reversing a decline of as much as 1.5 percent, on optimism that
European leaders meeting in Brussels will do more to contain
contagion from the region’s debt crisis. A measure of
 homebuilders  in S&P indexes gained as a report showed demand for
 new U.S. homes  rose more than forecast in April.  Fed Prepared  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana
Kocherlakota said the U.S. central bank has the tools to to
insulate the  U.S. economy  should Europe’s debt crisis worsen.  In Europe, Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
his country will recapitalize  BFA-Bankia (BKIA)  with as much public
money as necessary, as the nationalized group needs at least 9
billion euros ($11 billion) to comply with banking rules.  Also, Greece’s pledge to inject 18 billion euros of capital
into the nation’s banks this week may help them to staunch a 75
billion euro reduction in deposits over the past two-and-a-half
years. The Hellenic Financial Stability Fund said on May 22 it
approved terms of the recapitalization and the contract would be
sent today to the country’s lenders and the European Financial
Stability Facility for final approval.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S rose 0.1 percent to 92.49 in New York
yesterday.  Political Chaos  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has declined more than 10
percent this month through yesterday on concern political chaos
in Greece increases the risk the nation will exit the euro zone
and other debt-stricken nations such as Portugal and Italy may
follow.  The Asia Pacific index dropped 1.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.9 percent advance by the
S&P 500 and a 2.1 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 1.2 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below 1 means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 