-- Japan Stocks Fall on BOJ Decision, Exports, Ratings Cut
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-05-23T07:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/japan-stocks-fall-as-exports-miss-estimates-rating-cut.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, sending the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average to its first drop in three days, after
the Bank of Japan refrained from adding more monetary stimulus,
and as concerns mounted that Greece may exit the euro zone.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets 80 percent of its
revenue overseas, lost 2.6 percent after exports rose less than
estimated and Fitch Ratings cut Japan’s foreign-currency rating.
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s No. 3 publicly traded
lender, fell 2.6 percent after Fitch put Japanese banks on watch
for possible downgrade.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  plunged 9
percent as a report prompted speculation the chipmaker may
struggle to return to profit.  “Uncertainty on the Greek issue is increasing, weighing on
the markets” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $70 billion. Stocks extended drops as “the yen
strengthened, rather than on the BOJ decision itself,” he said.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  lost 2 percent to 8,556.60 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, with volume 13 percent above the 30-day average.
The broader  Topix (TPX)  slid 1.6 percent to 721.57, with almost six
shares dropping for each that gained.  Stocks extended declines as the yen advanced after the 
Bank of Japan left its asset-purchase and credit-loan programs
unchanged, as anticipated by all 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The policy board kept the key overnight lending
rate between zero and 0.1 percent.  “The BOJ decision isn’t a big disappointment,” Mitsubishi
UFJ Asset’s Ishigane said. “I don’t think many people expected
any action this time.”  Yen Gains  The yen appreciated to as high as 79.52 against the dollar
in Tokyo after the BOJ announcement, compared with 80.01 when
 stock trading  opened today. Against the euro, Japan’s currency
strengthened to 100.74 from 101.30. A stronger yen reduces the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Canon sank 2.6 percent to 3,230 yen.  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , an
electronic components maker that derives more than half of its
sales outside Japan, lost 2.9 percent to 6,760 yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  declined 0.4 percent today.
The index added 0.1 percent in  New York  yesterday, erasing
earlier gains after Dow Jones reported that former Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  said while it is unlikely the nation
will leave the euro, it’s still a risk. European Union leaders
will meet in Brussels today to discuss how to revive growth.  Exports Miss  Japanese shares also fell after  Japan’s exports  rose a
less-than-estimated 7.9 percent in April from a year earlier,
underscoring the risk that weakness in global demand may limit
the rebound in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Fitch cut  Japan ’s foreign-currency rating by two levels to
A+ yesterday with a negative outlook. The nation’s fiscal
consolidation plan looks “leisurely,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head
of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch, said in a statement.  Japan’s widening trade deficit and Fitch’s rating cut are
“not big deals, but are negative,” said Masaru Hamasaki, chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $23 billion. “Some investors may be selling on
minor negative news because they are waiting for a trigger for
stocks to rebound.”  Mizuho lost 2.6 percent to 114 yen and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. slid 1 percent to 2,310 yen after Fitch put
the banking entities under the lenders on negative watch.  Renesas Plunges  Renesas Electronics, the world’s biggest maker of
automotive microcontrollers, plunged 9 percent to 263 yen after
the Nikkei newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information, that the company expects to announce plans by July
to cut jobs and consolidate plants after posting a loss last
fiscal year on slumping sales of its system chips used in
digital appliances.  The Topix has plunged 17 percent from this year’s high on
March 27 as China’s economic growth slowed and on renewed
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. The political gridlock in
 Greece  after an inconclusive election this month reignited
concern the nation will renege on austerity pledges required for
240 billion euros ($304 billion) in aid and exit the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 