-- JPMorgan Joins MF Global in Lobbying Wins That Backfire
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-23T15:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/jpmorgan-joins-mf-global-in-lobbying-wins-that-backfire.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. argued in a
December 2010 letter to regulators that futures brokers didn’t
need tighter restrictions on how they invest client funds. Ten
months later, as MF Global filed for bankruptcy, about $1.6
billion in customer accounts was missing.  Within weeks, U.S. derivatives regulators approved a
measure, dubbed the “MF rule,” designed to limit the kinds of
transactions firms could make using client funds. The rule had
been on the regulatory backburner as lobbyists sought to stall
or alter new curbs proposed after the 2008 financial crisis.  Along with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s recent $2 billion loss,
MF Global’s case demonstrates that an army of  Washington 
lobbyists can sometimes succeed in rolling back or delaying U.S.
rules and regulations to the detriment of investors and
depositors, with rippling effects on the broader economy. Also,
their actions can backfire on the businesses that hired them in
the first place.  “This is a classic example of how industry claims to know
better than the bothersome bureaucrats in Washington,” said
Nancy Watzman, a consultant for the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington-based group that advocates open government records.  The group documented nine meetings between MF Global
officials and staff from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission about the financial overhaul. The meetings focused on
such topics as money market mutual funds and provisions for
compiling information from various accounts, according to the
foundation.  ‘An Embarrassment’  “The paper trail companies have left pleading their cases
becomes an embarrassment,” Watzman said.  JPMorgan’s loss follows lobbying by its chief executive,
 Jamie Dimon , to weaken the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial overhaul,
which he has referred to as “Dodd Frankenstein.” Dimon’s
criticism of regulatory efforts may come back to haunt him and
the firm as lawmakers in Washington are pointing to the $2
billion loss as evidence that tougher regulation is needed.  Both examples illustrate former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker ’s comment to reporters following a May 9 Senate
hearing that there’s “no question” that lobbying from banks
contributed to the complexity of the initial 298-page Dodd-Frank
proposal, including many rules that have been delayed.  “I could give you stories all day about lobbyists making
things more complicated because they may do it for reasons they
want to disrupt the whole process,” Volcker said at the time.  ‘Intent’ of Volcker Rule  JPMorgan spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli  declined to
comment, referring to Dimon’s March 30 annual letter to
shareholders in which he said he didn’t “disagree with the
intent of the Volcker rule.” At the same time, he was critical
of the financial regulatory overhaul.  “As a result of Dodd-Frank, we now have multiple
regulatory agencies with overlapping rules and oversight
responsibilities,” Dimon said in the letter. “We now have
allowed regulation to become politicized, which we believe will
likely lead to some bad outcomes.”  JPMorgan employs 12 lobbyists and spent $7.6 million on
lobbying in 2011, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in Washington, which tracks spending on Lobbying.  Lobbying topics included patent reform and helping
refinance  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac-held mortgages, according
to the group. Commercial banks spent a combined $61.8 million in
that period, employing 456 lobbyists, compared with the steel
industry’s 107 lobbyists and the airline industry’s 198 paid
representatives.  ‘Secure, Profitable’  Jon S. Corzine, the former New Jersey governor and U.S.
senator, was MF Global’s chairman and chief executive officer.
Executive Vice President Laurie Ferber said in the Dec. 2, 2010,
letter to the U.S. derivatives regulator that it would be
“unnecessary” to block futures firms from investing funds from
customer segregated accounts. The letter said such restrictions
would “eliminate a liquid, secure, profitable and necessary
category of investment.”  Gary Gensler , chairman of the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , delayed the rule after a lobbying push by MF Global
and another firm, Newedge USA LLC, saying the agency needed more
time to assess the proposal. MF Global, the first Wall Street
firm to fail since the Dodd-Frank Act became law in July 2010,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  Oct. 31 after making wrong-way
bets on European sovereign debt.  ‘Time of Stress’  Corzine, who resigned on Nov. 4, later gave testimony that
endorsed Gensler’s assessment that the new rule would help
protect client funds held by futures firms. “At a time of
stress, his arguments may be much stronger,” Corzine said Dec.
8 before the House Agriculture Committee.  Corzine said he was “more in support of” the CFTC’s
recommendations for tighter controls. He said he thought “they
should be modified a bit.”  Diana DeSocio, an MF Global spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  It was hardly the first time high-powered Washington
lobbyists, who often are former lawmakers or government
officials, succeeded in forestalling rules and regulations or
helped broker a policy that backfired on their clients.  The  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
the industry’s lobbying group, supported President  Barack Obama ’s health care proposal after the group’s then-Chief
Executive Billy Tauzin negotiated agreements with the White
House. The group agreed to $80 billion in discounts and rebates
while some provisions it opposed were dropped from the
legislation.  Drug Imports  PhRMA also sought for the administration to block the
importation of less expensive drugs because of safety concerns.
“They and everybody else was hoping that by being cooperative
they could negotiate certain specifics that would be a little
more beneficial to them,” said  Joseph Antos , a health care and
retirement fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute , a
Washington group that favors free enterprise and smaller
government.  Since then  John Castellani , PhRMA’s current chief
executive, has said Obama’s proposals cutting billions of
dollars from Medicare and Medicaid spending on drugs would hurt
his groups. Taking more money from drug companies would result
in lost jobs and fewer cures, Castellani said.  “I see our critics and their one-dimensional focus on
costs, and I say: ‘How dare they?’” he said in a speech at the
group’s annual meeting last month.  Medicare Part D  Matt Bennett , a spokesman for PhRMA, said the group
discourages any cuts to Medicare Part D, the drug program for
senior citizens. “This does not appear to be the right place to
cut,” he said.  The pharmaceutical industry group has continued to lobby on
the issue, spending $240 million in 2011 and registering more
than 1,500 lobbyists, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  Another illustration of U.S. companies complaining of
Washington regulation is the Environmental Protection Agency and
the Obama administration’s efforts to promote clean air
policies.  Lobbyists for coal producers such as Arch Coal Inc. and
Southern Co. opposed a measure in the U.S. House of
Representatives in 2009 that would have capped  greenhouse gases 
from  power plants  and provided credits that could be traded. The
measure also would have provided government investments in
technology to capture carbon dioxide from power plants.  Coal-Fired Plants  Following the legislation’s failure, the EPA is now moving
to regulate power plant emissions in a way that may preclude the
construction of new coal-fired power plants, without providing
the credits or government investments. The EPA pointed to its
statement in March that the standard was a “common-sense step”
that would minimize carbon pollution and ensure progress toward
cleaner and more modern power.  Officials at American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity,
a trade association representing the coal industry, didn’t
return messages seeking comment.  “Because these coal interests got their wish, there is
little investment in this so-called ‘clean coal’ technology,”
said Daniel J. Weiss, director of  climate change  at the Center
for American Progress in Washington.  “Instead, utilities are switching from dirty coal to
cleaner-burning, cheaper natural gas,” he said. “Coal and
utility companies have no one to blame but themselves for
helping strangle legislation that would have invested in ‘clean
coal.’”  PAC Costs  Examples of lobbying efforts gone awry go back decades and
aren’t limited to corporations, said  Clyde Wilcox , a political
science professor at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  In 1971, with robust membership and plenty of cash to
invest, labor unions backed the Federal Election Campaign Act,
which allowed corporations and unions to pay the administrative
costs of political action committees. At the time, companies
were barred from making direct political donations and unions
were more active with PACs.  Unions assumed they would have the upper hand, Wilcox said.
Since then, their financial resources and membership have
dwindled and they’ve been outspent by companies, with pro-
business PACs outnumbering union PACs by more than six-to-one,
Wilcox said.  “Almost immediately, the Chamber of Commerce and  National
Association of Manufacturers  encouraged companies to organize
PACs,” he said. “Within two years, the unions regretted it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  