-- JPMorgan Copper ETF Plan Seen Creating Havoc by Merchant Groups
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-05-23T22:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/jpmorgan-copper-etf-plan-seen-creating-havoc-by-merchant-groups.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s plan to
introduce an exchange-traded fund linked to copper will
“severely disrupt” the market, a group of industrial copper
users told the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Funds backed by copper would leave less of the metal
available for manufacturers, creating shortages and driving up
prices, according to a  letter  filed to securities regulator by
Vandenberg & Feliu, a New York-based law firm representing a
major copper-merchant company and several copper fabricators.  ETFs trade like stocks, giving investors access to
commodities such as copper without taking physical delivery.
NYSE Arca Inc., the electronic platform of NYSE Euronext, filed
with the SEC to list and trade JPM XF Physical Copper Trust,
according to an April 2 document.  JPMorgan’s offering initially calls for the removal from
the market of as much as 61,800 metric tons of copper, or the
withdrawal of more than 30 percent of the supplies available for
immediate delivery worldwide, the merchants group said in its
letter.  “JPM’s offering will therefore result in a substantial
artificially-induced rise in near-term copper prices on the
 London  Metal Exchange, which will severely disrupt the world
market for the trading of such copper,” the group said in the
letter, dated May 9.  JPMorgan,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and ETF Securities Ltd. said in
2010 they planned to start exchange-traded funds for industrial
metals. ETF Securities started the first exchange-traded
products backed by copper, nickel and tin in London in December
2010.  Copper holdings in ETF Securities’ exchange-traded product
were 3,426.83 metric tons as of May 23, compared with 225,700
tons in stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange.
Copper for delivery in three months fell 2.7 percent to $7,531 a
ton today, and has dropped 10 percent this month.  The Financial Times reported the copper group’s letter to
the SEC earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  