-- Kames Counts on Extra Easing for Top-Performing Bond Fund
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-05-23T09:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/kames-counts-on-extra-easing-for-top-performing-bond-fund-1-.html
Kames Capital , whose inflation-linked
bond fund is the best-performer in the U.K. over the past 12
months, is counting on more asset purchases by central banks
this year to boost returns further.  The Edinburgh-based money management firm, which has about
27 billion pounds ($42 billion) of fixed income assets, bought
more U.K. gilts and  U.S. Treasuries  on bets the  Bank of England 
and  Federal Reserve  will resume so-called quantitative easing to
lower borrowing costs and boost economic growth.  Kames, a unit of Dutch insurer  Aegon NV (AGN) , prefers markets
with “strong central banks who are prepared to support what are
low, but necessary, yields to foster growth,”  Stephen Jones ,
co-head of fixed income, said in an interview at his office in
the Scottish capital on May 21. “Central banks along with
governments want to take no risks in re-establishing growth.”  Britain needs more quantitative easing and should also
consider budget stimulus including temporary tax cuts, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday. A report the same
day showed inflation in the country slowed more than economists
predicted last month, leaving more room for the Bank of England
to loosen monetary policy for an economy that slipped into its
first double-dip recession since 1975.  Kings Tools  Governor Mervyn King has “more tools” to stimulate growth
and the IMF has discussed using them, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said at a press conference with U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in  London  yesterday.  The Bank of England held its  bond-purchase target  at 325
billion pounds this month and kept its key  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 8-1 to keep the asset-
purchase program unchanged at the May 9-10 meeting, minutes
released in London today showed. For some members, the decision
was “finely balanced” and officials could conduct further
stimulus in the future if the outlook warranted it, they said.  “We are believers in the view that quantitative easing is
paused rather than ended,” Jones, 44, said a day earlier.
“We’ve been happy to be well exposed to U.K. government bonds.
Certainly from March onwards, we’ve been happy adders of them.”  Top Performer  The  Kames Inflation Linked Fund (AEGUKIB) , which started in July
2010, gained 21.2 percent in the year to May 21, ranking first
among 22 competitors, according to data from research firm
Morningstar Inc. Since the end of last year, it has risen 2
percent, slipping to fourth out of 24 peers, the figures show.  Kames Capital bought more gilts because gains that pushed
10-year yields to a record low and delivered the third-highest
returns in the world in the past year will be sustained as the
Bank of England revives purchases. Kames is also buying longer-
dated Treasuries as 30-year yields “are very good value”
because the Fed also likely to ease policy, Jones said.  Ten-year gilt yields dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.82 percent, after being as low at 1.81
percent on May 18. The yield on the U.S. Treasury 30-year bond
fell three basis points to 2.84 percent.  U.K. gilt yields slumped to records this year as  inflation 
slowed from as high as 5.2 percent last year to 3 percent in
April, moving within the government’s range for the first time
since February 2010.  Search for Havens  British and U.S. securities also jumped as a worsening of
the  European debt crisis  fuelled demand for havens. Investors
bought securities with 10-year yields below 2 percent, while
 Spain ’s yields jumped to more than 6 percent.  “Greed has not overcome fear on that one,” Jones said of
Spain. “We are cautious and don’t see much value in  Europe .”  U.K. government bonds have returned 16 percent in the past
year, with only  Germany  and Ireland with bigger gains among 26
markets in indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries made 9
percent and Germany jumped 17 percent, the gauges show.  The Fed’s $400 billion swap of short-term debt for longer-
term securities in a program known as Operation Twist, is due to
end next month and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 25 that
the Fed remains “prepared to do more as needed” to support
growth and employment. The U.S. central bank undertook $2.3
trillion of debt purchases in two rounds of stimulus between
December 2008 and June 2011.  “We think if further quantitative easing occurs, it could
well be in the form of long-dated purchases,” said Jones, who’s
been at Kames Capital since 2002. “We do continue to like the
long end of the Treasury market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  