-- KFC Using Rain-Forest Wood in Boxes, Greenpeace Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-13T22:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/kfc-chicken-buckets-made-with-rain-forest-wood-greenpeace-finds.html
(Corrects with reaction from Asia Pulp & Paper, beginning
in 10th paragraph, in story published May 23.)  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  is making its
trademark KFC chicken buckets using wood harvested from
 Indonesia ’s rain forest, destroying the habitat of the
endangered Sumatran tiger, Greenpeace International said.  Independent tests on food boxes purchased at stores in
Indonesia, the U.K. and China in the past two years found fibers
from tropical hardwood trees, according to a Greenpeace report
released today. More than half the material in some KFC chicken
buckets in China came from such wood, said Rolf Skar, forest
campaign director for Greenpeace.  Since 1996, Indonesia has lost about 5 million acres of
forest a year to logging, double the rate in the 1980s,
according to  Global Forest Watch  in  Washington . Globally, the
loss of forests, which remove carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere, accounts for a fifth of emissions blamed for global
warming. Yum’s  China  unit generated 44 percent of 2011  revenue .  “Do consumers want to have chicken wrapped in rain
forests, or is there a better way of doing business,” Skar said
in an interview. “A big customer like KFC, they’re massive in
places like China and Indonesia, they have a lot of control over
where they get their paper.”  Greenpeace supporters hung a sign on Yum’s headquarters
building in Louisville,  Kentucky , early today as part of the
protest. Police and fire units were at the scene before 8 a.m.,
Jessa Latona, a Greenpeace spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Forensic Tests  Forensic tests on KFC’s paper products confirm a previous
Greenpeace report linking the fast-food chain to deforestation.
Yum buys packaging from the Jakarta-based Sinar Mas Group’s
pulp-paper unit, Asia Pulp & Paper, which Greenpeace said has
been logging in the rain forests.  Jonathan Blum , a spokesman for Yum, in an e-mail said 60
percent of the paper purchased by the company is from
sustainable forests, with suppliers aiming for 100 percent. The
Greenpeace protest is a “publicity stunt,” Blum said in an e-
mail.  Food packaging should have “the least impact on the
environment as possible,” Yum said in a 2010 report. Yum owns
and franchises more than 37,000 restaurants worldwide.  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Unilever NV (UNA)  are among companies that have
stopped buying paper products from Asia Pulp & Paper. More than
60 companies have either ended supply contracts with Asia Pulp &
Paper or sold their shares, Latona said.  Asia Pulp & Paper “deplores this distortion of the facts
by Greenpeace,” according to a May 23 statement. “We are
asking that Greenpeace stops portraying Indonesia and its
leading companies as the villains in the fight against  climate
change .”  Mixed tropical hardwood fiber “can be found easily in
recycled paper, or it can come from the legal and sustainable
harvesting of trees in primary rainforest,” Asia Pulp & Paper
said. “It can also come from tree residues that are cleared,
after a forest area has become degraded, logged-over or burned,
as part of a sustainable development plan. APP has strict
policies and practices in place to ensure that only residues
from legal plantation development on degraded or logged-over
forest areas and sustainable wood fiber enters the production
supply chain.”  Sumatran Tiger  Asia Pulp & Paper also is logging ramin trees, a species
protected by Indonesia and the Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, Greenpeace
alleged in a March report. The work is pushing the Sumatran
tiger, protected under international conservation programs,
closer to extinction, Skar said.  The company said it’s in compliance with Indonesian
government laws and regulations and that an independent report
confirmed that no protected tree species were entering the
supply chain. The government cleared Asia Pulp & Paper of that
charge, the company said.  “APP’s chain of custody system traces the origin of raw
material, evaluates its legal and environmental status, to
minimize the risk of contamination and to ensure that endangered
species are protected,” according to a Feb. 29 statement.
“However, APP accepts that no system in the world, no matter
how rigorous, is 100 percent failsafe. We welcome the recent
report from Greenpeace International and will study it carefully
to ensure that we identify and act on any weaknesses in our
chain of custody systems.”  Ramin grows in peat land swamp forests, home to the
Sumatran tiger, one of six subspecies. It is classified as
critically endangered with about 400 left in the wild, according
to WWF’s website.  Greenpeace hired the Institution for Paper Science and
Technology in Darmstadt,  Germany , and Integrated Paper Service
in Appleton,  Wisconsin , to test for fibers in Yum’s food
packages. Seven out of 10 food boxes from the U.K. shows rain
forest fiber, according to today’s report.  “Certainly by now, companies should know that buying paper
products from Asia Pulp & Paper brings with it a risk,” Skar
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  