-- Killer Sings, Queen Grins, Buzzcocks: London Weekend
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-24T20:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/killer-sings-queen-grins-buzzcocks-london-weekend.html
It’s everyone’s nightmare when going
for a haircut. The barber turns into Sweeney Todd, sharpening
his cutthroat razor ready for the kill.  The London revival of  Stephen Sondheim ’s musical is helped
by  Michael Ball  as Todd, who is on a rampage of revenge after
years of false imprisonment. Ball successfully swaps his MOR
crooning for a weightier role. Imelda Staunton is superb as Mrs.
Lovett, the pie-shop owner who lovingly bakes Todd’s victims.  “Sweeney Todd” is at the Adelphi Theatre. Information:
 http://www.sweeneytoddwestend.com  or +44-844-811-0053.  Those wanting deeper fare can try “Making Noise Quietly”
at the Donmar. It’s your last chance to see the trilogy of plays
by  Robert Holman  that takes on the secrets and silence of war.  “Making Noise Quietly” is at the  Donmar Warehouse  through
May 26. Information:  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  +44-833-871-
7624.  Ceviche is a great place to grab a bite to eat when
visiting the Donmar, nearby. It’s a casual Peruvian bar-
restaurant, where you can go for dinner or just drop in for a
pisco sour and a few snacks. It’s popular, so book ahead.
Information:  http://cevicheuk.com/  or +44-20-7292-2040.  Saturday  The RHS Chelsea flower show closes on May 26 with an
opportunity to buy some showpiece plants at cut price.  The everything-must-go selloff before the 5:30 p.m. close
results in many people carrying tree-sized blooms home by subway
or bus.  The Royal Horticultural Society event is spread over the
grounds of the  Royal Hospital . This year’s show offers gardeners
advice on exotic fruit, the environment and how to make the most
of urban green spaces.  Royal Hospital Chelsea, Royal Hospital Road, SW3 4SR.
Information: +44-20-7492-1561,  http://www.rhs.org.uk   Caraffini is a popular and friendly Italian restaurant
situated next door to the flower show. Advance booking is
recommended. Information:  http://www.caraffini.co.uk/  or +44-20-
7259-0235.  Richard Corrigan  of Corrigan’s Mayfair and  Fergus Henderson 
of St. John will be among chefs cooking on Saturday at the  Soho
Food Feast , a charity day of tastings, demonstrations and
contests. The bad news is that the event is sold out, so you’ll
need your powers of persuasion to get in.  The feast is held at St Anne’s Church Garden on Wardour
Street from midday until 7 p.m. It’s organized by Margot
Henderson of Rochelle Canteen and brings together restaurateurs
and foodies from across London. Others who have said they will
attend include Thomasina Miers of Wahaca, Mark Hix of Hix and
Jeremy Lee of Quo Vadis. The French House will run the bar.  Saturday Night  The Buzzcocks have spent 36 years taking the spirit of punk
and adding a pop edge for songs such as “Ever Fallen in Love
(With Someone You Shouldn’t Have).”  The U.K. band is back in  London  for a show reuniting them
with their first singer, Howard Devoto, and co-founder Pete
Shelley, who replaced him as vocalist. Whoever takes the lead,
the single “Everybody’s Happy Nowadays” retains the ironic
bite it had back in 1979.  The Buzzcocks “Back to Front,” O2 Academy Brixton, 211
Stockwell Road, SW9 9SL. Information: +44-844-477-2000 or
 http://www.o2academybrixton.co.uk  and  http://www.buzzcocks.com .  Sunday  Queen Elizabeth II  meets the Spice Girls in 1997. They show
lots of cleavage; she doesn’t. The color photo of that backstage
meeting, part of her majesty’s effort to rejuvenate her image,
hangs in “The Queen: Art and Image,” a  National Portrait
Gallery  survey.  At first, Elizabeth II was pictured with a crown by
deferential photographers. By the 1980s she is subjected to
irreverence. She is shown frowning at the opening of parliament
and looking gob smacked in a hooded raincoat after the Windsor
Castle fire.  There’s also  Gerhard Richter ’s 1967 painting of Her
Majesty, in an unusually broad smile.  “The Queen: Art and Image” is at the National Portrait
Gallery, 2 St. Martin’s Place, London WC2H 0HE through Oct. 21.  Information: +20-7306-0055 or  http://www.npg.org.uk .  Pianist  Llyr Williams  plays Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No.
3 at the Barbican on  Sunday . He replaces  Yefim Bronfman , who has
been advised by his doctor to take a few days off to recover
from a virus, the Barbican announced tonight. The London
Symphony Orchestra under Michael Tilson Thomas also performs
Mahler’s Symphony No. 4, which has one movement summoning a
violin-playing skeleton from German folklore.  Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, Silk Street, EC2Y 8BS.
Information: +44-7638-8891,  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or
 http://www.yefimbronfman.com/ .  To contact the writers on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech ;
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 