-- Knight Capital Says Its Facebook Loss May Total $35 Million
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-23T23:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/knight-capital-says-its-facebook-loss-may-total-35-million-1-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  estimated
that it lost about $30 million to $35 million trading  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  because of technical problems at  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
related to the social-media company’s initial public offering.  The brokerage and market maker said that while it submitted
claims to Nasdaq, “there are no assurances that the company
will be able to recover any of its losses resulting from the
numerous issues and problems at Nasdaq,” according to a filing
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Knight,
based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said it’s “evaluating all
remedies available under law.”  Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told CNBC on
May 21 that he “wouldn’t be shocked” if total brokerage losses
from the IPO reached $100 million. Nasdaq OMX’s computer systems
used to establish the opening price for Facebook were
overwhelmed May 18 by order cancellations and updates during the
“biggest IPO cross in the history of mankind,” Nasdaq OMX
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said May 20 in a
conference call with reporters.  After the exchange repaired the problem, order updates for
30 million shares didn’t participate in the auction because of
an error, Nasdaq said in a  notice  the next day. Reports of who
received executions in the cross were delayed until 1:50 p.m.
New York time on May 18, the company said.  Placing Blame  “This wasn’t in any way, shape or form an industry
failure,” Joyce told CNBC. He said Nasdaq should have delayed
trading, possibly to May 21. “It wasn’t a systemic issue. The
failure was Nasdaq’s.”  Robert Madden, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman, declined to comment.  Facebook has  declined  16 percent to $32 from the $38 price
set by underwriters on May 17, when 421.2 million shares were
sold. The SEC said it will review May 18’s trading after  Nasdaq 
was plagued by delays and crossed quotes, or a situation where
sellers appear to be asking less than buyers are willing to pay.  Knight is one of the largest wholesalers, a category of
market makers that executes orders for individual investors sent
to the firm from retail brokers. These firms may guarantee
customers executions in the auctions at the start and end of
trading each day at the resulting price, assuming they can
manage their financial risks by buying and selling in the
market. Other large wholesalers include UBS AG, Citigroup Inc.,
Citadel LLC and E*Trade Financial Corp.  22% of Trading  Facebook accounted for 22 percent of equities volume on May
18 at online brokerage  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , according to
Steve Quirk, a senior vice president at the Omaha, Nebraska-
based company. Knight traded a daily average of $22 billion in
its U.S. equities market-making unit in the first quarter, Joyce
said April 18 on a conference call.  Nasdaq asked the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to
oversee claims submitted by brokers for financial losses related
to the  Facebook IPO  auction process. Finra will assess the
requests and let the exchange know which complaints are valid.  The size of the pool Nasdaq would use to reimburse
customers must be approved by the company’s board, the exchange
 said  on May 21. The pool has a maximum payout of $3 million for
problems related to trading-system errors. Greifeld said on May
20 that about $10 million the exchange received from its
unanticipated participation in the IPO auction would be added to
the fund, if the SEC allows it.  Knight shares fell 1.3 percent to $12.28 as of 7:43 p.m.
 New York  time today following its filing. Nasdaq OMX has
retreated 5.2 percent since May 17, the day before the Facebook
IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  