-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Likely Can’t Totally Revive Jobs
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-05-23T20:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/kocherlakota-says-fed-likely-can-t-totally-revive-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota said the Fed probably can’t
repair all the damage to U.S. employment from the credit crisis
and fiscal policy could help to revive the job market.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “faces an especially
large amount of uncertainty about the level of maximum
employment that it can hope to achieve,” Kocherlakota said
today in a speech in Rapid City, South Dakota. In addition,
“the FOMC has no control over” factors that influence the
jobless rate like  tax policy .  U.S. policy makers believe non-monetary factors such as
demographics and regulatory policy limit their ability to meet
their congressional mandate to achieve maximum employment with
 price stability . Kocherlakota has said that, even with an 8.1
percent jobless rate, the central bank may be nearing the
maximum employment level attainable without spurring inflation.  “Even if employment is close to the maximum level that is
achievable using monetary policy, there may well be nonmonetary
policy levers that could be used to raise employment still
higher,” Kocherlakota said. One tool would be a cut in the
 payroll tax  paid by employers.  “Such a move would provide an additional incentive to
employers to hire more workers (albeit at the cost of increasing
the deficit), and increase employment and reduce unemployment,”
he said.  Stocks Rebound  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,318.86 at 4:09 p.m. in  New York , reversing a retreat of as
much as 1.5 percent earlier in the day. Yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries declined 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.74 percent.  The Fed has the ability to insulate the  U.S. economy  from
strains in financial markets should Europe’s debt crisis worsen,
Kocherlakota said in response to audience questions.  “What you worry about is that the fear about what’s going
on in  Europe  will spill over into the U.S. market and make
people less likely to hold risky assets like stocks,”
Kocherlakota said. “We have monetary policy tools to combat
that.”  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers probably can reach an
agreement on the budget to avoid automatic spending cuts that
the  Congressional Budget Office   says  may tip the economy back
into recession, Kocherlakota said. Policy makers must make
contingency plans, he said, adding that falling off the so-
called “fiscal cliff” would bolster the case for more easing.  More Accommodation  “If I saw a forecast for declining inflation and rising
unemployment as the CBO has sketched would happen -- if we did
go over the fiscal cliff -- that would be an argument for more
accommodative monetary policy,” Kocherlakota said.  Kocherlakota’s speech was similar to remarks in  Minneapolis 
on May 10, when he said central bankers should “contemplate the
possibility that the erosion in labor market performance that
we’ve seen in the  United States  over the past five years may be
highly persistent, even under appropriate monetary policy.”  The FOMC in an April 25 statement affirmed a plan to keep
its main  interest rate  near zero through at least late 2014,
citing “elevated”  joblessness .  Accelerating inflation is “a signal that our country’s
current labor market performance is much closer to ‘maximum
employment,’ given the tools available to the FOMC, than the
post-World War II U.S. data alone would suggest,” Kocherlakota
said today.  Jobs Added  Employers added 115,000 jobs in April and the  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.1 percent, according to the Labor Department.
Economists in a Bloomberg Survey expect the report for May,
which will be released June 1, to show 150,000 jobs were added
as the unemployment rate stays at 8.1 percent.  A high level of U.S. unemployment may prove permanent, if
the history of Sweden’s economic crisis two decades ago is any
guide, Kocherlakota said.  The Scandinavian nation’s “highly effective” response to
the financial, banking and currency crisis of 1991 to 1993
wasn’t enough to prevent a “persistent effect” on the labor
market, Kocherlakota said. The shift in the level of
unemployment compared with job openings never returned to 1990
levels, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Rapid City,  South Dakota  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  