-- Korean Won Retreats on Concern Greece to Exit Euro; Bonds Steady
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-05-23T08:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/korean-won-retreats-on-concern-greece-to-exit-euro-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won fell toward a five-
month low amid mounting concern that Greece’s debt crisis will
lead to it leaving the euro.  Government bonds  were steady.  Greece’s former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said that
while it is unlikely the nation will exit the euro, it’s still a
risk, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal yesterday.
 Fitch Ratings  cut  Japan ’s local-currency rating yesterday by one
step, and the foreign-currency grade by two levels, to A+. The
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  declined as overseas investors cut holdings of the
nation’s shares, taking net sales to $2.9 billion this month
through yesterday, according to exchange data.  “Investors are demanding the dollar to protect against
uncertainties in the market,” said Kim Do Hee, a Seoul-based
currency dealer at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Market sentiment may flip should there be positive comments
from today’s summit,” he said, referring to a meeting of
European Union leaders in Brussels.  The won slid 0.8 percent to 1,172.73 per dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,175.30 on
May 18, the weakest level since Dec. 20. One-month implied
volatility for the won, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, jumped 63 basis points, or 0.63 percentage
point, to 11.65 percent.  Downside risks including  Greece ’s possible exit from the
euro and sanctions against Iran are increasing market
uncertainties, South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said
today. Iran is under multiple international sanctions owing to
concern it is pursuing nuclear weapons and a European Union ban
on oil imports from the country takes effect July 1.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 was steady at 3.36 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.
It hasn’t been lower since January. Three-year debt futures were
little changed at 104.5 and the one-year interest-rate swap was
unchanged at 3.35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  