-- Kylie Upstages Co-Stars, ‘On the Road’ Mangles Kerouac
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/kylie-upstages-co-stars-on-the-road-mangles-kerouac-reviews.html
A loopy French arthouse movie
yesterday drew the kind of paparazzi attention that Hollywood
blockbusters get. Hordes of flashbulb-popping photographers
descended on the premiere -- and not for the movie’s main
lineup. They were there for  Kylie Minogue .  The Australian pop princess was at the  Cannes Film Festival 
to promote “Holy Motors,” directed by French cinema’s enfant
terrible Leos Carax, where she has a cameo as a Jean Seberg
lookalike. In short blond hair and a raincoat, she sullenly
wanders around a disused department store with an ex-lover, and
breaks into song.  Minogue looked embarrassed by the “Kylie” catcalls as she
posed for photographers in a backless olive-green dress.  “It is a bizarre meeting of us two, I suppose: No one
would really assume that we would be together,” she said of
Carax at the news conference, insisting she was “more than
happy to venture into this strange experience.”  Minogue said she “banned” her entourage from the set. “I
kind of stripped myself of being Kylie,” said the singer,
“and wanted to go back to be as basic as possible, and pretty
much be a blank canvas for Leos.”  Carax, in a tan leather jacket and shades, smiled and
nodded. Fingers clutching an unlit cigarette, he shrugged when
reporters asked what his movie meant, or who his public was.  “All I know is, it’s a bunch of people who will be dead
very soon,” he said. “I don’t like public films. I like
private films. I invite whoever wants, to come and see it.”  Lady Driver  An autobiographical tribute to cinema, “Holy Motors” is
convoluted and self-indulgent. An elfish man named Oscar
(Carax’s middle name) impersonates 10 characters in a day as
he’s driven around Paris in a white stretch limo by an elegant
lady named Celine (a possible reference to the author of
“Journey to the End of the Night.”)  Oscar (Denis Lavant) is, by turns, a banker, a beggar
woman, a dad, a rich uncle, and an accordion player. The plot
grows ever more bizarre as he slips on a space-age bodysuit to
work out and make out with an elastic woman in red.  Elsewhere, he’s a Quasimodo-like creature named Monsieur
Merde who roams sewers and graves etched with website addresses.
Interrupting a photo shoot at the graveyard, he kidnaps a
statuesque model -- Eva Mendes -- then turns her bronze gown
into a burqa and sleeps naked in her lap.  Minogue plays Oscar’s wistful lover from way back. When
they meet, she sings, “Who were we when we were who we were
back then?”  Carax has never been one to give audiences an easy way out.
While he has things to say, he takes “Holy Motors” to such
extremes of non-narration that even his actors lose the plot.
Film, like all other art forms, requires communicating with the
people at the receiving end. Rating: *1/2.  ‘On the Road’  Brazilian-born director Walter Salles has a knack for
trivializing living legends.  In the 2004 “Motorcycle Diaries,” he turned the life of
revolutionary Che Guevara into a glorified commercial, full of
pretty young faces, stunning landscapes and flawless
photography. In “ On the Road ” (featuring Kirsten Dunst), he
does it again, this time with Jack Kerouac’s classic novel.  The movie feels very much like a sexual initiation diary.
Timid Sal -- the character who stands in for the real-life
Kerouac -- goes around America with his charismatic and
promiscuous friend Dean (the real-life Neal Cassady). Along the
way, Sal hones his bedroom skills, and partakes in the fun.  Twosomes, Threesomes  There are twosomes with a third party watching, threesomes,
and talk of a foursome, as unstoppable Dean takes lovers of both
sexes. His favorite is Marylou ( Kristen Stewart  of
“Twilight”), whom he marries at 16, though he also fathers
children with the bookish Camille (Dunst).  Literary citations are tossed in for good measure, in
between sex scenes. After nude Marylou pleasures the two men
simultaneously in the front seat, she reads out from a dog-eared
copy of Proust. Elsewhere, the William Burroughs character reads
the correct translation of a crude Celine passage. Writers --
like the rebels in “Motorcycle Diaries” -- are romanticized,
shown sitting at vintage typewriters with cigarettes hanging
from their mouths.  At a Cannes media briefing, Salles said he put his cast
through four weeks of “boot camp”: non-stop documentary
screenings on the period. It doesn’t show.  What the movie has going for it is the actor playing Dean:
Garrett Hedlund (previously in “Troy” and “Tron”). His
performance is both bestial and moving, and a poignant rendering
of the central friendship. Dunst and Stewart are also good, with
Stewart getting more screen time as wild Marylou.  Nonetheless, you’re left wondering what the film is doing
in the official Cannes competition. Rating: **.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 