-- Naira Falls for Second Day on Europe Debt Concerns as Oil Drops
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-23T15:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/naira-falls-for-second-day-on-europe-debt-concerns-as-oil-drops.html
Nigeria ’s naira depreciated for the
second day against the dollar over concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will deepen and as oil, the country’s key export, slumped.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer declined 0.1
percent to 159.37 per dollar as of 3:55 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The naira, which has hovered at a three-
month low for two days, has gained 1.8 percent this year, the
second-best performer among African currencies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pressure on the naira “came from a natural reaction to the
re-emergence of crisis in Europe,”  Central Bank of Nigeria 
Governor Lamido Sanusi said yesterday after the Abuja-based
regulator left its benchmark  interest rate  on hold for a fourth
consecutive meeting at a record 12 percent.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the region’s debt crisis that has wiped more than $4 trillion
from equity markets worldwide this month. The nation’s bonny
light crude traded at $108.97 a barrel, down from more than $128
in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Economic
growth in Nigeria slowed to 6.17 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 7.13 percent in the same period last year, on weak
economic activity and lower demand after a strike in January
shut businesses across the country.  The central bank recognizes “possible pressure from the
softer oil price,” Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic
research at FBN Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note to
clients today. “We see pressure from the pick-up in petroleum
product imports after a lull, and a likely adjustment to the
central point in the exchange-rate band in second half.”  Auction  Nigeria sold $200 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, with lenders buying the entire amount on sale, the Abuja-
based Central Bank of Nigeria said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The marginal rate, which is also used as the prevailing
exchange rate, was 155.70 naira, unchanged from the previous
auction on May 21, it said.  The central bank on Nov. 21 lowered the midpoint of its
exchange-rate band at its bi-weekly foreign exchange auctions to
155 naira per dollar from 150 naira as rising imports and
weakening oil prices increased pressure on the currency.  Inflation, which accelerated to 12.9 percent in April after
the government partly removed fuel subsidies and boosted
gasoline costs, may increase after Nigeria implements new
electricity tariffs from June 1, which will see middle-income
consumers pay 45 percent more, Sanusi said. The central bank
estimates inflation will peak at 14.5 percent in the third
quarter, before moderating.  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of dollar bonds due 2021
snapped two days of declines, rising four basis points to 5.6304
percent. Borrowing costs on naira bonds due 2015 slipped two
basis points to 15.26 percent, according to May 22 data compiled
by the Financial Markets Dealers Association.  Ghana ’s cedi depreciated for a second day by 0.7 percent to
1.9050 per dollar in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  