-- Nasdaq Official Said to Concede Missteps in Facebook IPO
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-23T01:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/nasdaq-official-said-to-concede-missteps-in-facebook-ipo.html
A  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  official
acknowledged that the exchange operator was unaware of all the
problems affecting  Facebook  Inc.’s initial public offering as it
worked to start trading on the morning of May 18, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the discussions.  Had the scope of the issues with the IPO auction been known
before it began,  Nasdaq  wouldn’t have moved forward,  Eric Noll ,
the executive vice president for transaction services, said in a
call with brokers today, according to the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks were private.  Nasdaq and Facebook ran into trouble when computer systems
used to set the opening price were overwhelmed by order
cancellations and updates during the “biggest IPO cross in the
history of mankind,” Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld , 54, said in a call with reporters two days ago. The
stock has declined 18 percent from the $38 price set by
underwriters to today’s close of $31.  Order updates and cancellations totaling 30 million shares
were submitted into the opening auction as it was being repaired
between 11:11 a.m. and 11:30 a.m., Greifeld said May 20. About
half of them may involve “some level of dispute,” he said.
Nasdaq said in a notice yesterday that the 30 million shares
weren’t included in the IPO cross. Greifeld said the delay in
starting trading didn’t affect the price of  Facebook (FB)  shares.  Noll said Nasdaq has been talking to the Securities and
Exchange Commission about the IPO auction, the two people with
knowledge of the call said.  Draft Rule  The exchange submitted a draft rule  filing  to the SEC to
involve the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in the
adjudication process for the accommodation fund that enables it
to pay member firms a total of $3 million for systems problems
on its market, one person said. According to the person, Noll
said Finra, which will review claims related to the IPO auction
problem, will determine the aggregate amount of the valid
requests.  Noll said Nasdaq hopes $13 million will be in the fund to
repay brokers, one of the people said.  Earlier today, Greifeld acknowledged in a meeting with
shareholders that “clearly we had mistakes” in the offering.
Greifeld blamed “poor design” in the software it uses for
driving auctions in IPOs in the conference call with reporters
on May 20.  Noll said 1,000 labor hours of testing to ensure the
process worked failed to reveal the issue that delayed
Facebook’s open by half an hour on May 18, according to one of
the people.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, declined to comment,
saying the communication was a “closed call to member firms.”
Noll said in a statement provided by Madden: “My intention was
to make clear that we believed we had a good solution in place
and that if we had known the solution was inadequate, we would
have fixed the issue with the right solution before going
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  