-- Nebraska Landowners Challenge Pipeline Law, Lawyer Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-23T20:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/nebraska-landowners-challenge-pipeline-law-lawyer-says.html
Three Nebraska landowners asked the
state Supreme Court to overturn a new law allowing the governor
to approve pipeline routes and delegate the right to acquire
property for such projects, a lawyer for the plaintiffs said.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s permit application to run the Keystone
XL pipeline through the state is being processed under the new
law, the attorney, David Domina, said in an interview today.
Under the law, Calgary-based TransCanada can gain eminent domain
authority without having to wait for federal permits, he said.  The law, which went into effect in April, changed the
pipeline permit approval process, giving rights to the governor
and the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality previously
held by the state’s  Public Service Commission , Domina said.  The new law “violates the doctrine of separation of
powers” and fails “to provide for notice to affected parties,
thereby depriving them of due process of law,” the landowners
said in a copy of the filing provided by Domina. The plaintiffs,
Randy Thompson, Susan Luebbe and Susan Dunavan, want the state’s
high court to hold the law unconstitutional, Domina said.  The filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed with the
court. Domina said his clients will be filing a separate
complaint today over the law in state district court in Lincoln,
 Nebraska .  TransCanada Isn’t Named  “This lawsuit does not name TransCanada as a party,”
Domina said in a press conference today. It names “only those
responsible for enforcement of the law,” he said, including the
governor, the director of the environmental quality department
and the state’s treasurer.  “We’re certainly aware of the lawsuit, but we’re not
commenting directly on it,” Grady Semmens, a TransCanada
spokesman, said in an interview.  “We continue to work with the Department of Environmental
Equality” on a new route for the pipeline, he said. “We’re not
going to speculate on the outcome of the lawsuit.”  Sue Roush, a spokeswoman for Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  The landowners are seeking immediate review by the state
 supreme court , Domina said. The court could decide as early as
May 30 to accept the case, he said. Any decision would take
months, he said.  Early Ruling  An early ruling on the law by the court would be in
TransCanada’s interest, he said. “If we’re right about these
issues, ultimately what TransCanada attempts to do will be
invalid,” he said at the press conference.  TransCanada reapplied for a permit to carry crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to  Steele City , Nebraska, after an earlier
iteration of the pipeline was rejected by President  Barack Obama 
in part because of potential environmental risks in Nebraska.  The company is now building the Keystone XL as originally
conceived in two segments and may begin construction on the
southern portion from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to Texas refineries as
soon as next month. TransCanada has applied for a federal permit
on the northern segment and has also submitted a new route plan
to Nebraska that is being reviewed by state officials.  Officials with the Nebraska Department of Environmental
Quality have conducted hearings and will begin an environmental
impact study on the route that may conclude as soon as August,
TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said May 4. The
company has said it expects to receive state and federal
approvals by the first quarter of next year and could complete
construction on the northern segment by early 2015.  The current law “would allow a foreign corporation to
condemn Nebraska properties prior to having a permit to
construct their project within our borders,” plaintiff Thompson
said in press release distributed by the Domina law firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  