-- NFL Arbitrator Upholds Cap Penalties Against Cowboys, Redskins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-23T13:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/nfl-arbitrator-upholds-cap-penalties-against-cowboys-redskins.html
The  Washington Redskins  and  Dallas
Cowboys  were stripped of a combined $46 million in salary cap
space over the next two years by the  National Football League 
after an independent arbitrator dismissed the teams’ appeal.  The NFL said the teams gained a competitive advantage by
front-loading contracts during the 2010 season, when the league
didn’t have a salary cap, to clear space for future spending.  Arbitrator Stephen Burbank upheld the penalties yesterday
after considering the teams’ appeal, saying the March 27
resolution became an amendment to the collective bargaining
agreement when the players’ union signed off on it. The Redskins
lose $18 million in salary cap space each of the next two years,
while the Cowboys give up $5 million each season.  “We pursued our salary cap claim pursuant to the CBA and
we respect and will abide by the arbitrator’s decision to
dismiss,” the Redskins and Cowboys said in an e-mailed joint
statement. “We will continue to focus on our football teams and
the 2012 season.”  The Redskins and Cowboys are the NFL’s two most valuable
franchises, according to Forbes’s  team rankings .  The New Orleans Saints and Oakland Raiders are the only
other teams that won’t get a share of the $46 million in cap
space taken from the Redskins and Cowboys due to similar minor
violations. The other 28 teams will get an added $1.6 million in
salary space to use over the next two years.  The NFL’s player payroll limit for each team was originally
set at $120.6 million for the 2012 season.  The NFL didn’t have a salary cap during the 2010 season
after the league’s labor contract expired. Without a salary cap,
the Redskins and Cowboys paid money to some players in 2010 that
normally would have been spread out over the length of their
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  