-- NFL Players Claim League Conspired on Secret Salary Cap
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-23T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/nfl-players-claim-league-conspired-on-secret-salary-cap-in-2010.html
National Football League  players
accused the league of conspiring on a secret per-club salary cap
in 2010, violating settlement of a 1992 lawsuit by the late
Philadelphia Eagles football Hall of Famer Reggie White.  In a petition filed today in federal court in Minnesota,
the National Football League Players Association asked a judge
to reopen the White case, claiming at least $3 billion in
damages.  The NFL and some owners “engaged in a secret, recently
revealed collusive and circumventing agreement” including a
$123 million club pay cap, wrote  Barbara Berens , a Minneapolis
attorney representing the association.  “When the rules are broken in a way that hurts the game,
we have an obligation to act,”  DeMaurice Smith , the association
executive director, said today in a statement.  The players asked a judge to rule in their favor, award
damages and enforce the agreement against the league and its
32 clubs and their owners.  The agreement, amended in 2006, mandated that salaries in
the 2010 season be uncapped to allow raises for the players,
while “the NFL’s and the owners’ actions were dictated solely
by self interest,” the players alleged.  ‘No Merit’  “The filing of these claims is prohibited by the
collective bargaining agreement and separately by an agreement
signed by the players’ attorneys,”  Greg Aiello , a league
spokesman. “The claims have absolutely no merit and we fully
expect them to be dismissed.”  At a telephone press conference from Washington today,
 Jeffrey Kessler , a lawyer for the players, said the signed
agreement to which Aiello referred “was not accepted by the
judge.”  In response to another question, he said the damages sought
in the latest petition are just for potential lost salaries in
2010.  In another salary-cap case, the league stripped the
 Washington Redskins  and  Dallas Cowboys  of a combined $46 million
in salary cap space over the next two years after the teams’
appeal was dismissed in arbitration. The league said the teams
gained a competitive advantage by front-loading contracts during
the 2010 season.  The case is White v. National Football League, 92-cv-00906,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 