-- Nike’s Hot Punch Running Shoes Spur Industry Growth
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/nike-s-hot-punch-running-shoes-spur-industry-growth.html
Running shoes meant for marathoners
are this era’s Air Jordans.  Shoppers more interested in making a fashion statement than
actually jogging are scooping up technologically sophisticated
running shoes because they’re comfortable and trendy. And they
aren’t afraid to pay up. Exhibit A:  Nike Inc.’s (NKE)  $100 Free
sneaker in “hot punch” -- aka pink.  Sales of such shoes in the U.S. surged 14 percent to $6.46
billion in the 12 months through March, according to NPD Group.
And first-quarter profit gains pushed up shares at retailers
from  Foot Locker Inc. (FL)  to  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , evidence
that a trend that began two years ago still has legs.  Since the recession, Nike and  Adidas AG (ADS)  have tapped into
consumers’ demand for more value by offering a slew of running
shoes that are easy on the eyes and on the feet, according to
 Marshal Cohen , an NPD analyst.  “We’ve seen the running-shoe business become a fashion
business, as well as a comfort and innovation business,” said
Cohen, who is based in  Port Washington , New York. “When you put
that together, that’s a positive perfect storm.”  Sales of running shoes are driving the entire athletic shoe
industry. Ditto for Nike, which in fiscal 2011 generated almost
14 percent of its $20.9 billion in global sales from the running
category.  Investors are betting sporting goods retailers and sneaker
makers will continue to benefit from the running-shoe boom.  Shares Surge  Adidas, Foot Locker, Dick’s, Skechers USA Inc.,  Shoe
Carnival Inc. (SCVL)  and  DSW Inc. (DSW)  have all surged more than 20 percent
this year through yesterday compared with a 4.7 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Finish Line Inc. (FINL)  and Nike have
advanced at least 10 percent.  Athletic footwear has long been worn off the court or
field. Sneakers-as-fashion really took flight in the 1980s, when
rappers helped turn basketball shoes such as Nike’s Air Force 1
and Adidas’s Superstar into bestsellers. Later on, Air Jordan
basketball shoes became a fixture of urban street fashion.  While running shoes also have been used for everyday wear,
sales surged in 2010 with the advent of lightweight shoes that
weigh less than 10 ounces and come in a range of neon hues.  Toning shoes have played a part, too. In the depths of the
recession in 2009, Skechers and  Reebok , a unit of Adidas,
released toning shoes that promised to help firm up a women’s
backside. The Shape-ups and EasyTone brands were a stealth hit.  Sales surged through 2010 until consumers pulled back as
regulators questioned the accuracy of ads touting the shoes’
health benefits; toners were relegated to the discount bin.  Persuading Consumers  Still, toning persuaded consumers who’d rarely bought
athletic shoes to pay $100-plus for fitness-oriented footwear,
according to Kerry Jackson, the chief financial officer at Shoe
Carnival, a discount retailer based in Evansville,  Indiana .  Toning really captured “the consumer’s interest in better
health,” said Jackson, who says shoppers now see lightweight
runners the same way. Shoe Carnival now stocks several pairs for
more than $100, and Jackson said he expects the summer Olympics
to boost sales because brands typically tout new innovations in
the leadup to the games.  The continued “casualization” of society has also spurred
sneaker sales, according to Chris Svezia, an analyst for
Susquehanna Financial Group in  New York .  “We’re getting more and more casual every decade,” Svezia
said. “That by itself doesn’t translate into good athletic
footwear sales, but it helps.”  Improved Margins  Demand for running shoes has helped manufacturers and
retailers improve margins because they can pass on price
increases to shoppers, which in turn helps recoup higher costs
for raw materials and labor in  Asia .  “We’ve gone through these price increases like butter,”
said Matt Powell, an analyst for SportsOneSource in Scarborough,
 Maine .  The boom in athletic footwear will probably endure as
basketball and cross-training shoes become lighter, according to
Svezia. Still, consumers may shift purchases to clothes or
accessories, year-over-year comparisons will become harder, and
the Olympics happens once every four years, he said.  “I can’t see anything on the horizon that makes it seem
like the wheels are going to fall off,” Svezia said. Then
again, keeping the growth going next year will be “a much
bigger hurdle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  