-- No Deal More Fashionable Than Guess as Cash Lures LBO
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-05-23T20:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/no-deal-more-fashionable-than-guess-as-cash-lures-lbo-real-m-a.html
Guess? Inc. (GES)  is turning into the
cheapest takeover candidate in the fashion industry.  After slumping to an almost  three-year low  yesterday, the
Los Angeles-based clothing designer and retailer was valued at
3.5 times  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest of any apparel retailer or clothing-brand owner in
the U.S. and less than half the industry median.  While Guess faces its first  consecutive  drop in annual
profit in eight years as demand in  Europe  slumps and competition
erodes operating margins, Jefferies Group Inc. and Morningstar
Inc. say the retailer may still entice leveraged buyout firms.
Guess has a higher free cash flow yield than 97 percent of its
rivals, the data show. It also holds a  half-billion dollars  in
cash, has almost no debt and owns a globally recognized brand
name that is driving growth in markets such as  China .  “The company’s got a bunch of cash,” Scott Billeadeau,
who helps oversee about $12.8 billion at Fifth Third Asset
Management in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “The
brand is good. You can buy an asset that maybe people are
 discounting  pretty significantly now.”  Telephone calls to Guess’s investor relations department
seeking comment weren’t returned. Guess, which also reported
quarterly earnings that beat analysts’ estimates yesterday, rose
6.5 percent to $26.03 a share today.  The advance was the third largest in the 205-stock
 Bloomberg World Retail Index (BWRETL)  and helped Guess snap a nine-day
losing streak, its longest in 12 years. The company now has a
market capitalization of about $2.3 billion.  Leopard-Print Shorts  Guess was founded in 1981 by the Marciano brothers, who
left the south of  France  and began selling jeans in the U.S.
“in pursuit of the American dream,” according to its  website .  Guess now targets the 18- to 32-year-old “style-conscious
consumer” with products from  leopard-print shorts  to sequin-
embellished tank tops and rhinestone-studded watches.  Paul Marciano is chief executive officer at Guess, while
Maurice Marciano serves as its chairman.  Once worth more than $5 billion, Guess sank 41 percent in
the past year as the  European debt crisis  undercut consumer
demand in the region and lower-priced brands from competitors
pushed its operating profit margin to a six-year low.  Net income at Guess, which gets 38 percent of its sales
from Europe, will drop 15 percent this fiscal year, according to
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg prior to its quarterly
earnings announcement yesterday. Earnings fell 8.3 percent in
the year ended January after rising every year since 2002.  Free Cash  After the markets closed yesterday, Guess reported fiscal
first-quarter adjusted earnings of about $27 million, exceeding
analysts’  average estimate , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sales in the period also beat projections.  Relative to its reported Ebitda in the year ended January,
Guess was valued at a 57 percent discount to the median multiple
of 8.2 times for U.S. apparel retailers and clothing-brand
owners with more than $1 billion in market value, the data show.  The slump gives leveraged buyout firms the chance to buy a
company that’s cheap relative to  cash flow  and gain a brand that
is becoming more popular around the world, according to Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for Morningstar in  Chicago .  After deducting capital expenses, Guess had cash from
operations in the past fiscal year equal to about 11 percent of
its stock price, or more than double the industry’s median free
cash flow yield, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brand Value  Guess, which has outlets in more than  85 countries  and got
62 percent of its  sales outside the U.S. , now holds $484 million
more cash than debt. That’s higher versus its market value than
any U.S. apparel company apart from Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc.  “It still screens well” as a takeover candidate,
Wahlstrom said in an e-mail. “The company still generates
meaningful free cash flow, carries no debt and has a good long-
term global growth strategy.”  Guess ranked 29th on Interbrand’s  annual list  of most
valuable U.S. retail brands this year, higher than all its
closest rivals except  Gap (GPS)  Inc., which ranked 22nd.  Interbrand cited Guess’s ability to adapt to changes in
revenue in any region, which helped to make the brand “more
protected than most.”  Express Inc. (EXPR) , one of its biggest mall
competitors, wasn’t ranked among Interbrand’s top 50 brands.  Both San Francisco-based Gap and Columbus, Ohio-based
Express get most of their revenue from  North America , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pricing Power  “What makes the company attractive is that you’ve got one
of the few true global brands out there trading at such a deep
discount valuation,” Randal Konik, a New York-based analyst at
Jefferies, said in a telephone interview. Investors aren’t
giving Guess “enough credit for the brand power it has.”  Konik says Guess would also appeal to private-equity firms
that can cut costs to boost its  operating margin , which fell
below 16 percent in the year ended in January, the data show.  Diana Katz, a New York-based analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets LLC, says Guess deserves a lower valuation because
Europe will continue to hurt its sales. U.S. rivals that offer
discounts such as Express are also undercutting Guess, she said.  “Their stuff is priced too high,” Katz said in a
telephone interview. “It has a massive overhang with Europe.
There doesn’t seem to be any light here.”  Any interested buyer would also have to persuade the
Marciano brothers, which  own  about 28 percent of Guess, to sell
the company they founded.  Jefferies’ Konik says the rewards of owning Guess outweigh
the risks, especially as Asian demand rises and sales in Europe
recover. He  estimates  Guess is worth $50 a share as a standalone
company, about double its price yesterday. Morningstar says
Guess could command more than $40 a share in a takeover.  “The company is still on a growth trajectory,” Konik
said. Plus, “it’s cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 