-- Norilsk Leads ADR Slump as Commodities Tumble: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-23T02:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/norilsk-leads-adr-slump-as-commodities-tumble-russia-overnight.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY)  led declines
in  Russian equities  traded in New York and futures fell after
commodities retreated to the lowest since October 2010.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. slid 0.9 percent to 85.89
yesterday. Futures expiring in June on Moscow’s dollar-
denominated RTS Index lost 2 percent to 129,175. Norilsk fell to
the lowest level in four months as nickel declined while  OAO
RusHydro (RSHYY)  dropped 4.1 percent, swelling the premium to its Moscow
shares by the most on record, after Interfax news agency
reported that Russia may not sell a stake in the company.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
declined 1.1 percent 286.50 yesterday, the lowest level in 19
months, as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks spiraling and
seriously damaging the world economy. Russia, the world’s
biggest energy exporter and largest producer of nickel and
palladium, got almost 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and
gas sales last year.  “The feeling is that the situation will probably get worse
before it gets better,” Slava Smolyaninov, chief strategist at
UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“Commodities prices have a major impact on investors’ mood;
they are linked by the same chain.”  Russian ADRs’ valuations  dropped  to 4.8 times estimated
earnings, less than half the 9.8 multiple for members of the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  Russia was the first of the so-
called BRIC countries of  Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China  to
enter a  bear market  in 2012 after the dollar-denominated RTS
Index posted a 20 percent decline on May 14 from a March 15
peak.  ‘Withdrawing Money’  “Risk sentiment is off,”Smolyaninov said. “Investors
are withdrawing money from BRIC-focused funds.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, declined 1 percent to $24.94 and is down
30 percent from a year ago. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, rose 9 percent to
45.62 points in New York.  “High volatility will continue in the near future, or at
least until there is some solution to Europe’s debt crisis and
more clarity on whether  Greece  would exit the euro,” Konstantin Chernyshev, head of research at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by phone. “Russian markets are closely correlated
to Europe.”  Europe’s crisis risks spiraling and seriously damaging the
world economy, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in its semi-annual report
yesterday. Manufacturing in the region covered by the Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond grew in March at the slowest pace of
2012 as orders and sales cooled, figures showed yesterday.  Metals Drop  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index sank 0.9 percent to
628.23 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 19. Gold, platinum,
silver and copper fell in  New York  and nickel slid on the London
Metal Exchange, dropping 1.7 percent to $16,900 a ton yesterday.  Norilsk Nickel  fell 4.9 percent to $15.29 in New York
yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 9. In Moscow, the stock
retreated 0.8 percent to 4,995 rubles, or $160.20. Ten ADRs are
equal one Moscow-listed share. The company, the world’s biggest
producer of nickel and palladium, accounts for 40 percent of
global palladium sales and about 12 percent of platinum.  RusHydro Discount  RusHydro dropped to $2.56 in New York, swelling its
discount to Moscow-listed shares to 5.3 percent, the most since
the company started trading in New York. The stock fell 0.5
percent to 84.36 kopeks or 2.7 U.S. cents in Moscow yesterday.
One ADR is equal to 100 shares.  Russia added RusHydro, OAO Rosneft, Federal Grid Co. and
OAO MRSK Holding to its list of strategic assets, which may
preclude the government from privatizing them, Interfax
reported, citing  a decree by President  Vladimir Putin  signed on
May 21. A spokeswoman at the Kremlin declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News after normal business hours. The
government owned 60.38 percent of RusHydro as of March 31,
according to the company’s  website .  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of Russia’s natural gas
monopoly, rose 0.8 percent to $21.18, trading at a premium to
the company’s Moscow-listed shares after three days at a
discount. The company said yesterday that first-quarter profit
rose 21 percent on higher crude prices.  Oil Falls  Oil, Russia’s major export commodity, dropped for an eighth
day in nine as Iran agreed to let in United Nations nuclear
inspectors, easing concern that the conflict over the country’s
atomic energy program would disrupt Mideast supplies.  Crude for June delivery slumped 1 percent to $91.66 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. The
contract expired at the close of floor trading yesterday. The
more actively traded July contract retreated 1.1 percent to
$91.85. Front-month futures were down 7.3 percent this year
through yesterday.  Brent oil for July settlement lost 0.4 percent to $108.41 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals
crude,  Russia ’s chief export blend, fell 0.7 percent to $106.90,
the lowest since January.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$4.61 at 10 a.m in Hong Kong trading today.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  