-- Obama Prospects Improve as Swing State Economies Improve
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-23T01:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/obama-prospects-improve-as-swing-state-economies-improve.html
From extra shifts at auto and steel
plants in Ohio to office buildings rising in Northern Virginia,
the geography of the U.S. economic rebound is providing an edge
to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  The unemployment rates in a majority of the 2012
battleground states are lower than the national average as those
economies improve. Coupled with the growth of adult minority
populations in those states, the trends create a higher bar for
presumed Republican Party presidential nominee Mitt Romney in
his quest to unseat Obama.  “There are jobs out there,” said Chris McGiffen, 47, of
Zanesville, Ohio, who moved to the state in 2010 from  St. Louis 
to look for work. He found a job as a welder at Columbus
Castings, a steel foundry that makes products such as
undercarriages for railroad cars, he said.  Nine states switched from supporting Republican President
 George W. Bush  in 2004 to Democrat Obama in 2008. Leaving out
 Indiana , which both sides say is leaning Republican after 
supporting Obama four years ago, the remaining eight are again 
shaping up as the central election battleground.  Those eight states --  Colorado ,  Florida ,  Iowa ,  Nevada ,  New
Mexico , North Carolina,  Ohio  and Virginia -- have a combined 101
electoral votes. Romney must win at least 79 of those electoral
votes to prevail if all other states run true to their 2004 and
2008 partisan preferences.  Must Take Florida  Obtaining those 79 electoral votes is a daunting task for
Romney, in part because it is impossible for him to achieve
without claiming Florida. Winning all the other states would
still leave him seven votes short. And even with Florida, losing
Ohio and any one of the other smaller states -- New Mexico, Iowa
or Nevada -- keeps him shy of the 79 figure.  Local economies are “important,” said Xu Cheng, a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics. A model that Moody’s developed
based solely on state-by-state economic data and past voting
behavior forecast the outcome in 2008, he said.  A projection Moody’s made May 21 based on the model
predicts an Obama victory with 303 electoral voters, with the
Democrat carrying Ohio and  Virginia  and the Republican winning
Florida. The economic data for the remainder of the year comes
from Moody’s state-by-state forecasts.  An external shock to the economy such as a disorderly
European debt default or a Middle East conflict that spikes  oil 
prices could upend the state-by-state economic projections and
alter the electoral forecast, Cheng said.  Growth Forecast  The Moody’s national forecast is on the optimistic side of
private economists, anticipating 2.86 percent growth in the 3rd
quarter versus a median of 2.4 percent among economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  A key threshold in how states vote in presidential
elections is 8 percent  unemployment  -- about the level of the
national jobless rate in April -- according to a Moody’s
analysis that examined results going back to 1980.  The incumbent president gets only about half as much credit
for improvements in the economy when the local unemployment rate
is above 8.0 percent, the Moody’s analysis found. Economists
there have dubbed the finding “the grumpy voter effect.”  Five of the Bush-turned-Obama states had lower unemployment
rates in April than the 8.1 percent national average, and in
three of the states joblessness had dropped below 7 percent.  Nationally, polls show a tight race. Obama leads Romney 47
percent to 43 percent among registered voters, according to an
NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll conducted May 16-20 with a
margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  Ohio Economy  In Ohio, the state’s economy followed the roller coaster of
the  auto industry  to a deeper recession than elsewhere and a
stronger recovery.  Unemployment in the state  dropped  to 7.4 percent in April,
also aided by a rebound in steel, growth in other manufacturing
industries and a surge in oil and natural gas development
through the use of “fracking” technology.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  added a shift at its plant in Marysville,
Ohio, at the beginning of the year and Chrysler Group LLC
announced plans this month to skip an annual two-week summer
shutdown at its Toledo, Ohio, Jeep Wrangler production line to
keep up with demand. Vallourec SA’s V&M Star is building a $650
million steel pipe mill in Youngstown, Ohio, to supply drilling
into the Utica and Marcellus shale formations.  “Unemployment is still high but there are spot skill
shortages starting to show up,” said Edward Hill, dean of the
Levin College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University.
Truck drivers, medical technicians and industrial electricians
are among the occupations in demand, he said.  Minority Voting Population  The portion of eligible voters in Ohio who are African-
American also is slightly higher than the last presidential
election, up 1 percentage point in 2011 from three years
earlier, according to an analysis of census data by  William Frey , a demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  Virginia, a state that went Democratic for the first time
since 1964 in backing Obama, has been sustained throughout the
recession by federal government contracts, particularly military
procurement. Unemployment never  rose  above 7.3 percent and had
dropped to 5.6 percent in April.  Technology businesses in the state nurtured by federal
contracts are also expanding into commercial ventures and work
for foreign governments, said Stephen Fuller, director of the
Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University in
Arlington, Virginia.  Virginia Housing Market  In the suburbs of Washington in Northern Virginia, the real
estate market is rebounding, with home values in some areas at
or near the peak of the housing boom and new office construction
continuing, Fuller said. New York-based Monday Properties broke
ground in 2010 on a 35-story tower in Arlington, Virginia, that
will be the tallest building in the capital region.  The percentage of racial minorities, who voted heavily for
Obama in 2008, in Virginia had risen by 3 percentage points in
2011.  The Iowa economy is humming along at 5.1 percent
 unemployment , with its large agricultural sector boosted by
record national  farm profits  last year. Demand for agricultural
equipment manufactured in the state also has been rising in
emerging economies.  Deere & Co. (DE)  announced a $70 million
expansion of its tractor production facility in Waterloo, Iowa,
on March 1.  New Mexico Energy  New Mexico, bolstered by ties to energy production, also
avoided the worst of the recession, with unemployment  down  to
6.9 percent in April. Job opportunities in Colorado are slightly
better than the national average, with 7.9 percent unemployment.  Florida, the largest of the swing states with 29 electoral
votes, has been buffeted by the housing crisis and presents
Romney with an opportunity to take a state from Obama’s 2008
column.  After a frenzy of construction during the housing boom, the
oversupply of homes has been a drag on the local recovery and
sapped the wealth of homeowners. At the end of last year, 44
percent of all mortgaged homes in Florida were worth less than
the loan balance, according to CoreLogic.  “That lost wealth in home equity is a pretty heavy
burden,” said Sean Snaith, director of the Institute for
Economic Competitiveness at the University of Central Florida in
 Orlando .  The national housing bust also has cut the flow of retirees
to Florida, a traditional source of growth for the state, Snaith
said.  Florida Retiree Migration  While affluent retirees whose wealth is concentrated in
financial assets such as stocks and bonds have resumed migrating
to Florida, “the average Joe and Jane retiree has to sell a
house up north to finance a move,” he said.  Still,  joblessness  has been declining more rapidly in
Florida than elsewhere, with the 8.7 percent April unemployment
rate down from a peak of 11.4 percent in February 2010.  The state’s tourism industry has benefited from pent-up
demand for more vacation travel as the economy has recovered.
International travelers, especially from South America and
 Brazil ’s expanding middle class, also are coming to Miami and
South Florida in growing numbers, Snaith said.  Population shifts in Florida since 2008 benefit Obama, with
blacks and Hispanics each accounting for an additional 1 percent
of the state’s eligible voters by 2011, according to Frey’s
analysis.  Nevada Casinos  Nevada, another state that boomed during the real estate
bubble, has been the hardest hit by the housing crisis. At the
end of last year, the state led the country in the portion of
homeowners with underwater mortgages, with more than 61 percent
of properties worth less than the loan balance, according to
CoreLogic.  Still, the broader economy in the state is improving. Like
Florida, the state’s tourism and  casino  businesses have
rebounded as the national economy improves.  Though Nevada had the highest unemployment  rate  in the
nation in April at 11.7 percent, the drop over the past year has
been more than twice as large as elsewhere. A year earlier, the
state’s jobless rate was 13.6 percent.  Minority groups’ share of eligible voters in Nevada was up
4 percentage points by 2011. That demographic movement toward
Obama, mostly driven by its growing Hispanic population, is
“the biggest change in a swing state” Frey said.  North Carolina , the battleground Obama chose to host the
Democratic nominating convention this year, is lagging the
national economic recovery. The unemployment  rate  was 9.4
percent in April.  Charlotte-based  Bank of America  Corp., one of the state’s
largest employers, last year announced plans to fire 30,000
workers worldwide. The state’s pulp, furniture and chemical
industries have been hampered by “very strong competition”
from abroad, said Cheng, the Moody’s economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  