-- Clinton Pushes Senate on Sea Treaty for U.S. Business
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-23T15:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/obama-to-push-senate-to-ratify-sea-treaty-to-counter-china-rise.html
Obama administration officials pushed
for the U.S. to join a 30-year-old international treaty that
they say is now essential to counter China and maintain
influence in Asia, while Republican critics say it would
undermine U.S. sovereignty.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Defense Secretary Leon Panetta and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey, testifying today before the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, urged lawmakers to ratify the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea.  The treaty was signed in 1994 by President  Bill Clinton  and
subsequently endorsed by President  George W. Bush . It has twice
failed to win Senate ratification due to conservative
opposition, which portrayed it as eroding U.S. sovereignty.  “I am well aware that this treaty does have determined
opposition, limited but nevertheless quite vociferous,” Clinton
told the committee. “And it’s unfortunate because it’s
opposition based in ideology and mythology, not in facts,
evidence, or the consequences of our continuing failure to
accede to the treaty.”  Panetta said the treaty doesn’t affect U.S. sovereignty and
that ratification is crucial for American security interests.  They made their arguments against a backdrop of
Washington’s political personalities.  Democrats will soon lose a prominent Republican advocate
with the departure of Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , who was
defeated in his primary race. Lugar has sought ratification of
the treaty for years in defiance of Senate Republican leaders,
and the push now is something of a swan song for the six-term
lawmaker.  Waiting ‘Too Long’  The issue also provides a chance for Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , a
contender to become secretary of state if President  Barack Obama 
wins re-election, to try to deliver for the administration.  And for Clinton, today’s hearing recalls her confirmation
hearing before the Senate panel on Jan. 13, 2009, when she said
ratification would be an administration priority. The treaty has
languished since then, and the next six months are her last
chance to achieve that goal. Clinton has said she will step down
when Obama’s current term ends.  “It’s urgent that this treaty be ratified,” Kerry said in
a telephone interview yesterday, outlining economic and
strategic reasons why the U.S. should join more than 160 other
countries that are party to the convention. “It’s been too long
in the waiting. America’s interests need this treaty.”  Oil, Gas Interests  The U.S. loses out economically by not ratifying, Kerry
said, citing oil and gas interests, rights of passage for U.S.
vessels and access to such resources as rare-earth minerals used
in mobile phones.  The treaty has twice failed to win Senate ratification, in
2004 and 2007, in the face of conservative opposition. This time
the opposition is being led by Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of
 South Carolina , who is seeking the 34 Senate votes needed to
block ratification.  The Law of the Sea sets out the rules for the commercial
use and environmental management of the world’s marine resources
and determines the extent to which national territory extends
offshore. Clashing claims over the oil-rich South  China  Sea
between China and its smaller neighbors have brought the issue
to the fore recently.  Seabed Authority  The original U.S. objection to the treaty under President
 Ronald Reagan  was over one section that dealt with marine
natural resources in the seabed beyond any state’s territorial
waters. It established an International Seabed Authority to
authorize exploration and mining, and to collect and distribute
royalties. The U.S. objected, arguing that this section was
unfavorable to its security and economic interests.  Kerry pointed to “major interests we’re foregoing” as a
result of not signing the treaty, particularly the chance to
mine rare-earth minerals from the ocean floor.  “We’re depending on China,” he said. “We could be mining
rare-earth minerals under the sea, but the companies that do it
won’t do it unless we’re signatories to the treaty,” he said,
explaining that these firms’ claims aren’t protected if they
work for countries that aren’t part of the convention.  “We rely on other countries for resources we could be
developing ourselves,” Kerry said.  Panetta told a May 9 forum at the Atlantic Council, a
 Washington  policy group, “this treaty is absolutely critical to
U.S. national security.”  Administration officials argue that the treaty “codifies
navigational rights and freedoms essential for our global
mobility,” as Dempsey said at the same panel.  ‘Outsized Claim’  Ratifying the treaty would also let the U.S. counter
efforts by rising powers to redefine international law, said
 Heather Conley , a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy group.  She cited China’s “outsized claim to the entire  South
China Sea  region” as an example of how countries are
interpreting laws “in ways that run counter to long-standing
interpretation and, more importantly for our purposes, to
American national interests.”  As the administration has made  Asia  a focus of its foreign
and defense policy agenda, Conley asked, “How can we argue that
other nations must abide by international rules when we haven’t
officially accepted those rules ourselves?”  Steven Grove, director of the Freedom Project at the
 Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy group, sees no need for
the treaty.  ‘Need It?’  “The big question is ’why do we need it?’” Grove said in
a telephone interview. “I’ve never heard an adequate answer and
I’ve been working on this for years.”  Grove said the U.S. doesn’t need the treaty to develop
offshore oil and gas resources because the government uses
presidential proclamations, acts of Congress and bilateral
treaties to establish the boundaries of its continental shelf.  Navigational rights are ensured by customary international
law, Grove said. And, if the U.S. ratifies the treaty, it would
have to pay royalties to the International Seabed Authority,
which “could then distribute those funds to developing and
landlocked nations, including some that are corrupt,
undemocratic or even state sponsors of terrorism,” Grove said.  Grove said that one reason to start the hearings now may be
to take advantage of Lugar’s presence. Another may be for Kerry
to win a victory for the administration.  “Getting a major policy win, like the long-languishing sea
treaty, would be a big feather in Senator Kerry’s cap,” Grove
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  