-- Obama Health Care Hangs on Clause Queried by U.S. Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-23T19:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/obama-health-care-hangs-on-clause-queried-by-u-s-court.html
When the U.S.  Supreme Court  upheld
the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the justices said next to nothing
about racial equality, the ideal that drove the landmark law’s
enactment.  Instead, the court cited the constitutional clause that
lets Congress regulate interstate commerce, saying the law
barred discrimination at hotels and restaurants used by
travelers moving across state lines.  In the last 75 years, the commerce clause has become one of
the Constitution’s most potent provisions, underlying federal
laws that affect every American business and consumer, from the
1938 minimum- wage  statute to the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
regulations. Next month the 16-word clause will play a starring
role again as the focus of the fight over President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Critics say it has expanded far beyond the original purpose
and are looking to the health case to re-establish some limits.  “The modern version of the  commerce clause  is designed to
allow the federal government to regulate anything and everything
in the national economy,” said Richard Epstein, a  New York 
University School of Law and University of Chicago Law School
professor who contends the health-care law is unconstitutional.  The bulk of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
falls comfortably within the commerce clause power, at least as
it’s been defined by the Supreme Court over the past seven
decades. Health care accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and much of the business, including the sale of  prescription
drugs , takes place across state lines.  ‘Unprecedented Effort’  The constitutional disagreement lies in the law’s
requirement that Americans get insurance or pay a penalty.
Opponents say that provision crosses the line because it would
force people to buy a product -- something they say Congress
lacks the power to do.  “The mandate represents an unprecedented effort by
Congress to compel individuals to enter commerce in order to
better regulate commerce,”  Paul Clement , the lawyer for 26
states challenging the law, told the justices in March.  In defending the law, the Obama administration says
virtually every American will eventually require health care and
that the uninsured affect the market because they often can’t
pay for their treatments. And the insurance mandate will hold
down the costs of policies by making certain that  insurers 
aren’t covering only the sickest -- and hence, the most
expensive -- people, the administration says.  A Long Way  “What is being regulated is the method of financing” the
purchase of health care, U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli
told the court. “That itself is economic activity with
substantial effects on interstate commerce.”  The high court will probably rule in the case in late June.  The debate over the commerce power has come a long way
since the Constitutional Convention in 1787.  The framers adopted the provision to address perhaps the
most glaring inadequacy of the Articles of Confederation, the
loose agreement among the states that predated the Constitution.
That agreement let states discriminate against each other’s
goods -- a “defect” that had been “clearly pointed out by
experience,”  James Madison  wrote in the Federalist Papers.  The clause’s importance stems from the government’s
structure, where the Constitution grants Congress specified
powers, including borrowing money, declaring war and
establishing post offices. No. 3 on the list is allowing
Congress “to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations and among
the several States, and with the Indian Tribes” -- the commerce
clause.  Facilitating Trade  For the first century, the clause’s primary relevance was
to block state laws that interfered with interstate trade. Not
until the late 19th century, when Congress began reacting to a
nationalizing economy, did the court begin to take up sweeping
federal legislation.  In 1895 it ruled the Sherman Antitrust Act, which bars
efforts to monopolize markets, couldn’t constitutionally be
applied to the nation’s sugar industry. The majority said the
Constitution didn’t let Congress regulate manufacturing -- of
refined sugar or any other product. “Commerce succeeds to
manufacture, and is not part of it,” Chief Justice Melville Fuller wrote.  That ruling set the tone for the court’s restrictive
interpretation of the commerce power over the next four decades.
In 1918, the justices struck down a federal law that aimed to
tackle child labor by barring the interstate shipment of goods
produced in factories with workers under age 14.  Turning Point  The  turning point  came in a 1937 ruling that upheld the
 National Labor Relations Act , which gave employees the right to
bargain collectively and created a board to crack down on unfair
labor practices. For the first time, the court said Congress
could regulate activities such as manufacturing that have a
substantial effect on interstate commerce -- even if they do so
indirectly.  Buoyed by appointees of President  Franklin Roosevelt , the
court followed up in 1941 by upholding the  Fair Labor Standards
Act , which included a federal minimum-wage requirement. A year
later, the court said a federal quota on wheat production could
constitutionally apply even to grain used on a family farm for
consumption on the premises.  Unlimited Power  The wheat decision, known as Wickard v. Filburn, may
represent the high-water mark for the commerce clause. The court
bolstered federal authority by invoking a separate provision
that allows laws “necessary and proper” for carrying out
Congress’s other powers. Epstein once wrote that the ruling
“does not pass the laugh test if the issue is whether it bears
any fidelity to the original constitutional design.”  What followed was an era of virtually unlimited
congressional power under the commerce clause, as underscored by
the two civil rights rulings the court issued in December 1964,
less than six months after the law was enacted.  “The power of Congress in this field is broad and
sweeping,” Justice Tom Clark wrote for the court in one of the
cases. “Where it keeps within its sphere and violates no
express constitutional limitation it has been the rule of this
court, going back almost to the founding days of the republic,
not to interfere.”  Blessing and Curse  The commerce power now provides the legal basis for the
vast majority of federal criminal statutes, including drug
prohibitions and securities fraud laws, said Erwin Chemerinsky,
dean of the  University of California  at  Irvine  School of Law.
The clause has let the government enact the  Clean Water Act , the
Endangered Species Act, food-safety regulations and consumer-
protection laws.  For business, that expansion has proven to be a blessing as
much as a curse. Even as the commerce clause has permitted
increased federal regulation, it has ushered in the types of
national standards that companies prefer to state-by-state
regulation.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce invokes the clause against
state laws it says interfere with free trade. In one pending
case, the trade group is opposing a Michigan law that would
require all beverage containers sold in the state, even those
made elsewhere, to include a particular mark. The state says the
goal is to prevent people from collecting bottles and cans
elsewhere and redeeming them for the 10-cent Michigan deposit.  “The notion that one state can dictate how businesses
conduct their affairs in other states is anathema to the most
fundamental principles that animate the commerce clause,” the
group said in court papers.  New Era  As for Congress’s power, the Supreme Court began to re-
establish limits in 1995, when an ideologically divided court
invalidated a federal law barring guns near schools. The
majority called for “a distinction between what is truly
national and what is truly local.”  A second decision in 2000 barred the part of a federal law
that authorized lawsuits alleging gender-motivated violence. In
both cases, the court faulted Congress for regulating what was
essentially non-economic conduct.  Those rulings marked the beginning of what Chemerinsky
calls the fourth era of commerce clause interpretation, an epoch
whose significance would grow with a ruling striking down the
insurance requirement.  “The health-care case might give us a real indication in
this fourth era how far the pendulum is going to swing,”
Chemerinsky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  