-- Ohio Considers Rules That Opponents Say Favor Frackers
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-23T13:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/ohio-considers-rules-that-opponents-say-favor-frackers.html
The Ohio House is preparing to vote
on rules for natural-gas drillers that Republican Governor  John Kasich  calls among the nation’s toughest, even as
environmentalists say they let companies decide which industrial
chemicals stay secret.  The House Public Utilities Committee plans to vote today on
a bill Kasich sought governing hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, said Representative Peter Stautberg, the Republican
chairman of the committee. The measure, which could get a full
House vote tomorrow, would require disclosure of chemicals,
water sampling before drilling and tracking wastewater into
disposal wells. The Senate passed the bill May 15.  Kasich, 60, said the rules will help Ohio profit from a
boom in fracking -- which involves injecting chemicals, water
and sand underground to free gas reserves -- while protecting
drinking water and the environment.  Ohio  has 72 horizontally
drilled fracking wells, and the state Natural Resources
Department projects that 2,250 will be drilled by the end of
2015.  “It sets up the most important, strongest, clearest and
fairest regulations for hydraulic fracturing,” Kasich told
reporters in Columbus on May 17.  States including Ohio,  Pennsylvania  and  North Dakota  are
confronting the costs and benefits of fracking and how to
regulate it. The industry says fracking is safe and allows
increased production; environmental groups say it can lead to
contamination.  While groups including the Columbus-based Ohio
Environmental Council praised Kasich for seeking the law, they
said the provisions don’t go far enough and are calling for
changes.  ‘Gag Order’  The bill allows companies to shield chemicals as  trade
secrets , allows them to delay disclosure for 60 days after a
well has been drilled, and places a “gag order” on doctors
against disclosing information about chemicals that may have
affected patients, said Thom Cmar, an attorney for the Natural
Resources Defense Council in  Chicago .  The measure also ensures that while companies can appeal
the denial of a state permit to drill for oil and gas, residents
can’t appeal permit approvals, according to the Ohio
Environmental Council in Columbus.  “Credit Governor Kasich for the many good improvements to
Ohio’s oil and gas law,” a lawyer for the council, Trent
Dougherty, said in a statement. “But those good provisions will
struggle to buffer the toxic loopholes, lapses and left-outs
that the oil and gas industry has succeeded in elbowing into the
bill.”  $4.9 Billion  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  are among companies drilling in Ohio’s Utica Shale rock
formation. Its development will support 65,680 jobs and add $4.9
billion to the state’s economic output in 2014, according to a
study released Feb. 28 by the Ohio Shale Coalition.  State law currently doesn’t allow an appeal of a drilling
permit, and the bill merely clarifies that, Carlo LoParo, a
Natural Resources Department spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. A permit may be challenged in court, he said.  Drilling companies will be required to disclose fracking
chemicals unless they are considered trade secrets under
existing law, LoParo said. Colorado has the most stringent
rules, and the Ohio law does more by requiring disclosure of
fluids used in well construction and initial drilling as well as
chemicals used in fracking, said Christina Polesovsky, associate
director of the Ohio Petroleum Council.  “Ohioans are going to get more information and hopefully
more peace of mind about what we are doing and what we are
putting into the ground,” Polesovsky testified yesterday at a
House Public Utilities committee hearing.  Access to Information  The panel will add an amendment today clarifying that
doctors have access to information about trade-secret chemicals
and can use it as they deem necessary to treat patients,
Stautberg, the committee chairman, told reporters after the
hearing.  Even so, the state should have the authority to determine
whether a chemical is proprietary, Cmar of the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  said.  The bill requires adequate disclosure while also protecting
critical competitive information, Kasich said.  The governor said he still hopes to enact a measure
requiring that drillers pay a tax as high as 4 percent on the
market value of what they extract to fund an income-tax cut.
Legislative leaders from Kasich’s party removed that provision
from the bill for further study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  