-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day Low on Iran Deal, Rising Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-23T12:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-iran-deal-rising-supplies.html
Oil declined for a second day in  New
York  after  Iran  agreed to grant access to United Nations nuclear
inspectors and the euro slumped to a 21-month low against the
dollar.  West Texas Intermediate slid as much as 1.2 percent. UN
inspectors and Iran broke a five-year stalemate with a deal that
gives the International Atomic Energy Agency access to the
nation’s Parchin military complex, IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said yesterday. Western governments are holding talks with
Iran today in Baghdad. The euro fell on speculation European
leaders won’t propose new measures today in Brussels to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  “For now the geopolitical premium is likely to remain
depressed, and today’s meeting will set the tone for future
relations between Iran and the West,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in London, who predicts further price
losses will be limited.  Crude for July delivery declined as much as $1.14 to $90.71
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $91.14 at 12:55 p.m. London time. The
contract slid 1.1 percent to $91.85 yesterday, the lowest close
since May 18. The June futures contract, which expired, fell 91
cents yesterday to $91.66. Front-month prices are 7.9 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped $1.17, or 1.1
percent, to $107.24 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $16.10, from $16.56 yesterday.  Euro’s Decline  The euro extended a decline against the dollar to its
weakest since August 2010. The 17-member currency dropped as
much as 0.5 percent to $1.2615. It traded at $1.267 as of 12:57
a.m.  London  time.  Oil advanced 6.1 percent in the first four months of this
year on concern that sanctions against Iran, the second-biggest
crude producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, may disrupt supplies.  Iran is suspected by the U.S. and its allies to have worked
on the trigger for an atomic bomb at Parchin. The nation is in
talks in Baghdad today about its nuclear program with the U.S.,
U.K.,  France ,  Russia ,  China  and  Germany . The sides failed to
produce an accord at their last gathering on April 14 in
Istanbul, where they described discussions as “constructive.”  Baghdad Talks  The so-called P5+1 powers won’t give Iran relief from oil
and financial sanctions at their meeting in the Iraqi capital,
said U.S. officials. They will offer confidence-building
measures in return for Iranian concessions, according to a
Western official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Michael Mann , a spokesman for the European Union
delegation, told Iran’s state-run Press TV in  Baghdad  that the
mood of the talks was “positive,” though he added a “final
deal” wasn’t expected today.  “The agreement by Iran to let the inspectors in is a small
step in potentially reducing the supply risk,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That
feeds into the overall situation where demand is steady to
somewhat soft against a background of more than adequate
supplies.”  U.S. crude inventories rose  1.5 million barrels  last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said. A government report today
may show a gain of 1.7 million.  Oklahoma Crude  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , rose
491,000 barrels to 47.4 million last week, the API data showed.
That’s the highest level in records dating back to 2004.  Gasoline inventories dropped 4.5 million barrels, according
the API. An Energy Department report today may show they
declined  650,000 barrels , according to the median estimate of 12
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  