-- Oil Advances From Seven-Month Low as Drop May Be Overdone
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-05-24T12:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/oil-advances-from-seven-month-low-as-drop-may-be-overdone.html
Oil rebounded after closing below $90
a barrel for the first time in seven months amid signs  China 
will accelerate efforts to spur growth, while talks on  Iran’s
nuclear program  continued in  Baghdad .  Futures gained as much as 1.3 percent in New York. China,
the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, will intensify “fine-
tuning” of policies, according to the government’s second
statement in four days signaling a commitment to growth as
domestic demand slows. World powers and  Iran  are meeting for a
second day in Baghdad to overcome disagreements over measures to
ensure the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program is peaceful.  “China has been discussing ways of boosting growth in the
last couple of weeks, focusing on building infrastructure which
is a positive for commodities, especially oil,” said Thina Margethe Saltvedt, an analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo. “Most
eyes will be on Iran today as the meetings will give an idea
about how far the parties are willing to go in negotiations.”  Crude for July delivery gained as much as $1.17 to $91.07 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $90.60 at 1:12 p.m. London time. The contract
yesterday slid 2.1 percent to $89.90, the lowest close since
Oct. 21. Prices are 8.3 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 41 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $105.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate was at $15.37, compared with $15.66
yesterday.  Proactive China  China “must proactively take policies and measures to
expand demand and to create a favorable policy environment for
stable and relatively fast economic growth,” the government
said on its website yesterday, summarizing a meeting of the
State Council, or cabinet.  The statement builds on Premier Wen Jiabao’s comments
published May 20 showing a bigger focus on bolstering growth.
Authorities this month cut banks’ required reserves for the
third time since November.  Chinese, French, German, Russian, British and U.S.
negotiators, the so-called P5+1 group, reconvened with their
Iranian counterparts for a second day today.  “Progress has been made,”  Michael Mann , the spokesman for
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , told
reporters in Baghdad today. Ashton met with Iran’s top nuclear
negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , to discuss where and when to hold the
next round of talks, Mann said.  Iran and the six countries will hold their next round of
negotiations in Geneva in three weeks, according to Iran’s
state-run Mehr news agency, which didn’t say where it got the
information.  Western Reluctance  The first day of talks recessed yesterday at almost
midnight. While Iran denies it wants to make nuclear weapons, it
has refused to cooperate with inspectors and is under multiple
international sanctions.  The outcome of the discussions remains uncertain as long as
proposals by the Islamic republic are rejected, Iran’s Press TV
reported today. The West is showing “reluctance” over the
proposals and its position isn’t clear, Iranian delegate Taleb
Mahdi told reporters.  Iran produced an average of 3.3 million barrels a day of
crude in April, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 9.8 million a day.  Futures erased gains earlier as a decline in  German
business confidence  and disagreement between European leaders on
joint bond sales fanned concern that the region will fail to
resolve its debt crisis.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to
106.9 from 109.9 in April. That’s the steepest decline since
August, when the region’s debt crisis spread to Italy and  Spain ,
and below all 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The median forecast was for a decrease to 109.4.  French Challenge  European leaders clashed over joint debt sales as they
called on  Greece  to stick with the budget cuts needed to stay in
the euro and offered no immediate relief for recession-wracked
Spain. At the 18th summit in more than two years of crisis-
fighting, new French President  Francois Hollande  challenged
German-dominated deficit-cutting orthodoxy that has failed to
stabilize the euro area and led to speculation that Greece might
be forced out.  Oil dropped yesterday after an Energy Department report
showed U.S. crude inventories rose  883,000 barrels  last week to
382.5 million, the highest level since August 1990. Supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the  New York  futures
contract, climbed 1.67 million barrels to a record 46.8 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  