-- Oil Falls Below $90, Erases Gains Through 2011
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-23T20:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/oil-drops-a-second-day-on-europe-debt-crisis-iran.html
Oil tumbled below $90 a barrel in  New
York , erasing gains through 2011, as U.S. supplies increased to
a 22-year high and European leaders met to discuss the euro
region’s debt crisis.  Futures fell 2.1 percent after the Energy Department said
 stockpiles  rose 883,000 barrels to 382.5 million barrels last
week. The European Union summit is the 18th since Greece was
shaken by debt and the first since an anti-austerity campaign
carried  Francois Hollande  to France’s presidency. The euro sank
to the lowest level in almost two years.  “We’re heading lower because supplies continue to rise and
the dollar is surging against the euro, hurting all
commodities,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in  Chicago . “‘I’m looking for prices to fall to
the mid-$80s and eventually test last summer’s low of near
$75.”  Crude oil for July delivery fell $1.95 to $89.90 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Oct. 21. Prices are down 9 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement fell $2.85, or 2.6 percent,
to end the session at $105.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, the lowest level since Dec. 19.  U.S. crude inventories reached their highest level since
August 1990. They increased less than the 1.65-million-barrels
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  Rising Output  Supplies of crude at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for the New York oil contract, rose 1.67 million barrels to a
record 46.8 million, the department said.  Crude  output  increased 90,000 barrels a day to 6.24
million, the highest level since February 1999. Production has
climbed 12 percent in the past year.  Gasoline inventories  fell 3.3 million barrels to 201
million, the report showed. Demand for the fuel tumbled 3.8
percent to 8.63 million barrels a day, the biggest decline since
the week ended Jan. 6.  Hollande teamed with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
to press for today’s meeting of EU leaders to break with budget-
cutting policies backed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel that
have failed to stabilize the 17-nation euro area and led to
speculation that Greece might be forced out.  “I wouldn’t pick a bottom for the market,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York.  Euro Drops  The euro slipped as much as 1.1 percent to $1.2545, the
lowest level against the dollar since July 2010. A falling euro
reduces the appeal of raw materials as an investment. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities was down 1.9
percent and touched the lowest level since December.  The  U.S. economy  will probably tip back into recession next
year if Congress doesn’t address an impending “fiscal cliff,”
the  Congressional Budget Office  said yesterday. The economy
would contract at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the first
half of 2013 if lawmakers allow the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
to expire as scheduled and don’t head off $1.2 trillion in
government spending cuts set to begin taking effect in January.  China’s leaders pledged to intensify “fine-tuning” of
policies in the second government statement in four days
signaling a commitment to growth after data showed slowing trade
and industrial output.  “There are a lot of macroeconomic worries pulling oil
lower,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “Worries about Europe and the
Greek contagion are getting worse. There are also concerns about
the U.S. going over a fiscal cliff and the Chinese economy
having a hard landing.”  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 1.2 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  was down 1.3 percent at 2:30 p.m. in New York
when floor trading on the Nymex ended.  Iranian Talks  “The moves in just about all the markets are related to
what’s going on in Europe,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at
futures brokerage PFGBest in Chicago. “There’s a little bit of
optimism that the Iran talks will succeed.”  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  will be given access
to Iran’s Parchin military complex, Director General Yukiya Amano said yesterday. World powers resumed talks with officials
from the Islamic republic in Baghdad today.  “We’ve known for a while that inventories were rising, the
euro zone was in trouble and that there were going to be
negotiations with Iran,” Evans said. “Investors are reacting
to elements that were in the market for quite a while.”  The U.S., U.K.,  France , Russia, China and Germany presented
a revised proposal to Iran today before adjourning, said  Michael Mann , the spokesman for  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign
policy chief. The countries want Iran to reduce production of 20
percent-enriched uranium in exchange for the offer, he said,
without providing specifics.  Additional Talks  Negotiators may meet again tomorrow depending on how the
Iranians react to the proposal, Mann said. Diplomats will
reconvene for more meetings tonight, Iranian state-run Press TV
reported, without saying where it got the information.  “On top of all the macroeconomic worries there’s reduced
tension about  Iran’s nuclear program ,” Wittner said. “There’s
speculation that some sort of progress will be made.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 463,207
contracts as of 4:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 433,160
contracts yesterday, 26 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.44 million, the lowest since Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  