-- Hollande Honeymoon Brings France Record-Low Yields
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-23T10:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hollande-honeymoon-brings-france-record-low-yields.html
France is weathering renewed turmoil
in  Europe ’s debt markets with record-low borrowing costs.  Higher rated than Spain or  Italy  and offering better
returns than German securities, France finds itself in a sweet
spot, drawing the strongest auction demand since the  European
debt crisis  began in 2009 as bond investors give  Francois Hollande , the country’s first Socialist president in 17 years,
the benefit of the doubt.  “France has certainly shown some degree of resilience and
recent auctions have gone well with strong demand from French
domestic investors,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Markets
are approaching Hollande with a degree of caution but no
discernible alarm. His rhetoric before the election has been
taken with a pinch of salt.”  France’s  10-year bond  yields 2.739 percent, the lowest
since Oct. 10 and down from 3.17 percent before the April 22
first round of the presidential vote. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to lend to France rather than  Germany 
has declined even as German yields tumbled to a record low. The
French-German spread was 133 basis points today from as high as
149 points on April 20.  French bonds have outperformed their Spanish and Italian
counterparts since the first round of the election as the
resurgence of euro-region’s debt crisis boosted demand for the
relative safety of the securities compared to so-called
periphery debt. France -- which was stripped of its AAA credit
rating by Standard & Poor’s this year -- may continue to gain
from being seen as a shield against the crisis sparked by the
specter of  Greece ’s possible exit from the euro.  Falling Yields  “France is in much better shape than Spain or Italy,”
said  Patrick Armstrong , a managing partner at Armstrong
Investment Managers in London, which oversees $353 million. “I
would expect outperformance versus those two on any  risk
aversion  around viability of the euro.”  At its bond sale last week, France sold benchmark five-year
debt at a record-low yield of 1.72 percent. The average cost of
medium and long-term debt sold this year was 2.23 percent, down
from 2.80 percent in 2011 and 2.53 percent in 2010, when it was
the lowest annual level since the creation of the euro,
according to debt-management body  Agence France Tresor .  The bid-to-cover ratio, or the demand for French debt
relative to the amount sold, was 2.43 in the first five months
this year, compared with 2.38 in 2011 and 2.14 in 2010 and 2.09
in 2009. France has raised 55 percent of the 178 billion euros
($227.4 billion) earmarked for 2012.  Better Returns  “Yields have come down for all highly rated countries this
year,” Armstrong said. “Germany can only go so low, and that
may be drawing investors to  France .”  French debt has returned 3.7 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. In the same period, German
securities returned 2.8 percent, Spanish debt lost 2.6 percent
and Italian securities brought in 9.4 percent.  Since April 20, French debt returned 2.5 percent compared
with Germany’s 1.7 percent, according to the indexes. Investors
lost 0.7 percent in that period on Spanish debt and 0.8 percent
on Italian securities.  The French-Spanish  spread  reached 345 basis points on May
15, the widest ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was 338 basis points today, up from 287 points April 20. The gap
between the 10-year French bond yield and that of Italian debt
is 290 basis points, up from 257 points on April 20.  Hollande Efforts  Concern that  Spain , with its revised deficit of 8.9 percent
of gross domestic product last year, will need to fund bank
bailouts has driven its borrowing costs close to the levels that
forced Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  Spanish and Italian government debt is rated BBB+ by S&P.
France’s rating was cut one level to AA+ by S&P on Jan. 13.  French returns have been boosted after Hollande reiterated
his commitment to cutting the  budget deficit  and his willingness
to work with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  even as they differ
on ways to resolve the region’s crisis.  “He has gained temporary credit,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “It’s partly a positive effect from the eagerness of
Merkel and Hollande to enter into constructive talks.”  Giansanti sees French-German spreads narrowing to about 100
basis points in the short term and to be in a 130-170 basis-
points range in the medium term.  That’s even though Merkel and Hollande may be heading
toward confrontation over joint euro-area borrowing at a meeting
of European Union leaders in Brussels today.  Euro Bonds  The French president has said “everything will be on the
table” including euro bonds. Merkel opposes selling common
bonds, and a German official said yesterday that proposals for
joint euro-area debt issuance probably won’t be discussed at the
meeting.  Hollande has also said France will not ratify the Merkel-
backed European fiscal treaty without a growth pact.  For all their differences, “the view is that Hollande will
not try and rock the boat too much,” said Nick Eisinger, a
sovereign analyst in  London  at  Fidelity Investments , the second-
largest U.S. mutual fund company with $1.2 trillion of assets.  “He is not going to materially upset Germany or the
 European Central Bank ,” Eisinger said. “I think he will run a
relatively sensible fiscal position and will concentrate on
bringing the deficit down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  