-- Hollande-Merkel Gulf Opens as 18th Euro Summit Tackles Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-23T17:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hollande-challenges-german-crisis-handling-on-euro-bonds-banks.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
challenged Germany’s handling of the financial crisis as he
headed to his first European Union summit with calls for joint
borrowing and cash injections to struggling banks.  Hollande teamed with Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
to press for tonight’s meeting of EU leaders to break with
German-dominated budget-cutting policies that have failed to
stabilize the 17-nation euro area and led to speculation that
Greece might be forced out.  France will “put all the ideas for growth and liquidity on
the table,” Hollande told reporters in Paris before going to
Brussels. “Europeans have to know where  Europe  is heading.
There has to be political direction. Milestones have to be
established and goals set.”  The summit, the 18th since Greece was convulsed by debt,
takes place with market indicators showing mounting stress. The
euro tumbled to a 22-month low against the dollar amid concern
that divisions between France and Germany will frustrate the
search for answers.  European stocks  fell by the most in a month.
Yields on German five-, 10- and 30-year bonds dropped to
records, as investors sought a haven.  On his ninth day in office, Hollande shifted the crisis-
fighting optics by holding a pre-summit briefing with the leader
of recession-wracked Spain, instead of coordinating  with
Germany’s  Angela Merkel , head of Europe’s dominant economy.  The meeting of leaders of all 27 EU countries started at 7
p.m. The crisis in the euro area will come up only “at the very
end,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a  pre-summit
letter . He and other leaders plan press conferences tonight.  Pressure on Merkel  The French-Spanish tandem heaped pressure on Merkel, on the
defensive at home after her party was routed in May 13 elections
in Germany’s most-populous state and internationally after her
hard line on deficits was drowned out by pro-growth appeals at
last week’s Group of Eight meeting.  Arriving in Brussels, Merkel rejected joint borrowing,
fueling concern that Germany and  France , the EU’s traditional
driving forces, are no longer on the same page in attacking the
crisis under way since early 2010.  “I don’t think they represent a contribution to growth in
the euro zone,” Merkel said of euro bonds. “The very similar
 interest rates  that we had for many years led to serious
distortions.”  The clash over euro bonds pits better-off countries led by
Germany against France,  Belgium ,  Italy , Luxembourg and
peripheral countries relying on European aid or at risk of
needing it.  ECB Role  Europe must chart a path to common borrowing, should
consider enabling its rescue fund to borrow from the  European
Central Bank  and ought to let the fund lend directly to troubled
banks, Hollande said.  The latter appeal was coined for  Spain ’s Rajoy, who is
seeking to tap European money to recapitalize  banks  without
tying Spain to the same sort of conditions as Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , the three countries drawing on international aid.  “Liquidity, sustainability and debt financing are three
points that I am going to talk about,” Rajoy said at the
French-Spanish press conference.  Spain is embarking on its fourth attempt in three years to
shore up lenders saddled with about 184 billion euros ($233
billion) of what the Bank of Spain calls “problematic” assets.
European governments are divided over whether to let the planned
permanent rescue fund lend to banks directly, an EU official
said yesterday.  Bond Purchases  The polemics leave the central bank as the first line of
defense in a market panic, though a German-led faction on the
ECB is against adding to the 212 billion-euro stockpile of
 government bonds  it has amassed during the crisis.  Rajoy looked to the ECB to help bring down 10-year Spanish
bond yields, which rose 12 basis points to 6.20 percent today.
Spain pays 482 basis points more than  Germany  to borrow, an
extra cost that Rajoy said will negate budget cuts. The  risk
premium  reached a euro-era record of 490 basis points on May 17.  “Many countries are making big efforts to control public
deficits and implement structural reforms,” Rajoy said. “What
we can’t do is live with different funding costs from other
countries.”  Hollande reframed the debate over Greece’s potential exit
from the euro, saying it is the job of European leaders -- and
not only Greek voters in next month’s election -- to make sure
the country stays in.  Greek Commitment  Creditor countries are putting the onus on Greece to
continue with budget cuts. Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said today in Brussels that “the euro area has done what we
have to do and now we are waiting for the Greek commitment.”  Greece ’s June 17 balloting was triggered by the
inconclusive outcome of a May 6 election, in which the surge of
an anti-bailout party to second place denied a majority to the
two parties that have dominated the country since the 1970s.  Next month’s revote looms as a referendum on whether Greece
stays in the euro, since an Athens government that goes back on
austerity would be cut off from the next installments of the 240
billion euros in aid pledged since 2010.  “The situation in Greece is very fragile,”  Evangelos Venizelos , a former finance minister who now leads the Pasok
party, said today in Brussels. He sought the support of
Socialists like Hollande for “a consensual framework for the
common interest of Greece and of the euro zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  