-- Montpellier Victory Over Qatar Money Boosts Soccer, Platini Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-23T14:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/montpellier-victory-over-qatar-money-boosts-soccer-platini-says.html
Montpellier’s surprise championship
victory in France is proof that it takes more than money to win
in soccer,  Michel Platini , head of the sport’s European
governing body, said today.  Montpellier last weekend clinched a first French title,
finishing three points ahead of Paris Saint-Germain. The team
from the capital had spent a French record on players during the
offseason after being bought by the Qatari royal family.  “It’s a beautiful story,” UEFA President Platini said in
an interview in Budapest where he’s attending world governing
body FIFA’s annual congress.  Montpellier’s 30 million-euro ($38 million) annual budget
is a fraction of that of France’s biggest teams such as
Marseille, Lyon and PSG. The Paris club spent 80 million euros
on new players including French record signing Javier Pastore,
an Argentine forward who joined in a 42 million-euro deal.  “In  France  the richest don’t always win,” Platini said.
“They beat Paris Saint-Germain and the Qatar money.”  Still,  England  shows that money talks:  Manchester City ,
bankrolled by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , on
May 13 claimed its first English league championship in 44 years
after spending more than 400 million pounds ($629 million) on
new players. Six days later Chelsea, owned by Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , beat  Bayern Munich  for its first
Champions League title.  Such uncapped spending has led UEFA to draw up rules to
make clubs live within their means. From 2014, these regulations
could lead to sanctions such as transfer embargoes and even bans
from participation in the  Champions League .  Financial Fair Play  Platini said City and Chelsea’s financial muscle won’t
allow them to ignore his “financial fair play” rules.  “Of course they can say what they want,” he said. “But
we have a financial panel and we will look at that.”  Platini said he’s especially pleased for Montpellier
because of his friendship with Louis Nicollin, a businessman
who’s owned the club since re-establishing it after financial
collapse in 1974.  “I go every year on holiday with Monsieur Nicollin,”
Platini said. “I know him from 40 years. He’s been the
president from 40 years ago who gave his own money. He saved the
club a long time ago and created this club from the fourth
division to be champion.”  Platini, one of soccer’s best-ever players, collected a
championship medal with St. Etienne and captained France to
victory in the 1984 European Championship before enjoying the
most successful spell of his career with  Italy ’s Juventus. He
won two Italian championships and the 1985 European Cup, and was
a three-time continental player of the year.  Juventus Revival  Juventus was sanctioned to relegation to the second tier
for the first time in its history in 2006 after being involved
in a match-fixing scandal that also involved other clubs. This
month, the team won its first title since returning to Serie A
in 2007 after completing an undefeated season. That brought its
league tally to a record-extending 28.  “It was a great team. They had problems, they paid: They
went to the second division, they come back and now they are
champions,” Platini said. “It’s good for Italian football as
they are the most popular team in Italy.”  Asked if he celebrated the championship win, Platini said,
“on the outside I try to be neutral. In my heart you never
know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Budapest via the London
newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 