-- More Finance Chiefs Willing to Pay Bribes, Survey Find
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-23T13:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/more-finance-chiefs-willing-to-pay-bribes-global-survey-finds.html
Fifteen percent of chief financial
officers around the world are willing to make cash payments to
win or retain business, according to a survey of executives
interviewed by the accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  The firm’s annual “global fraud survey” of 400 finance
chiefs, interviewed from November to February, found a greater
tolerance of bribery compared with the previous year, when
9 percent said they would make cash payments. Five percent of
CFOs said they would misstate financial performance, while
3 percent said that the year before, according to the survey.  “One of the most troubling findings of the survey is the
widespread acceptance of unethical business practices,”
according to the survey released yesterday. “It is particularly
alarming that respondents are increasingly willing to make cash
payments” and misstate results to survive an economic downturn.  The survey comes amid increased enforcement of the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which bans most payments to
government officials overseas, as well as the U.K. Bribery Act
and similar measures in other countries. Since 2008, the U.S.
has resolved 50 corporate foreign bribery cases, costing
companies $3.9 billion in fines and penalties.  1,700 Executives  While companies increased anti-bribery programs, 1,700
executives interviewed in 43 countries expressed “a certain
degree of fatigue about anti-corruption compliance
initiatives,” according to the survey. Aside from finance
chiefs, Ernst & Young interviewed leaders in legal, compliance
and audit.  Management is giving mixed messages, meaning “the tone at
the top” is diluted by the failure to penalize misconduct, the
firm reported. It found that 44 percent of executives believe
employees haven’t been penalized for violating policies.  “Even if management is strongly communicating that bribery
and corruption isn’t OK, they don’t ever see anyone being
punished for that,” Richard Sibery, the firm’s leader of fraud
and investigations in the Americas, said in a telephone
interview. “There are still some questions about whether there
is teeth to company policies.”  Ernst & Young, whose global headquarters is in  London , is
among hundreds of companies worldwide, including accounting and
law firms, that compete for business to advise corporations on
complying with anti-bribery laws and conducting internal
investigations.  Background Checks  While most of the cases involving corrupt payments brought
by U.S. prosecutors and regulators involve third parties working
for companies, 44 percent of those interviewed said they didn’t
conduct background checks on such entities, Ernst & Young
reported.  Overall, 39 percent of respondents said that bribery or
corrupt practices “occur frequently” in their countries.  “The challenge is even greater in rapid-growth markets,
where a majority of respondents believe these practices are
common,” according to the report.  Ernst & Young found that 84 percent of respondents in
 Brazil , where 50 people were interviewed, said they think that
bribery and corruption occur widely in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  