-- Morgan Stanley Cut Facebook Profit Estimate 5.9% Pre-IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-23T21:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/morgan-stanley-cut-facebook-profit-estimate-5-9-pre-ipo.html
Morgan Stanley analysts lowered their
2012 projection for  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s profit by 5.9 percent days
before boosting the  price range  on the social-networking site’s
initial public offering, according to people familiar with the
matter.  The analysts reduced their 2012 profit projection to 48
cents a share from 51 cents, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the process is private. They also cut
their 2013 profit projection to 83 cents a share from 88 cents,
the people said. Investors received the new figures by phone as
underwriters weren’t permitted to print anything about Facebook
during the marketing period, the people said.  The cuts came after Facebook said in a May 9 filing that
advertising growth hasn’t kept pace with the increase in users.  “ Morgan Stanley (MS)  followed the same procedures for the
Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs,” Pen Pendleton,
a spokesman for the New York-based bank, said in a statement.
“These procedures are in compliance with all applicable
regulations.”  Pendleton said that Facebook’s revised S-1 filing of May 9,
which added information on business trends, had been forwarded
to all of Morgan Stanley’s institutional and retail investors.  “In response to the information about business trends, a
significant number of research analysts in the syndicate who
were participating in investor education reduced their earnings
views to reflect their estimate of the impact of the new
information,” Pendleton said in the statement. “These revised
views were taken into account in the pricing of the IPO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  