-- Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Sued Over Facebook IPO
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-23T20:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/morgan-stanley-goldman-sachs-sued-over-facebook-ipo.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other underwriters along with
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  were sued by investors who claimed they were
misled in the purchase of the social network firm’s stock.  The plaintiffs, who are seeking to proceed on behalf of a
class of Facebook investors, said the company and the banks
didn’t disclose lower revenue estimates before the share sale.
The members of the proposed class have lost more than $2.5
billion since the initial public offering last week, according
to a complaint filed today in Manhattan federal court.  “The true facts at the time of the IPO were that Facebook
was then experiencing a severe and pronounced reduction in
revenue growth,” the plaintiffs said in the complaint.  Also sued were units of  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , as well as Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
and Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman.  Facebook went public at $38 a share and plunged 19 percent
over two days. Facebook rose 3.2 percent, or $1, to $32 at 4:22
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq trading.  “We believe the lawsuit is without merit,” Andrew Noyes,
a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , said in
an e-mail. He said the company would fight the claims.  Pen Pendleton,  Michael DuVally  and  Mark Lane , spokesmen for
New York-based Morgan Stanley, New York-based Goldman Sachs and
London-based Barclays, respectively, declined to comment on the
lawsuit. Representatives of New York-based JPMorgan and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America didn’t
immediately return calls for comment.  Revenue Growth  The complaint states that Facebook’s revenue growth is
declining because its greatest expansion is coming from users of
mobile devices rather than personal computers. The company
hasn’t shown advertisements to people who log on through mobile
applications, according to the complaint. Facebook booked 85
percent of its revenue from advertising in 2011, according to
the complaint.  The banks named in the lawsuit reduced their estimates for
Facebook for the second quarter and full year of 2012 and didn’t
inform potential investors in presentations before the IPO,
according to the complaint.  “The underwriters took down their earnings estimates
dramatically during the road show and only told a select group
of investors,”  Samuel Rudman , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
today in a phone interview.  Difficult Time  The plaintiffs may have a difficult time proving the case
if it’s based on the presentation made to potential investors,
according to a securities lawyer.  “It’s going to depend on who knew what when,” Jeremy
Garvey of Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney in Pittsburgh said in a
phone interview. “The real question is, based on the final
prospectus, were the statements complete and correct?” Garvey
said. “If they have enough cautionary language in the
prospectus, they do have a bit of a disclaimer.”  A Facebook investor sued Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. yesterday in
the same court, saying the exchange “badly mishandled” trades
in Facebook stock, which resulted in delays and a failure to
complete customer orders.  That investor is also seeking class-action status for the
lawsuit on behalf of investors who lost money because their buy,
sell and cancellation orders weren’t properly processed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said it
will review the first day of trading in Facebook shares.  The underwriter case is Brian Roffe Profit Sharing Plan v.
Facebook, 12-04081, and the Nasdaq case is Goldberg v. Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc., 12-cv-04054, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in Manhattan federal court at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  