-- Los Angeles Gasoline Jumps Versus Future on Tight Supply
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-23T23:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/los-angeles-gasoline-jumps-on-tight-supplies-tesoro-union-votes.html
California-blend gasoline in Los
Angeles jumped to the highest level against futures in five days
after workers at a  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  refinery rejected a contract and
West Coast gasoline inventories dropped last week.  United Steelworkers members at the Golden Eagle plant,
Tesoro’s largest refinery, voted to reject the company’s last
offer May 21 and to “initiate” a strike based on unfair labor
practice, leaving it to union leaders to decide when a work
stoppage would actually occur. A strike hasn’t begun and Tesoro
hasn’t received notice from the union that it plans to strike,
said Tina Barbee, a company spokeswoman.  “We are disappointed with the rejection of our competitive
and fair offer,” Barbee, based at the company’s headquarters in
 San Antonio , said in an e-mailed statement. “We intend to speak
with the local representatives to learn more about the
outcome.”  The union local at Tesoro’s 97,000-barrel-a-day  Los Angeles 
refinery is scheduled to decide later today whether to accept an
offer from the company. Members there have been working on 24-
hour, rolling extensions since their last contract was set to
expire April 30. The Los Angeles and Golden Eagle refineries can
process a total of 267,000 barrels of feedstock a day.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S. West Coast dropped 1.19
million barrels, or 4.7 percent, to 24.1 million barrels in the
week ended May 18, the Energy Department said today. That’s the
lowest level in the region since March 1999.  Carbob Rises  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in Los Angeles, which
began trading for June delivery, rose for the first time in five
days, increasing by 24 cents to a premium of 25 cents a gallon
versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
fuel’s largest single-day increase since Bloomberg began
assessing spot prices there in November 2007.  San Francisco Carbob, which began trading for June delivery
yesterday, rose 14 cents to a 25-cent-a-gallon premium to
futures, the highest since May 15.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is performing a maintenance turnaround on a
hydrocracker at the 76,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in
Northern California that’s expected to last into June, a person
with knowledge of the schedule said April 26.  BP Plc (BP/)  is
restoring production at the 266,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point
refinery in  Washington  after a three-month shutdown.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
jumped 40 cents to 91 cents above gasoline futures, also the
highest premium and the largest single-day rise for the fuel
since at least November 2007.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland was unchanged at 20 cents a
gallon above Nymex heating oil futures.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles climbed
0.62 cent to 6 cents a gallon above heating oil futures. The
same fuel in  San Francisco  was unchanged at a 4.5-cent premium
to futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  