-- How Super-PACs Will Keep the Campaign Clean
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/how-super-pacs-will-keep-the-campaign-clean.html
Strangely enough, the 2012
presidential campaign, expected to be the dirtiest in modern
memory, may end up being relatively clean.  That’s because both sides agree that the economy is the
central issue and that sideshows like the Reverend Jeremiah Wright aren’t persuasive for voters.  Karl Rove  and Larry
McCarthy, the creator of the infamous Willie Horton ad, think
harsh personal attacks against President Barack Obama will
backfire, and they’re offering more subtle messages of economic
disappointment instead.  Even economic assaults can boomerang nowadays. Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker , an otherwise strong Obama supporter, dealt the
Obama campaign a blow last weekend on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
when he said he was “nauseated” by an Obama ad lambasting  Mitt Romney ’s tenure at Bain Capital LLC. The president’s defense of
the ad, in which he said “there are folks who do good work” in
private equity, was too complicated to be effective.  The controversy surrounding the Bain ad and a proposed
Wright ad from a super-PAC backed by  Joe Ricketts , the
billionaire  founder  of  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , suggests
that when “paid media” in the presidential race ventures out-of-
bounds, “free media” will exact a penalty. (House and Senate
races are another story.)  Avoiding the Gutter  We can still expect a misleading and overwhelmingly
negative campaign, but the distortions and outright lies will be
mostly about the candidates’ records and positions, not their
race, religion and standing as patriotic Americans. I don’t mean
to be pollyannaish, but that represents a step up from the
gutter.  The days when  Lyndon Johnson  could use the infamous “ daisy
ad ” to suggest Barry Goldwater wanted to blow up the world, or
Vice President  George H.W. Bush  (and  Al Gore   before  him) could
exploit the racist Willie Horton story against Michael Dukakis,
are over. In 2004, when Swift Boat Veterans for Truth could
easily smear  John Kerry ’s character by distorting his Navy
service during the  Vietnam War , you couldn’t yet use YouTube and
blogs to rebut an ad and even organize a boycott of the sponsors
within hours. If the Swift Boat attacks aired today, President
 George W. Bush  would probably be forced to denounce them.  This sounds counterintuitive. After the  Supreme Court ’s
Citizens United  decision , the campaign system is awash in super-
PACs and shadowy 501(c)(4)s (dubbed “ spooky-PACs ” by Stephen Colbert) that allow secret donations. Instead of clearly
identifying the origin of the ad (“I’m Mitt Romney, and I
approve this message”), the tag lines on the super-PAC ads are
from gauzy-sounding outfits (“ Restore Our Future ”) that few
people recognize. When it’s not clear who the attacker is, the
old rule in politics that attack ads hurt the attacker as well
as the target is rendered obsolete.  As we learned during the Republican presidential primaries,
this has changed the tone of the campaign. About 70 percent of
the ads in the presidential campaign from January 1, 2011, to
April 22, 2012, contained at least some negative content,
according to the  Wesleyan Media Project , which, not
coincidentally, found that more than half of Romney’s ads were
funded by super-PACs. Obama will have plenty of money for his
own negative ads, but he will be responsible for most of them
(“I’m  Barack Obama , and I approve this message”). Romney,
meanwhile, can at least theoretically avoid accountability.  Keeping Clean  But neither candidate can afford to let his backers wander
too far off the reservation. When Ricketts considered running a
super-PAC ad featuring Obama’s relationship with his former
pastor Wright, known for his controversial views, the proposed
commercial (aimed at stripping the president of his stature as a
“metrosexual, black Abe Lincoln”)  leaked  to the  New York  Times.
The fallout may  cost  the Ricketts family trust, which owns the
 Chicago Cubs , as much as $150 million, which is real money even
for a billionaire. That’s the amount the team was seeking from
the City of  Chicago  to help fund the renovation of Wrigley
Field. A furious Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  wouldn’t even return phone
calls from the Ricketts family, and the Wrigley Field deal is
probably dead.  Aside from the hypocrisy of free-market conservatives
seeking taxpayer money for their sports businesses (routine
across the country), the Ricketts story sends a powerful message
to other billionaires trying to play in the presidential
election sandbox: Expect sand in your eyes.  The best way to avoid it -- and stay on good terms with the
Romney campaign (which sees anything racial or personal about
the president as counterproductive) -- is to go with approved
(though technically not “coordinated”) super-PACs and spooky-
PACs like those run by Rove and a group of Romney’s former top
aides. That’s what Texas plutocrats like Harold Simmons and
Robert Perry, original Swift Boaters, are doing this year.  Rove’s American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, which so far
this election cycle have raised more than $100 million, will
probably have at least a couple hundred million to use trashing
Obama -- often unfairly. But most of it will be spent on
depicting the president as incompetent on the economy, not on
personal attacks.  So the Ricketts episode, while harmful to Romney in the
short run, helps him down the road by giving billionaires
incentive to stay on the same page as the campaign.  The near-universal condemnation of the proposed Wright ad
also increases the likelihood that any comments about Romney’s
Mormon faith will be seen as off-limits.  I’ve long argued that when you’re talking about the most
powerful job in the world, all biographical facts --
relationships with old pastors, management of companies,
religious practices, even old girlfriends -- are at least
potentially relevant. But this year, with the country facing a
stark choice in hard times, they will be derided as distractions
from an unusually substantive campaign.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany gained from
the euro  and the  problems with the Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over Bain;  Caroline
Baum  on  overregulating banks ; Tobias Moskowitz on  data-driven
policy ; Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock therapy ; Junheng Li on
 China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 