-- How to Lift Women Leaders out of the 'Pink Ghetto'
-- B y   H e r m i n i a   I b a r r a
-- 2012-05-23T17:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/how-to-lift-women-leaders-out-of-the-pink-ghetto-.html
     A new McKinsey study reports statistically what we
already knew from personal experience: that mid-career and
senior women tend to be found disproportionally in staff
jobs, or "pink ghettos," relative to men. The report tells us
that 50% to 65% of women at the vice-president level and
higher are in staff roles, compared with only 41% to 48% of
men, who are more likely to be in the line jobs that lead to
the top. This subtler gender gap — one that is difficult to
detect when companies only count the total number of men and
women at each grade level — is the primary reason we still
find so few women in the C-suite (19% in the U.S., according
to the same McKinsey report).  To tackle the disproportion, most companies offer
mentoring programs, networking among women, and women's
leadership programs focusing on topics like self-promotion and
personal branding. These rarely work, and they breed cynicism.  What should they do instead? Follow the 70-20-10 rule.  This obvious solution hit me last year, when I sat on the
jury of the Fortune/AON Hewitt's Best Companies for Leaders.
Each contender submitted a thorough dossier documenting his or
her company's approach to leadership development.
Invariably, each described the sacrosanct 70-20-10 rule, by
which 70% of a manager's learning and development should come
from on-the-job learning through stretch assignments, with
only 20% and 10% coming from mentoring and classroom
learning, respectively. Following this rule means focusing on
the company's appointment process and succession planning. It
requires knowing what are its "pivotal roles," or those
assignments that are deemed essential to an executive's
development because they expose him or her to the company's
primary sources of revenue, strategic markets, or key
products. And it requires actively managing high potentials so
that they make their way through a logical progression of
these key roles. Within this kind of system, mentoring is not
a "feel good" exercise; it is a means for identifying and
providing what a talented person needs to get into one of the
jobs and do well there.  Interestingly, the same companies that followed the
70-20-10 rule described a different approach for tackling
diversity in their leadership potential pool. What did they
do? You guessed it. They put in mentoring programs, and
women's networks and leadership courses.  All of these have their place in a coherent diversity
initiative (Disclaimer: I direct leadership programs for women
at INSEAD). But without a foundation in the heart of it all —
the jobs and assignments that provide essential experience and
exposure — the results will most certainly be lacking.  For our World Economic
Forum Corporate Gender Gap Report (PDF), Saadia Zahidi and I
asked the top HR person in the largest companies of 20 OECD
countries the following question: "Among the assignments that
you consider to be business critical/important, what
percentage, in your opinion, are currently held by women
(e.g., key start-ups, turnarounds, and line roles in key
business units or markets)?" The most common answers were
"0-10%" or "not measured."  Women's assignments must become the number one priority
for committed CEOs who want better results. Expecting to get
more women into senior management via formal mentoring and
self-improvement courses is Einstein's definition of madness:
doing more of the same and expecting a different result.  Ibarra is a professor of organizational behavior and the
Cora Chaired Professor of Leadership and Learning at Insead.
She is the author of Working Identity: Unconventional
Strategies for Reinventing Your Career.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business. 