-- P.F. Chang’s Investor Sues Over $1.1 Billion Acquisition
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-23T22:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/p-f-chang-s-investor-sues-over-1-1-billion-acquisition-1-.html
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro Inc., the
U.S.’s largest Asian full-service restaurant chain by market
share, was sued over a $1.1 billion buyout bid by  Centerbridge
Partners LP  that is designed to take the company private.  New York-based Centerbridge’s $51.50-a-share cash offer
undervalues the almost 400-restaurant chain and allows P.F.
Chang’s executives to unfairly reap millions of dollars in
compensation, shareholder Hilary Coyne said in a  Delaware
Chancery Court  lawsuit.  “The company has been improperly valued and shareholders
will not likely receive adequate or fair value for their PFCP
common stock in the buyout,” Coyne’s lawyers said in the May 18
suit.  The May 1 buyout brought the value of private-equity
transactions in the restaurant industry over the past two years
to $12 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Restaurant chains have been a favorite target for private
investors, because their  cash flow  makes financing deals easy
and brands can benefit from cost-cutting or expansion measures.  Joseph Berg, a spokesman for P.F. Chang’s and  Susanne
Clark , a Centerbridge spokeswoman, both declined to comment on
Coyne’s suit.  In a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday, P.F. Chang’s officials said the
allegations in Coyne’s complaint “lack merit” and that the
chain intends to “vigorously defend” the case.  ‘Increasing Profitability’  Lawyers for Coyne contend that P.F. Chang’s executives have
reorganized the chain and has it poised for “increasing
profitability,” according to the suit. “The company’s steps to
revamp its stores were taken on the shareholders’ dime, and as a
result of the buyout, shareholders will not be able to reap the
benefits.”  Directors allowed Centerbridge to structure the buyout in a
way that is likely to allow it to be approved without a
shareholder vote, the suit said.  The buyout also unfairly rewards company insiders, such as
Chief Executive Officer Richard Federico and fellow executives
F. Lane Cardwell Jr. and R. Michael Welborn, according to the
suit. The three stand to receive a total of $17.5 million in
“golden parachute compensation” under the deal, according to
the complaint.  P.F. Chang’s board also erred in hiring  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  to serve as its financial adviser for the deal because the
investment bank also has worked with Centerbridge and its units,
Coyne’s lawyers said.  Conflict of Interest  Over the last two years, Goldman has received more than $14
million in compensation from Centerbridge for investment banking
services, according to the suit. That creates a conflict of
interest for the bank in the P.F. Chang’s deal, Coyne’s
attorneys contend.  New York-based Goldman Sachs was criticized by a Delaware-
based judge earlier this year for its handling of conflicting
interests in  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) ’s $21.1 billion purchase of
pipeline operator  El Paso Corp. (EP)   Richard Siewert, a Goldman Sach’s spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the conflict claims in
the suit.  P.F. Chang’s has about 6 percent of the market share in the
U.S. among Asian full-service restaurants, according to
Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based researcher. Miami-based  Benihana
Inc. (BNHN)  ranks second with 1.7 percent.  Pei Wei  P.F. Chang’s, which first opened in Scottsdale,  Arizona , in
1993, was named for its founders Paul Fleming and  Philip Chiang .
It operates restaurants under both the P.F. Chang’s China Bistro
and Pei Wei brands.  The company’s fast-casual brand, Pei Wei, sells noodle
bowls, salads and small plates such as crab wontons and chicken
lettuce wraps.  Centerbridge was founded by Mark Gallogly, a former
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  executive, and Jeffrey Aronson, who
previously led the distressed-investing team at Angelo Gordon &
Co. The private-equity firm last year raised $4.25 billion from
investors for its second fund targeting buyouts and
restructurings.  The case is Hilary Coyne v. P.F. Chang’s China Bistro Inc.,
7551, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  