-- HP Rises as Profit Tops Estimates; 27,000 Jobs to Be Cut
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-24T13:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hp-third-quarter-forecast-misses-estimate-27-000-jobs-to-be-cut.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  rose the most in
eight months after the world’s largest personal-computer maker
announced plans to slice its workforce by 27,000 and reported
quarterly sales and profit that topped estimates, buoying
optimism for a turnaround.  Profit before some costs in the second quarter, which ended
April 30, was 98 cents a share, the company said in a statement
yesterday. That compared with analysts’ 91-cent average
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
$30.7 billion, beating the average  projection  of $29.9 billion.
The shares jumped as much as 12 percent in extended trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  is cutting jobs and
streamlining businesses as Hewlett-Packard grapples with slower
demand for printers, services and data-center equipment, leading
to a third-quarter profit forecast that was less than analysts
predicted. The 8 percent workforce reduction, taking place
through firings and early retirement offers, will generate
annual savings of as much as $3.5 billion starting in 2014.  “This is the first step in the recovery process,” said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group in San Francisco. Shares
of other business technology companies such as Dell Inc., NetApp
Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc. have declined this month on reports
of lower demand, while Hewlett-Packard’s stock has already
reflected much of the bad news, he said.  “HP is looking like a good place to park some money,”
Marshall said. “Those guys have already been taken behind the
woodshed.”  ‘Re-engineering’  Hewlett-Packard’s shares rose 4.8 percent to $22.09 at 9:36
a.m. in New York, and earlier touched $22.66 for the biggest
intraday increase sine Sept. 27. The stock had dropped 18
percent this year before today.  Whitman said the reductions are part of a “re-
engineering” of Hewlett-Packard aimed at paring the number of
products sold, simplifying pricing and advertising more
effectively. She doesn’t expect further job cuts.  “This is quite different from the cost-cutting that  Mark Hurd  undertook,” Whitman said in an interview yesterday. “This
is about fundamental business-process re-engineering.”  Hurd, Hewlett-Packard’s CEO from 2005 to 2010, oversaw a
period of rising profit and share price at the company while
announcing at least 48,000  job cuts .  PC Sales  Second-quarter PC sales were little changed from a year
earlier, while sales of printers and ink declined 10 percent.
Revenue from servers, data-storage devices and networking
equipment fell 6 percent, and services revenue dropped 1
percent, the company said.  Net income in the period fell 31 percent to $1.59 billion,
or 80 cents a share, from $2.3 billion, or $1.05, a year
earlier. Sales in the year-earlier period were $31.6 billion.  Whitman, CEO since September, is struggling with a
turnaround effort aimed at reducing  costs  and reversing a sales
slump that led to the ouster of her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker .
She has said the company needs to make its products and services
more competitive and spend more on research and product
development.  On a conference call with analysts, Whitman said she’s
“cautiously optimistic” about the progress Hewlett-Packard has
made on her watch.  “Turning HP around is going to be a lot of hard work,”
she said. “It’s going to take time.”  Third-Quarter Forecast  For the fiscal third quarter, which ends in July, profit
excluding certain items will be 94 cents to 97 cents a share,
 Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said in the
statement. That compares with the $1.02  average  of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company didn’t provide a
third-quarter sales forecast. Analysts expect a 3.1 percent
decline to $30.3 billion.  “IT spending is slowing,” said  Brian White , an analyst at
Topeka Capital Markets in  New York , who recommends holding the
shares. Savings from the job cuts could counter some of the
other challenges facing Hewlett-Packard, he said. “If you go
through the metrics, they’re just very inefficient.”  For the fiscal year, Hewlett-Packard forecast profit before
costs of $4.05 to $4.10 a share, higher than analysts’
projections for $4.02. The company said it will have pretax
costs of about $1.7 billion in fiscal 2012 as a result of the
restructuring.  Services Job Cuts  The improved annual outlook is the result of some cost
savings the company will begin to see in the fourth quarter,
Chief Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak  said in an interview.  The staff reduction will pare Hewlett-Packard’s workforce
of  349,600 . A third of the cuts will take place in the U.S.,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans, who declined
to be identified because the breakdown hasn’t been disclosed.  The enterprise services group will take a larger number of
job cuts than other groups, said Lesjak, though she declined to
specify the number.  “This wasn’t a peanut-butter spread,” she said in an
interview yesterday. Last week, people familiar with the matter
said the company plans to reduce its services workforce by
10,000 to 15,000 people. That business expanded when Hewlett-
Packard bought Electronic Data Systems Corp. for $13.2 billion
in 2008. No unit of the company will be spared, Lesjak said.  ‘Every Business Unit’  “Every business unit, every function and every region has
a role to play here,” she said.  The services unit competes with International Business
Machines Corp., Infosys Ltd. and others in the market for
managing companies’ IT operations. Yet the growth in the
services market has shifted away from the labor-intensive
outsourcing contracts that made up most of EDS’s sales, the
company has said.  Customers want help modernizing business applications,
retooling data centers for Internet-delivered cloud-computing
software, and analyzing reams of data. Hewlett-Packard doesn’t
have enough experts in those areas to win deals, former CEO
Apotheker and other executives have said.  Still, the job cuts could take years to improve profits,
Katy Huberty, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in
a May 17 research note.  “We view any restructuring announcement as a positive
move, but one that will take several years to sustainably
improve margins, EPS and free  cash flow ,” she said.  Boosting R&D  Whitman has said the company also needs to boost R&D
spending, which was $3.25 billion in the last fiscal year. ISI
Group’s Marshall said in a research note last month the company
ought to spend $4 billion to $5 billion on R&D to compete with
IBM and Cisco Systems Inc. in developing new products for
corporate data centers.  At the company’s  Discover  conference in  Las Vegas  next
month, Hewlett-Packard will discuss new computer-security
software that integrates the functions of various products it
has acquired, Whitman said yesterday. The company is also
investing more in the quality and design of its PCs.  “The days are over when you’ll have one set of devices at
work that aren’t particularly appealing and one set of devices
at home that are,” she said.  In the PC market, Hewlett-Packard is fighting Apple Inc.’s
rising market share for its Mac computers and iPad tablet.
Hewlett-Packard’s report follows No. 3 PC maker Dell Inc.’s
forecast earlier this week for lower-than-projected sales for
the quarter ending in July, as demand for smartphones and tablet
computers erodes PC sales.  Tablet Boom  Tablet sales are cutting into those of traditional laptops:
118.9 million tablet devices will be sold in 2012, almost
doubling from 2011, according to market-research firm Gartner
Inc., with Apple accounting for 61 percent of the market. PC
shipments worldwide will rise 4.4 percent to 368 million this
year, Gartner estimates.  Hewlett-Packard also said former Autonomy Corp. CEO Mike Lynch will leave the company after “a significant decline in
license revenue” at the Autonomy unit, which was acquired last
year for $10.3 billion. Chief Strategy Officer Bill Veghte will
lead the unit, which makes software for analyzing business data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  