-- Pakistani Doctor Who Helped Locate Bin Laden Jailed for 33 Years
-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-05-24T00:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/pakistan-doctor-who-helped-track-bin-laden-jailed-for-33-years.html
A Pakistani doctor who helped the
U.S. track down  Osama bin Laden  was found guilty of treason and
sentenced to 33 years in jail.  A court in  Pakistan ’s northwestern tribal region yesterday
convicted the doctor, Shakil Afridi, said Kifayatullah Durrani,
a government spokesman in  Peshawar . Afridi was charged with
running a fake vaccination program in Abbottabad, the Pakistani
town where  bin Laden  hid for as long as five years, to obtain a
DNA sample from those living in the compound where the al-Qaeda
leader was shot dead by Navy SEALs last May.  While Afridi can appeal, the sentence may further strain
ties between Pakistan and the Obama administration, which has
called for Afridi to be freed and allowed to live in the U.S.
The two sides have yet to resolve a stalemate over closed supply
routes into Afghanistan needed to supply NATO forces as they 
wind down their combat role by 2014.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta   told CBS’s  “60 Minutes”
program in January that the intelligence provided by the doctor
had been “very helpful with regards to this operation. And he
was not in any way treasonous towards Pakistan.”  “Dr. Afridi’s continuing imprisonment and treatment as a
criminal will only do further harm to U.S.-Pakistani relations,
including diminishing Congress’s willingness to provide
financial assistance to Pakistan,”  Arizona  Republican Senator
John McCain and Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan said
in a statement yesterday.  Levin is the chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, which has a voice on U.S. military aid and
cooperation with Pakistan, and McCain is the panel’s top
Republican.  ‘No Basis’  The U.S. sees “no basis” for holding Afridi and has taken
up the issue regularly with the Pakistani government, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a briefing for
reporters yesterday.  Pakistan’s army and intelligence agencies were humiliated
by the nighttime U.S. strike that killed bin Laden, an airborne
attack they failed to detect, after denying for years that
senior al-Qaeda leaders were hiding in the country.  A Pakistani commission probing the U.S. raid recommended in
October that treason charges be brought against Afridi. The
panel, headed by a Supreme Court judge, didn’t specify evidence
it had gathered against the doctor.  The international medical charity, Doctors Without Borders,
in July criticized the U.S. government’s “alleged fake CIA
vaccination campaign” undertaken in a clandestine effort to
confirm bin Laden’s location. Such activities, the group said,
undermined legitimate health outreach efforts and endangered
health workers around the world.  Soured Ties  Pakistan relations with the U.S. further soured last year
amid allegations by American officials that the Pakistani
government is aiding guerrilla attacks in  Afghanistan , and a
November border strike by U.S. helicopters that killed 24
Pakistani soldiers.  In the wake of the attack along the frontier, Pakistan
closed routes for trucks supplying North Atlantic Treaty
Organization troops in Afghanistan, which negotiations so far
have failed to reopen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  