-- Paulson-Led Group to Sell Hotels to End Their Bankruptcy
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-05-23T20:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/paulson-led-group-to-sell-hotels-to-end-their-bankruptcy.html
A group led by Paulson & Co. plans to
sell the  Arizona  Biltmore resort and the Claremont Hotel Club &
Spa in Berkeley,  California , as part of an effort to bring the
properties and two other hotels out of bankruptcy.  Paulson, a New York-based hedge fund, and co-investor
 Winthrop Realty Trust (FUR)  are marketing the Arizona Biltmore in
Phoenix with a opening price of $425 million, and the 279-room
Claremont Hotel starting at $80 million, according to two people
familiar with the plans, who asked not to be identified because
the marketing details are private.  The Paulson group placed the hotels and three others in
bankruptcy last year after seizing them in a foreclosure
auction. Two of the properties,  Grand Wailea  in  Hawaii  and La
Quinta Resort & Club in California, may also be sold as the
group seeks to remove the resorts from bankruptcy, said Michael Ashner, chief executive officer of Boston-based Winthrop.  “We are at a point in the process in which we are
considering a reorganization in which we would retain ownership
of the Grand Wailea and La Quinta, or an alternative approach in
which we would sell the Grand Wailea and La Quinta and bid as a
stalking horse,” Ashner said in a telephone interview.  Should the group decide to sell Grand Wailea and La Quinta
Resort, Paulson, Winthrop and co-investor  Capital Trust Inc. (CT) 
would serve as a so-called stalking horse by making the opening
bid at auction. The group may also choose to retain ownership of
the two properties and restructure their debt as a way to take
advantage of an expected turnaround in the luxury lodging
market, Ashner said.  Luxury Hotels Outperform  Michael Barr , a portfolio manager at Paulson, declined to
comment. Saul Burian, a managing director at Houlihan Lokey who
serves as an adviser to the lender group, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment.  Occupancies at hotels in the top 25 U.S. markets rose to 65
percent in the first quarter from about 63 percent a year
earlier, while revenue per available room, an industry measure
of occupancies and rates, climbed 8.1 percent to $80.47,
according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-based Smith Travel
Research Inc.  At luxury hotels across the U.S., occupancies were 71
percent, the highest among seven industry segments tracked by
Smith Travel, and revpar gained 8.5 percent to $193.49, the
largest increase among the segments.  ‘Recovered First’  “Luxury properties generally have recovered first in the
U.S., which means their revenues have risen faster than those in
other segments,” such as upscale or economy hotels, said Bruce Ford, senior vice president of sales at Lodging Econometrics, a
Portsmouth, New Hampshire-based hotel-consulting firm.  Luxury hotels in large cities tend to attract real estate
investment trusts as buyers because they can close deals quickly
and accept lower initial rates of return, Ford said.  The Paulson-led lender group took the four properties and a
fifth, Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami, into Chapter 11
bankruptcy in February 2011 after seizing control of them from
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s real estate funds. The hotels faced maturity of
$1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in mezzanine debt.  Donald Trump  has the  bankruptcy court ’s approval to buy the
Doral resort for $150 million. The Trump Organization expects to
take over the property by June, the company said in a statement.
The Paulson group will retain Doral’s 131-acre (53-hectare)
Great White Course for later commercial or residential
development.  Hilton Removal  The Paulson-led group plans to remove Hilton Worldwide Inc.
as manager of the Arizona Biltmore, La Quinta Resort and the
Grand Wailea, according to to documents filed with the
bankruptcy court. Hilton’s removal would “unlock substantial
value,” according to the filings.  The Arizona Biltmore is being marketed to buyers free of
the Hilton contracts. The Claremont, operated by Pyramid Resort
Asset Management LLC, also is being marketed without a
 management contract , said Mark Elliott, a partner at Atlanta-
based brokerage Hodges Ward Elliott who’s marketing the
property.  The lead case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC,
11-10372,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  