-- Peru Borrowing Costs Rise to Three-Month High on European Crisis
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-23T20:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/peru-borrowing-costs-rise-to-three-month-high-on-european-crisis.html
Peru’s benchmark borrowing costs in
dollars rose to a three-month high as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen should Greece leave the euro curbed demand
for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 198 at 2:53 p.m. in Lima, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s the highest since Feb. 28.  European Union leaders are meeting in Brussels to discuss
ways to prevent Greece’s fiscal crisis from spreading to other
euro-zone nations.  “Lately these meetings have been non-events as they
haven’t produced clear, concrete measures,” said  Roberto Flores , the head of research at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based
brokerage. “The uncertainty is encouraging investors to seek
risk-free assets.”  The sol dropped 0.7 percent to 2.6925 per  U.S. dollar ,
falling the most since Sept. 21, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s
local unit.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 climbed seven basis points to
5.29 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor “nervousness” before elections in Greece has
fueled demand for dollars in the local market, Peru central bank
President Julio Velarde told reporters yesterday.  Rising demand led the central bank to lend U.S. currency to
local banks using repurchase agreements for the first time last
week as the  interbank rate  for dollars touched 6 percent, he
said.  The central bank continued to sell dollar-denominated repos
today, issuing $2 million of the securities maturing in seven
days and yielding 2.65 percent. It also issued 600 million soles
($223 million) in dollar-indexed certificates of deposit due in
two months, the bank said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  