-- Petrus Tests Chinese Luxury Demand at $258 Million Sales
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-05-24T05:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/petrus-diamonds-test-chinese-demand-at-258-million-sale.html
Bottles of Petrus, a Qing dynasty
vase and a Burmese ruby-and-diamond ring will test if Chinese
demand for luxury items has been stymied by tumbling property
prices, slower economic growth and a clampdown on art importers.  Christie’s International estimates its  Hong Kong  sale of
wine, contemporary art, traditional Chinese paintings, watches,
jewelry and antiques over the next five days will raise as much
as HK$2 billion ($260 million).  “From the number of hotel bookings and reservations for
our dinners from Chinese it seems to be business as usual,”
Francois Curiel, Christie’s president of Asian operations, said
in an interview.  The most expensive lot during the weekend’s opening wine
event at the  Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  consists
of four imperials (six-liter bottles) of Petrus from 2005-2008,
estimated to sell for HK$500,000 to HK$700,000.  The London-based auction house, with sales from May 26,
will be competing for buyers with New York wine specialist
 Acker, Merrall & Condit , which is offering more than 1,000 lots
valued at HK$60 million tomorrow and May 26 next door at
Grissini in the  Grand Hyatt Hotel , including three Jeroboams
(three liter bottles) of 1990 Domaine de la Romanee-Conti La
Tache worth as much as HK$1.6 million.  Zachys ’s sale on the same days is estimated to fetch as
much as HK$63.4 million. The top lot is a six-liter methuselah
of 1990 Romanee-Conti Domaine de la Romanee Conti estimated to
sell for between HK$700,000 and HK$1.1 million as the demand for
top burgundies remains strong.  Plunging Bordeaux  All three auctions will be watched after the price of top
Bordeaux 2011 wines dropped by as much as 45 percent compared
with 2010 vintages. The youngest vintage for sale in the
auctions is 2008.  John Kapon , Acker’s chief executive officer, said the
plunge in en primeur prices is a boon for business.  “The 2011s are still expensive despite significant price
drops,” he said. “If anything, this helps the auction market
where buying mature wines makes more sense.”  The Liv-ex Benchmark Fine Wine Index, which tracks the
secondary market for the most sought-after fine wines, was more
than 20 percent down at the end of April from its high last
June.  Bonhams ’s spring sale, through May 27, includes wine and
cognac, snuff bottles, Chinese ceramics and contemporary Asian
art estimated to raise as much as HK$266 million.  Pink Lotus  Christie’s  high profile evening sale of Asian 20th-century
and contemporary art is led by “Pink Lotus,” by Chinese-born
artist painter Sanyu, with a presale high estimate of HK$42
million.  Other highlights in the 46-lot sale include “Fly,”
painted in 2000 by Chinese artist  Zeng Fanzhi , that carries a
presale high estimate of HK$25 million and a 1999 work by Zhang Xiaogong from his Bloodline series estimated to sell for as much
as HK$18 million.  The evening sale also includes five paintings by Chinese/
French artist Zao Wou-ki whose works have held their value
against recent economic turmoil.  Asian Stars  “Western collectors are getting into artists like Zao Wou-
ki,” said Pascal de Sarthe, owner of  de Sarthe Gallery .  The evening sale also wraps in stars from southeast  Asia ,
such as  Vietnam  and the  Philippines , next to Chinese, Taiwanese,
Korean and Japanese in an effort to create a pan-Asian category
to mirror sales of western contemporary works in  London  and  New
York .  While London and New York events typically are headlined by
paintings, a Hong Kong highlight is antiques. On May 30, this
includes a Qianglong-era celadon-glazed vase with a high
estimate of HK$35 million.  The watch sale is led by a platinum 2007  Patek Philippe 
worth as much as HK$5 million, and the jewelry sale by a 6.04
carat pigeon’s bloom Burma ruby-and-diamond ring with a high
estimate of HK$30 million.  Last year’s equivalent Christie’s sale raised HK$3.65
billion, a record for a series of Hong Kong auctions.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter at large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on  film  from Cannes,
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology  and  Jason Harper  on  autos .  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 