-- PFA Pension, EKF Boost Export Finance to Help Vestas, Renewables
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/pfa-pension-ekf-boost-export-finance-to-help-vestas-renewables.html
PFA Pension A/S,  Denmark ’s largest
pension fund, and the Eksport Kredit Fonden boosted to 55
billion kroner ($9.3 billion) its loan programs to help Danish
groups including wind companies such as  Vestas Wind Systems A/S. (VWS)   PFA Pension is providing 10 billion kroner in loans to
foreign companies to fund orders at Danish companies such as
Vestas, said Anette Eberhard, who heads the Danish state export
credit agency. EKF will arrange the loan and guarantee the money
is paid back, she said by phone from Copenhagen.  Export credit agencies are taking a bigger share of lending
to the renewable  energy industry  as the financial crisis erodes
banks’ ability to make the longer-term loans that projects such
as offshore wind farms require.  EKF guaranteed about a  third  of an 822 million-euro ($1.03
billion) loan deal for turbines made by the Denmark-based wind
unit of  Siemens AG (SIE)  for a park offshore  Germany  in August. The
German government said in January it would guarantee a loan to a
Turkish group buying  wind turbines  from Hamburg-based  Nordex SE. (NDX1)   “We are creating alternatives to the banks for funding
projects,” Eberhard said. Banks, also facing the latest round
of Basel rules, have less appetite for risk and are “pretty
reluctant” to lend beyond five years, she said.  Spending on new wind farms, solar parks and other renewable
projects fell to $27 billion in the first quarter, a 28 percent
slump from the last three months of 2011, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, a London-based industry analyst.  Key Focus  “We hope to assist all Danish exporters in all kind of
sectors,” she said. Renewables requiring larger loans with
longer maturities fit well with pension fund investment
decisions, she said. EKF, which makes guarantees on market
terms, boosted to 48 percent the amount of its 69 billion kroner
loan exposure for  wind energy  in 2011.  “Wind is a key focus,” she said. “It’s a major industry
and major export industry in Denmark.” EKF issued a  2.1 billion
kroner  loan to Meridian Energy Ltd. and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  to buy
140 Vestas turbines for an Australian project in September.  Denmark’s central bank already extended an export loan
program administered by EKF to 2015 with 35 billion kroner.
PensionDanmark A/S agreed to make 10 billion kroner available
for export orders late last year. PFA Pension’s contribution
brings the total to 55 billion kroner, with some used already.  In the second half of 2011 EKF helped to secure loans worth
more than 5 billion kroner, Eberhard said. The EKF hopes to
extend this kind of partnership, she said, potentially to
include insurance companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  