-- Philips Drops as Healthcare Vision Clouded: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-05-23T16:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/philips-drops-as-healthcare-vision-clouded-amsterdam-mover-1-.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV dropped
the most in three weeks in Amsterdam after Chief Executive
Officer Frans  van Houten  signaled the outlook for health-care
equipment for 2013 has been clouded by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The hospital scanner maker fell as much as 5.5 percent to
14.15 euros, the most since Jan. 10. Demand for healthcare
equipment in  China  is “a bit slower than it used to be,”
adding to a decline in southern Europe, van Houten told analysts
at the Electrical Products Group Conference in  Florida 
yesterday.  Philips needs economic growth of about 2 percent to 3
percent to be at the “borderline” of achieving targets, van
Houten said. While visibility for this year is “relatively
OK,” the concern surrounds what happens next year, he said.
European governments have cut budgets in response to dwindling
growth in the region and the debt crisis in  Greece .  “Europe, we definitely feel the pain, right?,” van Houten
told analysts at the conference. “We don’t see immediately
light at the end of the tunnel of the improvements in Europe.”  Shares of the Amsterdam-based company closed at 14.46 euros
im Amsterdam.  Siemens AG (SIE) , a German rival in health-care
equipment and lighting, fell as much as 2.1 percent to 66.17
euros in Munich trading before closing at 66.26 euros.  The European medical imaging market is poised to shrink by
3 percent to 4 percent this year,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch
analysts Mark Troman and Ben Maslen said in a note.  Van Houten reiterated the company’s earnings and sales
outlook in his presentation.  Tourists Not Welcome  “Of key concern to us would be any renewed weakness in
European health-care equipment markets which could drive further
profit downgrades in the near-term,” the analysts, who rate
Philips “underperform,” said in the note.  Philips’s response will be to accelerate an efficiency
drive at the health-care division as there is “much more to be
gotten and very good fundamentals,” van Houten said. Philips
also competes with  General Electric Co. (GE)  in health care and
lighting markets.  The Dutch company is already looking beyond van Houten’s
800 million-euro ($1 billion) savings program initiated last
year that includes 4,500 job cuts. The program in place, called
Path to Value, will cut spending at the headquarters, in
infrastructure,  information technology  and real estate.  Philips has now switched more than one-third of its 200 top
managers, and van Houten, who took the helm in April 2011,
pledged more management changes will come.  “We are not done yet, we go deeper into the organization
to see whether people truly sign up for the journey,” the CEO
said. “There’s no room for tourists in the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  