-- Philippines’ Top Judge Denies Wrongdoing at Own Trial
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-23T03:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/philippines-top-judge-denies-wrongdoing-at-own-trial.html
Philippine Chief Justice Renato Corona was admitted to the intensive care unit of a Manila
hospital today, interrupting his impeachment trial.  Corona was advised to stay in the Medical City hospital for
48 hours over fears that he could suffer a heart attack, DZRH
Radio reported, citing a cardiologist at the hospital. He had
walked out of his Senate trial yesterday after declaring that
the charges against him, including an allegation that he stashed
away $12 million in 82 bank accounts, were “pure lies”
fabricated by President  Benigno Aquino .  Aquino has said ousting Corona is a crucial step in an
anti-corruption campaign that also saw the government pursue
charges against former President  Gloria Arroyo , who is under
hospital arrest on allegations that she rigged elections during
her nine years in power. Securing a conviction of Corona in the
Senate may test Aquino’s political clout since he began the
campaign.  An acquittal “will mean Aquino is a weak president and
does not have influence on the other government branches, the
Senate particularly,” Benito Lim, a political science professor
at the Ateneo de Manila University, said in a telephone
interview in Manila.  Arroyo appointed Corona to the  Supreme Court  in 2002 and
promoted him to be the country’s top judge a month before her
term ended in 2010. Before his trial, Corona vowed to remain in
office and accused Aquino of undermining democracy by trying to
appoint his own magistrates to the court.  December Impeachment  The  House of Representatives  impeached Corona in December,
paving the way for his trial in the Senate. Aquino needs 16
votes from the 23-member Senate to secure a conviction.  “I condemn the trampling of my rights and the constitution
and its ill effects on our democracy,” Corona told the Senate.
He denied stealing government money and said his wealth came
from years of hard work.  At the close of his two-hour opening statement, Corona
signed a waiver allowing access to his peso and dollar accounts.
He said he would submit it to the court if the 188 congressmen
who had impeached him and one senator-judge did the same. He
then rushed out, returning later in a wheelchair after being
ordered back to the witness stand.  “I will not allow anyone to disrespect this court,”
Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile said. The court will
disregard Corona’s testimony and rule on the case if he fails to
return today, Enrile said yesterday.  Defense lawyers put Corona on the witness stand after
Ombudsman Conchita Carpio-Morales testified last week that he
failed to declare as much as $12 million held in bank accounts.  Presidential spokesman Edwin Lacierda said Corona
“squandered the opportunity” to clear his name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  