-- Philippine Peso Falls to Four-Month Low on Greece Exit Concern
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-05-23T09:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/philippine-peso-falls-to-four-month-low-on-greece-exit-concern.html
The Philippine peso fell to a four-
month low on concern  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis will prompt
investors to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets. Ten-
year government bonds were steady.  The Philippine Stock Exchange  Index (PCOMP)  dropped 0.6 percent at
the close in  Manila , snapping two days of gains, after Greece’s
former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said that while it is
unlikely the nation will leave the euro, it’s still a risk,
according to a report in the Wall Street Journal yesterday. Net
foreign  investment  in local stocks and bonds declined to $772
million at the end of April from $1.65 billion a year earlier,
central bank data show.  “The peso’s weakness, like most emerging-market currencies,
is due to the general risk-off sentiment fueled by Greece exit
concerns,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in Manila. “Some investors are
positioning for possible outflows from equities.”  The peso closed 0.7 percent lower at 43.44 per dollar, the
weakest since Jan. 19, data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-
month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings
used to price options, rose 40 basis points, to 7 percent, the
highest since Jan. 12.  The yield on the 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 was
steady at 5.5 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  The government is preparing to sell securities on behalf of
state-owned Power Sector Assets & Liabilities Management Corp.,
Treasurer  Roberto Tan  told reporters yesterday. The timing
hasn’t been decided, he said.  The plan is to sell at least 25 billion pesos ($575 million)
of bonds due January 2022 by mid-June, according to two bankers
who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t yet
public. Funding costs will probably be less if the government
borrows on behalf of the agency, Tan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  