-- Platinum Miners Retreat as Metal Declines: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-23T15:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/platinum-miners-retreat-as-metal-declines-johannesburg-mover.html
South African platinum mining shares
dropped to their lowest in more than three years as the metal
erased most of this year’s gains, weighing on companies’
potential profitability.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa Platinum Mining Index (JPLAT)  fell 3.7 percent
to 50.97 by the close in Johannesburg, its lowest level since
March 2009.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest platinum producer,
slid 5.1 percent to the weakest since December 2008.  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  retreated 3.9 percent.  Platinum declined 1.9 percent to the lowest since Jan. 6,
as commodities dropped for a second day on concern that Greece
may leave the euro region, roiling financial markets and dimming
the outlook for raw materials demand from China, the biggest
user of industrial metals including copper. Companies require a
higher platinum price and lower costs to make a profit,  John Meyer , an analyst at Fairfax IS Plc, said by phone from London.  “There is a lot of conflicting data out of China and
Europe and many funds and traders have taken a risk-off attitude
recently and so platinum prices are going down,” Meyer said.
“I think these shares can carry on down unless there is radical
change in terms of production costs or pricing.”  A 9.9 percent decline in the average platinum price and an
11 percent rise in rand costs contributed to an unexpected loss
for the six months through March at Lonmin, the company said on
May 14.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer, cut
its 2012 output target in February and froze employment after
annual profit slid 30 percent. Competitor  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) 
said last month it missed quarterly earnings estimates amid
lower prices and higher output costs.  “The current operating environment in  South Africa  is not
sustainable, in our view” for platinum producers, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  