-- PTT Exploration Raises Cove Energy Offer, Topping Shell
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-05-23T09:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/ptt-exploration-raises-offer-for-cove-energy-beating-shell.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) 
raised its offer for  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  to 1.22 billion pounds
($1.92 billion), topping  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s bid for access
to one of the largest natural gas discoveries in a decade.  Cove, whose main asset is a stake in offshore fields in
Mozambique large enough to justify building plants to freeze the
fuel and ship it to Asian markets, jumped more than 11 percent
to 249 pence, higher than PTTEP’s bid price.  PTTEP is now offering 240 pence per Cove share, a 9 percent
premium to Shell’s bid of 220 pence. Shell, which earlier raised
its offer to match PTTEP, had received approval from the
Mozambique government for the takeover.  “The market is suggesting there’s going to be another
counter from Shell,” said Werner Riding, an analyst at Peel
Hunt in  London . “It’s clear the Mozambique government prefers
Shell given their large experience in liquefied natural gas.”  Cove gained as much as 25 pence, or 11 percent, as of 10:12
a.m. in London. Cove’s board today withdrew its recommendation
of Shell’s bid.  “The acquisition would mark PTTEP’s entry into the highly
prospective East Africa hydrocarbon province and provide PTTEP
with a potentially high-impact portfolio,” Chief Executive
Officer Tevin Vongvanich said in a statement. “The Rovuma
project interest represents a strong fit for PTTEP.”  Steve Harris , a London-based Shell spokesman, declined to
comment on whether the company would make another offer.  ‘Significant Value’  “The bid from PTTEP represents significant value for
shareholders and confirms the world-class nature of Cove’s east
African assets,” Cove Chief Executive Officer John Craven said
in a statement.  The London-based company has an 8.5 percent interest in
Rovuma Area 1, where operator  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has
discovered as much as 30 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
Anadarko and Cove last week announced another discovery that may
hold 7 trillion to 20 trillion cubic feet of gas.  The new find may give Shell scope to raise its offer to 300
pence a share, Investec Securities Ltd. analyst Stuart Joyner
wrote in an e-mailed note.  Asia Supply  East Africa’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
Asia, where China and India are the world’s fastest-growing
major economies.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of Italy,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  of Norway also discovered gas off Mozambique and
Tanzania.  The deal would be the biggest overseas takeover by a Thai
company, squeezing out  Banpu Pcl (BANPU) ’s 2010 acquisition of
Australia’s Centennial Coal Co., which had an announced value of
$1.85 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PTTEP shares dropped 5.9 percent to 152 baht as of 4:30
p.m. in Bangkok, poised for their lowest close in three years.
The shares of parent  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest company, fell
2.8 percent to 310 baht.  PTTEP’s offer is subject to government approval. Mozambique
President Armando Guebuza said May 9 that the government had
seen Shell’s plans for developing the country’s gas finds and
“we’re pleased with what’s happening.”  Mozambique  has said that the sale of Cove will be subject
to a 12.8 percent capital gains tax. PTTEP’s offer for Cove
excludes the 12.8 percent capital gains tax due to the
Mozambique government, Vongvanich said on a conference call.  “Government approval is key for the process,” said Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in London.
“Shell will hold for now until they determine whether they need
to raise their bid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  