-- Purchases of New Houses in U.S. Probably Increased in April
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/purchases-of-new-houses-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-april.html
Demand for  new U.S. homes  probably
increased in April as lower prices and mortgage  interest rates 
drew buyers, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose at a 335,000 annual rate, up 2.1 percent
from 328,000 in March, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Data released yesterday
showed sales of previously owned homes rose in April in every
region.  Job growth, affordability and record-low  interest rates  are
bringing more single-family homes within reach of buyers,
chipping away at a weakness in the world’s largest economy as
risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis climb. Stricter bank lending
standards and foreclosures that continue to move through the
system mean a sustained housing recovery will take time to
develop.  “Housing has turned and is engaged in a gradual
recovery,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S. economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  New York . “There are drags and concerns but
the trend is up.”  Estimates of the 72 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 325,000 to 375,000. New-home sales are logged when
purchase contracts are signed. The Commerce Department’s report
is due at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Newly constructed houses made up 6.7 percent of the housing
market last year, down from a high of 15 percent during the boom
of the past decade, making them an unreliable predictor of the
total single-family market. Buyers are taking advantage of the
large inventory and affordability of previously owned homes.  Existing Homes  Sales of those  existing homes , tabulated when a contract
closes, increased 3.4 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate in
April, just shy of the 4.63 million in January that was the
highest in almost two years, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday. Resales will rise to a 4.6 million
to 4.7 million range this year, the group projected, from 4.26
million in 2011.  Owner-occupied properties were becoming a bigger share of
sales of existing homes last month as investors who use all-cash
deals to snap up distressed houses began playing a smaller role,
the agents’ group reported.  Demand for new houses peaked at 1.28 million in 2005 during
the housing boom, then fell to 306,000 million in 2011, the
lowest in records dating back to 1963.  The average cost of a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage fell to
3.79 percent last week, an all-time low, according to a Freddie
Mac survey of lenders.  Gaining Confidence  Builder  confidence  rose to a five-year high in May, with
the National Association of Homebuilders/Well Fargo sentiment
gauge rising to 29. The measure had been as low as 14 in
September. A measure of sales expectations for the next six
months rose to 34 from a revised 31, and the gauge of buyer
traffic increased to 23, the highest since April 2007,
homebuilders reported earlier this month.  The stabilization in housing has boosted builder shares
this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder
Index has surged 33 percent this year compared with a 4.7
percent gain for the broader  S&P 500 .  Slow income growth could cause  consumer spending  to level
off, said  Robert Niblock , chief executive officer of  Lowe’s
Cos. (LOW) , the home-improvement retailer based in Mooresville,  North
Carolina . The company cut its outlook for the year after slowing
first-quarter sales.  “While there has been some acceleration in consumer
spending recently, it was aided by unseasonably warm weather,”
Niblock said in a May 21 earnings call. “And while there has
been improvement in housing turnover, the increase was off a
small base. While spending has been strong up to this point in
the year, it will likely level off without real income growth.
Likewise, it remains to be seen whether housing has really begun
to turn.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  