-- QPR’s Joey Barton Gets 12-Game Ban for Conduct in Title Decider
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-05-24T01:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/qpr-s-barton-banned-12-games-after-red-card-at-manchester-city.html
Queens Park Rangers captain  Joey Barton  was banned for 12 games after being found guilty of two
counts of violent conduct during a game at Manchester City on
the last day of the Premier League soccer season.  Barton, banned for four matches following his red card
for elbowing City’s  Carlos Tevez , was suspended for eight more
games for violent-conduct charges involving  Sergio Aguero  and
 Vincent Kompany . He was also fined 75,000 pounds ($118,000),
the Football Association said.  “There are rules of conduct that should be adhered to, and
such behavior tarnishes the image of football in this country,
particularly as this match was the pinnacle of the domestic
season and watched by millions around the globe,” English
soccer’s governing body said in a  statement  yesterday.  Barton, 29, was red-carded in the 54th minute of the May
13 game at City, which clinched the league title for the first
time in 44 years with a 3-2 win.  After the incident with Tevez, Barton kneed Aguero from
behind and clashed with Kompany as he left the field. As Barton
had already been dismissed, both incidents fell outside the
jurisdiction of the referee.  QPR, which stayed in the elite division as Bolton was held
to a draw at Stoke, has previously said it’s conducting a “full
investigation” of the incidents, and there’s been speculation
the club may try to transfer Barton during the offseason. He
still has three years of a four-year contract left. The ban will
take effect at the start of next season.  Former  Manchester City  and Newcastle midfielder Barton has
a history of controversy. He spent 77 days in prison in 2008 for
an assault in his native Liverpool. The same year, he was
convicted of a training-ground attack on former City teammate
Ousmane Dabo though was spared a prison term.  Barton joined Newcastle from City for 5.8 million pounds in
June 2007 and switched to west  London ’s QPR last August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  