-- Rand Retreats on Speculation Rates to Stay on Hold
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-23T15:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/rand-retreats-on-speculation-rates-to-stay-on-hold.html
The rand dropped to its weakest level
in almost six months as commodities tumbled on concern European
Union leaders won’t resolve the euro-area debt crisis at a
summit today, curbing demand for riskier assets. Bonds declined.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 1.6 percent to
8.4621 per dollar, the lowest since Nov. 30. It traded 1.3
percent down at 8.4326 as of 5:26 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing
its two-day retreat to 2.5 percent. The yield on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 increased 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage points, to 7.71 percent.  The dollar rose to a 20-month high against a six-currency
basket including the euro after European Council President
Herman van Rompuy damped expectations for the 27-nation
gathering in Brussels, saying the crisis will come up only “at
the very end” of tonight’s meeting. The euro area is South
Africa’s biggest regional trading partner, buying 22 percent of
the nation’s exports.  “Although we believe policy makers will ultimately reach a
conclusion that a disorderly break-up of the Eurozone will be
more costly than deeper integration, the path to that decision
will be very volatile and there is a real risk that our faith in
policymakers’ judgement may be disappointed,” Rand Merchant
bank analysts, including  John Cairns , said in e-mailed comments.
“You should therefore continue to expect rand volatility and a
possibility of severe rand weakness.”  Commodities Retreat  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which tracks 24 raw
materials, lost as much as 1.2 percent to the lowest level since
Dec. 20. Copper for three-month delivery retreated as much as
1.5 percent. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  retreated, led
by commodity exporters including Anglo American Plc.  Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports. The nation has the world’s biggest
mineral reserves, according to Citigroup Inc., and is the
biggest producer of platinum and chrome.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility versus the dollar
jumped as much as 78 basis points today to 19.5 percent, the
highest since Jan. 10, as options traders anticipate wider
swings in the currency in coming weeks. The rand’s implied
volatility is the second-highest, after  Brazil , out of 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  The South African currency stayed weaker after inflation
accelerated less than economists’ estimates in April, fueling
speculation the central bank will leave  interest rates  unchanged
this year.  Inflation  Inflation accelerated for the first time in three months to
6.1 percent in April, from 6 percent in March, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The median
estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.2 percent.
The reserve Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will leave its
benchmark repo rate at 5.5 percent tomorrow, according to the
median estimate of economists in another Bloomberg survey.  “A combination of relatively weak domestic growth, on-
going concerns about downside risks to global activity, and a
more favorable local inflation outcome, would continue to weigh
on monetary policy over the remainder of the year and 2013,”
Adenaan Hardien, an economist at Cadiz Holdings Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The repo rate will
likely remain unchanged until late 2013.”  An interest-rate increase would support the rand, as it
would widen the currency’s yield differential with the dollar,
increasing its attraction for investors who borrow in low-
interest countries to invest in higher-yielding currencies. The
rand has lost 7.9 percent this quarter in the so-called carry
trade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  