-- Trash-to-Power Company Advanced Plasma to Hire Financial Adviser
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-23T11:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/trash-to-power-company-advanced-plasma-to-hire-financial-adviser.html
Advanced Plasma Power Ltd., a U.K.
waste-to-energy technology maker, plans to hire a financial
adviser to help raise money for 400 million pounds ($629
million) of planned projects to turn trash into power.  The company has been speaking to investment banks and
specialist firms and has selected the “frontrunners,” Rolf Stein, chief executive officer of London-based Advanced Plasma,
said by phone.  “We already have some funding commitments in place and we
are about to go very actively into the market,” Stein said.
“We will appoint the adviser as soon as we have certainty on
the outcome of the U.K. Renewable Obligation banding review.”  The U.K. is examining the level of support it gives to
different renewable energy technologies under a  banding review .
Confirmation of the new support levels, which will come into
effect next April, are expected within weeks.  The U.K.’s goal is to get at least 15 percent of its energy
from renewable sources by 2020, a sevenfold jump from 2008.
Bioenergy facilities such as Advanced Plasma’s have the
potential to provide as much as 30 percent of this target,
 according to  the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  Advanced Plasma is planning to build as many as 10 projects
across Britain that use waste from homes and businesses to
generate electricity and heat. They are expected to have a total
capacity of 160 megawatts.  The adviser will likely work with the company on its entire
project portfolio, the CEO said. They may need as much as 400
million pounds and the financial close of the first facility is
expected by the end of the year or early 2013.  The waste-to-energy developer has seen a “very sharp”
increase in interest and demand for its technology from regions
including  North America ,  Asia  and  Africa , it said. It’s
proceeding with a project in Africa that it’s looking to develop
with another U.K. business specializing in the area, Stein said,
declining to disclose further details.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  