-- Let Data, Not Politics, Guide Regulation
-- B y   T o b i a s   J .   M o s k o w i t z
-- 2012-05-23T23:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/regulation-should-be-guided-by-data-not-politics.html
Several years after the global
financial crisis, the fierce debate over regulation continues to
be driven by strong beliefs -- largely uninformed ones -- rather
than hard facts.  Some believe more regulation is necessary, others that it
would cause the downfall of our markets. No one, however, seems
to be talking about the evidence for or against regulation.  This is partly because very little evidence exists on the
effects of regulation or its efficacy. It is extremely difficult
to isolate the impact of any proposed regulatory change from
everything else that is occurring simultaneously within
financial markets. Studies claiming to analyze those effects are
almost always confounded by other factors, such as the
environment that led to a given regulation; the response of
market participants to regulation or anticipated regulation; the
selection of securities targeted for regulation; and the timing
of regulation.  To overcome these problems and identify an effect unrelated
to other possible effects, it would be useful to run a
controlled experiment, as medical research does with clinical
trials. Is that feasible in financial markets? My colleagues
 Steven Kaplan ,  Berk Sensoy  and I recently conducted such an
experiment to get a better understanding of one type of
financial regulation: bans on short selling certain stocks, a
very simple measure that was put in effect worldwide for
financial stocks during the crisis.  Excess Volatility  The prevailing view at the time was that allowing short
selling would further distort markets and adversely affect
prices, moving them further away from fundamentals. In theory,
short selling would depress prices further and “cause” excess
volatility, thus destabilizing markets even more. Another
theory, however, is that short selling improves price discovery,
and so any ban on shorting would itself distort markets.  The data show that, empirically, the effect on prices of
short-sale restrictions has been mixed because of the difficulty
in isolating the regulation from the effects of supply-and-demand responses in the market. For example, after the short-sale ban, many researchers quickly gathered the data to analyze
its effects on prices. The difficulty, though, was that
regulatory intervention and its application to certain
securities were almost surely related to other factors in the
market -- such as the conditions that spawned the regulation
debate in the first place -- that also influence security
prices. In fact, the aftermath of the regulatory changes
themselves may be exactly the wrong time to try to identify
their impact, since they typically occur at these most extreme
times and are applied to a highly selected group of securities.  Working with a large (more than $15 billion in assets),
unidentified  money manager , my co-authors and I were able to
conduct an experiment on short selling. We  randomly increased 
and restricted the supply of shares available for lending that
were held by the money manager. These random “supply shocks”
were unknown to any outside investors, were unannounced and
weren’t motivated by market conditions. In effect, we moved the
supply of lendable shares in the market in a way that wasn’t
confounded by any anticipated demand response.  Just like a medical trial, we had a randomized group of
“treated” stocks (whose supply of lendable shares changed) and
a randomized group of “control” stocks, whose lendable shares
remained the same. We focused on the stocks with high loan fees
(of at least 25 basis points per year; the average was more than
4 percent per year), which tend to be those that have high
shorting demand relative to their supply. These are the set of
stocks where a supply change would be most effective.  Experimental Loans  We ran the experiment twice: once during the turmoil of the
financial crisis -- Sept. 5 to Oct. 3, 2008 -- and from June 5
to Oct. 1, 2009, a calmer period. For the treated stocks, the
experiment was able to substantially increase the supply of
shares available for lending. On average, we moved enough of the
supply of shares of these stocks to comprise 214 percent of
daily trading volume, almost 37 percent of total short interest,
and 6.9 percent of total institutional ownership. At its peak,
more than $580 million of securities were lent out from the
experiment.  What did we find?  First, actual loan fees on the stocks we
treated declined significantly, about 2 percent to 3 percent per
year. That’s good news: Increasing loan supply, holding
everything else constant, should lower loan fees and prices.  Second, what happened to the underlying stock prices? Well,
despite focusing on high-demand stocks and producing sizeable
changes to supply, we didn’t find any adverse effects on stock
prices, volatility or even bid-ask spreads. Positive and
negative shocks to shorting supply had no price consequences for
the underlying stock, even for the least liquid ones with the
highest shorting demand. In short (pun intended), we found no
evidence that shifting supply mattered. And we found identical
results in both experiments.  For the investment manager, this was good news, since it
meant earning additional revenue from lending his shares without
adversely affecting the prices of his stock holdings. For policy
makers, these results don’t provide any support for the view
that regulation on shorting can prop up stock prices. But, as
with any experiment, caution must be taken when extrapolating
beyond the confines of our laboratory. We cannot say for certain
whether higher levels of restricted lending than we could
provide in our experiment, or restrictions for other types of
stocks not held by this particular money manager, would have
yielded different results. However, as in medical trials, if we
think these effects apply to a broader group than the subjects
of our experiment, then perhaps we do learn something about its
efficacy in general.  Government Studies  While it is difficult for individuals to conduct
experiments on their own, especially on a wide scale,
governments and their agencies are in a unique position to do
so. If more such analyses were done, policy debates on financial
regulation would be better informed and guided.  And, policies
themselves could be better structured and focused.  Unfortunately, it’s not just a matter of running
experiments. Getting policy makers to confront data is probably
a bigger issue. Consider the Securities and Exchange Commission,
which had conducted a related experiment on shorting -- the SHO
program -- three years before the financial crisis and found
evidence consistent with our conclusions that shorting
restrictions are ineffective. If, instead of focusing on
politics, policy makers had paid attention (or chosen not to
ignore) the data, they would have created much better and more
useful policies. Of course, hoping politicians will abandon
politics in favor of data is like hoping my 5-year-old will
abandon his toys in favor of bed when he’s tired -- both would
be better off, but it isn’t going to happen anytime soon.  (Tobias J. Moskowitz is Fama Family professor of finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, and is a
contributor to  Business Class . He also serves as a consultant to
AQR Capital Management LLC. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany  gained from
the euro and the  problems with the  Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter  on  political substance and
slander ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over Bain;  Caroline Baum  on
 overregulating banks ; Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock therapy ;
Junheng Li on  China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tobias J. Moskowitz at  tobias.moskowitz@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Max Berley
at   mberley@bloomberg.net  