-- Republican Control Doubles Funds for Chairmen: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/republican-control-doubles-funds-for-chairmen-bgov-barometer.html
The Republican takeover of the U.S.
House doubled campaign donations for lawmakers who gained
committee chairmanships with the change in control. For the
chamber’s typical rank-and-file Republican, the majority premium
has meant a 36 percent increase in fundraising.  The BGOV Barometer shows the increase in campaign funds
 House Republicans  have raised for this year’s election after
their party won back the chamber’s majority in 2010. Legislators
who became committee chairman have raised an average of $1.6
million in the current campaign as of March 31. That compares
with the average $803,341 they raised as of the same date in the
2009-2010 election cycle.  Committee chairmen who raised the most money -- the heads
of Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, Budget, and Financial
Services -- reaped as much as a three-fold increase in fund-
raising since taking the leadership positions.  Michigan Republican  Fred Upton , who chairs the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, has raised $2.5 million so far in the
current campaign. That’s more than three times the $825,486 he
had collected during the first 15 months of the 2010 campaign.
Upton’s panel has jurisdiction over a wide range of economic
activity, from Medicaid to enforcement of the  Clean Air Act .  Another Michigan Republican, House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp , increased his fund-raising to $2.9 million
in the current campaign season, double the $1.4 million he’d
collected at this time two years ago, when his party was in the
minority. Camp’s panel would have responsibility for drafting
legislation if Congress considers overhauling the U.S. tax code.  Fewer Minority Rights  The fundraising boost that comes with gaining majority
control is especially significant in the House, where the rules
“give the minority party many fewer rights than in the
Senate,” said  David Primo , political scientist at the
University of Rochester in  New York . Donations to committee
chairs “clearly reflect the significant role Congress continues
to play in regulating key areas of the economy -- notably health
care and financial services.”  The fund-raising increase for rank-and-file lawmakers was
calculated to exclude funds raised by six House Republicans who
ran for the Senate in 2010 and six others seeking Senate seats
this year. If donations to those Senate candidates are counted,
such as $3.9 million raised by Jeff Flake of  Arizona , House
Republican fund-raising is up 29 percent from two years ago.  House and Senate candidates report campaign fundraising and
expenditures to the  Federal Election Commission  on a quarterly
basis during each two-year election cycle.  The numbers show even House members among those raising the
least money do better as part of the majority party. For
example, California Republican Dana Rohrabacher raised $130,205
during the first five quarters of the 2009-2010 election
campaign.  This time around Rohrabacher, 64, now the fourth-most
senior member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee,
has raised almost 2 1/2 times as much -- $320,765. He’s also the
chairman of the oversight and investigations subcommittee of the
House Foreign Affairs panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  