-- RIM’s Head of Global Sales Quits BlackBerry Maker
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-24T20:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/rim-s-head-of-global-sales-quits-blackberry-maker.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s  Patrick Spence  resigned as head of global sales, marking the latest
management change for the struggling maker of BlackBerry
smartphones.  Spence is taking a job in a different industry following 14
years at RIM, said Rebecca Freiburger, a spokeswoman for the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company. The sales team will report to
Kristian Tear, RIM’s new operating chief, who will start this
summer, Freiburger said in an e-mail. Until then, the division
will report directly to Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins.  Heins, who took over in January, is grappling with a sales
slump and declining stock price, making it harder to attract and
retain talent. As part of his turnaround effort, he named Tear,
a former Sony Corp. executive, to the operating job earlier this
month. Heins also brought in an ex-LightSquared Inc. manager,
Frank Boulben, as head of marketing.  “The only thing that is saving them at the moment is
international growth,” said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at
Northern Securities Inc. in Toronto who recommends selling RIM
shares. “If your main guy responsible for international
traction leaves, it’s a steep learning curve for the new guys.
This is pretty odd timing.”  RIM’s stock  rose fell 3.4 percent to $10.71 at the close in
 New York . The shares have lost three-quarters of their value
over the past year.  BlackBerry 10  The company is banking on the new BlackBerry 10 operating
system to resurrect its smartphone lineup, which has lost market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. RIM’s
sales tumbled 25 percent last quarter, with U.S. revenue
plummeting more than 50 percent.  RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone subscribers shrank to 12
percent in the period, making it a distant third in the
industry, according to ComScore Inc. Android accounted for 51
percent of the market, while the iPhone had 31 percent.  Prior to his departure, Spence was working on opening
BlackBerry stores in markets such as  Southeast Asia  and the
 Middle East , where sales have held up better -- part of a bid to
mimic the success of Apple’s retail strategy.  “We’re being very focused in terms of the countries and
cities we’re doing it in, based on where the brand is and what
we think we need to do,” he said in an interview last month.  Spence said the company has to step up its game in  North
America  with BlackBerry 10 and deliver a product that can
compete with the iPhone.  “We’ve got to make sure we deliver more than we have in
the past,” he said.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported Spence’s
departure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  