-- Romney Widens Lead Over Obama Among Voters in Florida
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-05-23T17:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/romney-widens-lead-over-obama-among-voters-in-florida.html
The biggest swing state is turning
 Mitt Romney ’s way.  In three months of polling of Florida’s registered voters
by  Quinnipiac University , presumptive Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney has pulled ahead of President  Barack Obama .
A survey released today shows Romney leads Obama, 47 percent to
41 percent.  Obama led Romney, 49 percent to 42 percent, in a Quinnipiac
poll released March 28. In a survey released May 3, Romney had
44 percent and Obama 43 percent, a statistical tie.  “The overall picture in Florida is positive for Romney,”
said  Peter Brown , assistant vice president of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, in
part because of a gender gap aiding the Republican.  The poll shows men backing Romney over Obama 50 percent to
37 percent, while the president has a negligible advantage among
women, 45 percent to 44 percent.  Among independent voters in the state, Romney is favored by
44 percent, Obama by 36 percent.  Gay Marriage  Twenty-five percent of those polled said they were less
likely to support Obama after his May 9 announcement that he
supports gay marriage, while 11 percent were more likely to re-
elect him. Most polled said it made no difference.  “While the issue of same-sex marriage looks like it
affects only one-third of Florida voters, we know from
experience what a few votes can mean in the Sunshine State,”
Brown said in a statement.  Then-Texas Governor  George W. Bush ’s 537-vote victory in
Florida over Democrat  Al Gore  in the 2000 presidential election
won the White House for the Republican.  Obama won Florida in 2008 over Republican  John McCain  by
2.8 percentage points. In the previous three presidential
elections, the combined vote for Republican candidates was 10.9
million and 10.8 million for Democrats. The last Democrat to
carry the state before Obama was then-President  Bill Clinton  in
1996.  Florida’s 29 electoral votes make it the biggest prize
among the states both campaigns view as competitive in this
year’s election. The state looms as especially important for
Romney.  It was one of nine states that switched from the Republican
column in Bush’s successful 2004 re-election campaign to Obama
in 2008. If all other states run true to their 2004 and 2008
partisan preferences, Romney would still lose the White House if
he carried eight of the swing states while being defeated in
Florida.  Rubio Pick  The Quinnipiac poll shows the selection of Florida Senator
Marco Rubio, a Republican elected in 2010, as Romney’s running
mate would slightly improve the former Massachusetts governor’s
chances in the state. With Rubio on the ticket, Romney leads
Obama 49 percent to 41 percent in the poll.  Some Republicans are pushing for Romney to pick Rubio as a
way to improve his showing among Latino voters in other states,
as well as  Florida .  The poll, conducted May 15-21, surveyed 1,722 registered
voters with a margin of error of plus-or-minus 2.4 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  