-- Romney Works to Balance Bain With General-Election Pitch
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-24T16:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/romney-proposes-school-choice-program-using-taxpayer-cash.html
Mitt Romney ’s private-equity
background is threatening to overshadow the policies he is
pitching to voters, complicating the Republican’s efforts to
present himself as a positive alternative to President  Barack Obama .  That challenge was on display yesterday as Romney rolled
out his vision for overhauling the public education system in a
Washington speech -- the first of a series of weekly policy
addresses his campaign has planned -- only to see his message
muffled by continued questions about his role as head of the
Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  In an interview with Time magazine, Romney defended his
work as founder and chief executive officer of the company,
giving his most extensive response to Democratic attacks that
have dominated the political conversation for more than a week.  “The fact is that I spent 25 years in the private sector,
and that obviously teaches you something that you don’t learn if
you haven’t spent any time in the private sector,” the
presumptive presidential nominee said. “Someone who spent their
career in the economy is more suited to help fix the economy
than someone who spent his life in politics and as a community
organizer.”  Criticism Increases  The former  Massachusetts  governor’s campaign has struggled
to find a consistent line of defense as criticism of his 15-year
tenure at Bain Capital has intensified. His aides and supporters
have vacillated among depictions of the Democrats’ barrage as an
assault on free enterprise, an attempt to divide the nation, a
character assassination and a distraction.  Senior strategist  Eric Fehrnstrom  told reporters yesterday
that the campaign welcomes the attacks, saying the topic
underscores its message that on economic issues, Obama has
failed.  “We like the fact that the discussion is centered on jobs
and the economy,” he told reporters on a conference call.
“We’re happy to compare Governor Romney’s record of success
both at the statehouse in Massachusetts and as a businessman for
25 years in the private sector with the lack of real-world
economic experience of President Obama,” he said.  The lack of cohesion in Romney’s message illustrates the
task he faces as he seeks to reintroduce himself to general-
election voters after the party’s primaries and avoid having his
image tarnished by the Obama campaign before he can make his
case to independent voters and disaffected Democrats.  Positive Message  Seeking to drive a more positive message for voters just
now tuning into the Nov. 6 contest, Romney and his team are
rolling out weekly policy speeches on a variety of topics, such
as education and energy. The initiative is designed to draw
contrasts with Obama and frame the general-election policy
debates.  To highlight his education plans, Romney met today with
Philadelphia education advocates at a majority African-American
charter school in West Philadelphia.  “The gap of achievement, I believe, is the civil rights
issue of our time,” he said. “We have an education crisis.”  After greeting administrators, Romney toured the school,
shaking hands with a classroom of third graders and helping a
group of sixth-grade girls with an English assignment.  From there, it was upstairs to the music room, where Romney
stood as teachers danced and a choir class serenaded him.  “Good to meet you guys,” he said as he left the room.
“Now and again if you watch the news you’ll see me. I’m sorry
about that.”  ‘Talk About Education’  His visit, the first of his campaign to an impoverished
urban area, was met with protests and criticism.  “I don’t know why this guy’s here,” said Philadelphia
Mayor Michael Nutter, a Democrat. He “has suddenly somehow
found West Philadelphia, somehow now wants to talk about
education.”  In yesterday’s address at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
Romney proposed steps to overhaul the public education system
that could reignite the debate over school choice.  The proposals would create a voucher-like system to provide
federal funding so that low-income and disabled students can
attend  charter schools , private institutions and public schools
outside their districts.  “I don’t like the direction of American education, and as
president, I will do everything in my power to get education on
track for the kids of this great land,” Romney told a gathering
of Hispanic business owners.  ‘Champion’ of Reform  Romney blamed Obama and teachers’ unions for what he
described as the “third world” state of American education.  “President Obama has made his choice, and I have made
mine: As president, I will be a champion of real education
reform in America, and I won’t let any special interest get in
the way,” he said. “We have to stop putting campaign cash
ahead of our kids.”  While the Obama administration opposes vouchers -- using
tax money to fund attendance at private schools -- the president
has been an advocate of charter schools, one of the elements of
the school-choice movement.  Expanding vouchers, said  James Kvaal , policy director for
the Obama campaign, would “do nothing for the vast majority of
students that are left behind in public schools.”  Romney also urged government to remove barriers to
expanding online education.  The Obama administration has promoted increased regulation
of for-profit colleges because of concern about their
educational outcomes and federal student-loan default rates.
Much of that growth has come from the online offerings of these
institutions, including  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University of
Phoenix, the biggest online college chain.  Romney Advisers  Romney has consulted outside advisers with ties to for-
profit and online education, including Nina Rees, senior vice
president for strategic initiatives at Knowledge Universe, a
company controlled by financier  Michael Milken  and his brother,
Lowell. Knowledge Universe is an investor in  K12 Inc. (LRN) , the
largest U.S. operator of online charter schools.  Rod Paige, a former secretary of education and also a
Romney adviser, and William Hansen, a former assistant secretary
of education, founded Chartwell Education Group LLC, the
consulting firm that lobbied for Apollo Group.  Those new measures competed for attention with the
questions about Romney’s record at Bain and job losses at
companies controlled by the firm.  ‘Fair Game’  Obama defended as “fair game” his campaign’s attacks on
Romney’s role at Bain. “If your main argument for how to grow
the economy is ‘I knew how to make a lot of money for
investors,’ then you’re missing what this job is about,” Obama
said during a May 21 news conference in  Chicago .  In the interview with Time, Romney sidestepped a question
about whether he welcomed the debate about his career at Bain,
which he has held out as his main qualification for the
presidency.  “Well, of course I’d like to also focus on his record,”
Romney said of Obama. “The American people are interested in
not so much in the history of where I was at  Bain Capital , or
that I have understanding of the private sector, but instead,
has the president made things  better  for the American people?”  Romney pressed his argument that his Bain experience
grounded his run for the presidency, saying it gave him concrete
perspectives on how government actions can impede private
business. He cited Bain’s investment with the Indiana-based
company Steel Dynamics, which he said was the kind of enterprise
heavily dependent on energy prices that have been inflated by
Obama’s policies.  Impact on Jobs  “I understand the impact of those kinds of factors on  job
creation ,” Romney told Time. “The reason you’re seeing, across
the country, people saying they’d like to try someone new is
because they believe this president -- while he may be a nice
guy -- is simply not up to the task of helping guide a
economy.”  Bain, in an e-mailed statement earlier this week, said
revenue increased in 80 percent of the more than 350 companies
in which the firm invested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  