-- HSBC Buys 4 New York Plaza Tower With Edge Fund Advisors
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-23T16:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/hsbc-buys-4-new-york-plaza-tower-with-edge-fund-advisors-1-.html
A partnership of HSBC Alternative
Investments Ltd. and Edge Fund Advisors bought 4  New York  Plaza,
a lower  Manhattan  office tower that houses offices of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the New York Daily News.  The partners paid $270 million for the 1.1 million-square-
foot (102,000-square-meter) property, said a person with
knowledge of the deal, who declined to be identified because the
terms were private. That was more than double what the seller,
Harbor Group International, paid to acquire the building two
years ago.  The 22-story tower was purchased on behalf of a London-
based entity called HSBC Club Programme, which also owns 1540
Broadway in New York, and 1625 I St. NW and 1350 I St. NW in
 Washington , the buyers said today in a statement that didn’t
disclose terms. The building is about 95 percent leased,
according to the statement.  “Our purchase of 4 New York Plaza is a testament to the
value we envision from the rebirth of the downtown market,”
Mark Keller, chief executive officer of Washington-based Edge
Fund Advisors, said in the statement.  Lower Manhattan’s office vacancy rate  was 9.2 percent at
the end of March, down from the peak of 12.1 percent in the
third quarter of 2010, according to data from brokerage Cushman
& Wakefield Inc.  ‘Bullish on Downtown’  Harbor Group bought the skyscraper, which is near  the foot
of Manhattan , from JPMorgan for $107 million in January 2010,
New York City property records show.  “We bought at the bottom of the cycle,” Jordan Slone, CEO
of Norfolk, Virginia-based Harbor Group, said in a telephone
interview. “At the time we bought the building, I don’t think
investors were as bullish on downtown as they are now.”  Conde Nast Publications Inc.’s deal last year to lease
about 1 million square feet at 1 World Trade Center has helped
make lower Manhattan “a focus for investors, which 2 1/2 years
ago, it wasn’t,” Slone said.  The Daily News, owned by  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  Chairman
Mortimer Zuckerman, later that year agreed to move its
headquarters to 4 New York Plaza from 450 West 33rd St. in
Midtown. The newspaper and Zuckerman’s magazine company, U.S.
News & World Report Media Group, took about 100,000 square feet
combined, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a Washington-based
research firm that tracks commercial-property leasing.  Harbor Group was represented by brokers from  CBRE Group
Inc. (CBG) , including Darcy Stacom and Bill Shanahan, according to a
statement from the brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  