-- Scene Last Night: Black, Kravis, Speyer, Tisch, Koons
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-05-23T14:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/scene-last-night-black-kravis-speyer-tisch-koons.html
At the Museum of Modern Art’s Party
in the Garden gala, patrons, artists and performers mingled in
the courtyard amid sculptures by Joan Miro and  Henry Moore .  Jerry I. Speyer, MoMA’s board chairman, Thomas Tisch,
managing partner of Four Partners, architect Rafael Vinoly, and
artists  Jeff Koons  and Cindy Sherman were in sight at cocktail
hour.  Leon Black , chairman of  Apollo Global Management (APO)  LLC, and
 Henry Kravis , co-founder of  KKR & Co., (KKR)  also attended the event,
which raised $3.8 million.  “You’re humbled when you’re here, among so many patrons
and incredible collectors,” said Stephen Abramson, the former
chief financial officer of New Line Cinema Corp. and a member of
MoMA’s photography-acquisition committee. He lent several photos
for MoMA’s Cindy Sherman retrospective.  “The best time for collecting photography was 15, 20 years
ago,” Abramson said. And when did he first start collecting?
“Fifteen or 20 years ago.”  The annual gala honored MoMA trustees Michael Lynne, Anna
Marie Shapiro and Edgar Wachenheim III. It drew 650 guests for
cocktails and dinner. The after party, with a DJ set by Solange
Knowles and a performance by pop singer Santigold, was attended
by about 1,200 people.  Changing Her Mind  Patricia Phelps de Cisneros, the event co-chairwoman, said
her favorite piece in the collection was Kazimir Malevich’s
“White on White.” Then she changed her mind.  “No, how about a work by Armando Reveron,” she said.
“I’ve got to pitch South American artists.”  Cisneros, a museum trustee and philanthropist, is a founder
of the  Fundacion Cisneros , which promotes education in Latin
American art.  As the courtyard filled up, guests stood around the bars
that flanked the reflecting pool. Nimbler attendees navigated
the marble bridge spanning the water.  Alice Tisch, a MoMA trustee, stood near the pool and spoke
about her Memorial Day plans.  “My son is graduating from Collegiate on Friday,” she
said, referring to the private Manhattan primary and secondary
school. “And my husband is on the board of  Brown University , so
I’m going to the Brown graduation on Saturday. I’m going to be a
voyeur for the weekend.”  As guests filed in to MoMA’s atrium for dinner, several
latecomers rushed in, including Barbara Walters, who stopped to
pose next to Maillol’s busty “The River” and joked, “You
know, that’s a sculpture of me.”  (James Tarmy is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
 Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 