-- Scottish Carbon-Capture Drive to Help Unlock $299 Billion of Oil
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-23T14:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/scottish-carbon-capture-drive-to-help-unlock-299-billion-of-oil.html
Scotland  is targeting a 3 billion-
barrel increase in North Sea oil output by using carbon dioxide
to push out hard-to-reach energy resources valued at 190 billion
pounds ($299 billion).  The  Centre for North Sea Enhanced Oil Recovery With CO2 ,
which opened today, will help advance technologies to inject
 carbon emissions  from  power plants  and industry into aging
oilfields to force out crude, according to 2Co Energy Ltd.,
funding the venture with the Scottish government.  Oil extraction from the North Sea, the world’s sixth-
largest supplier of crude, peaked more than decade ago and is
going into decline as fields are depleted. CO2 injection,
already employed in countries including the U.S., not only helps
boost oil output but also prevents dispersal of the polluting
gas in the atmosphere by trapping it underground.  “The central North Sea is the key European location for
the storing of CO2, captured from fossil-fuel power stations and
industrial emissions,” Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond 
said in a statement. Scotland will be responsible for licensing
as much as 50 percent of  Europe ’s offshore storage, he said.  Britain is promoting carbon-capture technology, which
siphons off CO2 emissions from power plants and factories and
pumps it underground for permanent storage, with a 1 billion-
pound funding competition. 2Co Energy, one of the ventures
seeking financing, is developing the Don Valley Power Project in
northern England to trap emissions and use them to recover oil.  In the U.S., Exxon Mobil Corp. already sells CO2 from its
 LaBarge Shute Creek  plant in Wyoming for oil recovery. Denbury
Resources Inc., based in Plano, Texas, owns CO2 reserves used to
boost oil output east of the  Mississippi River .  Carbon injection may boost the amount of oil tapped from
undersea reservoirs by as much as 25 percent, according to
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  