-- SEC Focusing on JPMorgan’s Disclosure of Risk Models
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-23T01:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/sec-focusing-on-jpmorgan-s-disclosure-of-risk-models.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the agency is “very
focused” on determining whether  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
appropriately disclosed changes it made during the first quarter
to a complex risk calculation.  “We are very focused on the accuracy and timeliness of
that disclosure,” she said yesterday during an appearance
before the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .  Schapiro’s comments were the most extensive she has made
since the biggest  U.S. bank  announced a $2 billion trading loss
on May 10. The remarks indicated that the SEC is examining how
JPMorgan measured its “value at risk,” or VaR,  which is a
measure of how much the company estimates it could lose on
securities on 95 percent of days.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told investors
on May 10 that the company used a new model, which later proved
to be “inadequate,” to calculate VaR some time during the
first quarter. The change ended up cutting the unit’s estimated
risk profile by about half. When JPMorgan  reported  earnings on
April 13, it said the division’s VaR was $67 million when it was
actually $129 million, according to a presentation on the
company’s website that day and company disclosures since then.  “In the first quarter, we implemented a new VaR model,
which we now deemed inadequate,” Dimon said on May 10. “We
went back to the old one, which had been used for the prior
several years, which we deemed to be more adequate.”  Model Changes  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, disclosed the
losses in its Chief Investment Office after Bloomberg News first
reported on April 5 that trader Bruno Iksil had accumulated
large bets in credit markets. Ina Drew, who as head of the CIO
unit was among the most powerful women on  Wall Street , resigned
on May 14.  In response to questioning from Senator  Kay Hagan , a North
Carolina Democrat, Schapiro cited news reports that JPMorgan
changed its model and said that companies are supposed to
disclose when that happens.  “When there are changes to the VaR model, as newspapers
have reported was done at JPMorgan -- they changed their VaR
model -- those changes to the model characteristics also have to
be disclosed,” she said.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  declined to comment
on Schapiro’s remarks. The bank did disclose the change in an
official financial statement filed on May 10, though not in the
earlier earnings release.  Schapiro told lawmakers that VaR models are an imperfect
snapshot of risk at a company in part because it doesn’t measure
the maximum possible losses that can hit a portfolio. Michael Loughlin,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s chief risk officer, said yesterday
that VaR is an “adequate ratio.”  “Though we can all do better,” he said in a presentation
at the bank’s investor day. “I don’t mean to sound trite but I
think maybe walking trading floors is a better risk management
tool than VaR.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  