-- Secret Service Agent Misconduct Isn’t Systemic, Chief Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-23T19:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/secret-service-agent-misconduct-isn-t-systemic-chief-says-1-.html
The director of the U.S. Secret
Service said the agency’s prostitution scandal in Colombia is an
isolated incident, a conclusion that lawmakers rejected as
premature.  “This is not a cultural issue,”  Mark Sullivan , the
agency’s director, said at a Senate Homeland Security Committee
hearing today. “This is not a systemic issue with us.”  Sullivan’s appearance was the first time he has publicly
answered questions about allegations that a dozen employees may
have consorted with prostitutes last month while preparing
security before President  Barack Obama  visited Cartagena,
Colombia for a summit. The episode sparked the Secret Service’s
worst crisis outside of a president’s assassination.  Secret Service records revealed 64 complaints of employee
sexual misconduct, including three alleged instances of an
inappropriate relationship with a foreigner, said Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who is chairman of the
committee. Most of the complaints involved sexually explicit e-
mails or material on a government computer, he said.  Sullivan should “assume what happened in Cartagena isn’t
an isolated incident,” Lieberman told reporters after the
hearing.  Senator  Susan Collins  of  Maine , the panel’s top Republican,
joined Lieberman in questioning whether the allegations indicate
systemic misconduct.  Supervisor Involvement  Collins told reporters that Sullivan doesn’t have a basis
for concluding what happened in the country is unique. Collins
also said she is concerned because two of the employees involved
were supervisors with a combined 43 years experience.  Nine Secret Service employees have either left the agency
or are in the process of being dismissed as a result of the
allegations.  In another case related to prostitution, Sullivan said that
an on-duty Secret Service employee in  Washington  solicited sex
from an undercover police officer in 2008.  Collins said at the hearing that she is concerned about the
findings of a recent agency employee survey showing that about
60 percent would report misconduct and about 20 percent
wouldn’t.  Sullivan said “we need to raise up” the number of
employees willing to come forward.  Charles K. Edwards, the acting inspector general of the
Department of  Homeland Security , said at the hearing that he is
conducting a review of the agency’s investigation and his own
independent probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  