-- Shunning Euro Crisis Boosts Funds for Aberdeen Stock Picker
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-05-24T08:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/shunning-euro-crisis-helps-boost-funds-for-aberdeen-stock-picker.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ’s
Jeremy Whitley says the best way to cope with the European debt
crisis as a stock investor might be to overlook it.  The head of U.K. and European equities at Scotland’s
largest money manager has turned around the performance of his
funds by investing in companies such as  Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc (RR/) , the world’s second-largest aircraft-engine maker, and
 Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) , the second-biggest maker of elevators.  “When you have a situation like the euro, it is very
difficult to set your own thought processes to what might
happen,” Whitley, 47, who is responsible for 4.3 billion pounds
($6.8 billion), said in an interview on May 21 in his office in
Edinburgh, the Scottish capital. “It might go one of five, six
or 10 ways outside our control and outside the control of the
companies we are investing in.”  Markets have been roiled as  Europe  struggles to reduce
sovereign debt in the wake of the global financial crisis.
European Union political leaders met yesterday for the 18th time
since Greece was overwhelmed by debt, with investors’ immediate
concerns focused on Greece’s willingness to stick to its
austerity program and the health of Spanish banks.  Whitley took over running the two funds in October 2009,
the month elections brought in a new Greek government and the
country started revealing the state of its finances.  “I would be amazed if anything is sorted out in the next
two years,” he said. “It could take three to five years.”  Better Performance  The 157 million-pound  Aberdeen U.K. Equity Fund (ABEUKAI)  has since
gained 23 percent, ranking 37 of 277 similar funds, according to
research firm Morningstar Inc. The 238 million-euro ($304
million)  Aberdeen Global European Equity Fund (ABEEMAA)  has fallen 1.3
percent over the same period, ranking 22 of 101 funds.  During the previous two years, the U.K. fund ranked 202 of
258 funds, declining 20 percent, while the European fund ranked
72 of 88 funds, falling 15 percent, Morningstar said.  “We want the strongest growth we can find in companies
that are operating on a global basis, that have a very strong
business model offering goods and services to customers that
absolutely need them,” Whitley said.  Whitley isn’t a frequent trader. The most recent U.K.
stocks he bought were early in 2011 when he invested in  Experian
Plc (EXPN) , the world’s largest credit-checking company, and  Compass
Group Plc (CPG) , the largest catering company. Experian has risen 12
percent since the start of 2011, while Compass is up 7.9 percent
over the same period.  ‘Scottish Prices’  This year, Whitley bought shares in  Swedish Match AB (SWMA) ,
Europe’s largest maker of smokeless tobacco products, and  Assa
Abloy AB (ASSAB) , the world’s largest lock maker. Swedish Match has
gained 9.3 percent in 2012, while Assa Abloy is up 7.4 percent.  The only stock he has sold this year is  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second biggest lender. The sale
came after Aberdeen realized that any potential bailout of
BBVA’s Spanish operations would be even bigger than it had
thought, Whitley said. BBVA, which hasn’t needed aid, has
slumped 27 percent in 2012.  Last year, Whitley sold shares in  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , and  MAN SE (MAN) ,
the German truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG. BMW rose 4.5
percent over the past year, while MAN has declined 20 percent.  Shampoo Ingredients  He bought shares in  Croda International Plc (CRDA) , a U.K.
specialty chemicals company that makes ingredients for products
such as L’Oreal SA’s shampoos. He should have bought the stock
three years ago rather than in 2011, though held back on concern
about its pension fund. Croda’s shares have quadrupled in the
past three years and gained 15 percent in the past 12 months.  “We’d rather make sure of something we’re worried about
than not, even if it means we miss the shares going up for a
bit,” he said. “Once we’d got over our concerns we still felt
Croda offered an attractive long-term investment.”  Whitley, who was born into the then family-owned Greenall
Whitley brewing empire, is a graduate in English and art history
from the University of St Andrews. He has worked in  fund
management  since 1988 when he joined SG Warburg, now part of UBS
AG. He returned to  Scotland  in 1994 where he joined Edinburgh
Fund Managers Plc, which was acquired by Aberdeen in 2003.  International investors are balking at European stocks at
the moment, Whitley said.  Aberdeen clients pulled a net 139 million pounds from U.K.
and European stocks in the six months ended March 31, according
to a company  presentation  on its website. By contrast, the firm
had net inflows of 4.4 billion pounds into emerging market,
Asia-Pacific and global equities over the same period.  “You have this underlying growth assumption in Asia
whereas in the West you haven’t got that,” Whitley said. “If
we can find evidence of structural growth we will analyze and
follow that very closely and find companies that will benefit
from those favourable tailwinds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  