-- Siemens Avoiding Large-Scale Deals With Focus on Internal Growth
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-05-23T14:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/siemens-avoiding-large-scale-deals-with-focus-on-internal-growth.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive  Peter
Loescher  said Europe’s largest engineering company has
“deliberately” refrained from large-scale purchases to focus
on organic growth, even as competitors step up acquisitions.  While the company is evaluating possible takeover targets,
its acquisition policy is not regionally driven, Loescher told
analysts at a conference in Florida today. Siemens will continue
to look for growth in areas such as sub-sea products, where it
announced a recent takeover, and even so-called “bolt-on”
acquisitions could be in the billions, he said.  Loescher’s comments come two days after  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  offered
$11.8 billion for  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  to push into electrical
equipment.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , which competes with Siemens in areas such
as factory automation and power transmission, bought Thomas &
Betts Corp. for $3.9 billion in January, saying the purchase
would help it build its presence in the U.S. low-voltage market.  Siemens has relied mainly on smaller deals under Loescher,
and some purchases have soured. Siemens was forced to write down
the value of a medical diagnostics acquisition, and the purchase
of a solar-energy business also led to a charge. Loescher said
solar is “more of an R&D area” for Siemens.  Siemens cut its annual profit forecast for the third time
in five years on April 25 as delays in linking off-shore wind
parks to  Europe ’s power grid. Loescher said today that Europe
will continue to be “volatile” for years to come, while he is
not preparing the organization for an end of the euro.  Greece  keeping or leaving the single currency is “not
relevant” from an industrial point of view, Loescher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  