-- Singapore Says Inflation to Stay Elevated After Reaching 5.4%
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-05-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/singapore-says-inflation-to-stay-elevated-after-reaching-5-4-.html
Singapore  said inflation will remain
elevated in the next few months after accelerating in April, as
a surge in car-permit costs and rising wages add to price
pressures in the city state.  The  consumer price index  rose 5.4 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 5.2 percent in March, the Department of
Statistics said in a statement today. The median  estimate  of 17
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.2 percent
increase. The core inflation rate was 2.7 percent in April.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore raised its 2012
inflation forecast last month as it diverged from most other
Asian central banks that have left borrowing costs unchanged or
eased monetary policy in recent weeks. Higher oil costs, rising
housing rents, more expensive private transportation and
unemployment near a three-year low have sustained price
pressures in the Southeast Asian nation.  “Inflation risk is still the biggest concern for
Singapore,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
in Singapore, said before the report. “While the global outlook
has turned from bad to worse in recent weeks, policy makers are
still struggling with high domestic inflation.”  The  Singapore dollar  traded at S$1.2769 against its U.S.
counterpart at 12:29 p.m. local time. It has gained about 1.5
percent this year.  Singapore’s central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to
manage inflation, said last month it will increase “slightly”
the slope of the currency trading band, and raised its forecast
for consumer-price gains to 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent in 2012.  Policy Stance  The Monetary Authority of Singapore guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. It
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band.  Inflation will “likely remain elevated over the next few
months, before gradually easing” in the second half of the year,
the central bank and trade ministry said in a monthly statement
on price trends today.  Prices rose 0.5 percent last month from March, today’s
report showed. Minister for Trade and Industry Lim Hng Kiang
said last week inflation is estimated to remain at about 5
percent in the next few months.  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling a limited number of permits every year for each category
of vehicles. The costs of licenses have surged this year as the
government seeks to reduce the vehicle growth rate, with permit
prices for a category of larger cars breaching S$92,000 ($72,000)
earlier this month.  “Higher COE premiums will remain a key driver of inflation
in Singapore in the coming quarters,” Seah said. “Even though
Singaporeans who are not buying cars will not directly feel the
pinch of higher COE premiums, companies will surely pass on the
higher costs of commercial vehicles to consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  