-- Slim Family Sees European Crisis as Good Time to Invest
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-05-24T20:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/slim-family-sees-european-crisis-as-good-time-to-invest.html
Carlos Slim  sees  Europe ’s debt crisis
as a “good moment” to apply his strategy of investing in times
of turmoil, said the billionaire’s son,  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  Co-
Chairman Carlos Slim Domit.  America Movil , controlled by the elder Slim, announced a
$3.4 billion bid to increase its stake in former Dutch phone
monopoly  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  earlier this month. While the acquisition
would be Slim’s first major European foray, it follows a
longstanding pattern, his son said. America Movil tries to stay
as efficient and financially sound as possible so that it can
quickly capitalize on fresh opportunities, he said.  “When hard times come, you can look at opportunities in a
very agile way,” Slim Domit, 45, said in an interview this week
in Mexico City. “Europe is in a good moment.”  Before America Movil made its offer for a KPN stake on May
7, the Dutch company’s stock had fallen as low as 6.37 euros,
dragged down by concern that the European crisis would hurt
demand. Slim offered to pay 8 euros a share for as much as 28
percent of KPN. That move mirrored Slim’s opportunistic buying
in  Argentina  and  Brazil  a decade ago and even earlier in Mexico
-- investments that helped make him the world’s richest person.  America Movil rose less than 1 percent to 16.82 pesos in
Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped about 10 percent
since the company announced the KPN offer. KPN fell 0.9 percent
to 7.67 euros in Amsterdam.  European Summit  European leaders are meeting in Brussels this week to
discuss the region’s debt crisis after deepening concern  Greece 
will exit the euro wiped about $4 trillion from equity markets
worldwide this month.  Still, Slim’s KPN deal faces hurdles. The Dutch carrier has
rejected the offer, saying it “substantially undervalues the
company.” If approved, the transaction would more than
quintuple America Movil’s stake in the Netherlands’ largest
phone company.  America Movil also may have approached the Austrian
government about buying a stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , according
to one of the carrier’s biggest investors, Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris . A sale of that stake would require approval by
the coalition government, which is led by the Social Democrats,
who oppose privatizations. America Movil declined to comment.
Sawiris said he’d be willing to sell his own Telekom Austria
stake to America Movil if the Austrian government doesn’t allow
changes at the telephone company.  Family History  Slim Domit co-leads the board of America Movil, the largest
wireless carrier in the Americas, with his brother Patrick. He’s
also chairman of the carrier’s Telmex land-line unit and of
Grupo Carso SAB, a Slim-controlled company with retail,
construction and manufacturing units.  The family’s investment strategy goes back decades, Slim
Domit said. Along with his two younger brothers, he received
lessons from his father from an early age on how to value
companies. The Slim patriarch, now 72, was following the
tradition of his own father, Julian Slim, a Lebanese immigrant
to  Mexico  who gave his children savings books with their weekly
allowances to teach them how to manage income and expenses.  Julian Slim took advantage of depressed prices during the
nation’s 1910 revolution to buy up real estate in downtown
Mexico City. The lesson stuck with Carlos Slim, who would use a
series of economic crises in Mexico to build a collection of
assets, from tire and cigarette manufacturing to insurance to
retail, culminating in his 1990 acquisition of Telmex during a
privatization movement by the government.  From Telmex sprouted America Movil, which now spans most of
the Western Hemisphere, from the U.S. to Argentina. The company
grew by acquiring distressed assets, such as bankrupt AT&T  Latin
America  Corp.’s fiber-optic lines, and investing in those
networks to reach consumers, Slim Domit said.  Network Improvements  “There wasn’t a lot of infrastructure,” he said. “In
many countries the company began by making an acquisition of the
third- or fourth-biggest carrier, and then got as big as it is
now by investing and being competitive in the market.”  America Movil is spending more than $9 billion this year,
with a similar amount budgeted for the next two years, to
improve its network across Latin America. It’s pushing fiber-
optic lines closer to users’ homes and preparing to introduce
faster wireless services known as 4G, or fourth generation.  Those investments have given America Movil an edge over its
biggest rival,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , in most of the region, said Vera Rossi, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York .  “They have the best position in Latin America,” she said.  The opportunity in Europe is different, mainly because
phone networks are much more developed in the region than they
are in Latin America, Slim Domit said.  ‘A Lot of Potential’  “We’re not thinking about going there as operators,” he
said. “Those are markets that we view with a lot of potential
for the development of synergies, and above all we’re seeking
complementary philosophies on how to develop businesses.”  America Movil aims to win approval from Dutch securities
regulators for its KPN offer and carry out the transaction in
early June. The company will keep looking at telecommunications
investments because Slim believes the industry will be the
center of technological changes over the next decade, such as
the shift to using wireless devices for financial transactions,
Slim Domit said.  “My dad has said it many times, but we’re in a new era,
and telecommunications are the nervous system of this new era,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  