-- Slim Approached Austria, Not Pecik, on Telekom: Sawiris
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-05-23T16:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/slim-approached-austria-not-pecik-on-telekom-sawiris.html
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris 
said  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB hasn’t approached him and
Ronny Pecik about their stake in  Telekom Austria  AG.  “My understanding is that Slim approached the Austrian
state,” Sawiris said in a telephone interview today from  Egypt .
“He didn’t approach us.” Sawiris helped Pecik finance his 20
percent stake in Telekom Austria.  America Movil  has held “early” talks with investors Pecik
and Sawiris on their stake in the company, Kronen Zeitung
reported this month, without saying where it got the
information. The Austrian state is Telekom Austria’s biggest
owner with 28.4 percent via its asset agency OeIAG. A sale of
the stake would require approval by the coalition government,
which is led by the Social Democrats, who oppose privatizations.  Slim, the world’s richest person, is turning to  Europe  as
subscriber growth slows in markets such as Brazil and Mexico.
Claire Verhagen, an outside spokeswoman for America Movil,
didn’t comment.  “To sell the OeIAG stake, one would need a privatization
assignment from the government,” Markus Beyrer, head of OeIAG
and chairman of Telekom Austria, said today. “There isn’t one
and it isn’t probable that one will be issued.” He was speaking
at the former telephone monopoly’s annual shareholder meeting in
Vienna.  Telekom Austria shares fell 2.2 percent to 7.737 euros at
the 5:50 p.m. close of trading in Vienna.  Supervisory Board  America Movil this month made an unsolicited offer of 2.6
billion euros ($3.3 billion) to increase its stake in Dutch
phone company Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  to as much as 28 percent. KPN said
the offer is low and hired investment banks to explore options.  Sawiris pulled out of joining Telekom Austria’s supervisory
board because of the political situation in Egypt, Pecik told
shareholders in Vienna today. Pecik, who himself was elected to
the supervisory board with 73 percent of votes, said Sawiris
will continue to advise him on Telekom Austria.  It wouldn’t have made sense to vote Sawiris to the
supervisory board only for him to then miss meetings because he
was tied up in Egypt, Pecik told reporters after the AGM.  The Austrian investor, who spent about 1 billion euros to
build his Telekom  Austria  stake, said he didn’t plan to increase
his stake.  ‘Incredible Patriot’  Pecik, who in the past had called for new management to
replace Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter and Chief
Financial Officer Hans Tschuden and turn around the
“undervalued and undermanaged” company, told the AGM he would
suggest adding a third and “if needed a fourth” member to
Telekom Austria’s management board.  “Together with my financial partner, I stand behind the
company, behind its development and say that the company, which
is part of Austria’s history and landscape, has to move
forward,” Pecik said, calling himself an “incredible
patriot.”  Telekom Austria is struggling with falling revenue at home
and in its eastern European units stretching from Belarus to
 Bulgaria , while it’s saddled with a large payroll stemming from
its days as state monopoly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  