-- Solar Insurers Turn Kingmakers Over Panel Survival Doubts
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-23T11:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/solar-insurers-turn-kingmakers-over-panel-survival-doubts.html
When True Green Capital Management
LLC chose a solar panel maker for a rooftop installation in  New
Jersey , the firm’s biggest concern was whether the manufacturer
would survive long enough to guarantee the equipment.  The New York-based private equity fund made its Chinese
manufacturer buy insurance to back the 25-year warranty on its
panels to close the contract. If the supplier went bust,
PowerGuard Specialty Insurance Services of  California  would
ensure the panels installed performed as promised.  “Frankly, we see insurance as crucial,” said Bo Wiegand,
principal at the fund, who declined to name the supplier of the
installation near Carteret, citing a confidentiality agreement.
“Many of these companies, even some of the more recognizable
name brands, likely won’t be operating in 10 to 15 years. They
may get acquired, they may go out of business. We just don’t
know.”  In the past year, lenders and investors started demanding
extra protection from suppliers after at least 11 U.S., German
and French solar equipment-makers failed, including Solyndra,
backed by a $535 million U.S. government loan. The solar
industry is suffering its biggest shakeout yet, beset with 53
percent production overcapacity and collapsing profit margins.  The industry’s turmoil means  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, and two Southern California rivals are playing a hand
determining which panel-makers survive as  First Solar Inc., (FSLR) 
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and competitors fight for orders.  Munich Re’s Stance  Munich Re as well as PowerGuard of  Irvine , California, and
SolarInsure Inc. of  Costa Mesa , California, say they are among
the few to offer the niche product and have turned away more
than a dozen panel makers seeking coverage in the last year. The
three companies say the majority of panel sales still take place
without outside warranty insurance as most manufacturers don’t
carry coverage. They declined to name which manufacturers hold
policies.  “The Solyndra situation changed a lot in the sector,”
said Ara Agopian, president of SolarInsure, which declined to
sell coverage to Solyndra about a year before it went bust in
September. “Developers and their lenders are asking who is
insured and who’s not. Insurance helps in winning an order.”  Solar Frontier KK, a Tokyo-based thin-film panel-maker
owned by the Japanese refining arm of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
said its coverage from Munich Re gives it an edge.  “This is a weapon we were able to acquire ahead of
competitors,” Senior Vice President Atsuhiko Hirano said in an
interview, contending that his company may be the only Japanese
panel-maker that’s insured. “Especially during a shakeout
period abroad like now when it’s tough for companies to keep
going, customers are concerned if manufacturers can follow
through.”  Silicon Valley Cues  Solar manufacturers took a cue from Silicon Valley, from
where many of the industry’s executives hailed, when they began
offering warranties on panel performance similar to those
offered by early silicon chipmakers, said Mike McMullen,
founding principal at PowerGuard.  The warranties were intended to reassure investors that a
new, unfamiliar technology would perform as expected on projects
requiring big, upfront investments with payback periods that
span decades.  Solyndra’s customers, which include  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and Coca-
Cola Co., may be among the earliest in the solar industry to
learn such warranties in some cases may offer little protection
after the company went bankrupt.  Solyndra’s modules, based on a unique cylindrical design
that differed from traditional flat panels, came with a  25-year
warranty  that guaranteed its equipment would generate at 90
percent or more of peak output for the first 10 years and at no
less than 80 percent for the remainder.  Bankruptcy Potential  “Every time we have a bankruptcy, it opens up people’s
eyes,” McMullen said. “There’s no component you can change out
for Solyndra.”  Under accounting rules, manufacturers are required to set
aside cash to cover expected warranty claims. Munich Re began
offering manufacturers insurance after calculating such reserves
are probably inadequate because even one serial defect, which
usually span several production years, could potentially
bankrupt a company.  “In recent months, one or two solar manufacturers have had
to disclose warranty claims,” said Christian Scharrer, Munich
Re’s head of green technology solutions. “There’s a clear need
to manage the warranty risks balance sheet-wise.”  Warranty Claims  First Solar of the U.S., the largest thin-film panel maker,
has seen warranty costs escalate after manufacturing defects
from 2008 to 2009 prompted more than 5,000 customer claims,
according to Angelo Zino, New York-based analyst for  Standard &
Poor’s . In February, it set aside $37.8 million for increased
warranty claims, saying its modules may suffer “increased
failure rates in hot climates.”  First Solar’s warranties are backed by reserves and the
company sees no reason to use a third-party insurer, spokesman
Ted Meyers said.  “If they go out of business, who has to eat that? Their
clients,” PowerGuard’s McMullen said. “It’s not acceptable to
say we have all this cash on the side to meet warranties because
that could all disappear in bankruptcy proceedings.”  Agopian estimates that no more than 25 percent of the top
panel makers are covered. Chinese companies are more likely to
be insured than their U.S. or European or Japanese rivals,
according to PowerGuard’s McMullen and Agopian.  Third-Party Coverage  Bloomberg News identified through interviews, statements
and press releases at least eight companies that have purchased
some form of third-party insurance. They include  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ,
 Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) ,  China Sunergy Co., (CSUN)   Japan ’s Solar Frontier,
Solairedirect SA of France, Taiwan’s NexPower Technology Corp.,
Signet Solar Inc. and SolFocus Inc.  Some of the largest such as First Solar aren’t covered,
with many saying it’s not necessary as they’re financially
sound. The Bloomberg Large Solar index tracking 17 companies in
the industry slumped 75 percent the past year through May 22.  Customers of Suntech, the world’s biggest crystalline panel
maker, don’t see the value in third-party insurance, Chief
Commercial Officer Andrew Beebe said.  Sharp Corp., (6753)  Japan’s
largest thin-film module maker, also doesn’t “see the need to
be insured because we don’t foresee shutting our solar
business,” spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said May 7 by phone.
 Kyocera Corp., (6971)  Japan’s biggest crystalline panel maker, is
focused on quality and doesn’t plan to get insurance,
spokeswoman Sanae Iwasaki said May 8.  Make or Break  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest U.S. panel maker,
declined to say whether it was covered in an April 14 e-mail.
Norway’s Renewable Energy Corp. said in an April 13 e-mail that
it’s exploring third-party insurance.  Third-party insurance could make or break a deal that  East
West Bancorp Inc. (EWBC)  is working on in  Florida , said Don Danh,
senior vice president of  emerging markets  at East  West Bank ,
which set up a $47 million fund in February with U.S. Bancorp to
finance 14 solar projects.  “It’ll be contingent on whether it carries insurance,”
Danh said by phone on May 3.  With growing demand for protection amid speculation of
further consolidation in the industry, insurance offerings are
expanding.  Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , a Phoenix-based supplier of homeowner’s
insurance, began offering coverage this month that eases
investors’ concerns about warranties being upheld. Munich Re
introduced a new policy in January so that lenders and investors
can buy their own coverage against supplier insolvency.
Previously, Munich Re only sold policies to manufacturers and
bankruptcies weren’t covered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  