-- Sony, Samsung Ask U.S. Retailers to Curb Discounts on TV Sets
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-23T06:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/sony-samsung-ask-u-s-retailers-to-curb-discounts-on-tv-sets.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  asked U.S. retailers to maintain minimum prices for TVs to
boost profitability as global demand declines.  Sony’s policy, effective last month, covers about 120
models of TVs, camcorders, audio players and tablet computers,
though excludes Vaio computers, Keizo Masuda, a spokesman for
the company, said by phone today. Samsung’s program, in place
since early this year, will cover some new TV models, said Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the company.  The move comes after TV shipments last year declined for the
first time since 2004, leading to a drop in prices and record
losses at Japanese manufacturers. Sony, the world’s third-biggest
TV maker, has forecast a ninth consecutive annual loss from
selling TVs while industry leader Samsung is bringing out new
models and technology to charge consumers more.  Earlier this month, Tokyo-based Sony predicted its TV sales
will decline 11 percent to 17.5 million units and will lead to
an 80 billion-yen ($1 billion) loss in the year ending in March.  The maker of Bravia TVs fell 2.1 percent to 1,096 yen in
 Tokyo  today, the lowest level since August 1980. The shares have
declined 21 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase for Samsung shares in Seoul trading.  Samsung’s Profit  Sony’s current policy, similar to one introduced in 2008
for digital cameras, is intended to boost retailer support for
its brand, Masuda said. The proposals don’t violate U.S. law, he
said.  The Wall Street Journal first  reported  the companies’ moves
earlier today.  LG Electronics Inc., the world’s second-largest TV maker,
isn’t setting prices and doesn’t plan to do so, Ken Hong, a
Seoul-based spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail today.  Noncompliance with Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s
guidance will cause “certain consequences,” the company said
in a statement without elaborating. Other manufacturers have
adopted similar policies in industries including consumer
electronics and apparel, Samsung said in the statement.  Samsung didn’t collude with other companies in setting the
policy, Nam said.  First-quarter operating profit at Samsung’s consumer-
electronics unit, which includes TVs, was 530 billion won ($452
million), compared with a profit of 8 billion won a year
earlier, Samsung said in April.  Last year, global TV shipments fell for the first time
since 2004, according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Flat-
screen TV shipments in the U.S. may fall for the first time this
year, to 37.1 million units from 39.1 million the year before,
according to IHS Inc.’s iSuppli.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  