-- South Africa, Nigeria Pledge Closer Ties After Mending Rift
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-23T13:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/south-africa-nigeria-pledge-closer-ties-after-mending-rift-1-.html
Nigeria and  South Africa  pledged to
strengthen diplomatic ties and boost trade in oil and other
products after patching up a diplomatic row over deportations.  The governments of sub-Saharan Africa’s two largest
economies fell out in March, after South Africa evicted 125
Nigerians because they didn’t have the relevant health documents
to enter the country. Nigerian authorities responded by
deporting 131 South Africans.  “That is old history and has already been sorted out,”
Nigerian Vice President  Namadi Sambo  told reporters today in
Cape Town today after talks with South African Deputy President
 Kgalema Motlanthe . The relationship “has gone to the next
level. Nigeria and South Africa can lead the achievement of
driving away poverty in Africa.”  The two governments signed agreements on economic and
technical cooperation and customs administration.  Nigeria 
supplied South Africa with 40 percent of its oil imports in
March, making it the biggest supplier.  “We would guarantee to our Nigerian brothers demand for
their liquid fuels, because we don’t want to source our fuel in
areas that are likely to be unstable,” Motlanthe said. “We are
quite confident that Nigeria would become one of South Africa’s
trusted suppliers.”  South Africa’s government is in talks with several
countries about supplying it with crude, should it be forced to
suspend imports from Iran to comply with U.S. and European
sanctions.  Protect Property  Nigeria is willing to lend any assistance South Africa
requires, including the supply of oil, and will take all
necessary steps to protect the personnel and property of its
companies’ Nigerian operations, Sambo said.  The Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta ,
Nigeria’s main militant group in the oil-rich region, has
accused South African authorities of interfering “in the
legitimate fight for justice,”  On April 14, the group reiterated a threat to attack
Johannesburg-based  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest mobile-phone
operator, and other South African companies operating in
Nigeria.  Sambo denied reports that Nigeria opposed South Africa’s
bid to have its Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma
elected as chairwoman of the African Union Commission.  South Africa and Nigeria will address the issue of the AU
leadership “as one country,” he said. “All positions are open
to all Africans that are fit to take that position. Nigeria will
support South Africa” in its bid to secure posts within the
African Union or the United Nations.  South Africa supported a failed bid this year by Nigerian
Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to become president of the
 World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 