-- Southwest to Pay for $100 Million Air Terminal in Houston
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-05-23T20:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/southwest-to-pay-for-100-million-air-terminal-in-houston.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  agreed to
fully fund a $100 million expansion of Houston’s William P.
Hobby Airport as it seeks the city’s approval to start
international flights there over the opposition of rival  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   The agreement between the Dallas-based airline and
 Houston’s Airport System , announced today, has the backing of
Mayor Annise Parker. It must be approved by the Houston City
Council, which will consider the matter at a May 30 meeting.  Southwest, the biggest discount carrier, wants to add
flights to  Mexico , the Caribbean and  South America  from Hobby,
Houston’s secondary airport. United Continental, which has its
main overseas gateway and biggest hub at the city’s  George Bush
Intercontinental Airport , says Southwest’s plan will drain
passengers and force it to cut flights and jobs.  “This removes all risk for the city of Houston for the
project and puts all the risk on Southwest,” Bob Montgomery,
Southwest’s vice president for properties, said in an interview.
Houston “has no risk, puts up no cash, doesn’t have to approve
passenger facility charges, and they get a facility with a clear
title. They get an asset worth $100 million.”  Southwest rose 1.1 percent to $8.36 at the close in  New
York . The shares have fallen 2.3 percent this year. United
Continental increased 2.2 percent to $22.31, and has gained 18
percent this year.  Five New Gates  Christen David, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based United
Continental, said the carrier hasn’t seen the funding proposal.
A single international airport is best for Houston’s future, she
said.  “There is no funding plan that makes this proposal good
for Houston,” David said in an e-mail. “Splitting the city’s
international air service will harm the city’s competitive
advantage and cost jobs.”  Houston’s Parker said the agreement with Southwest “is not
about one airline over another.”  “From the beginning, I have said that my decision would be
based not on what is best for one or another airline, but rather
on what is best for the city, the local business community and
the traveling public,” Parker said today in a statement.
“There is no question we have done that.”  The international terminal would include five gates to
support as many as 25 Southwest round trips a day and facilities
for  U.S. Customs .  Security Checkpoints  Southwest also would pay to improve security checkpoints to
handle more passengers, expand a fuel system and relocate its
ticket counters and offices and the airport management offices,
Montgomery said. The terminal also could be used by other
airlines, he said.  The Southwest plan would cause the loss of 5,000 jobs and
erode $414 million of regional economic activity, according to a
study United Continental released earlier this month. It may
force the airline to cut 6 percent of capacity at
Intercontinental.  A Houston Airport System  study  found that expansion of
Hobby under Southwest’s plan would create an annual economic
benefit to the region of $1.6 billion, create 10,000 jobs and
attract 1.5 million passengers.  Southwest has financed similar projects in other cities,
including a $500 million modernization of  Dallas ’s  Love Field 
that will open later this year, Montgomery said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  