-- SpaceX Faces Ultimate Driving Test to Join Space Station
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/spacex-faces-ultimate-driving-test-to-join-space-station.html
Space Exploration Technologies
Corp.’s supply ship successfully blasted off for the
International  Space Station  yesterday in what company founder
Elon Musk said was like a  Super Bowl  victory.  While the closely held company would make history by
becoming the first to dock a commercial vehicle at the station.
it’s not there yet. The next big challenge comes tomorrow, when
the unmanned craft must fly by the lab as part of an ultimate
driver’s test that involves speeding up, slowing down and
parallel parking.  Only after completing those maneuvers will it be allowed to
dock, so astronauts can open the hatch and unload its test cargo
of more than 1,000 pounds of food, clothing and lab equipment.  “There’s still a thousand things that have to go right,”
Alan Lindenmoyer, commercial crew and cargo program manager for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, said
yesterday during a post-launch news conference.  SpaceX launched its Falcon 9 rocket, carrying the Dragon
capsule, at 3:44 a.m. yesterday from  Cape Canaveral ,  Florida , in
its second attempt to send the vehicle to the space station. It
called off a May 19 liftoff with a half second left in the
countdown because of a faulty engine valve.  “The significance of this day cannot be overstated,” NASA
Administrator Charles Bolden said afterward in a separate media
briefing at Cape Canaveral.  Handing Off  “We’re handing off to the private sector our
transportation to the International Space Station so that NASA
can focus on what we do best: Exploring even deeper into our
solar system with missions to an asteroid and Mars on the
horizon,” he said.  Whether SpaceX and the private sector are ready for the
handoff isn’t a given.  One of the critical remaining maneuvers is berthing, a kind
of vertical parallel parking that joins the craft with the space
station, where a crew of six astronauts will be waiting. The
U.S. has invested about $50 billion in the station, which was
completed last year and is scheduled to operate at least through
2020.  Berthing involves “extreme precision,” SpaceX said in a
press release last week. Both the ship and station will be
traveling at about 17,500 miles per hour and orbiting Earth once
every 90 minutes.  The test maneuver calls for the supply ship to approach the
station from below, retreat, then approach again to about 30
feet. At that point, astronaut Don Pettit, with help from
colleague Andre Kuipers, will grab the craft with a 60-foot-long
robotic arm, pull it in and attach it to the station.  Why People Pucker  “It is a very dynamic process with not a whole lot of
signposts along the way,” James Oberg, a space consultant in
Dickinson,  Texas , and former mission control specialist for
NASA, said in an interview yesterday. “You’ve got to navigate
through trackless space and arrive at a small range with only a
small speed.”  An unmanned Russian craft in 1997 crashed into the former
Mir space station, puncturing the hull and depressurizing a
section of the station with three astronauts aboard, including
one American, Oberg said.  The accident “almost caused the loss of the Mir and quite
possibly the lives of the crew,” he said. “It’s memories like
those that will make people pucker up during the final
approach.”  Proving NASA Right  A failure to complete the coupling with the space station
may mean the company will have to launch again and re-do the
test mission, designed to prove it can make regular deliveries.  If SpaceX has a failure “that we collectively think
requires a lot of extra work and would actually benefit from
another test flight, then we would go propose another test
flight,” William Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for
human explorations and operations at NASA, said during the post-
launch press conference.  Success may ease concern that turning the space program
over to the private sector is too risky, according to Michael Ciarmoli, an analyst with Cleveland-based KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc.  It would show that NASA “is making the wise investment in
private- or commercial-based space companies,” Ciarmoli said in
a telephone interview.  NASA retired the shuttle in July before companies such as
SpaceX and  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  proved they could resupply the
station. The Obama administration a year earlier canceled a
program to develop a shuttle successor, saying the private
sector would offer lower costs.  Musk’s Super Bowl  Only spacecraft developed by the governments of the U.S.,
 Europe ,  Japan  and  Russia  have docked with the station, which
orbits about 240 miles above Earth.  Musk, a 40-year-old billionaire, watched yesterday’s flight
from mission control at SpaceX’s headquarters in Hawthorne,
 California .  Later at the NASA press conference, Musk said the liftoff
was a “tremendous elation.”  “For us, it’s like winning the Super Bowl,” he said.  SpaceX said in a press release last week that it has more
than $4 billion in revenue under contract, including the
government business and commercial sales.  SpaceX and Orbital have been awarded almost $700 million in
combined  NASA  contracts to develop the ability to deliver cargo
to the space station, and another $3.5 billion for 20 resupply
missions scheduled to begin this fall.  Orbital, based in Dulles,  Virginia , plans to launch its new
Antares rocket for the first time, possibly in August, from a
new launch pad near Wallops Island on Virginia’s Eastern Shore,
said Barron Beneski, a company spokesman. It’s scheduled to
deliver supplies to the space station with its Cygnus spacecraft
by the end of the year as part of a test flight similar to
SpaceX’s, he said.  While both companies may compete for business in the
future, a SpaceX success would also benefit Orbital, according
to Chris Quilty, senior vice president at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., based in  St. Petersburg , Florida.  “It’s basically a rising-tide-lifts-all-boats type of
theory,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  