-- Spain to Recapitalize BFA-Bankia as Lender Needs $11 Billion
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-23T18:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/spain-to-recapitalize-bfa-bankia-as-lender-needs-11-billion.html
Spain  will recapitalize  BFA-Bankia (BKIA) 
with as much public money as necessary, as the nationalized
group needs at least 9 billion euros ($11 billion) to comply
with banking rules, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said.  Two decrees passed this year will require BFA-Bankia to set
aside 7.1 billion euros in provisions and 1.9 billion euros as a
capital buffer, de Guindos told a parliamentary committee today
in  Madrid . BFA, the parent company that was seized by the
state’s FROB rescue fund on May 9, is being valued and the
results will be published in mid-June, he said.  “The FROB will cover whatever capital increases may be
necessary, using the available instruments that are most
appropriate to this type of operation,” de Guindos told
lawmakers.  Spain nationalized BFA, making it the biggest shareholder
in its listed unit Bankia, after the  International Monetary Fund 
singled out the nation’s third-largest banking group in a report
on the financial system. The nationalization, coupled with a new
set of provisioning rules for lenders announced two days later,
was Spain’s fourth attempt to shore up a banking system that is
still reeling from the collapse of the property boom in 2008.  Bankia  shares  have fallen 55 percent since their stock
market listing in July. The bank, formed from the merger of
seven savings banks, had sold shares to the public in response
to one of the previous government’s efforts to clean up the
system by offering incentives to cajas, or savings banks, to
list.  The new BFA-Bankia management, led by former  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  executive Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, must
present a viability plan showing the capital needs of the
lender, de Guindos said. The FROB will recapitalize BFA and the
group will then carry out a rights offering for Bankia
underwritten by the state-owned parent, de Guindos said.  BFA-Bankia is a “specific” case and shouldn’t be
extrapolated to the rest of Spain’s financial industry, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 