-- Stop the Big Banks Before They Can Lend Again
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-05-23T23:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/stop-the-big-banks-before-they-can-lend-again.html
If only the Volcker rule had been in
place. If only the Dodd-Frank law had an additional 1,000 pages
of rules. If only there had been more regulators at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  If only the regulators had done a better job.  Then what? The response to JPMorgan’s May 10 announcement
of an initial $2 billion loss on a derivatives hedge and/or bet
that was being run out of the bank’s Chief Investment Office
produced a predictable response: We need more rules and
regulations.  Why? We have plenty of both already. Pressing the more-
regulation default button creates the impression that human
beings can anticipate the next new product, asset class or
financial innovation and write rules to prevent the next blowup.
It also ends up deflecting attention from the real goal of
financial regulation, which is not to protect the banks but to
shield taxpayers from the cost of any institutional failure.  “Banks’ equity capital protects the general public from
financial losses much more effectively than regulation,”  Allan Meltzer , a professor of political economy at  Carnegie Mellon
University  in Pittsburgh, wrote in a May 17 Wall Street Journal
 op-ed .  Increasing equity capital to a maximum of 20 percent of
assets for the  largest banks  would serve a double duty, Meltzer
explained to me over the phone. It would protect the public and
“make banks think how large they want to be,” he said.  Name Change  He’s right, just as he was years ago when he said, “If a
bank is too big to fail, it’s too big.” The best way to counter
the trend toward ever-larger banks is to reduce their profit
potential by requiring them to hold more capital as a share of
their assets. Instead, courtesy of the 2010  Dodd-Frank  Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we have “systemically
important financial institutions” instead of TBTF; a new
resolution process outside of  bankruptcy protection ; enhanced
supervision and regulation; and behemoths for banks, such as
JPMorgan, with $2.3 trillion in  assets .  When Dodd-Frank talks about creating an “advance-warning
system” to identify and address systemic risks posed by large,
complex companies before they threaten the stability of the
economy, one has to laugh. I was under the impression that
regulators were already charged with that function.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is the main
regulator for nationally chartered banks, such as JPMorgan, and
federal savings associations. The  OCC  has 60 to 70 regulators
assigned to each of the big banks at all times. They live there.
The OCC supplements its resident supervisors with economists,
lawyers and other examiners on a case-by-case basis.  The  Federal Reserve  has  oversight responsibility  for state-
chartered banks and bank holding companies. The Fed has some 30
to 40 regulators at JPMorgan.  One wonders why it took 100 examiners staked out at each of
the big banks to oversee the near-collapse of the financial
system in 2008. What about just one good numbers guy parsing the
banks’ P&L each night?  Yes, I know. Banks are complicated. And I’m being
facetious. But banks will find ways to exploit new rules as
quickly as lawmakers can write them. More capital -- a rules-
based solution -- seems like a surer bet than discretion:
substituting the judgment of a regulator for that of a banker,
according to Meltzer.  And what’s the crime in a bank losing money, as long as the
shareholders, not the taxpayers, take the hit? JPMorgan’s loss
is an earnings event. It’s also a market event: Investors shaved
$25 billion off the value of the company’s outstanding shares in
the last two weeks. Instead it’s being portrayed as a sign that
the Volcker rule, which is still being written, should be
stricter.  Hedging a Bet  The aim of the  Volcker rule , named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is to prohibit banks from
speculating with federally insured deposits. In theory, it makes
sense. As a practical matter, it’s hard to differentiate between
a hedge against a specific or aggregate position and a
proprietary trade.  Those writing the rules have acknowledged the risky nature
of banking and the need for financial institutions to safeguard
against those risks. They have already included exemptions for
certain securities (Treasuries, for example) and in connection
with certain activities (underwriting and market making).
Transgressions would be determined on a case-by-case basis,
which means lots of room to look the other way for favored
constituencies.  What’s the difference between a bank that takes risks on
asset markets and one that takes risks lending to risky
companies? Meltzer said.  Home-mortgage lending, with a 20 percent down payment and
the house as collateral, was traditionally considered to be a
low-risk proposition. Absent that cushion and in the face of a
nationwide collapse in  home prices , we now know differently.  Banking is one of the most highly regulated industries, yet
history is littered with examples of banking blunders. In the
1970s and early ’80s, banks overextended credit to the oil
patch. At about the same time, they “diversified” their risk,
making sovereign loans to  Latin America ’s “less-developed
countries.” A decade later, banks lent hand over fist to  Asia ’s
“ emerging markets ”; only the name had changed. Banks have had
repeated go-rounds with real estate, both commercial (the
savings-and-loan crisis of the late 1980s, early ’90s) and, most
recently, residential. In all these cases, it was overzealous
lending, not prop trading, that got banks into trouble.  And yet once again we are pinning our hopes on a new set of
rules to save us from the next banking crisis. Maybe it’s time,
as Meltzer said, to rely on the rule of law, not the rule of
regulators.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany gained from
the euro  and the  problems with the Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter  on  political substance and
slander ;  Ezra Klein  on the fight over Bain; Tobias Moskowitz on
 data-driven policy ; Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock therapy ;
Junheng Li on  China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  