-- Stripper Writes, Writers Strip in Winning ‘House’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-05-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/stripper-writes-writers-strip-in-winning-house-review.html
Hal Prince  must have heard that
something extraordinary was taking place at the  Public Theater .  Trailing a small posse, the director of “Phantom of the
Opera” and “A Little Night Music” stopped by to catch a
preview of “February House,” an exciting new musical.  It’s set in a rooming house in Brooklyn, where Gypsy Rose Lee hangs her G-string for a while to the surprise of W.H. Auden, Benjamin Britten and Carson McCullers.  In 1940 and 1941, they all lived under one roof at 7
Middagh Street in  Brooklyn Heights , escaping various traumas,
including the war, and looking for a safe place to make art, not
to mention love.  The landlord,  George Davis , was a sometime editor and bon
vivant; Anais Nin named the place “February House,” because so
many of its inhabitants were born in that month.  Composer-lyricist Gabriel Kahane and book writer Seth
Bockley bring them captivatingly to life in the first commission
by the Public Theater’s Music Theater Initiative.  George (flouncy Julian Fleisher) is the master of these
fleeting, impassioned revels, orchestrating the otherwise
cacophonic voices as he introduces the story:  “In  Brooklyn  there is light upon the hill/It glows despite
the storm...”  Boyfriends  He obsesses as much on the furnishings as he does his
tenants: “A room comes together when it’s well arranged/You got
the sense it can’t be changed....an unlikely arrangement of
taste and derangement/a seance of sacred and sin.”  There’s plenty of sin at 7 Middagh Street, where Britten
(the charmingly boyish Stanley Bahorek) has come to work on his
opera “Paul Bunyan” with his partner, the singer Peter Pears
(gangling Ken Barnett).  Auden (imposing Erik Lochtefeld), somewhat imperious, takes
up with a student, Chester Kallman (youthful A.J. Shively).
McCullers (the enchanting Kristen Sieh), having just published
“The Heart is a Lonely Hunter,” is seeking respite from a
noisy marriage and will be charmed by Erika Mann (regal
Stephanie Hayes), daughter of Thomas and the intellectual
activist among the group.  Who should stop by, only to stay long enough to write her
own book, but Gypsy Rose Lee (Kacie Sheik, looking the part). In
a sly tip of the hat to his forebears, Kahane gives the stripper
a ditty articulating her intellectual aspirations: “If you want
to get my hair in a tousle/Talk to me about Bertrand Russell,”
recalling “Zip,” the satirical swipe at Gypsy that Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart wrote for “Pal Joey.”  My Freaks  McCullers, already finding too much solace in her ever-
present flask, is the soul of “February House,” singing in a
bruised drawl of the appealing freaks at Coney Island and her
beloved  Georgia .  Kahane’s songs range wide and deep. This sometimes leads
him into waters I’d rather not enter, chiefly the screechy Act
II opener about bedbugs.  And Bockley’s book hews perhaps too close to the realistic
events of the day, even when the songs themselves happily lift
us to heights beyond Brooklyn’s.  “February House” could stand to lose a few rooms; it’s at
least 20 minutes too long. Mainly, however, the score adroitly
balances lush romanticism and sharp wit. I wanted to hear it
again.  Davis McCallum’s staging has infectious energy, often in
subtle play with Riccardo Hernandez’s suggestive set and Jess
Goldstein’s dream-state lighting.  Whatever the future holds for “February House,” it has
introduced a vital new voice to the musical theater. That’s
exactly what the Public ought to be doing with sponsor Mary Jo
and Ted Shen’s money and this promising initiative.  Through June 10 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ***  ‘Old Jokes’  No one will accuse “Old Jews Telling Jokes” of bait and
switch. Although two of the five-member ensemble are, in fact,
youngish Jews, even the new jokes are old, you’ve heard them
before in one form or another, and they will, I can promise,
make you laugh out loud at least a half-dozen times over the
painless, 90-minute evening.  Bill Army, Marilyn Sokol, Todd Susman, Audrey Lynn Weston
and Lenny Wolpe are Old World, or at least Borscht Belt, masters
of eksents, shrugs and eye-rolls, even -- especially -- when
they’re talking about sex, aging, or both.  You will have your favorites, to be sure, but mine is
Susman’s deadpan, only slightly Yiddish-inflected recitation of
“Ol’ Man River.” Cracked me up.  At the Westside Theatre (Downstairs), 407 W. 43rd St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
**1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music and
and  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 