-- Sunrun Raises $60 Million to Boost Solar Installations
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/sunrun-raises-60-million-to-boost-solar-installations.html
Sunrun Inc. has a message for
homeowners who are contemplating going solar: It’s cheaper and
easier than you think.  The provider of residential solar-power systems said today
that it raised $60 million in funding, led by Madrone Capital
Partners LP, to invest in software development that can make
projects more efficient and less costly.  Sunrun buys solar panels, configures them for residential
use and then leases the system to consumers for 20-year terms.
The company requires no down payment and charges users a monthly
fee that’s less than the typical electricity bill. Solar is
gaining popularity as an alternative to fossil fuels, following
a 53 percent  drop  in prices since the end of 2010.  “People still don’t know that solar for zero down is an
available option,” said Lynn Jurich, who co-founded the company
in 2007. “Once they find out, the conversion rate is enormous.
It’s become clear that mainstream consumers want to buy this.”  Madrone, a venture firm affiliated with Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. Chairman Robson Walton, was joined in the financing round
by existing Sunrun investors  Accel Partners ,  Sequoia Capital  and
Foundation Capital. The San Francisco-based company has raised a
total of $145 million.  The new money will be used in part to increase staff by 50
percent to 300 by year-end, including doubling the number of
software developers to about 60, Jurich said. Programmers are
needed as the company builds more technology to simplify
installations and the permitting process.  No Upfront Costs  “Sunrun invented a way to eliminate high upfront solar
costs and is now reinventing how it’s delivered, making solar
easier to sell, install and service,” said Jamie McJunkin,
general partner at Madrone in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Prices are going down on their own thanks to a glut in
supply from low-cost panel makers, mostly in  Asia . That’s also
benefiting rival SolarCity Corp., which said last month that
it’s planning to sell shares to the public, and Clean Power
Finance Inc., which operates an online marketplace for investors
to fund rooftop solar projects.  Still, getting into new markets is a challenge for Sunrun
and other installers because not every state provides the
subsidies that are necessary to make it affordable, even with a
30 percent federal tax credit. Jurich expects the combination of
better technology and a continued drop in prices to add another
15 states to the mix in the next five years.  The company had installed 20,000 residential systems
through February, with half of those completed in the preceding
11 months.  Project Financing  An added boon for the market is the increased availability
of capital to pay for the solar systems. While Sunrun uses
venture funding to invest in the business, it’s raised money
from U.S. Bancorp and utility PG&E Corp. to pay for the solar-
power systems. In return, those investors get a cut of the tax
credits and monthly revenue. More companies are in talks to
provide project finance, Jurich said.  Warren Hogarth, who led Sequoia’s first investment in
Sunrun in 2010, said the business is catching on as homeowners
see panels popping up in their neighborhood and start inquiring
about them. Today less than 0.1 percent of U.S. houses are
topped with panels, a number that’s expected to climb to 2.4
percent by 2020, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  “The market is expanding at a pretty rapid clip,” Hogarth
said. “We always thought there was a big opportunity, but it’s
just opening up so much faster than we expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  