-- Suntech, Trina Report Losses as Solar Shipments Slump
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-23T16:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/suntech-trina-report-losses-as-solar-shipments-slump.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  reported larger first-quarter losses than analysts
estimated as oversupply in the solar panel manufacturing
industry depressed profit margins.  Suntech, the biggest manufacturer of panels, said today it
had a loss of 74 cents a share, worse than the 49-cent average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Trina, the fourth-largest maker,
reported a 42-cent American depositary receipt loss, trailing
forecasts of 27 cents. Both solar companies have now had losses
for at least three consecutive quarters.  Photovoltaic panel makers boosted production capacity at
the same time that subsidies for the technology were cut in
Germany and  Italy , reducing demand in the two largest solar
markets. That slashed panel prices by 47 percent last year,
sending a dozen manufacturers into administration.  “Continued module price declines adversely impacted our
profitability despite significant cost improvements,” Jifan Gao, chairman and chief executive officer of Suntech, said in a
statement. “We see further signs of industry consolidation.”  Trina reported a net loss of $29.8 million for the quarter,
better than the previous quarter, while Suntech’s loss widened
to $133 million. Suntech’s operating margin worsened to minus
29.1 percent from minus 10.2 percent, it said today in a
statement. Trina’s margin improved to minus 11.4 percent,
compared with minus 14.4 the previous quarter.  Trina’s shares rose 0.8 percent to $5.37 at 12:43 p.m. in
 New York  trading while Suntech’s stock  fell  3 percent to $1.92,
its lowest value in more than seven months.  Shipments, Provisions  Both companies maintained their increased guidance for
module shipments for the full-year even if they shipped less in
the first quarter, reducing revenue. Suntech expects a 20
percent increase in shipments in the second quarter while Trina
sees a 34 percent rise to 500 megawatts to 520 megawatts.  Suntech and Trina said gross margins were affected by
provisions for preliminary U.S. anti-dumping and countervailing
tariffs. Suntech’s provisions were $19.2 million and Trina’s
$26.2 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  