-- Swedish Banks Should Ignore Moody’s, Swedbank CFO Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-05-23T09:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/swedish-banks-should-ignore-moody-s-swedbank-cfo-says.html
Sweden’s banks , among the best rated
in  Europe , shouldn’t pay too much attention to Moody’s Investors
Service because the rater’s assessments tend to be outdated, 
Swedbank (SWEDA)  AB Chief Financial Officer Goran Bronner said.  “Moody’s in general is very backward looking; they are
often stating things that are well recognized from the financial
community for a long time,” Bronner said in response to
Bloomberg questions in  Stockholm  today. “I don’t think Swedish
banks should put any particular emphasis on it.”  Denmark, which holds the rotating European Union
presidency, said this week it won backing in the 27-member bloc
to reduce the dominance of rating companies as Moody’s prepares
to downgrade lenders across Europe. The Danish proposal seeks to
dilute the impact of ratings within regulatory frameworks and
give investors and issuers better access to seeking compensation
if raters don’t comply with existing rules.  “For Swedish banks Moody’s has a limited effect,” Bronner
said. “Spreads have tightened since the downgrade came up for
discussion.”  Moody’s, which in February said it is reviewing 114
European lenders for possible downgrades, is likely to provide
its view on  Sweden ’s banks this week or next, Bronner said. A
number of the Nordic country’s lenders will probably suffer
downgrades, though Swedbank is likely to be spared because the
bank has strengthened its credit profile since its latest
ratings cut, he said.  Swedbank is rated A2 at Moody’s. The cost of insuring
against a default at Swedbank fell close to a seven-month low in
March and was at 203.5 basis points yesterday, credit-default
swaps show. That’s 27 percent lower than the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of credit-default swaps on the senior debt of 25
European banks and insurers.  Firing Moody’s  In Denmark, banks have started firing Moody’s after winning
assurances from some of the country’s biggest investors that the
opinions of ratings companies hold limited value. Nykredit A/S,
 Denmark ’s biggest mortgage lender and Europe’s largest issuer of
covered bonds backed by home loans, terminated its contract with
Moody’s last month, citing its “volatile” views. Danske Bank
A/S Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding in an interview this
month criticized Moody’s view on systemic support, less than a
year after the bank’s mortgage arm sacked the company.  “It is hard for” rating companies “to keep track and
when you come close to them it is quite apparent they have
difficulty following everything that is happening elsewhere,”
Bronner said. “The key is more transparency and then the market
can decide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  