-- U.K. Retail Sales Fall Most in Two Years as Rain Hits Demand
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-23T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-k-retail-sales-fall-most-in-two-years-as-rain-hits-demand.html
U.K. retail sales fell the most in
more than two years in April as record rainfall reduced demand
for clothing and fuel sales plunged.  Sales including auto fuel declined 2.3 percent from March,
when warm weather helped lift sales by an upwardly revised 2
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.8 percent decline. Sales excluding fuel
dropped 1 percent.  Consumers spending is being curtailed as inflation outpaces
wage growth and unemployment remains close to a 16-year high.
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the largest U.K. clothing retailer,
cut its sales forecast yesterday and said the economic
environment is “challenging” with Britain in its second
recession since 2009.  “Households continue to struggle,”  Andrew Smith , chief
economist at  KPMG  in London, said before the data were released.
“Real wages are still falling and the headwinds of elevated
unemployment, low wage growth and high inflation look set to
remain a drag on the economy.”  Sales were hampered by wet weather, with April registering
the largest amount of rainfall for the month since records began
in 1910, according to the  Met Office .  The drop in sales was led by 5.2 percent decline in
clothing and footwear. Food sales fell 0.6 percent.  Sales of fuel plunged 13.2 percent, the most for any month
since records began in February 1996, with retailers reporting
difficulties in replenishing stocks after a wave of panic buying
in March in anticipation of strike by tanker-truck drivers.  Stripping out the impact of fuel and wet weather, retail
sales would still have posted a decline on the month, the
statistics office said.  From a year earlier, sales including fuel fell 1.1 percent,
the statistics office said. In the three months through April,
sales growth slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.7 percent in the first
quarter.  While U.K. inflation slowed more than economists forecast
last month to 3 percent, wages rose just 0.6 percent in the
three months through March, the least since 2009, as firms
slashed bonuses. The  unemployment rate  was 8.2 percent in the
period.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose an annual 1.7 percent in April compared with a gain
2.6 percent in March, the statistics office said.  Pessimism over the economic outlook as the euro-region
crisis intensifies has driven down share prices. The General
Retailers Index has fallen 6.7 percent this month compared with
an 8.5 drop in the broader FTSE 350 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  