-- U.K. Retail Sales Fall Most in Two Years on Rain Effects
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-05-23T10:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-k-retail-sales-fall-most-in-two-years-on-rain-effects.html
     May 23 (Bloomberg) --  U.K. retail sales  fell the most in
more than two years in April as record rainfall reduced demand
for clothing and fuel sales plunged.  Sales including auto fuel declined 2.3 percent from March,
when warm weather helped lift sales by an upwardly revised 2
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.8 percent decline. Sales excluding fuel
dropped 1 percent, the most for almost a year.  Consumer spending  is being curtailed as inflation outpaces
wages and unemployment remains close to a 16-year high.
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the largest U.K. clothing retailer,
cut its sales forecast yesterday and said the economic
environment is “challenging.” Stripping out the impact of fuel
and wet weather, retail sales were still down on the month, the
statistics office said.  “The underlying picture is sluggish,” said  Ross Walker ,
chief U.K. economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland  Group in London.
“Employment remains fragile and wage growth weak.”  The report came as minutes showed  Bank of England  policy
maker  David Miles  maintained a push for more stimulus for the
economy this month and several officials said their decision not
to join his call was “finely balanced.” Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said in a speech today that policy makers may need
to resume asset purchases if there’s a significant worsening in
the U.K. economy. The pound was trading at $1.5729 as of 11:25
a.m. in  London , down 0.2 percent on the day.  Rain Impact  Sales were hampered by wet weather, with April registering
the largest amount of rainfall for the month since records began
in 1910, according to the  Met Office .  A 5.2 percent decline in clothing and footwear led the drop
as the weather hit demand for summer clothing lines. There was
also a sharp fall in spending at garden centers as well as on
watches, jewelry, fine art, sports equipment, games and toys,
the statistics office said. Total non-food sales fell 1.7
percent while food sales fell 0.6 percent.  Sales of fuel plunged 13.2 percent, the most for any month
since records began in February 1996, with retailers reporting
difficulties in replenishing stocks after a wave of panic buying
in March in anticipation of strike by tanker-truck drivers.  Incomes Squeeze  From a year earlier, sales including fuel fell 1.1 percent,
the statistics office said. In the three months through April,
sales growth slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.7 percent in the first
quarter.  While U.K.  inflation  slowed more than economists forecast
last month to 3 percent, wages rose just 0.6 percent in the
three months through March, the least since 2009, as firms
slashed bonuses. The  unemployment rate  was 8.2 percent in the
period.  Shop prices, as measured by the retail sales deflator, rose
an annual 1.7 percent in April compared with a gain 2.6 percent
in March, the statistics office said.  Pessimism over the economic outlook as the euro-region
crisis intensifies has driven down share prices. The General
Retailers Index was down 1.4 percent today, extending its drop
so far this year to 7.2 percent. The broader FTSE 350 index has
fallen 6 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that the
U.K. economy requires further stimulus from the Bank of England
and the government may need to introduce temporary tax cuts.
Official figures tomorrow are forecast to confirm that gross
domestic product shrank 0.2 percent in the first quarter,
marking the first double-dip recession since 1975.  Retail sales account for less than half of total consumer
spending and do not include purchases of cars or eating out.
 Internet sales  accounted for 8.5 percent of all retail sales 
values in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  