-- U.K. Stocks Retreat as Greek Exit Concern Escalates
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-23T15:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-k-stocks-retreat-as-greek-exit-concern-escalates.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled by the most in
six months, led by a selloff in banks and mining companies, as
euro-area leaders prepared to meet in Brussels amid mounting
concern Greece may leave the currency union.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  both lost more than
4.5 percent.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  retreated the most
in 2 1/2 years after UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA sold
a combined 11.5 percent stake. Burberry Plc fell after the
luxury retailer forecast a reduction in profitability.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index lost 2.5 percent to 5,266.41 at the
close in London, erasing yesterday’s 1.9 percent rally. The
gauge has sunk 12 percent from its 2012 high on concern Greece
will fail to elect a government that is willing to implement
austerity measures required to stay in the euro. The FTSE All-
Share Index fell 2.4 percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid
1.7 percent.  “The nightmare scenario is an exit without sufficient
response from policy makers,” Tristan Hanson, head of  asset
allocation  at Ashburton Ltd. in Jersey, the  Channel Islands ,
said in an interview. “We could see markets markedly lower in
that case.”  Greece’s former prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , said that
while it is unlikely the nation will leave the euro, it’s still
a risk, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday after the
close of European trading.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
the region’s debt crisis that has wiped almost $4 trillion from
equity markets worldwide this month.  Consumer Spending  In the U.K.,  retail sales  fell the most in more than two
years in April as record rainfall reduced demand for clothing
and fuel sales plunged, according to the Office for National
Statistics. Separately, manufacturing demand fell in May to the
weakest this year and the outlook “deteriorated sharply,” the
Conference of British Industry said.  Banks snapped  two days of gains . Barclays slid 4.5 percent
to 180.5 pence,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, fell 3
percent to 507.5 pence and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
dropped 4.2 percent to 21.04 pence.  European lenders, sitting on $1.19 trillion of debt to
Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland, are facing a wave of losses
if Greece abandons the euro, according to investors.  While banks have increased capital buffers, written down
Greek bonds and used central-bank loans to help refinance units
in southern Europe, they remain vulnerable to the contagion that
might follow a withdrawal, investors say. Even with more than
two years of preparation, banks still are at risk of deposit
flight and rising defaults in other euro nations.  Commodity Shares  Vedanta led a selloff in mining companies as Copper snapped
a three-day advance today on the London Metal Exchange. The
shares sank 9.1 percent to 951.5 pence today, Rio Tinto Group
slid 5 percent to 2,790.5 pence and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  declined 4.8
percent to 926.2 pence.  U.K. mining companies rallied yesterday amid a newspaper
report that  China  is seeking to speed up construction projects
spurring demand for industrial metals.  LSE tumbled  7.3 percent to 947 pence, its biggest drop
since November 2009. UniCredit and Intesa, Italy’s biggest
banks, raised a combined 299 million pounds ($470 million)
selling shares in the company.  Burberry Slumps  Burberry lost 1.2 percent to 1,369 pence, the lowest price
since Jan. 31, after the  U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company 
said profitability may decline in the first half of the fiscal
year as it ramps up spending on new stores and digital
platforms.  Investment will be weighted toward the first six months of
the year and the company still expects a “modest” improvement
in the operating margin of its main retail and wholesale
businesses for the year, Burberry said today as it reported a 26
percent profit increase.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  tumbled 5.9 percent to 73.1 pence as Moody’s
Investors Services said it is continuing its review for a
possible downgrade of the company’s rating. The assessment will
include Man Group’s recent agreement to acquire FRM Holding Ltd.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  paced advancing shares, surging 12 percent
to 250 pence after PTT Exploration & Production Pcl raised its
offer for the company to 1.22 billion pounds, topping  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s bid for access to one of the largest natural-
gas discoveries in a decade. Cove’s main asset is a stake in
offshore fields in Mozambique.  Shell’s shares fell 2.5 percent to 1,970.5 pence.  FirstGroup jumped 7.4 percent to 220.1 pence after
Britain’s biggest train operator boosted full-year earnings 90
percent and said it would accelerate an asset disposal program
in its bus division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  