-- U.S. Prosecutor Fitzgerald in Chicago is Stepping Down
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-23T20:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-prosecutor-fitzgerald-in-chicago-is-stepping-down.html
U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald
in  Chicago  said he is stepping down on June 30, ending a 24-year
career in which he prosecuted one White House aide, two
governors, state and municipal job holders and terrorists.  “His aggressive prosecution of wrongdoing -- including
politicians in both parties -- has given fair warning that no
one is above the law,” U.S. Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois 
said in a statement on the prosecutor’s announcement.  An appointee of Republican President  George W. Bush ,
Fitzgerald took office in September 2001 as U.S. attorney for
the Northern District of Illinois, which comprises 18 counties
and 9 million people.  During his decade-long tenure, he successfully pursued
cases against Republican Illinois Governor George Ryan; his
Democratic successor,  Rod Blagojevich ; the newspaper publisher
 Conrad Black ; I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, a Bush White House
aide; and Robert Sorich, an aide to Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley .  “I think Patrick Fitzgerald is the best prosecutor that
I’ve ever worked with,” Sorich’s attorney, Thomas A. Durkin,
told reporters today at the Chicago federal courthouse.  Some Disagreements  “I don’t see the world in the same black and white as he
does,” said Durkin, 65, who said he’s practiced law since 1974,
all but four of those years defending criminals in federal
court. “My world is more gray. So I’ve disagreed with him
philosophically on many occasions. But I’ve never distrusted his
belief in his own position.”  Fitzgerald, 51, who scheduled a press conference for
tomorrow, has no immediate employment plans and “will take time
off this summer before considering career options,” according
to a statement issued by his office.  A graduate of  Harvard Law School , Fitzgerald began  his
career  as a federal prosecutor in  Manhattan  in 1988, ultimately
serving as chief of its organized-crime and terrorism unit.
There he prosecuted crimes arising from the 1998 al Qaeda
bombings of U.S. embassies in Tanzania and  Kenya .  He continued to pursue terrorism cases in Chicago.
Attorneys in his office in 2007 obtained obstruction of justice
convictions of two men accused of aiding the Palestinian group
Hamas, which the U.S. government labeled a terrorist
organization.  Tahawwur Rana Conviction  His office last year won the conviction of a Canadian
citizen, Tahawwur Rana, who was accused of aiding a plot to
attack a Danish newspaper that in 2005 published inflammatory
cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.  Rana won acquittal on allegations he’d helped plan a
November 2008 terror spree in Mumbai that resulted in the deaths
of 160 people over three days.  Those experiences led Durkin today to call Fitzgerald “the
premier prosecutor in the country for terrorism-related cases.”  Acting as a special prosecutor, in March 2007 he won
Libby’s conviction for lying to investigators probing the 2003
leak of Central Intelligence Agency official Valerie Plame’s
identity. Later that year, prosecutors in his Chicago office
obtained Black’s conviction on fraud and obstruction charges.  Black later won appellate reversals on two of the four
counts for which he was found guilty. Libby’s sentence was
commuted by Bush.  NPR Appearance  In July 2007, Fitzgerald made a celebrity guest appearance
on the National Public Radio news quiz program “Wait... Wait..
Don’t Tell Me!” during which he recounted his experiences as a
doorman and janitor while working his way through law school.  “He’s a true believer” said Andrea Lyon, a DePaul
University law professor and criminal defense attorney who was
part of the Ryan defense team. “Perhaps that may have resulted
in some things that I regard, that many Americans regard, as
over-reaching, but not from any venal intent.”  Ronald Safer, the Schiff Hardin LLP managing partner, who
represented one of Black’s co-defendants, credited Fitzgerald
and his office with anti-corruption efforts.  “When you look back, it was a great decade of public
corruption prosecutions, and he was at the helm,” Safer said.  His client in the Black case, ex-Hollinger International
Inc. General Counsel Mark Kipnis, won appellate reversal of two
fraud counts for which the jury had found him guilty, and the
trial judge dismissed a third.  “Patrick Fitzgerald has served the American people and the
citizens of Illinois with the utmost integrity and a steadfast
commitment to the cause of justice,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in a press statement.  A  Brooklyn ,  New York , native, Fitzgerald graduated from
 Amherst College  before law school, according to his Justice
Department biography. He married Jennifer Letzkus, a
schoolteacher, in 2007. They have two children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  