-- U.S. Stocks Erase Loss Amid Optimism on Europe Efforts
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-23T21:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-stock-futures-slide-cbo-warns-of-possible-recession.html
U.S. stocks erased early losses amid
optimism that European leaders will do more to halt contagion
from the region’s debt crisis, helping the market reverse a
plunge triggered by growing concern  Greece  will leave the euro.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  advanced
at least 1.4 percent to pace gains among the biggest companies.
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  increased 3.2 percent after losing 19 percent in
the previous two days.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  tumbled 17 percent, the most
since 2000, amid a disappointing revenue forecast. Hewlett-
Packard Co. rallied 10 percent at 5:02 p.m. New York time after
reporting quarterly results and saying it will cut  27,000 jobs .  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,318.86 at 4 p.m. New York
time, reversing a decline of as much as 1.5 percent. Earlier
today, it approached the average price from the last  200 days  of
about 1,280. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 6.66
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,496.15, trimming this year’s gain
to 2.3 percent. About 7.6 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 12 percent above the three-month average.  “Huge turnaround,” said  Tim Ghriskey , who oversees about
$2 billion as chief investment officer of Solaris Group in
 Bedford Hills ,  New York . “There’s speculation that European
leaders will take action to stabilize the situation with Greece.
In addition, there’s a lot of cash on the sidelines looking to
get into the equity market. Certainly, the decline we’ve had
recently might provide an opportunity.”  Equities fell earlier, joining a  global slump , as European
leaders meet to discuss the region’s crisis. The prospect of
Greece leaving the shared currency weighed on the market as
parties opposed to bailout terms won most of the votes in May 6
elections.  $4 Trillion  Concern about Europe’s crisis erased about $4 trillion from
global equity values this month as Brazil and  Russia  entered
into bear markets. The  S&P 500  has fallen 5.7 percent in May as
financial and commodity shares tumbled at least 7.8 percent.  “European concerns are fueling global deleveraging that is
particularly severe for sectors vulnerable to economic slowdowns
and financial dislocations,” said Mohamed El-Erian, the chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., the
largest manager of bond funds. “To contain the likely economic
and financial disruptions, a ‘Grexit’ would need to be part of a
broader effort to strengthen the euro zone’s underpinnings.”  Companies that are most-tied to economic growth rallied
after posting the biggest losses in the S&P 500 earlier today.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the economy,
gained 1.2 percent.  Bank of America  added 2.7 percent, the most
in the Dow, to $7.17. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
advanced 1.4 percent to $8.61. FedEx, the operator of the
world’s biggest cargo airline, climbed 2.2 percent to $88.74.  Facebook Rebounds  Facebook added 3.2 percent to $32. It fell below its $38
IPO price on May 21 on concern its initial public offering was
priced too high. The offering valued Facebook at  107 times 
trailing 12-month earnings, more than every S&P 500 member
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential.  The cost to short sell Facebook is at the most-expensive
level in a 10-point scale developed by Data Explorers Ltd.,
which said bets against the social-media company amount to 4.3
percent of shares sold in the company’s initial public offering.  A measure of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes gained 2.2
percent. Demand for new U.S. homes rose more than forecast in
April, indicating residential real estate may contribute to
economic growth for the first time in seven years.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  advanced 6.8 percent to $45.61, a record.
Piper Jaffray Cos. said ComScore Inc. data suggest a “strong
acceleration” in Europe for online-travel companies and raised
its share-price estimate by 20 percent.  Investment Grade  Car companies had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24
industries, adding 1.4 percent.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  jumped 2.2
percent to $10.41. The automaker was raised to investment grade
by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday, enabling Executive
Chairman  Bill Ford , great-grandson of the founder, to reclaim
the blue oval logo he put up as collateral for a loan.  Dell tumbled 17 percent, the biggest decline in the S&P
500, to $12.49. The forecast, paired with a first-quarter sales
and earnings miss, pointed to problems endemic to Dell, Steve Felice, Dell’s president, said in a conference call. The sales
team focused on individual products instead of packages of
hardware and software, he said.  Rival  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  rallied 10 percent to $23.27 after
the close of regular trading. The world’s largest PC maker will
eliminate the jobs by October 2014 through firings and early
retirement offers, for an annual savings of as much as $3.5
billion. The company also forecast fiscal third-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates on slumping demand for printers,
data-center equipment and services.  200-Day Average  Earlier losses drove the S&P 500 near its 200-day moving
average. A drop below that level is seen by some technical
analysts as a harbinger of further losses and could take the S&P
500 to 1,205, according to  Ryan Detrick  at Schaeffer’s
Investment Research.  “If we continue to get negative news out of  Europe , there
would be a decent probability of that happening,” said Detrick,
senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s in Cincinnati. “We
need some type of major positive catalysts to get us moving
higher. Right now, we just don’t have one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  