-- U.S. to Have World’s Best Military, Obama Tells Cadets
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-23T17:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-to-have-world-s-best-military-obama-tells-cadets.html
The U.S. will maintain the world’s
“finest, most capable military” amid defense spending cuts to
create a “leaner” force as conflicts end in Iraq and
 Afghanistan , President  Barack Obama  said.  “We’ll keep our military, and our Air Force, fast,
flexible and versatile,” Obama said in a commencement speech at
the U.S. Air Force Academy. “We will maintain our military
superiority in all areas -- air, land, sea, space and cyber.  ‘‘For the first time in your lives -- and thanks to Air
Force personnel who did their part --  Osama bin Laden  is no
longer a threat to our country,’’ Obama told the 1,073 cadets in
the academy’s class of 2012. ‘‘We’ve put al-Qaeda on the path to
defeat. And you are the first graduates since 9/11 who can see
how we’ll end the war in Afghanistan.”  The war’s end will ease the burden on U.S. forces and their
families and “make our military stronger,” Obama told the
cadets, saying they will face fewer deployments, more training
and greater preparation for their missions.  The address to graduates of the academy, in  Colorado 
Springs, Colorado, was the lead-off event on a two-day trip
during which the president will raise money for his re-election
campaign, seeking to stay ahead of growing contributions to
Republican  Mitt Romney  and his allies.  ‘American Century’  The 21st century will be “an  American century ” with the
U.S. leading allies in countries where “more and more people
are reaching toward the freedoms and values we share.”  “I’ve made it clear that the  United States  does not fear
the rise of peaceful, responsible emerging powers -- we welcome
them,” Obama said. “Because when more nations step up and
contribute to peace and security, that doesn’t undermine
American power -- it enhances it.”  From  Europe  to  Asia , U.S. alliances are strong and other
nations are showing “a new confidence in our leadership,”
Obama said. “No other nation can play the role that we play in
global affairs,” he said.  The president is raising campaign money today in Colorado
and California before heading to Iowa tomorrow to promote his
economic initiatives. National polls show Obama and Romney
locked in a close race for the White House in November.  Part of that contest is the competition for money. Romney
has started to raise funds jointly with the  Republican National
Committee , enabling donors to write bigger checks. Romney and
the Republicans said they brought in $40.1 million last month,
while Obama and the  Democratic National Committee  said they
raised $43.6 million.  Fundraising Contest  “Republicans are in much better shape this year than they
were four years ago,”  Jack Pitney , a political scientist at
 Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,  California , said in a
telephone interview. He cited the influence of so-called super-
PACs and outside groups that didn’t exist during the last
election.  “It’s clear the Obama campaign won’t have the kind of
overwhelming advantage that it had in 2008,” Pitney said.  Obama’s campaign so far has raised more than twice as much
as Romney, $222.3 million to $100.4 million. The Democratic
National Committee has brought in more than its Republican
counterpart, $169 million to $135 million.  Democratic strategist Peter Fenn said Democrats can’t take
any risks. “In my view, the rules of the game are out the
window in this race,” he said. “Usually you don’t really begin
to pour it on until the fall. We’re pouring it on now.”  Campaign Stops  Along with a fundraiser in Denver after the  Air Force 
Academy speech, Obama will be soliciting donors at two events
tonight in California, the most populous U.S. state and one that
has provided almost one-fifth of his campaign funds, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based
campaign-research group.  The first California event at is the home of
philanthropists Lisa and Doug Goldman of Atherton, where about
60 supporters have paid $35,800 per person, or about $2.1
million. Douglas Goldman is the son of Levi Strauss & Co. heirs
Richard & Rhoda Goldman. He also is chief executive officer of
Certain Software Inc., which makes MeetingPlanner Plus and
EventPlanner Plus software.  A rally at Redwood City’s Fox Theatre later in the day was
expected to draw about 1,100 supporters, with tickets starting
at $250.  Voters Split  Voters would be split if the election were held today,
according a Washington Post/ABC News poll, which showed 49
percent favoring Obama and 46 percent favoring Romney, within
the margin of error. Voters said their chief concern was the
economy, with Obama getting a 47 percent approval rating, tied
with expectations for Romney. The May 17-20 poll of 1,004 adults
has a margin of error for the full survey of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  Obama’s visit to Iowa tomorrow will be his third to the
state this year. In Newton, he’ll talk about the economy and
continue to push Congress to finish his “to-do” list,
including renewal of clean energy tax credits to boost the wind
power industry, according to a White House news release.  He also plans a campaign rally at the Iowa State
Fairgrounds in  Des Moines  later in the day, the spot where
Romney made news in August when he said: “Corporations are
people, my friend.”  Obama may elaborate on his attacks on Romney and his record
as a co-founder of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC. In
 Chicago  on May 21, Obama said that Romney’s experience making
money for investors, even if it meant cutting jobs, doesn’t
qualify him to oversee the  U.S. economy .  “If your main argument for how to grow the economy is I
knew how to make a lot of money for investors, then you’re
missing what this job is about,” Obama said.  Romney said Obama was attacking the free enterprise system.  Iowa and Colorado are among the nine states that switched
to supporting Obama in 2008 after backing Republican President
 George W. Bush  in 2004, and will be battlegrounds in the
November presidential vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Colorado Springs , Colorado, at 
6423
or  rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  