-- Home Prices Rose Most in Two Decades in March, FHFA Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-05-23T16:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-home-prices-rise-2-7-in-march-from-prior-year-fhfa-says.html
U.S. home prices jumped 1.8 percent
in March, the biggest monthly increase in at least two decades,
as the housing recovery builds momentum, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  said today.  The rise from February exceeded all analysts’ estimates,
which ranged from a decline of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.7
percent. Compared with a year earlier, prices surged 2.7
percent, the FHFA said in a statement.  Record-low  mortgage  rates,  job  gains and a dwindling
inventory of properties available for sale have combined to
strengthen demand for homes. Purchases of previously owned U.S.
houses climbed 3.4 percent in April to a 4.62 million annual
rate, the first increase in three months, the National
Association of Realtors said yesterday.  “Increased affordability and a somewhat smaller inventory
of homes for sale are positively impacting  house prices ,”
Andrew Leventis, principal economist with the FHFA in
 Washington , said in the statement.  The FHFA report measures changes in real estate values
using purchases of properties with mortgages backed by  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  It doesn’t provide a specific price for
homes. The monthly increase was the largest in records going
back to 1991, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a 0.3 percent monthly  gain .  Regional Gains  Prices increased in every region, led by the area that
includes Texas and Louisiana, with a 4 percent advance from a
year earlier. Prices rose 3.9 percent in the region that
includes Kentucky and Mississippi, and 3.6 percent in the area
with Montana and  Nevada .  For the first quarter, prices rose 0.5 percent from a year
earlier, the first annual increase since 2007.  Demand for new U.S. homes increased 3.3 percent in April to
a 343,000 annual rate from a revised 332,000 in March, the
Commerce Department reported today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was 335,000.  As measured by the National Association of Realtors, the
median home  price  was $164,800 in March. In April, it climbed to
$177,400, the trade group said yesterday.  “Prices are hitting a bottom,”  Patrick Newport , an
economist for IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s good news
because it means that consumer wealth that comes from a home is
no longer dropping.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  