-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Seeks Comments on Prepaid Debit Card Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-consumer-bureau-seeks-comments-on-prepaid-debit-card-rules.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau is seeking comment on what should be included in a
forthcoming regulation on prepaid  debit cards .  “Right now, prepaid cards have far fewer regulatory
protections than bank accounts or debit or credit cards,” the
bureau’s director,  Richard Cordray , said in an e-mailed
statement.  Rules on prepaid cards could squeeze the revenue that
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Green Dot Corp. (GDOT)  and
 NetSpend Holdings Inc. (NTSP)  collect on prepaid cards. Mercator
Advisory Group, a Maynard, Massachusetts-based consulting firm,
says that the amount loaded on prepaid cards in the U.S. is
growing by 42 percent per year and will hit $167 billion in
2014, according to the bureau.  The agency is requesting public comment on the new rule by
July 22. The regulation will cover so-called general purpose
reloadable cards, prepaid cards that can be restocked with cash
once the initial amount is drawn down.  The consumer bureau plans to propose a draft regulation by
early 2013, according to a person with direct knowledge of its
plans.  The bureau is holding a field hearing on its plans for
prepaid cards today in Durham,  North Carolina . The hearing will
include representatives of the prepaid card industry and
consumer advocates.  In a statement prepared for the hearing, Cordray stressed
that the focus will be on “safety and transparency” in the
prepaid card market.  ‘Tricks or Traps’  “We believe that innovation can bring great benefits to
consumers and can provide those outside the traditional banking
system with more access to financial products that meet their
needs,” Cordray said in the prepared statement. “But we have a
duty to make sure these products are safe for consumers and that
prepaid card issuers do not make money by relying on tricks or
traps.”  Prepaid cards do not have the same protections as credit
cards if they’re lost or stolen, the money they hold is not
always insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and only
sometimes are fees for checking balances or adding value
disclosed on the cards’ packaging, according to Cordray’s
statement.  On some cards, he said in the statement, “the fees, terms
and conditions that apply to the card are printed on an inner
flap or in a magnificent origami pamphlet located inside the
package.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  