-- U.S. Officials Guided Filmmakers on Bin Laden Raid Movie
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-05-23T18:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-officials-guided-filmmakers-on-bin-laden-raid-movie.html
The Obama administration promised a
Hollywood filmmaker unprecedented access to the top-secret Navy
unit that killed  Osama bin Laden  to help her make a feature film
on the operation at the same time it was publicly ordering
officials to stop talking about the raid.  The Pentagon’s top intelligence official, Michael Vickers,
offered Oscar-winning director Kathryn Bigelow interviews with a
member of the SEAL team that helped plan last year’s assault on
bin Laden’s compound, according to a transcript of a July 15
meeting released yesterday by Judicial Watch, a Washington-based
legal organization.  The summary was among hundreds of pages of material on the
Obama administration’s cooperation with Bigelow and screenwriter
Mark Boal on their proposed movie that Judicial Watch obtained
under the Freedom of Information Act. The documents illustrate a
conflict between the administration’s public calls for shielding
classified information related to bin Laden’s death and its
private effort to assist the filmmakers.  During the meeting with Bigelow, who directed the Academy
Award-winning Iraq War movie “The Hurt Locker,” Vickers also
divulged the name of the typically secret Navy commando unit
known as SEAL Team Six.  “Well, the basic idea is they’ll make a guy available who
was involved from the beginning as planner, a SEAL Team 6
Operator and Commander,” said Vickers, the undersecretary of
defense for intelligence, according to the transcript.  Planner’s Identity  Lieutenant Colonel James Gregory, a spokesman for Vickers,
said in an e-mail last night that Vickers wasn’t referring to a
SEAL Team Six member in the transcript.  “The identity of a planner, not a member of SEAL Team 6,
was provided by the U.S. Special Operations Command as a
possible point of contact for additional information if the DoD
determined that additional support was merited,” Gregory said.
“No additional official DoD support was granted, nor to our
knowledge was it pursued by the filmmakers,” he said. “This
was a meeting to explore possibilities about supporting the film
endeavor.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters today that
the filmmakers never met with the military planner and that
officials haven’t reviewed a script from Boal or Bigelow.  ‘Desire to Inform’  Help to the filmmakers was “driven by a desire to inform
the American public,” not by politics, Little said. The
comments by Vickers in the transcript referring to SEAL Team Six
merely confirmed an “open fact,” he said.  “The fact that the SEALs were involved was not in any way,
shape or form a secret,” Little said.  After decades in which officials were portrayed as corrupt
and incompetent, U.S. policy makers are “thrilled to help”
Hollywood shape their portrayal in a more positive manner,
according to Rogan Kersh, associate dean and public policy
professor at  New York  University’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate
School of Public Service.  “Obama’s opponents howl that the administration is
‘politicizing’ the bin Laden operation,” Kersh said in an e-
mail. “I can’t think of a politician who doesn’t claim credit
for successful policy achievements, especially when film studios
-- with their proven ability to reach millions of people -- come
calling.”  Sued for Release  Judicial Watch sued the Defense Department in January for
release of the records and received the material on May 18, the
group said in a news release yesterday. The organization is also
pressing for the publication of post-mortem photos of bin Laden
and video, which the U.S. government has refused to release,
citing national security concerns.  The July meeting involving Vickers, Bigelow and Boal, which
was sanctioned by the White House, came two months after then-
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and then-Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman Admiral Michael Mullen urged military officials to stop
talking about the May 2, 2011, raid.  “My concern is that there were too many people in too many
places talking too much about this operation,” Gates said at a
May 18  news conference . “And we had reached an agreement that
we would not talk about operational details. That lasted about
15 hours.”  At the July 15 meeting, Boal told Vickers he had already
met that day with CIA Deputy Director Mike Morell and earlier
with White House Deputy National Security Adviser  Denis McDonough  and counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan , according
to the transcript.  ‘Same Information’  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House National
Security Council, said today that “the information that the
White House provided about the bin Laden raid was focused on the
president’s role in that decision-making process. The same
information was given to the White House press corps.”  The administration does its best to provide information to
the “press, authors, filmmakers, documentarians, who are
working on projects that involve the president,” Vietor said in
an e-mailed statement.  President  Barack Obama  has highlighted the raid’s success
as part of his re-election campaign. In a new television
commercial, Obama pledges to support military veterans.  “It’s because of what they’ve done that we’ve been able to
go after al-Qaeda and kill bin Laden,” he says in the ad.  Request for Investigation  “We do not discuss classified information,” White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said on Aug. 10 after Republican
Representative  Peter King  of New York, chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee, called for an investigation into
whether the filmmakers were given access to government secrets.  King’s request was prompted by an Aug. 7 New York Times
column by Maureen Dowd that said: “The moviemakers are getting
top-level access to the most classified mission in history.”  The Pentagon routinely provides technical assistance and
location access to filmmakers, including those who made the
science-fiction movie “Battleship” that was released last
week. In exchange for such access, equipment and personnel,
filmmakers must modify a script if requested by the Pentagon or
by a military service.  In a statement today, King said the e-mails tell “a
damning story of extremely close, unprecedented and potentially
dangerous collaboration with top officials of the CIA, DoD and
the White House and a top Democratic lobbying firm” -- the
Glover Park Group, which he said “was intimately involved in
brokering these filmmakers’ access to clandestine officials and
potentially special operators only weeks after the mission and
when details were otherwise still very closely guarded.”  Classified Facility  King said that according to the e-mails, the filmmakers
were allowed a “visit to a classified facility so secret that
its name is redacted in the released e-mail. If this facility is
so secret that its name cannot even be seen by the public, why
would the Obama administration allow filmmakers to tour it?”
They also were permitted to tour the CIA’s vaults, he said,
“which is absolutely shocking to those of us who know the
sensitive nature of materials kept there.”  He also  wrote  today to Vickers and Morell, expressing his
concerns about the potential release of classified information.  Representative Tom Rooney, a Florida Republican who serves
on the House Armed Services and Intelligence Committees, wrote
the Defense Department’s inspector general today asking for an
investigation of whether the filmmakers were given classified
information.  ‘Gutsy Decision’  A summary of a June meeting between Vickers and Boal, the
writer and producer of “The Hurt Locker,” offers a glimpse of
the Obama administration’s possible motives for assisting the
filmmakers -- aside from preventing inaccuracies and disclosures
of classified information.  Vickers said that based on the intelligence, there was a
“60 to 80 percent certainty” that bin Laden was in the
compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , and that ordering the raid
“was a ‘gutsy decision by the POTUS,’” shorthand for President
of the  United States , according to the summary. Vickers
“recommended” that the filmmakers look at the raid from the
Central Intelligence Agency, Pentagon and White House vantage
points.  “White House involvement was critical,” according to the
summary of Vickers’ discussion.  Bigelow is out of the country filming and can’t be reached
for comment, her publicist, Susan Ciccone, said yesterday.  Pentagon and special operations officials haven’t publicly
acknowledged the official designation of the Navy unit known
informally as SEAL Team Six and formally as the Naval Special
Warfare Development Group, or Devgru, based in Dam Neck,
Virginia.  When 17 members of the unit were killed last Aug. 6 in a
CH-47 Chinook helicopter crash, the fact that they were members
of that unit wasn’t disclosed even though their names were
released.  ‘If It Gets Out’  Vickers had no such reticence when meeting with the
filmmakers.  “He can probably give you everything you would want or
get” from the top U.S. Special Operations Command commander or
direct raid commander, Vickers said, referring respectively to
then-Admiral Eric Olson and Admiral William McRaven.  According to the documents, McRaven, then head of the Joint
Special Operations Command, and Olson wouldn’t speak with the
filmmakers because military officials were concerned “that it’s
just a bad example if it gets out -- even with all sorts of
restrictions and everything.”  ‘That’s Dynamite’  The SEAL Team Six planner whose name was blacked out in the
transcript will “speak for operators and he’ll speak for senior
military commanders” because they are all “the same tribe and
everything,” Vickers said during the July meeting.  The commanders tell their troops never to talk about
operations, and doing so now would jeopardize their leadership,
Vickers told the filmmakers, according to the documents.  Still, filmmakers were ecstatic. “That’s dynamite by the
way,” Boal told Vickers, according to the transcript. “That’s
incredible,” Bigelow said.  Officials at the CIA went to unusual lengths to cooperate
with Bigelow and Boal. In a June 30 e-mail to a recipient whose
name was redacted, then-CIA spokesman Marie Harf, who now works
for Obama’s re-election campaign in  Chicago , said: “As a
Agency, we’ve been pretty forward-leaning with Boal, and he’s
agreed to share scripts and details about the movie with us so
we’re absolutely comfortable with what he will be showing.”  “I know this is a little outside what we typically do as
CIA officers,” she continued later, “but Boal seems committed
to representing the Agency well in what is a multimillion-dollar
major motion picture.  “(... we’re trying to keep his visits at HQs a bit quiet,
because of the sensitivities surrounding who gets to participate
in this types of things. I’m sure you understand ...)”  Preston Golson, a CIA spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday that “on some occasions, when appropriate, we arrange
visits to the Agency for unclassified meetings with some of our
officers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  