-- U.S. Torn Between Israel’s Nuclear Demands Versus Iran’s
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-23T14:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/u-s-torn-between-israel-s-nuclear-demands-versus-iran-s.html
U.S. negotiators went into Iranian
nuclear talks today under pressure to reconcile two fundamental
and seemingly irreconcilable demands before the clock runs out
on a diplomatic solution.  Iranian leaders want the international community to accept
that their nation has a right to enrich uranium on its soil for
peaceful use. In Israel, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  says
the Jewish state will never be safe unless Iran ceases all
enrichment so it can’t secretly build an atomic bomb.  That put the U.S. in a difficult position as it began a
second round of nuclear talks in Baghdad with its five partners
-- the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia .  All six have agreed to demand that Iran provide greater
transparency and safeguards against illicit weapons development.
They put forward a proposal today that concerned Iran’s  uranium
enrichment  activities, according to  Michael Mann , spokesman for
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , who
provided no details.  “The U.S. is negotiating on two fronts -- with Iran and
with  Israel ,”  Vali Nasr , a former U.S. State Department senior
adviser, said in an interview. “A deal that would work with
Iran would not satisfy Israel probably,” and the reverse is
also true, he said.  The stakes are high for Iran and Israel -- and,
politically, for President  Barack Obama . Obama is under pressure
in an election year to forestall any Israeli or U.S. military
strike against Iran, while blunting attacks from Congress and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  that portray him as not being
tough enough on Iran.  Core Issue  Oil declined for a second day in New York after Iran agreed
to grant access to United Nations nuclear inspectors and the
euro slumped to a 21-month low against the dollar. Crude for
July delivery declined 55 cents to $91.30 a barrel at 9:37 a.m.
in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  A preliminary agreement between Iran and the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  -- which would grant greater access to
Iranian sites suspected of housing undeclared nuclear activities
-- doesn’t change the core issue of uranium enrichment, which
has drawn threats of possible military strikes this year by
Israel.  Public and private posturing on all sides has marked the
run-up to a second round of nuclear talks, following a meeting
last month in Istanbul.  Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak flew to  Washington  last
week for talks on Iran, following an unpublicized visit by
Israeli Military Intelligence chief Major General Aviv Kochavi
to Washington and the United Nations headquarters in New York.  Enrichment ‘Right’  Iranian leaders have insisted in state-run media reports
over the last month that the world has recognized their right to
enrichment activities. U.S. diplomats dispute that.  The U.S. and European Union have stuck to a hard bargaining
position: that Iran must meet all international obligations and
resolve all concerns about its nuclear program. U.S. and Western
officials have said there will be no relief from punishing oil
and financial sanctions until a deal is done.  Dennis Ross , Obama’s former chief adviser on Iran, said a
deal between Iran and the six powers meeting in  Baghdad  is
achievable over time if Iran were to agree to start implementing
certain confidence-building steps.  Those might include halting 19.75 percent uranium
enrichment, shipping out stockpiles of that medium-enriched
uranium, answering questions about possible military dimensions
of the nuclear program and accepting additional transparency
measures, said Ross, now counselor at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy. While medium-enriched uranium is needed to
make medical isotopes to treat cancer patients, it also can be
enriched further to fuel a nuclear weapon.  Curtailing Enrichment  In the longer term, Ross and other analysts suggested, Iran
would need to accept steps that would prevent the conversion of
a civilian nuclear power program into a weapons effort. Those
measures might include forgoing enrichment and receiving fuel
from an international fuel bank or accepting strict limits on
enrichment at levels of less than 5 percent, restrictions on the
number of centrifuges and intrusive inspections.  U.S. and Western diplomats, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said the U.S.
and its European partners haven’t decided yet whether a low
level of domestic uranium enrichment might be acceptable
ultimately if Iran were to comply with the rest of the
international community’s demands.  Seyed Hossein Mousavian, a former member of Iran’s nuclear
negotiating team from 2003 to 2005, said yesterday that the
right to domestic enrichment has been understood as a right by
every Iranian government dating back to the rule of Shah
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Iran’s last monarch who was deposed in
Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution.  ‘Red Line’  “It was a red line under the Shah, who was an ally of the
U.S.,” Mousavian, now a scholar at the Woodrow Wilson School at
 Princeton University , in Princeton,  New Jersey , said yesterday.
No Iranian government will be in a position “to sell the rights
of the nation under the NPT,” he said, referring to the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty.  Nuclear specialists debate whether the treaty guarantees
the right to domestic uranium enrichment or simply the right to
a civilian nuclear program. Iran’s critics say the nation is in
violation of the NPT and several UN Security Council resolutions
in any case, and therefore forfeits rights it would have under
the treaty.  Defense Minister Ehud Barak yesterday reiterated Israel’s
demands that Iran halt all enrichment. “In addition, all
enriched uranium should be removed from Iran,” he said.  Promises, Actions  The deal announced yesterday to grant UN inspectors
expanded access to Iranian military sites “is a net positive,
but it is premature to make too much of it” because  Iran  has a
record of unfulfilled commitments, Ross said. “Let’s see the
actions, not just the promises.”  U.S. diplomats said Iran’s talks with the IAEA are a
separate track from the Baghdad negotiations and insisted they
wouldn’t reward Iran’s concessions to the IAEA with relief from
oil and financial sanctions.  Rather than relief from oil sanctions, U.S. officials said
the six major powers meeting in Baghdad are ready to offer a
basket of confidence-building measures to assist Iran’s civilian
energy program if Iran were to cease medium-level uranium
enrichment.  Other incentives for Iran’s compliance might include
lifting restrictions that have prevented Iran from importing
spare parts for civilian aircraft, according to the U.S.
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity about private
deliberations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  