-- Lufthansa to Focus on Existing Units as TAP Stays Partner
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-05-23T15:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/lufthansa-to-focus-on-existing-units-as-tap-stays-partner.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  will focus on
growth at existing units, the head of the airline’s business in
Spain and Portugal said, a week after other executives at the
German company said it may look at bidding for TAP SGPS SA.  Lufthansa views TAP, Portugal’s state-owned carrier, as a
partner and anything said beyond that is speculation, Stephan
Semsch, the German airline’s director for Spanish and Portuguese
operations, said at a news conference in Lisbon.  Christoph Meier, a Lufthansa spokesman in Frankfurt, said
May 16 that the Cologne-based carrier would consider making an
offer for TAP, a partner in the Star Alliance airline grouping,
to strengthen its position in  South America . Meier was
confirming comments made by Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz in a Financial Times interview.  Portugal’s government has agreed to sell TAP this year to
raise funds under terms of a 78 billion-euro ($98 billion)
bailout from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . TAP Chief Executive Officer Fernando Pinto said last month
that several investor groups are already interested in the
Lisbon-based carrier. A formal bidding process has yet to begin.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the owner of
British Airways and Madrid-based Iberia, has repeatedly
expressed its desire to buy TAP.  Avianca Taca Holding SA (PFAVTA)  Chief
Executive Officer Fabio Villegas said on April 13 that Avianca
Brasil, an airline held separately by his company’s owner, is
also “interested in analyzing” TAP’s sale.  The  Portuguese government  has yet to pick advisers for
TAP’s disposal, Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance
Maria Luis Albuquerque said on May 16.  Lufthansa is forecasting at least 10 percent growth in
passenger numbers in Portugal this year, Michael Hutzelmann, the
airline’s sales director in the country, said at the briefing.
The number of people traveling on Lufthansa’s Portuguese routes
rose 13 percent in the first quarter, Semsch said. The carrier,
 Europe ’s second-largest, also views Brazil as important and is
adding routes to the South American country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  