-- Unemployed Burn as Fed Fiddles in Debate Over Natural Rate: Jobs
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-05-23T16:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/unemployed-burn-as-fed-fiddles-in-debate-over-natural-rate-jobs.html
Federal Reserve officials and
economic advisers are debating far-reaching differences on
whether to accept a  jobless rate  that doesn’t fall much below
6.5 percent or act more aggressively to reduce it to 5 percent
or less.  David Horowitz says he’s “not enough of an economist” to
know who’s right. He just wants a full-time job again.  Horowitz, 47, says he lost his health policy analyst job in
 Washington  a month before the U.S. recession began in December
2007. He has met his expenses with temporary jobs in his field
and work as a swim teacher, along with loans and savings.  As for the policy makers’ debate on joblessness, “if
they’re declaring that it’s a permanent situation, then that
does make me angry,” he said. An approach that doesn’t put  job
creation  first “puts a lot of people out of work and makes our
educations worthless, and doesn’t give much optimism about
working hard and moving up.”  Horowitz and  millions  of other unemployed and underemployed
people are searching for jobs at the same time policy makers,
such as San Francisco Fed President  John Williams , and
economists, including former Obama administration adviser  Jared Bernstein , ponder whether the current 8.1 unemployment rate will
ever drop to the 5 percent level where it stood when the longest
and deepest recession since the Great Depression began.  Cyclical, Structural  The debate centers on whether the jobless rate is high
because of a lagging economic recovery, which can be influenced
by  monetary policy , or because changes in the labor market and
extended unemployment have left many workers lacking necessary
skills, a structural problem that the Fed can’t affect.  The central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to
near zero in December 2008 and has said economic conditions
warrant keeping it there through late 2014. The Fed has expanded
its balance sheet by $2.3 trillion through two rounds of large-
scale asset purchases. The  balance sheet  reached a record $2.94
trillion in February.  In September, the central bank announced it would sell $400
billion of short-term securities and buy $400 billion in longer-
term securities, to further lower borrowing costs and support
the economic recovery. The program, known as Operation Twist, is
scheduled to be completed in June.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  has argued that the
high level of unemployment warrants additional asset purchases
and said the Fed should tolerate a higher rate of inflation as
it takes more aggressive action to bolster growth.  Additional Stimulus  The Fed hasn’t taken these steps, although the minutes of
its April 24-25 meeting show that “several” members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  believe additional stimulus could
be necessary “if the economic recovery lost momentum or the
downside risks to the forecast became great enough.”  Never before in postwar America has finding work taken as
long. The average duration of unemployment rose to a record 41
weeks in November and remains at  39 weeks , more than double the
15-week average since the U.S. began collecting the information
in 1948, according to Labor Department data.  The broader rate for  underemployment , which also includes
people working part-time for economic reasons and discouraged
job seekers, was 14.5 percent last month. The 8.1 percent
 unemployment rate  remains above  Fed  officials’ projections last
month of a longer-run unemployment rate of 4.9 percent to 6
percent.  Natural Rate  Williams said in a May 3  speech  that the natural rate of
unemployment, which neither accelerates nor decelerates
inflation, probably has risen to 6 percent to 6.5 percent today
from about 5 percent before the recession, in part because
workers don’t have the skills employers need and because of
extended  unemployment benefits . He said the rate should fall in
coming years to 5.5 percent.  “The natural rate is the subject of intensive economic
research and debate,” the regional Fed chief, a  voting member 
of the Federal Open Market Committee this year, said in  Santa
Barbara ,  California . “Economists estimate it using a variety of
economic and statistical models, and no two estimates agree.”  Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities in Washington, a Washington-based group that
favors policies that aid low-income Americans, says he disagrees
that the full employment rate could be at 6.5 percent. More
important, he says, is that joblessness is too high and policy
makers should push employment and growth measures without
worrying about inflation.  ‘Waste Time’  “I wouldn’t waste time figuring out what the rate is as I
would just try to get the darn unemployment rate down,” said
Bernstein, a former chief economist for Vice President  Joe Biden . “Whatever you set this rate at we’re way above it and
for the Fed that’s all you need to know for the short term.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
have both said that the jobless rate is elevated because of
cyclical causes more than structural. Still, Bernanke warned in
a March 26  speech  in Arlington, Virginia, that the long-term
unemployed can lose their skills and become less likely to land
a new job. Yellen said in an April 11  speech  in  New York  that
people “with such long unemployment spells could become less
employable as their skills deteriorate and as they lose their
connections to the labor market.”  They don’t have to tell Laura Marks, a human resources
specialist in Miami who also helps run a faith-based nonprofit
organization that supports job seekers and takes its mission
from a 1981 papal  encyclical  that says “Man’s life is built up
every day from work.” She says that the Back on Track  Network 
tells members that they can’t expect to find exactly the same
job again because of changes in technology and the labor market.  ‘More Selective’  “The process for recruitment is much more selective and
companies are looking for very specific skill sets so that’s a
challenge for the job seeker,” she said. “You really need to
either improve the skills you have or learn new ones to take on
the new face of what is employment out there.”  Adjusting to the changes is crucial for the millions who
lost jobs in industries that haven’t recovered from the
recession. While some have rebounded, the gains are offset by
others that haven’t, such as construction and manufacturing.  Education and  health services  gained 625,000 jobs in the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009 and since then have
added another  1.1 million , according to BLS data. Professional
and business services have recovered all but 191,000 of the 1.6
million jobs they lost.  By contrast, the  construction industry  lost  1.5 million 
jobs and since then has shed another 449,000, the data show.
Manufacturing has added 222,000 positions since the contraction,
which erased  2 million  of those jobs.  Lost Job  One construction job lost since the recession ended
belonged to Jeffrey Brawner, who installed windows and doors for
a Washington builder until two years ago. After a seven-month
stint in which he was unable to work because of an arm injury,
and periodic work more recently at a catering company, he wants
back in to the full-time workforce.  Brawner, 50, is applying to be a heating and air
conditioning technician apprentice through the city of
Washington’s Department of Employment Services, which he visits
regularly to search for openings and consult with the staff. The
apprentice program provides on-the-job training, night classes
and a salaried, full-time position. If it doesn’t pan out, he
said he expects to land work in another field.  “Any job that comes through I will take just to get in the
door,” Brawner said May 17 at the department office. “People
are hiring and companies are more confident.”  2022 Outlook  Jobless stints like Brawner’s will endure, according to
government projections. The  Congressional Budget Office  said in
a January  report  that the natural rate of unemployment was
probably about 6 percent in 2011 and will remain elevated for
years. The CBO’s Budget and Economic Outlook for 2012 to 2022
boosted its projection to 5.5 percent in 2018 and 5.3 percent in
2022, up from a prior estimate of 5.2 percent for both years.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who votes on the
FOMC this year, said in a May 7  speech  that much unemployment
results from structural weaknesses such as inadequate training
that more Fed stimulus can’t fix. Extended unemployment benefits
and “labor market inefficiencies,” including the difficulty in
matching workers with skilled jobs could together account for as
much as 5.9 percentage points of the current rate, Lacker said.  Williams said the mismatch “should diminish as workers
retrain and construction and other hard-hit industries
recover.” He added that once those adjustments have occurred
over the next few years, he expects the natural rate of
unemployment to settle at 5.5 percent.  Push Harder  Paul Krugman , the Nobel prize-winning economist and New
York Times columnist, said in a May 10 column that the
government must push harder to lower the jobless rate. Calling
persistent unemployment “structural” doesn’t solve the
problem, he wrote.  “We’re suffering not from the teething pains of some kind
of structural transition that must gradually run its course but
rather from an overall lack of sufficient demand -- the kind of
lack that could and should be cured quickly with government
programs designed to boost spending,” Krugman wrote.  For Horowitz, the academic debates don’t reduce the
disappointment of not finding a job in his field even after the
recession ended. Unable to secure what he wanted in the months
after becoming unemployed, he became certified as a lifeguard
and water safety instructor and spent most of 2009 and 2010
working full-time for fitness companies. Since then, he has
returned to the field of public health, freelancing and
consulting.  “I was very grateful that I could switch gears into a
second line of work and had another skill,” yet it doesn’t ease
the frustration of being unable to work in one’s chosen field,
Horowitz said. “I went to grad school and college and I spent a
lot of money on that with the expectation that I would be
employed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  