-- Turkey Yields Jump First Time in 4 Days as Central Bank Tightens
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-23T14:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/turkish-lira-depreciates-to-four-month-low-against-dollar.html
Yields on two-year Turkish benchmark
debt rose for the first time in four days as the central bank
tightened monetary policy on speculation the euro region’s debt
crisis is worsening.  Bonds weakened, driving yields up six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 9.52 percent, giving an increase of 20
basis points this month. The lira retreated for a second day and
traded down 0.3 percent at 1.8486 per dollar.  The Turkish central bank refrained from lending at its
lowest 5.75 percent for a third day, seeking to curb the highest
inflation in three years. The bank cut lending by half to 1
billion liras ($540 million) of one-week repos at 10.87 percent.
European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss the
region’s debt crisis that has wiped more than $4 trillion from
equity markets worldwide this month.  “The central bank cut the outstanding liquidity in the
system to 32 billion liras,” taking into account the 2 billion-
lira repayment from last week’s repo auction, Ali Cakiroglu, a
strategist at  HSBC Private Bank  in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
note.  The  overnight cost of lending  in the  interbank market  hit
10 percent today, the highest rate in a week.  Turkey ’s central
bank varies its funding rate daily, keeping borrowing costs
within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent interest-rate corridor
introduced last year.  Turkey’s central bank may start selling dollars for liras
should declines in the currency persist, governor Erdem Basci
said in a televised interview with CNBC-e news channel from
Paris today. The central bank is assessing whether volatility in
exchange rates are temporary, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  