-- Viktor Bout Partner Smulian Gets Five Years for Arms Deal
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-23T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/viktor-bout-partner-smulian-to-get-5-year-sentence-judge-says.html
Convicted arms dealer  Viktor Bout ’s
former partner was given a five-year sentence by a U.S. judge
for his role in a plan to sell weapons to Colombian terrorists.  Andrew Smulian, who testified against Bout, was sentenced
today by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan . He
had pleaded guilty to crimes including conspiring to kill
American citizens. Scheindlin sentenced Bout to 25 years in
prison last month.  “He’s simply done everything asked of him by the  United
States ,” Mary Mulligan, Smulian’s lawyer, told the judge.
Smulian, 71, suffers from diabetes and high  blood pressure , she
said. He will be able to deduct the time he has already been
jailed, about 50 months, from his 60-month sentence, Mulligan
said.  Smulian, along with Bout, agreed to sell the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of  Colombia  millions of dollars’ worth of weapons,
prosecutors said. Undercover agents posed as members of the
group, which the U.S. designates a terrorist organization, to
arrange the deal. The weapons were going to be used to kill
American citizens in Colombia, according to the prosecutors.  Missiles, Rifles  The weapons included surface-to-air missiles, AK-47 rifles,
 land mines  and plastic explosives. Smulian and Bout negotiated a
$5 million fee to transport the arms to Colombia, on top of
millions of dollars for the weapons, according to court papers.  “I accept full responsibility for my misconduct,” Smulian
said in his remarks to the judge. “I would like to apologize to
the American people.”  Scheindlin said she took his cooperation with the
government into account in sentencing him. She also said his age
and health “counsel a greatly reduced sentence.” After his
jail term ends, he will have five years of supervised probation.  Smulian, a native of  South Africa , operated an air cargo
company in that country that went out of business. Scheindlin
noted that he was “financially vulnerable” when he agreed to a
deal with Bout.  Bout, a former Soviet military officer, was the target of
the U.S. sting operation, prosecutors said.  “Mr. Smulian’s cooperation was indeed critical in the
prosecution of Mr. Bout,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Anjan Sahni
told the judge.  Bout and Smulian were arrested in Bangkok in 2008. Sahni
said that Smulian voluntarily waived extradition rights and came
to the U.S. after his arrest.  The case is U.S. v. Smulian, 08-cr-711, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  