-- Vuitton, Facebook, NeighborCity: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-23T11:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/vuitton-facebook-neighborcity-intellectual-property.html
Louis Vuitton, the French maker of
laminated canvas handbags, was named the world’s most valuable
luxury brand for a seventh consecutive year.  The brand, owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , is worth $25.9 billion, a 7 percent increase from
2011, according to Millward Brown Optimor’s 2012 BrandZ study
published yesterday. Hermes, in which LVMH owns a stake, rose to
second place with a value of $19.1 billion, up 61 percent from
last year. Rolex, the closely held Swiss watch brand, was ranked
third at $7.17 billion, a 36 percent gain.  “Luxury is seen as a good investment with people
increasingly buying classic pieces rather than high fashion,”
Millward Brown Optimor Managing Director Nick Cooper said in a
statement.  Vuitton’s value amounts to about a third of LVMH’s market
capitalization of 61.05 billion euros ($78 billion).  Chanel, which ranked fourth in the study, saw its value
decrease 2 percent to $6.68 billion, while the value of fifth-
placed Gucci fell 14 percent to $6.42 billion. Gucci’s worth was
affected by a decline in owner  PPR SA (PP) ’s share price last year,
according to an external spokeswoman for Millward Brown Optimor.  Prada, which sold shares in  Hong Kong ’s biggest initial
public offering last year, made its debut in the luxury ranking
in sixth place with a value of $5.7 billion. Prada plans to add
about 80 stores annually over the next three years, many of
which will be directly owned, reflecting a general trend among
luxury makers to assert tighter brand control by shifting away
from licensing and franchising, according to the study.  Cartier, the jewelry brand owned by Geneva-based  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , Hennessy cognac and Moet & Chandon
champagne were seventh, eighth and ninth in the study,
respectively, with values of $4.22 billion to $4.84 billion.
LVMH, owner of Hennessy and Moet & Chandon, controls or has
stakes in four of the industry’s 10-most valuable brands. The
company holds a 22.3 percent stake in  Hermes International SCA. (RMS)   The Burberry brand ranked 10th with a value of $4.09
billion, a 21 percent increase from the previous year and almost
half of its market capitalization of 6.1 billion pounds ($9.7
billion).  Vuitton was the 21st most-valuable brand across 13
industries in the BrandZ study. Apple, the maker of the iPad
tablet, ranked first with its estimated value rising 19 percent
to $182.9 billion, according to Millward Brown Optimor.  The study, commissioned by  WPP Plc (WPP) , was based on interviews
with consumers as well as analysis of company performance.  Facebook’s Trademark Case Against Faceporn Site Tossed by Court  Facebook Inc.’s trademark infringement suit against the
operators of the  Faceporn.no  website was dismissed May 21 by a
federal judge in  San Francisco .  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S. White said his court didn’t
have jurisdiction over Thomas Pedersen, the Norwegian operator
of the adult-oriented social networking site. Facebook, which
has been in operation since 2004, had filed the suit in October
2010, claiming it was harmed and its marks could be tarnished by
the public’s potential confusion with the Norwegian site.  The company, based in Palo Alto,  California , which held its
initial public offering last week, said Faceporn’s site imitated
its pages, down to a logo that was “strikingly similar” to
Facebook’s.  White said he followed the recommendations in a report by
Magistrate Judge Nathanael M. Cousins. Cousins’s report, filed
with the court in March, said Facebook had failed to establish
that Faceporn had sufficient contacts with California to justify
the court’s jurisdiction.  Facebook was represented by Anne Harris Peck, Jeffrey
Thomas Norberg and Michael Graham Rhodes of Cooley LLP of San
Francisco. Pedersen, who was unrepresented by counsel, did not
file any court papers.  The case is  Facebook Inc. (FB) , v. Thomas Pedersen, 3:10-
cv-04673-JSE, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Aldi Sues Tesco Over Price-Comparison Banners in Irish Markets  Aldi Einkauf GmbH, the German discount supermarket chain,
sued  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s Tesco Ireland unit for trademark infringement,
the Irish Times  reported .  The suit, filed in Irish courts, is related to a Tesco
campaign comparing the prices of products sold by the two
companies, according to the newspaper.  Aldi objected to banners used at Tesco’s Irish stores that
reproduced the German company’s trademarks without
authorization, the Irish Times reported.  Earlier Aldi had referred the dispute to Ireland’s National
Consumer Agency and Advertising Standards Authority, telling the
Times it resorted to litigation only after the “last straw” of
the banner display.  Sports Stores Proprietor Convicted of Infringing Team Trademarks  The owner of two sporting goods stores was convicted in
Virginia state courts of trademark infringement, the Virginian-
Pilot newspaper  reported .  The owner of the  Players Sports Nuts  stores was convicted
of selling fake jerseys for teams of the  National Football
League , the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey
League and  Major League Baseball , the newspaper reported.  Chesapeake Circuit Court Judge Marjorie T. Arrington
rejected the store owner’s argument that he thought the goods
were authentic, saying to him “of course you should know” they
were fakes, according to the Virginian-Pilot.  Keith Carter, the store owner who is set to be sentenced
Aug. 31, told the court he ordered the goods online from
wholesalers and, while other stores charged more for their
goods, he thought their prices were “ridiculous,” according to
the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  India’s Parliament Votes to Enact Copyright Act Amendment  India ’s parliament passed an amendment to that country’s
copyright act yesterday, the Indian Express  reported .  The amendment is focused on payment of royalties to
composers and performer for radio and television broadcasts of
their work, according to the newspaper.  The new legislation also bans the production of cover
versions of a work for five years after the initial recording,
the Express reported.  The measure was supported by the copyright societies, a
government official told the Indian Express.  Half-Inch Olympic Rings on Doll Sweater Raise Copyright Concerns  An 81-year-old woman who was knitting sweaters for 10-inch
dolls to raise money for charity has run afoul of  intellectual
property  enforcement efforts connected to the 2012 Olympic
Games, the U.K.’s  Daily Mail   reported .  Joy Tompkins, of Kings Lynn in the U.K., was told her
charity knitting group couldn’t sell the dolls because they
potentially infringed  London 2012 ’s copyrights, the newspaper
reported.  She told the Daily Mail the Olympic rings on the doll
sweaters were only half an inch in size and that she couldn’t
fit a work-around phrase -- “Global gathering of top athletes
in England’s capital this year” -- onto the tiny garments.  She said her experience made her wonder “just how far does
this copyright law stretch,” according to the newspaper.  NeighborCity Owner Responds to Multi-Listing Copyright Complaint  San Francisco’s American Home Realty Network Inc. has
responded to a copyright-infringement suit related to real
estate listings.  The complaint, which was filed in March in federal court in
Greenbelt, Maryland, accuses American Home Realty’s
NeighborCity.com website of infringing the copyrights for
Metropolitan Regional Information Systems Inc.’s listings.  According to a real estate trade industry publication, the
National Association of Realtors  voted May 19  to pay as much as
$30,000 toward Metropolitan Regional’s costs in the case.  In a May 21 statement, American Home Realty said the
multiple-listing service wasn’t injured, and the complaint’s
allegations are insufficient for the case. American Home said it
will also argue that Metropolitan Regional is misusing copyright
as part of a “horizontal boycott” against the San Francisco
organization.  The support of the National Association of Realtors for the
case indicated that Metropolitan Regional “refuses to recognize
that the public interest lies with competition,” American Home
said in its statement.  The case is Metropolitan Regional Information Systems Inc.,
v. American Home Realty Network Inc., 8:12-cv-00954-AW, U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Oracle Patent Jury in Google Case Ends Fifth Day of Deliberation  The jury weighing  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s patent-infringement claims
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over the code used in Android software ended
its fifth day of deliberations without reaching a verdict
yesterday. Deliberations were set to resume today.  Myhrvold’s, Other Inventor Claims Properly Rejected, Court Says  A group of inventors including Nathan Myhrvold was told
that the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  properly refused to
patent claims on two inventions related to oscillators.  Myhrvold, the former chief technology officer at Microsoft
Corp., is now chief executive officer of Intellectual Ventures
of Bellevue,  Washington . He characterized Intellectual Ventures
as an “invention company,” and periodically brings together a
team of inventors to brainstorm and come up with new ideas for
which they then seek patents.  Several of the named inventors listed on the patent
application along with Myhrvold are members of Intellectual
Ventures’ team of inventors, including Casey Tegreene, the
company’s chief patent counsel.  In its May 21 ruling, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, which hears appeals of determinations by the
patent office, said the patent office was correct in rejecting
all the claims in the patent application.  The Washington-based court noted that the Board of Patent
Appeals and Interferences found that while the application
“contains a well-written summary of college level optical
physics courses and included many of the basic equations and
physical parameters taught in any electrical or optical
engineering curriculum,” it failed to make a connection between
the theory and the technology the application covered in such a
way that it would be possible to duplicate the invention.  Under patent law, this is called a lack of enablement. The
court said that the two applications “merely describe the well-
known science of optical physics and suggest potential
applications.” This isn’t enough information to make it
possible for someone skilled in the technology to create either
the optical component described in one application or to perform
the method described in the other, the court said.  Manu J. Tejwani argued the case on behalf of Intellectual
Ventures. The government’s argument was made by Raymond T. Chen,
solicitor for the patent office.  The case is In re Hillis, 11-01401, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 