-- Wall Street Swindler Dupes U.S. President in Gilded-Age Scam
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/wall-street-swindler-dupes-u-s-president-in-gilded-age-scam.html
For  Ulysses S. Grant , the Union
commander who broke the Confederate army, bitter defeat came on
Wall Street, not the battlefield.  The date was May 6, 1884, and the brokerage firm on which
he had staked his reputation and capital had just collapsed amid
fraud.  Stumping into the firm’s office with a cigar gone cold in
his lips, the former U.S. president and war hero discovered he
had been ruined by his 32-year-old business partner, Ferdinand
Ward. He was left with just $80 in his pocket.  Ward was the Bernie Madoff of the Gilded Age. Hailed as the
Young Napoleon of Finance, he turned out to be a brazen
swindler, as his great-grandson, Geoffrey C. Ward, shows in his
unflinching biography, “A Disposition to Be Rich.”  Until now, Ferd Ward has been seen as only “a stock
villain” in Grant’s personal tragedy, the author writes. The
focus shifts in this deeply researched and elegant narrative,
putting the young Iago center stage and giving the noble Othello
a walk-on role.  The details, drawn from a cache of private documents long
stored unread in a safe, make for a perversely fascinating read.
The skeleton in the Ward family closet tells us much about how
con artists prey on investors who hunger for returns that are
too good to be true.  Pastor’s Son  A slender pastor’s son with pale skin and a blond mustache,
Ward understood the power of suggestion; he was a master at
spinning precise figures to make his “investments” sound
plausible, the author writes. Yet his soft-spoken patter wasn’t
what made his victims open their wallets and purses, he says:  “In the end it was neither Ferd’s personality nor his
skills as a fabulist that did the trick; it was the astonishing
yields he promised -- and seemed able to deliver.”  Ward claimed to be investing in government contracts for
commodities such as flour and pork for soldiers and sailors. In
fact, he was simply collecting money from new investors to pay
off older victims -- a Ponzi scheme decades before Charles Ponzi
stumbled on international reply coupons.  As rumors spread that Ward was paying profits of as much as
20 percent a month, people who should have known better sought a
piece of the action. Cartoonist Thomas Nast invested his life’s
savings in Grant & Ward. Other depositors included William R.
Grace, the former  New York  mayor and founder of W.R. Grace & Co.
Grant, who got involved through his son Buck, was dazzled.  Smooth Operator  Geoffrey Ward was a boy when he first heard about his
crooked great-grandfather. Ferd Ward, he learned, was the
youngest son of a small-town Presbyterian minister and his wife,
two former missionaries to  India . Following a childhood that
appeared tranquil to outsiders, he went to work at the Produce
Exchange in New York. He was 21.  Radiating the quiet good manners he had polished among his
father’s parishioners, Ward proceeded to flatter and deceive his
way to riches. In just seven years, he managed to marry a
wealthy young woman and become partner with Grant and a
prominent banker, James Fish, in a new brokerage, Grant & Ward.  “Four years of flush times followed: summer homes, blooded
horses, purebred dogs, jewels from Tiffany, European artworks,
lavish generosity to family and friends, the birth of a son,”
the author writes.  Then disaster struck, as Ward’s pyramid scheme -- robbing
Peter to pay Paul, he called it -- came unglued, triggering the
collapse of Fish’s Marine Bank, the failure of Grant & Ward and
a panic on  Wall Street .  Prison Trunk  The gestation for this biography began in 1965, when the
author’s grandfather turned over to him a carton filled with
“brittle papers tied into bundles with dirty twine.” These
were the contents of Ferd Ward’s trunk from Sing Sing state
prison, where he had been incarcerated for grand larceny.  The man who emerged from the letters, faded photographs and
other documents was a narcissist who cared not a jot for anyone
except himself. Filled with an odd mixture of pride, self-pity
and self-righteousness, he saw himself as a victim.  He never repented his depredations, often inflicted on
those closest to him. Even locked up in a stone cellblock, he
hounded his long-suffering wife for cash, silk handkerchiefs, a
tobacco pouch and more.  Grant, meanwhile, had died following a 14-month battle
against destitution and throat cancer. Desperate for cash, Grant
began turning out magazine articles about his Civil War
campaigns and wound up writing his memoirs. He worked hour after
hour, soldiering on even as the cancer sapped his strength.  The book, published posthumously, enabled Grant’s wife to
pay off many of his creditors. It left historians deeply in his
debt.  “A Disposition to Be Rich: How a Small-Town Pastor’s Son
Ruined an American President, Brought on a Wall Street Crash and
Made Himself the Best-Hated Man in the  United States ” is
published by  Knopf  (418 pages, $28.95). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on the arts and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 