-- Wealthy Americans Turn to Trusts to Shield Assets
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-05-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/wealthy-americans-turn-to-trusts-to-shield-assets.html
Executive-liability insurance is
often the first line of financial defense for executives and
directors caught up in litigation such as investor lawsuits. For
others without such coverage, asset-protection trusts are the
way many insulate their wealth from claims.  “For a businessperson who’s in a competitive environment
in which you see a lot of business litigation, I would say it’s
prudent planning,” said Duncan Osborne, a partner with Osborne,
Helman, Knebel & Deleery LLP in Austin, Texas. “That lawsuit’s
coming sooner or later.”  Wealthier households use the asset-protection trusts,
umbrella insurance and holding assets through special
corporations to shield their legacies if they’re sued, according
to estate planners such as Osborne. Trusts are “far and away
the most popular strategy,” said Joshua Husbands, a partner
with Holland & Knight LLP in  Portland ,  Oregon .  Trusts often are funded with liquid assets such as stocks
and bonds, and may be appealing because individuals who
establish them may also take distributions if they need to,
while the assets are generally out-of-reach from future
creditors. They won’t offer protection if a defendant creates a
trust after a potential claim has already arisen.  Directors and officers increasingly are being named in
 investor lawsuits . About 64 percent of federal securities class-
action suits filed in 2011 named board members as defendants,
compared with about 35 percent in 2008, according to  New York- 
based PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Asset-protection trusts are
sometimes used to supplement their liability coverage, also
called directors and officers insurance.  Directors Sued  A California pension fund  sued  more than two dozen current
and former directors and officers of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  on
May 3, alleging the company covered up the results of an
internal bribery probe. Wal-Mart takes its responsibilities to
shareholders seriously and has been investigating the issues
raised by the lawsuit, said  David Tovar , a company spokesman.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has authorized lawsuits
against 176 directors and officers for their roles in  bank
failures , this year through May 15, placing the FDIC on track to
surpass the 264 individuals it named last year.  Directors and officers liability insurance generally covers
defense costs against lawsuits and protects up to the policy
limit for awards against a company’s or nonprofit’s key current
and former individuals, said Evan Rosenberg, senior vice
president of  Chubb Corp. (CB)  Policies vary, and some companies may
buy as much as $500 million or more in coverage, he said.  Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell on April 4 signed
legislation permitting asset-protection trusts in his state,
bringing the number of states offering them to 13, including
 Delaware ,  Nevada ,  New Hampshire  and  Alaska .  Residents of states that don’t permit them, such as  New
York  and  New Jersey , may set up the trusts by using a trustee in
a state that does recognize them.  50 Percent Limit  Clients generally shouldn’t put more than 50 percent of
their net worth into the trusts, because drawing income should
be considered a last resort, said Daniel Lindley, president of
the Northern Trust Company of Delaware, a unit of Chicago-based
 Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)   For trusts based in Delaware or Alaska, assets also may be
protected from divorce proceedings provided a trust was
established before a couple married, said Gideon Rothschild, a
partner with Moses & Singer LLP in New York.  Individuals who are no longer in a high-risk position may
be able to liquidate the structure when they retire or change
fields, Rothschild said. It’s generally up to the trustee’s
discretion, he said.  Retitling Assets  Starting an asset-protection trust in the U.S. may cost
from $5,000 to $10,000 in initial fees, plus about $3,000 to
$5,000 per year, said Joe McDonald, cofounder of the Concord
Trust Company, based in Concord, New Hampshire. Initial costs
depend on the attorney’s rate and continuing costs generally
vary with the level of assets in the trust, he said.  For a married couple, if one spouse is more vulnerable to
potential claims than the other, it may make sense to retitle
assets so that they’re solely owned by the other spouse,
Husbands said. This situation may arise in instances such as
when one spouse is a doctor or serves on a board.  “You have to do it with forethought, and while things are
still above board,” meaning before any incident that could
trigger a claim, Husbands said. “You also run the risk that if
you get divorced, you’ve given everything away.”  Affluent individuals should be sure they take advantage of
all available federal and state exemptions for their assets,
such as a federal exemption that generally insulates employer-
sponsored retirement plans like 401(k)s from creditors’ claims,
McDonald said.  Unlimited Exemptions  Some states, including  Florida  and  Texas , generally offer
unlimited exemptions for primary residences. Others, including
Oregon, put a dollar-value cap on the exemption for a home. New
Hampshire and Texas generally protect the cash value of life-
insurance policies. Maine has an exemption for fishing boats.  Families may consider putting additional assets into
multimember limited-liability companies that are owned together
by family members, said Mark Haranzo, a partner with Withers
Bergman LLP in New York. Taking over one family member’s partial
interest in such a company may be an unappealing option for
creditors because they generally have no control and limited
rights to draw income. That means the strategy can be used as
leverage for negotiating a settlement should a future claim
arise, Haranzo said.  About 38 percent of affluent families said they feel
they’re more likely to be sued in the aftermath of the 2008 to
2009 economic and financial crisis, according to a study of
households with $5 million or more in investable assets released
in March by Ace Private Risk Services, a unit of Zurich-based
insurer  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  About 82 percent of respondents said their
wealth makes them vulnerable to liability lawsuits.  Timing Is Everything  “High-net-worth families are acutely aware of the fact
that they have the proverbial target on their back,” Husbands
said.  By the time a credit claim is on the horizon it’s generally
too late for individuals or families to protect themselves, he
said.  “About 90 percent of the time when I get a call about
asset-protection planning I turn it down,” because an incident
that could trigger a claim or precede a bankruptcy, such as a
car accident or falling behind on mortgage payments, has already
happened, Husbands said.  That’s because transferring or retitling assets at that
point could be viewed as intentionally attempting to defraud
creditors if a claim goes to court, McDonald said.  After-the-Fact  “At the very best you’re throwing good money after bad,
because those actions are likely to be undone. At the worst
you’re conspiring to defraud somebody,” McDonald said.  That prospect doesn’t always stop people from trying to
reorganize their affairs after-the-fact.  John Goodman, founder of a polo club in Palm Beach,
Florida, in March was convicted for vehicular homicide for the
2010 death of a man whose car Goodman hit. After the accident,
Goodman adopted his girlfriend Heather Hutchins, potentially
enabling her to take distributions from a trust he and his
former wife had set up to benefit their children. In February a
Palm Beach County judge ruled that part of the trust could be
considered among his assets in a related civil suit.  Daniel Bachi, an attorney for Goodman, declined to comment.  Umbrella insurance offers wealthy households an additional
way to protect assets, McDonald said.  “A proper asset-protection plan is like a warship that has
multiple bulkheads. If one takes a hit the others that are self-
contained won’t go down with it,” McDonald said.  The insurance generally provides liability coverage in
addition to traditional homeowner and auto-insurance policies,
which may have limits of $500,000.  Higher Premiums  A typical umbrella policy might cost $383 in annual
premiums for a coverage limit of $1 million that would cover one
home, two cars and two drivers, or $999 in annual premiums for a
similar policy with a $10 million limit, according to the report
by Ace.  Costs vary regionally and depend on the policy limits and
the number of homes and insured drivers, said Mary Boyd, chief
operating officer for Ace Private Risk Services.  High-profile individuals could pay as much as four times
more for an umbrella policy than another person, said Jeff
McCarthy, a branch manager in Woburn,  Massachusetts , for
Harrington Insurance Agency Inc. He works with one player for
the  Boston Red Sox  and said his client has to pay a higher
premium for his coverage.  “If he rear-ends someone in traffic that person sees the
celebrity get out of the car and sees dollar signs,” he said.
“You might as well have painted ‘Sue Me’ on the side of his
car.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 