-- Wegelin Bank Fails to Appear for Arraignment in U.S. Court Case
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-05-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/wegelin-bank-fails-to-appear-in-u-s-court-for-arraignment-1-.html
Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old Swiss
bank charged with helping U.S. taxpayers hide more than $1.2
billion from the  Internal Revenue Service , failed to appear for
an arraignment in federal court in  Manhattan .  The bank was indicted Feb. 2, becoming the first Swiss
lender charged in a U.S. crackdown on offshore firms suspected
of helping Americans evade taxes. That began procedural
wrangling, with Wegelin failing to appear in court on Feb. 10.
Wegelin said it hadn’t been properly served then with a criminal
summons to appear, according to a May 16 statement.  After U.S. authorities served a new summons on May 2 on
Konrad Hummler, a bank partner in  Switzerland , St. Gallen-based
Wegelin said the “attempted service” is “invalid for a
variety of reasons” and challenged it in a Swiss court,
according to the statement. The next step is unclear.  “They are a fugitive,” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
said at a hearing yesterday. “What about arresting the
partners?” He said “the case law is, if the government doesn’t
take reasonable efforts to apprehend a fugitive, the indictment
gets dismissed.”  No Warrant  Prosecutors said that from 2002 to 2011, more than 100 U.S.
taxpayers conspired with Wegelin, Zurich bankers Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller, and others. The bank held
more than $1.2 billion in assets not declared to the IRS,
according to the indictment.  Rakoff said he “doesn’t understand” why the government
hasn’t prepared a warrant for him to sign. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Daniel Levy  said that while the government has
“considered” asking for a bench warrant, it has decided “at
this point” not to ask for one.  The judge said he’s “always disappointed” when a party
“fails to show up.”  “At a minimum it shows a disrespect for the processes of
American government,” Rakoff said. While he said he believes
the U.S. and Swiss governments would agree, he added that
“these are no more than musings.”  Three Bankers  Prosecutors said that Wegelin and the three bankers wooed
U.S. clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided
U.S. prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided  tax evasion ,
paying $780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It
later disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  By attracting clients leaving UBS, Wegelin opened new
undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers, according to
the indictment. Most of those accounts were given an internal
code of “BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  The effort to woo UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s
senior management, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin, 12-00002, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 Dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  