-- Wheat Fields Parched by Drought From U.S. to Russia: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s ,   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-05-24T21:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/wheat-fields-parched-by-drought-from-u-s-to-russia-commodities.html
Droughts withering wheat crops from
the U.S. to Russia to  Australia  will probably spur the biggest
reduction in global supply estimates since 2003 and drive prices
to the highest in almost a year.  Kansas, the top U.S. grower of winter wheat, is poised for
its driest May on record, the state’s climatologist estimates.
Ukraine and Russia, accounting for 11 percent of world output,
have endured drought conditions for three months, University
College London data show. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  may
cut its global crop estimate by 1.2 percent next month, the
biggest drop in a June report since 2003, according to the
average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wheat traded in Chicago rose as much as 18 percent in the
10 days through May 21 on concern that the market is returning
to the droughts of 2010.  Russia  and Ukraine curbed exports that
year and prices more than doubled to $9.1675 a bushel by
February 2011, the month when world food costs tracked by the
 United Nations  rose to a record. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect futures to gain 13 percent to $7.51 by mid-July.  “In 2010, everyone was talking about dryness in Russia
even in May, but no one was paying attention,” said Chris Gadd,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “Because you’ve
had the history of 2010, people are going to the other extreme
and overreacting a little. If weather conditions deteriorate
further, production estimates could go a lot lower.”  Gasoline and Cattle  Futures surged to an eight-month high of $7.22 on May 21 on
the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The price fell 0.4 percent today to
close at $6.63, paring this year’s gain to 1.6 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 4.1 percent
since the start of January, while the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities advanced 0.5 percent. Treasuries returned 1.4
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The USDA said May 10 that global wheat output will decline
2.5 percent to 677.56 million metric tons in the crop year
beginning June 1, leaving stockpiles of 188.1 million tons at
the lowest relative to demand since 2009. The department will
probably cut the production forecast to 669.15 million tons in
its June 12 report and reduce the inventory estimate to 183.3
million tons, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Dry Kansas  Kansas got 0.39 inch (0.99 centimeter) of rain in the first
20 days of May, according to Mary Knapp, the state’s
climatologist. The record low of 0.98 inch for the entire month
was set in 1966, the Manhattan, Kansas-based scientist said.
Analysts were predicting record wheat yields for the state as
recently as three weeks ago.  As much as 30 percent of the grain harvest in eastern and
southern  Ukraine  may be lost because of damage from dry weather,
said Tetiana Adamenko, the head of the agro-meteorology
department at the National Meteorology Center in Kiev. Russian
wheat output may drop 15 percent this year if below-average
rainfall persists in southern regions during the flowering
period for the next two weeks, Macquarie estimates.  While dry weather is depriving winter plants of the water
needed to develop kernels, there’s still time for improvements
before harvesting starts next month. Futures jumped 29 percent
in July and August last year because of concern about drought,
before tumbling 23 percent in the following month as rainfall
revived crops and harvests exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Crop Projections  Winter wheat accounted for about 75 percent of U.S. output
last year and is the main variety grown in the  Black Sea region .
The U.S. National Centers for Environmental Prediction, a unit
of the  National Weather Service , said May 22 that rainfall will
be as much as four times above normal over the following week in
eastern Ukraine and southwest Russia.  “Rain may be coming just in the nick of time” for
Russia’s southern growing regions, which produce about 28
percent of the nation’s crop, said Gail Martell, the president
of Martell Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,  Wisconsin .  This month’s surge in prices was also caused by speculators
buying contracts to reverse wrong-way wagers on a decline, said
Jim Hemminger, a risk-management specialist at Top Third Ag
Marketing in Chicago.  Hedge funds  and other money managers held
a  net-short position  of 50,057 futures and options in the week
ended May 15, the most in a month, data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. A CBOT futures contract
represents 5,000 bushels and the CFTC updates the data tomorrow.  Russia and Ukraine  The funds were also betting on lower prices in May 2010,
three months before Russia and Ukraine imposed export curbs
after drought decimated their crops. Russian production plunged
33 percent and Ukraine’s harvest slumped 19 percent, USDA data
show. A basket of  55 foods  tracked by the United Nations jumped
32 percent in the next seven months, reaching a record in
February 2011. The gauge fell 10 percent since then.  The rain that fell in the past several days in east and
south Ukraine won’t be enough to revive wheat and barley crops,
said Adamenko of the National Meteorology Center in Kiev. The
stress on plants extends into neighboring Russia and  Kazakhstan ,
and rain would slow the decline in yields rather than reverse
it, said Don Keeney, a senior agricultural meteorologist for MDA
EarthSat Weather/CropCast in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Warmer Weather  Kansas  will be mostly dry with only scattered light showers
for the next week, and temperatures will be warmer than normal,
Mike Palmerino, an agricultural meteorologist at Telvent DTN in
 Minneapolis , said in a May 23 report. As recently as May 3,
yields were  forecast  at a record 49.1 bushels an acre by the
Wheat Quality Council, after the industry group tallied 608
samples from its annual three-day tour of fields.  The outlook is no better in  Western Australia , which
produces 40 percent of the country’s wheat. The state had below-
average rainfall in April, according to the Bureau of
Meteorology. Production in Australia, the second-biggest
exporter after the U.S., will drop 12 percent to 26 million tons
in the year through May 2013, USDA data show.  Wheat fields in France, Germany and  Poland , which account
for about 10 percent of global output, were damaged by unusually
cold weather in February. The 27-nation European Union cut its
outlook for soft-wheat production to 126.7 million tons last
month, about 4.7 percent less than forecast in March.  “Across the board, we have production concerns,” said
 Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst for Jefferies Bache
LLC in Chicago. “If we do see that hot, dry pattern come in,
it’s not an opportune time for the crop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  