-- Why Both Obama and Romney Want to Talk About Bain
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-05-23T23:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/why-both-obama-and-romney-want-to-talk-about-bain.html
Why are we talking about  Bain Capital 
again?  The answer, it seems, is that the two presidential
campaigns want it that way. The Romney campaign wants us talking
about Bain Capital LLC because  Mitt Romney  says his time leading
the firm prepared him for the presidency.  “Having been in the private sector for 25 years gives me a
perspective on how jobs are created that someone who’s never
spent a day in the private sector, like President Obama, simply
doesn’t understand,” he told Time. This, the Romney campaign
suggests, is the critical contrast between the two candidates.
Their candidate learned about  job creation  at Bain.  Barack Obama 
learned how to quote Saul Alinsky at open mic poetry jams in
Chicago.  The Obama campaign wants to discuss Bain because its team
believes it shows Romney is unqualified for the presidency.
Romney knows how to strip a business for parts, and to make
investors and himself rich, but he doesn’t know how to expand
opportunity or how to look out for workers left behind by
economic dislocation.  “If your main argument for how to grow the economy is ‘I
knew how to make a lot of money for investors,’ then you’re
missing what this job is about,” Obama said this week. In other
words, Obama learned how to help fired steelworkers in  Chicago .
Romney learned how to fire them at Bain.  The conversation between the campaigns would make perfect
sense if Romney had quit Bain in 2010 to begin running for
president. He didn’t. He left Bain in February 1999 to run the
Olympics. And then, rather than returning to the firm, he ran
for governor of Massachusetts and won. So we are, mercifully,
freed from having to investigate every investment he made at
Bain in order to uncover clues about how he would govern. We can
just look at his record.  Romney’s Governorship  Which leads to the next question: Why have we spent
approximately no time talking about Romney’s governorship?  The answer, again, is that neither campaign really wants
to. The Romney campaign wants to avoid it because Romney
governed from the center in ways that could now alienate the
right. In a  Republican Party  looking for a true conservative,
Romney sees little but danger in his record. His signature
legislative accomplishment was the forerunner to “Obamacare.”
Meanwhile, his state ranked 47th in  job creation  during his
term. (So much for the secret knowledge gleaned from Bain about
how to create jobs.)  The Obama campaign doesn’t want to discuss it because
Romney’s centrist record as governor might comfort independents,
who otherwise may fear that Romney is a creature of the right.
“I think people recognize that I’m not a partisan Republican,
that I’m someone who is moderate, and that my views are
progressive,” Romney said in 2002.  His health-care reform extended coverage to the uninsured,
undercutting the image of a rapacious private-equity pirate.
Although his state didn’t create many jobs, unemployment
nevertheless fell from 5.6 percent to 4.7 percent while he was
governor. In a country that’s looking for an alternative to
Obama but is scared of the extremism of the modern right, the
Obama camp doesn’t see much upside in emphasizing Romney’s
moderate gubernatorial record.  But that record may not be a good predictor of Romney’s
potential presidency. In  Massachusetts , Romney governed a blue
electorate, and negotiated with a Democratic legislature. If he
wins the presidency this fall, he will almost certainly be
negotiating with a Republican House and Senate, which would be
swept into office along with him.  Plans in Sync  We don’t have to pore over every decision Romney made in
Massachusetts to discern what he would do in Washington if
elected. Romney and the Republicans in Congress have explained
exactly what they intend to accomplish -- and their plans are
remarkably in sync.  The budget prepared by  Paul Ryan , the House Budget
Committee chairman, and the Romney campaign’s general-election
platform look quite similar. Both would cut taxes while
flattening the  tax code . Their Medicare-reform plans look
similar; Ryan even modified his original draft to make it look
more like Romney’s, which allows seniors to choose between
traditional fee-for-service Medicare and private options. Their
plans to increase defense spending are alike, as are their plans
to cut domestic spending and to turn Medicaid,  food stamps  and
other safety-net programs over to the states.  Because it’s difficult to imagine a scenario in which
Romney is elected and Republicans don’t hold the House and win
control of the Senate, Republicans wouldn’t be stymied by
Democratic opposition. They would have the votes to pass their
agenda. True, they won’t get a filibuster-proof majority of 60
in the upper chamber, but Ryan’s budget is, well, a budget,
which means it could be passed through the budget reconciliation
process -- and couldn’t be filibustered. To enact a radical
change of direction, Republicans need only a simple majority of
votes.  Given that stark reality, perhaps I should rephrase my
initial question: Why are we spending so much time discussing
what Romney did at Bain ... instead of what he will do as
president?  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on how  Germany gained from
the euro  and the  problems with the Facebook IPO ; Clive Crook on
 Europe at the brink ;  Jonathan Alter  on  political substance and
slander ;  Caroline Baum  on  overregulating banks ; Tobias Moskowitz
on  data-driven policy ; Panagis Vourloumis on  Greek shock
therapy ; Junheng Li on  China’s economic misinformation .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in  Washington  at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 