-- Female Soldiers Sue U.S. in Challenge to Combat Limits
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-23T21:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/two-female-soldiers-sue-u-s-defense-secretary-on-combat-policy.html
Two female soldiers asked a federal
judge to throw out the U.S. military’s restrictions on women in
combat, claiming the policy violates their constitutional
rights.  U.S. Army reservists Jane Baldwin and Ellen Haring, in a
lawsuit filed today in  Washington , said policies excluding them
from assignments “solely because they are women” violate their
right to equal protection guaranteed by the Constitution’s 5th
Amendment. The complaint names Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
and Army Secretary John McHugh as defendants.  “This limitation on plaintiffs’ careers restricts their
current and future earnings, their potential for promotion and
advancement, and their future retirement benefits,” the women
said in the complaint filed by Christopher Sipes of Covington &
Burling LLP in Washington.  The Pentagon in February announced a change in policy that
opened more than 14,000 additional positions to women across the
armed services, most of them in the Army. Still, it stopped
short of allowing women to serve in so-called ground combat
assignments, including special forces and long range
reconnaissance operations.  George Little , a Pentagon spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit. He said in an e-mail that Panetta “is strongly
committed to examining the expansion of roles for women in the
U.S. military, as evidenced by the recent step of opening up
thousands of more assignments to women.”  Women on Duty  Women make up about 14.5 percent of active-duty military
personnel, according to Pentagon figures, and the Army is
continuing to review whether infantry positions should be open
to women in the future. It is also considering whether to let
female soldiers attend its elite Ranger School.  Women increasingly have been exposed to combat as
traditional front lines of battle have become blurred in wars
such as those in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Army spokesman George Wright said women assigned to those
arenas “have served with distinction and honor in combat since
the beginning of hostilities more than a decade ago,” earning
awards such as the Combat Action Badge,  Silver Star ,
Distinguished Flying Cross and the Purple Heart. Wright declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  At least 144 female troops have been killed in the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars and more than 860 have been wounded, according
to the Pentagon. About 280,000 women have served in Iraq and
Afghanistan since the wars began.  ‘Linear Battlefield’  “The linear battlefield no longer exists,” the women said
in the complaint, describing as “arbitrary and irrational” the
combat restrictions for women.  “Woman are currently engaged in direct combat, even when
it is not part of their formally assigned role,” the reservists
said. Furthermore, the Army has “deliberately circumvented”
its own policies by “attaching” women to ground combat units.  “There is no practical difference, in terms of the work
that servicewomen do, between ‘assigning’ women to a ground
combat unit and ‘attaching’ women to a ground combat unit,” the
women said in the complaint.  More than 200 women reported to brigade combat teams as of
last week as the Army begins opening more than 13,000 positions
to women that previously were restricted to men, General Raymond Odierno, the Army chief of staff, said at a May 16 Pentagon news
conference.  The case is Baldwin v. Panetta, 12-00832, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  -- Editors: Fred Strasser, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 