-- World Bank Says Asia Must Watch Inflation as Expansion Slows
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-23T02:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/world-bank-says-asia-must-watch-prices-as-growth-slows-correct-.html
The  World Bank  said policy makers in
 Asia ’s emerging economies must guard against inflation risks and
be prepared to reverse policy easing, even as slowing growth in
China and Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil hurt exports.  Growth in developing  East Asia , which excludes Japan and
 India , will probably ease to 7.6 percent this year from 8.2
percent in 2011, the Washington-based lender said in a report
today. In  November , the forecast for 2012 was 7.8 percent. The
region’s reliance on European demand and Chinese commodities
consumption make it vulnerable to slowdowns in those markets,
the World Bank said.  Asian policy makers, many of whom have cut  interest rates 
this year, are under renewed pressure to support growth as the
world grapples with the threat of a  Greece  exit from the euro.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
yesterday  Europe ’s debt crisis risks spiraling and seriously
damaging the global economy and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
pledged this week to focus more on bolstering growth.  “Even as the region’s monetary authorities seek to advance
growth with policy loosening, inflation risks cannot be
overlooked,” the World Bank said in its East Asia and Pacific
economic update, citing the potential for an oil-price shock.
“An uptick in activity, aided by accommodative monetary
policies, also poses an upside risk to inflation, so policy
makers should be prepared to reverse recent easing.”  Greek Impasse  While Australia has resumed easing policy, nations from
Indonesia to  Thailand  have paused after cutting rates early this
year, before Greece’s political impasse after inconclusive
elections deepened the European crisis and sent Asian currencies
and stocks tumbling this month.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks has fallen about 10
percent this month, as the region’s largest economies struggle
with internal and external risks. China’s growth is slowing and
Japan’s sovereign-rating was lowered by  Fitch Ratings  yesterday.  China’s shipments abroad rose less than estimated in April,
while the  Philippines , Thailand and Malaysia all reported export
declines in March. Compounding weakening demand from Europe is
the growth slowdown in China, which bought 21 percent of
emerging East Asia’s exports in 2010, up from 8.8 percent in
2000, according to the World Bank.  “Exports has become more difficult, and that in part works
into the slowdown in East Asia,” Bert Hofman, the World Bank’s
chief economist for the East Asia and Pacific region, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. China’s growth is forecast
to slow to 8.2 percent this year from 9.2 percent 2011, and
“that has its effect not just on China but also on the region
because it’s harder to sell goods to China,” he said.  2013 Outlook  The World Bank expects growth in developing East Asia to
accelerate to 8 percent next year, with China expanding 8.6
percent.  “On the positive side, there’s of course the recovery from
the floods in Thailand which greatly contributes to the
region,” Hofman said. “There is stronger growth in the
Philippines, which was much affected by the  Japan  earthquake and
tsunami. So those are the positive factors that keep growth
going. And domestic demand is holding up quite nicely.”  The region has to find new sources of growth locally as
over the next couple of years growth in Europe and the U.S. will
be “very modest,” Hofman said.  Wen’s Pledge  Chinese Premier Wen’s pledge to focus more on bolstering
growth has spurred speculation the government will step up
efforts to combat a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy. Wen called for “putting stabilizing growth in a more
important position” and didn’t mention concern about inflation
in remarks published May 20 by the official Xinhua News Agency.
China may announce stimulus actions in the near term, according
to a May 21 front-page commentary in the  China  Securities
Journal.  “China’s government does have sufficient policy space in
case things slow down a bit too rapidly,” Hofman said. “They
have large fiscal space still and even on the monetary side
they’ve been relaxing a little bit and they could relax a little
bit further.”  China will start to slow down over the next 20 years and
the 10 percent growth rates seen in recent years are going to be
more difficult to achieve, he said. “We think gradually a
slowdown to something like 5 percent at the end of next decade
is a perfectly reasonable path.”  China’s current-account surplus, which trebled between 2003
and 2007 and topped 10.1 percent of gross domestic product in
2007, has fallen to 2.7 percent of GDP in 2011 and may stay down
in the next few years as China rebalances amid weak global
demand, the World Bank said in today’s report.  A current-account surplus below 3 percent of GDP suggests
that the real value of the  yuan  is closer to equilibrium than it
was in the past decade, when the country increased the
flexibility in the  exchange rate , it said. Still, it isn’t clear
whether China’s external surplus will remain in check once
global growth revives, the lender said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  