-- Yale Rivaled by Franklin & Marshall on European Streets: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-05-23T22:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/yale-rivaled-by-franklin-marshall-on-european-streets-retail.html
While  Franklin & Marshall  College may
not have the cachet of  Yale University  in the eyes of most
Americans, for trendy European teens the Pennsylvania liberal
arts school easily trumps the Ivy League icon.  Among the hottest names in  Europe  these days is  Franklin &
Marshall , a name emblazoned on sweatshirts and other garb sold
by an Italian company with an almost identical name.  While few of those wearing the clothes know about the
school, “I don’t think they care,” said Entheo Leung, a
salesman at London’s Selfridge’s department store, which sells
the clothing line in a display with decades-old pictures of F&M
athletic teams. “They just know it’s a brand everyone is
wearing, and they want it.”  Italian designers Giuseppe Albarelli and Andrea Pensiero
started Franklin and Marshall (the company uses “and” rather
than the school’s “&”), after finding an old Franklin &
Marshall top at a  New York  flea market in the late 1990s.  Without getting approval from the school in the former mill
town of Lancaster, they started the line, which ranges
from $43 t-shirts to $265 track suits, using the name in a
bid to stand out in the crowded field of preppy clothiers
such as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)   Many companies have long emblazoned their clothing with
imagined school logos like “State University” or “Ivy Rugby
Club.” Now, Franklin and Marshall and other European clothiers
eager to cash in on the Preppy Handbook revival and lure
coveted-yet-fickle 18-24 year-old shoppers are cementing ties to
real U.S. colleges.  ‘Formality and Detail’  “This is a move by brands to reinforce some authenticity
around what they do,” said Lorna Hall, retail editor at fashion
forecaster WGSN in London. “The U.S. preppy college look
translates well to Southern Europe. The Italians in particular
love the formality and detail of it.”  Britain’s Jack Wills, which calls itself a “University
Outfitter,” has relationships with club polo teams at Yale and
 Harvard University  (as well as formal licensing deals with
Oxford and Cambridge’s rugby and polo teams in  England ) to boost
its brand.  Gant Co., a Swedish company founded in New Haven,  Connecticut ,
in 1949, has a licensing deal with Yale to sell $115 button-down
shirts bearing the university’s name. This year, Gant took the
collection to the U.K., Europe, and  Japan , and the company is
putting as much as 25 percent of its marketing budget behind the
Yale shirts, said Chief Executive Officer Dirk-Jan Stoppelenburg
in an interview. “For us it was about rediscovering who we
originally are,” Stoppelenburg said.  Gant, owned since 2008 by Swiss holding company Maus Freres
Holding AG, also opened a store close to Yale’s campus, which
carries the largest assortment of the Yale-branded shirts
alongside Ivy League pictures and paraphernalia.  Crazy Christmas  Franklin and Marshall, which didn’t respond to requests for
comment, signed a licensing deal with the college in 2003 after
using the name without permission for several years. The brand’s
popularity has spread north from  Italy  and has taken hold in
Britain. In 2011, the company opened a store-within-a-store at
Selfridge’s.  “It’s selling really well,” said Leung, the department
store clerk. “Christmas time was crazy. The higher prices
actually attract [young people], and their parents are usually
buying anyway.”  Study Abroad  In addition to cash, the school benefits from greater
visibility abroad, said Cass Cliatt, who helps oversee F&M’s
licensing deals. “We are fortunate to work with a European
company that promotes F&M around the world,” Cliatt said. In
2010, the company also donated 100,000 euros to fund a four-year
scholarship for one student, and this spring executives from the
company met with the college’s president for the first time,
Cliatt said. Still, the college’s international applicant rate
is largely unchanged over the past five years.  Apparel licensing deals are done country-by-country and
typically require the licensee to pay about 10 percent of the
wholesale price of each garment to the trademark holder,
according to  Chris Evans , managing director at Oxford Limited,
which manages the University of Oxford’s licensing program.
Cliatt declined to discuss the terms of the school’s agreement
with Franklin and Marshall.  At Jack Wills, which generates sales of about 150 million
pounds ($235 million) annually, the company works with U.S.
students to promote the brand, forgoing formal licensing
agreements. The company recruits several dozen college students
each year to act as brand representatives on their campuses.  ‘Party Pants’  The job includes wearing  Jack Wills  clothing and
coordinating promotional activities such as a “Study Your Pants
Off” event at Jack Wills’ store in  New Haven , where Yalies
studying for final exams were given the brand’s yellow “Party
Pants” underwear.  The company, which sell items such as $448 Hethering
Boating Blazers, plans to open about a dozen U.S. stores over
the next eighteen months, U.S. president Jim Hardy said.  One typical group of collegiate consumers might not be
shelling out to emulate the academic look any time soon: alumni,
normally one of the target markets for such apparel.  “It’s fantastic for the school that this company is
marketing F&M as a high-end brand,” said Adam Marcus, an F&M
grad now working at a Boston venture-capital firm. “But it’s
unfathomable that I would pay $265 for a sweatsuit that I got
for free in college as a soccer player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle  in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  