-- Yuan Snaps Two-Day Gain on Weaker Fixing as Europe Woes Deepen
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-05-23T08:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-23/yuan-snaps-two-day-gain-on-weaker-fixing-as-europe-woes-deepen.html
The  yuan  fell, snapping a two-day
advance, as the central bank weakened the currency’s reference
rate by the most in more than two weeks amid mounting concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the yuan’s reference rate
0.21 percent lower at 6.3208 per dollar. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index fell to its lowest level since December and
Asian stocks retreated after the Wall Street Journal cited
former Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  as saying that while
Greece is unlikely to leave the euro, it is still a risk.  “Europe will continue to grind away, so certainly there
will be little support for strong yuan appreciation,” said
 Sacha Tihanyi , a senior strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a
unit of Bank of Nova Scotia. “The weaker we see the euro and
other regional Asian currencies, the more depreciation pressure
there will be on the yuan.”  The yuan declined 0.18 percent, the most since April 16, to
6.3345 per dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency is allowed to trade as much
as 1 percent on either side of the daily fixing. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 2.13 percent.  China’s full-year economic growth may be below 7 percent
unless the government introduces more stimulus measures, the
Wall Street Journal reported on its Chinese-language website
today, citing  Chen Dongqi , deputy head of the National
Development and Reform Commission’s macroeconomic research
institute.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.13 percent
to 6.3320. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards decreased 0.22
percent to 6.3938, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts were at a 0.9 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  