-- 
Australia’s Million-Dollar Neighborhood Club Surges, Defying Higher Rates

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-15T04:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/-million-dollar-property-club-surges-35-as-high-end-houses-defy-rates.html
The number of Australian suburbs
with a median home price of A$1 million ($1 million) or more
surged 35 percent in 2010, real estate researcher RP Data said,
as high-end property prices defied higher  interest rates .  Suburbs in the “million-dollar property club” jumped to
212 during the year, compared with 78 five years ago. Some 56
percent of the suburbs were in Sydney, and 20 percent in
Victoria state, RP Data said in an e-mailed release today.  “Over the past five years, the premium sector has
typically fared quite well (outside of 2008) and has recorded
strong growth in property values,” Cameron Kusher, senior
research analyst at RP Data, wrote in the release. “During
2011, we would expect that there is unlikely to be a further 35
percent increase in the number of suburbs within the $1 million
club.”  Overall home price growth in 2010 slowed to 4.7 percent in
2010 as the central bank’s seven rate increases since October
2009 took effect. The premium property market showed signs of
cooling toward the end of the year with a luxury property
auction at the Sydney Opera House put on by Ray White Group in
November selling only two of the 11 homes on offer.  Some 40 percent more properties worth over A$1 million were
listed for sale in December than was the average for that time
of year, the Real Estate Institute of  Australia  said.  “We are anticipating subdued residential property market
conditions during the year and the premium sector’s performance
will also likely be impacted by high interest rates and ongoing
global economic uncertainty,” Kusher said.  Peppermint Grove, a western suburb of the Western
Australian capital of Perth, is the nation’s most expensive
area, with a median house price of A$4.6 million. Resource-rich
Western Australia had 12 percent of the nation’s wealthiest
suburbs.  Vaucluse in eastern Sydney was second, with the average
home costing A$3.8 million. Queensland had 6 percent of suburbs
with the median home costing more than A$1 million, the
Australian Capital Territory had 2 percent and Northern
Territory had 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  