-- 
‘Worst Case’ Nuclear Disaster in Japan Hangs on String of Unlikely Events

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-03-16T04:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/-worst-case-nuclear-disaster-in-japan-hangs-on-string-of-unlikely-events.html
For  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
stricken nuclear reactors to release catastrophic amounts of
radioactive material into the atmosphere, a rare chain of events
needs to happen.  Averting a full-scale meltdown depends on cooling the fuel
rods at Fukushima Dai-Ichi’s Reactor No. 2, said S.K. Malhotra,
a scientist at  India ’s Department of Atomic Energy in Mumbai. A
worst-case outcome, which scientists say isn’t likely, may occur
if overheating in the reactor culminates in the rupture of the
steel lining protecting radioactive material.  “In the worst scenario, an explosion could occur inside
the steel pressure vessel, fuel bundles melt down and the
radioactivity is exposed,” Malhotra said in a phone interview.
“I would say there is a 10 percent probability still.”  Japan, which has no significant oil and gas resources, is
struggling to avert a meltdown at the power plant after the
earthquake on March 11 caused a tsunami that disabled critical
cooling systems.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of radiation leaks
increased at the nuclear facility, located 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo. That sent the nation’s Topix stock
index to its biggest two-day drop since 1987 as concern grew
over the government’s ability to contain the crisis.  Fuel Rods  Tokyo Electric has struggled to keep the reactors flooded
with water to prevent them becoming so hot that they melt
through their steel casing. The partially submerged fuel rods
are generating heat, turning water into high-pressure steam
inside the core of the plant.  About 70 percent of the uranium-plutonium fuel rods at the
plant’s No. 1 reactor and a third of the No. 2 reactor’s fuel
may have been impaired,  Tokyo Electric  said.  If hot enough, the rods may start a chemical reaction with
their protective coating which produces a small amount of
radioactive byproducts, and increases pressure within the core.
That pressure is released by letting this combination of steam
and gas flow into external chambers, one of which, in reactor
unit 2, was rocked by an explosion at about 6 a.m. local time
yesterday.  The explosions are frustrating cooling efforts at the
nuclear facility, and may have damaged a key containment chamber,
said Toshihiro Bannai, director of international relations at
Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.  Not Fully Submerged  Rods inside three of the reactors have been partially
exposed, according to Tokyo Electric. The fuel rods in reactor
No. 2 were not fully submerged in water for at least 5 1/2 hours
at that time as the utility reduced the number of workers
because of increased radiation risks, the company said.  “What we are looking at is a long-term cooling problem,”
John Prince, a former member of the Safety Policy Unit of the
U.K. National Nuclear Corp., told reporters in  Adelaide ,
Australia.  The cooling process stopped after diesel generators pumping
water to the plant were disabled by the tsunami, according to
information Japanese authorities shared with the World
Association of Nuclear Operators.  Venting Vapor  As the water supply stopped, temperatures inside the core
rose, causing a buildup of pressure steam inside a containment
area. Some of the vapor was vented to relieve the pressure,
leaking a small amount of radioactive material into the
environment.  Radiation outside the plant dropped to 0.6 millisieverts
per hour from 11.9 millisieverts per hour, the agency said
yesterday. Radiation peaked at 400 millisieverts per hour
earlier in the day, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
yesterday.  The temperature inside the core is “likely to be stable,”
said Bannai at  Japan ’s safety agency, adding that most of the
measuring equipment was “debilitated.” Engineers have used
secondary generators to pump seawater and boron into the core of
the 40-year-old boiling-water reactor.  Without cooling water, the rods heat up. At about  1,100
degrees Celsius , the water and the zirconium metal encasing the
uranium-plutonium fuel reacts to create hydrogen. Some of the
hydrogen generated in this process was vented, leaked into the
reactor building and exploded on contact with oxygen on at least
three occasions.  Fourth Blast  A fourth blast that occurred at Reactor No. 2 yesterday may
have damaged one of the layers designed to contain both the core
and the radioactive material, according to Tokyo Electric. Any
serious breach of the containment layers can allow potentially
dangerous radiation leakage.  Material released through a serious breach in the defenses
of the nuclear core, or the containment units, would travel
through the atmosphere, depending upon weather conditions. An
explosion would spread them further, as would heavy winds. The
French, German and Chinese embassy in Tokyo recommended their
citizens leave the city.  There are no indications so far that any radioactive
material will reach Tokyo, said Gerald Laurence, an adjunct
professor of chemistry at the  University of Adelaide .  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said the new information
about damage to reactors 1 and 2 is “worrying.” Reactor No.
2’s core damage may be 5 percent while reactor damage at unit No.
1 is below 5 percent, Amano said at a press briefing yesterday.
The suppression chamber in reactor No. 2 also appears to be
damaged, he said.  Improve Information  The IAEA still doesn’t know the cause of a fire at the
cooling pond of reactor No. 4, where spent fuel rods are stored,
and is asking the Japanese government to improve the information
it shares with the Vienna-based agency, Amano said.  Three of six reactors were operating at the time of the
temblor. Nuclear fission in the functioning reactors stopped
within 90 seconds of a  power outage  caused by the earthquake.
Nuclear material can take weeks to cool down completely after
the plant is shut down, the nuclear operators association said.  It’s unlikely nuclear fuel will be released in an event
reminiscent of the accident at the  Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant 
in Ukraine, where the contents of the reactor core were exposed
and on fire, said Steve Crossley, a radiation physicist based in
Perth,  Australia , who worked in the U.K. nuclear industry from
1996 to 2002.  Chernobyl Accident  “The design of the reactors in Japan prevent this kind of
incident,” Crossley said in an e-mailed statement sent via the
 Australian Science Media Centre  in Adelaide. “Boiling water
reactors -- the kind at Fukushima -- are cooled and moderated by
water which, unlike the graphite core at Chernobyl, cannot
burn.”  A more likely worst-case is a loss of large quantities of
fission products into the atmosphere, said David Fletcher, an
adjunct professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at
the  University of Sydney , who studied the 1986 disaster while
working for the U.K. Atomic Energy Authority.  “People think of this scenario where the fuel melts and
fails the vessel, and you’ve got this pile of radioactive fuel
in a molten state underneath it,” Fletcher said. “I don’t
think for a moment that could happen in a modern reactor because
they have sufficient cooling to stop that happening.”  Radiation exposure hospitalized one Tokyo Electric worker
and the company has reduced the number of engineers working on
cooling reactor No. 2 because of increased radiation readings,
said Bannai. Eleven more workers were injured in this morning’s
explosion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in Mumbai at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  