-- 
3M Finance Chief to Retire as CEO Contract Nears Expiration

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-15T19:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/3m-cfo-campbell-to-retire-meline-to-assume-post.html
  3M Co. (MMM) ’s top finance manager is
retiring in May, less than a year before Chief Executive Officer
George Buckley’s  employment contract  expires on his 65th
birthday.  Patrick Campbell, 58, plans to leave after nine years as
chief financial officer, and will be succeeded by David Meline,
3M said today in a statement. The St. Paul, Minnesota-based
company declined interview requests with the executives, both of
whom came to 3M from automaker General Motors.  Meline, 53, joined 3M in 2008 as chief accounting officer
after holding positions at GM including North American finance
chief. Meline also served in GM posts in  Europe ,  Brazil , Kenya
and  Korea .  “3M does a very good job developing internal talent,”
said Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. who has a “buy” rating on the shares. “I think that’s
going to help maintain that culture they have of innovation and
their focus on new products and expanding internationally.”  CEO  George Buckley  has said the company prefers to hire
internal candidates for management positions including his own.
Buckley’s contract expires in February 2012, according to a
regulatory filing. Finding an internal successor has been a
“self-imposed imperative” he said in a January interview.  Buckley joined the company in 2005 after running boat maker
Brunswick Corp., becoming only the second CEO recruited from
outside 3M since its founding in 1902. He said in January that
3M’s board would probably make an announcement later this year
on a transition process for his job.  3M, the maker of more than 50,000 products from Scotch tape
to Post-it Notes and films used to brighten TV screens,
announced Campbell’s retirement two days before an annual
investor meeting in  St. Paul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  