-- 
Actelion Said to Hire Goldman, Wachtell to Defend Against Elliott Proposal

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-15T23:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/actelion-said-to-hire-goldman-wachtell-on-elliott-proposals.html
  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the biotechnology
company being pressured to remove board members, hired  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz  to help
defeat the effort, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Wachtell, a New York law firm, is providing advice to
Actelion on the effort by hedge fund Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd.
because of its experience in dealing with proxy votes, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the matter is
confidential. Roland Haefeli, a spokesman at Actelion, declined
to comment. Spokespeople for New York-based Goldman and Wachtell
didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Elliott, part of a $17 billion hedge fund founded by Paul Singer, is pushing for Actelion’s directors to consider a sale
of the company. The fund last month sent two letters to the
board, asking the company to study a sale and disclose any
takeover approaches. Elliott also called for the resignation of
Actelion Chairman Robert Cawthorn and for Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Clozel to step down from the board. The fund
said it would propose those changes at the annual shareholder
meeting May 5.  Clozel has rejected that call and said the Allschwil,
Switzerland-based company he helped found in 1997 should remain
independent. People familiar with the situation said in November
that  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s biggest biotech company, was
considering a takeover bid for Actelion.  Elliott said March 7 it started a website to help Actelion
stockholders register their shares and vote at the annual
meeting. The hedge fund also hired proxy adviser Georgeson to
help investors who want to vote at the meeting.  Rudolf Maag, the investor who owns 4.2 percent of
Actelion’s shares, said in a March 7 statement he “fully
supports” the Swiss company’s strategy.  Stockholders who own more than 2 million shares have until
March 17 to add items to the agenda of the annual meeting,
according to Actelion’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net  