-- 
Lady Gaga to Perform, Solomon, Fink Honorees at Robin Hood Gala

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-15T18:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lady-gaga-to-perform-solomon-fink-honorees-at-robin-hood-gala.html
Grammy Award -winning pop singer
Lady Gaga will help the  Robin Hood Foundation  divert money from
hedge fund managers to the needy when she performs at its annual
gala on May 9.  The gala’s co-chairmen will be  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  chairman and 
co-founder Laurence D. Fink, New York real estate developer 
Richard S. LeFrak and David M. Solomon, co-head of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s investment banking unit.  Brian Williams , anchor of
the NBC Nightly News, will return this year as the event’s host.  The fashion-forward pop star born Stefani Germanotta will
serve as the event’s after-dinner entertainment at New York’s
 Jacob K. Javits Convention Center , according to an e-mail invite
sent to patrons.  “The good people of Gotham are gathering in Sherwood
Forest (Javits Center) to celebrate the work we’ve done and
raise funds to do more,” the invitation said of the annual “no
black tie, green tights optional” event.  The Robin Hood gala, Wall Street’s biggest single-night
fundraiser, has become a hot ticket in  New York ’s charity
circuit for music fans who want to see top rock and pop acts.
Past gala performers include  Paul McCartney , the  Rolling Stones ,
Shakira and the hip-hop/pop crossover group, the  Black Eyed
Peas . Last year,  Stevie Wonder  performed before an audience of
more than 3,500 guests at the $2,500 per person event.  Lady Gaga, whose 2010 Monster Ball show was one of the top
ticket-selling concert tours of last year, will be a draw for
the organization that stages the gala to aid over 100 poverty-
fighting organizations in New York. Last year, the nonprofit
defied the economic downturn, raising more than $88 million in
one evening and beating its 2009 record of $72.7 million.  (The  Robin Hood Foundation  gala is Monday, May 9 at 6 p.m.
at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
Information: +212-245-6570, ext. 20;
 debbief@eventassociatesinc.com .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 