-- 
Aflac, Hartford Lead Slump of U.S. Insurers With Japan Units

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-15T20:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/aflac-hartford-fall-leading-slump-of-u-s-insurers-with-japan-operations.html
  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  and  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  led U.S. insurers lower on concern that
operations will be hobbled in Japan after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of radiation leaks increased at a nuclear
facility.  Aflac, which gets most of its revenue in Japan, plunged
$3.01, or 5.6 percent, to $50.89 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the biggest fall for the Columbus,
Georgia-based insurer since June. Hartford, based in the
Connecticut city of the same name, dropped $1.22, or 4.6
percent, to $25.60.  “It’s the nuclear worry today,” said Steven Schwartz, an
analyst covering the life insurance industry at Raymond James
Associates Inc. “You’re dealing with something that’s so far
out” on the range of standard disaster expectations, he said.  Japan’s Topix stock index had its biggest two-day drop
since 1987 as concern increased over the government’s ability to
contain a crisis that began with an earthquake and tsunami last
week. The building that houses the No. 4 reactor at Tokyo
Electric’s Dai-Ichi nuclear plant has two holes in it, Hidehiko
Nishiyama, deputy director-general of Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said in Tokyo.  Prudential, MetLife  Insurers including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  have been expanding in Japan to increase business in the
world’s second-largest life insurance market. MetLife and
Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential have acquired non-U.S. life
units from bailed-out  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in the
past year. The companies back liabilities in that nation with
Japanese securities.  Prudential slipped 1.9 percent and New York-based MetLife
dropped 3 percent. AIG, which maintains property-casualty
operations in Japan, fell 1.9 percent.  Japan generated about 75 percent of Aflac’s 2010 sales, the
most among U.S.-based companies with a market value of at least
$100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s products include cancer insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  