-- 
AIG Takeover of Fuji Fire Offers 204% Arbitrage Gain After Quake: Real M&A

-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-16T10:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/aig-takeover-of-fuji-fire-offers-204-arbitrage-gain-real-m-a.html
The biggest drop in Japanese stocks
in a quarter-century is giving traders an opportunity for a
threefold return by betting on  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ’s takeover of Fuji Fire & Marine Insurance Co.  AIG, the bailed-out insurer owned by the U.S. government,
on Feb. 10 agreed to purchase the 45 percent of the  Osaka ,
Japan-based casualty insurer it didn’t own through AIG’s Chartis
Inc. unit for 146 yen a share. The  $565 million  offer, which
closes March 24, would hand traders an annualized profit of 204
percent based on Fuji Fire’s share price yesterday, the largest
of any pending deal in Japan above $500 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuji Fire, which had traded within one yen of AIG’s offer
price since the announcement, fell 4.1 percent in the past two
days as the devastation from Japan’s strongest earthquake on
record led to a 16 percent drop in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.
While  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook on the nation’s non-life
insurers to negative yesterday on concern payments are likely to
exceed those recorded after the Kobe earthquake in 1995, AIG
said that it remains “committed” to the deal.  “Your word, you want it to remain good,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a strategist who covers financial institutions at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “Just because something like
this happens, you don’t walk away. And that’s even more firm
when you already own the majority of it anyway.”  Today’s Trading  Fuji Fire rebounded 6 yen, or 4.3 percent, to 145 yen in
Tokyo trading today.  The 9-magnitude earthquake sent more than 300,000 people to
emergency shelters, may have killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture
north of  Tokyo  and has closed factories at Sony Corp. of Tokyo
and Toyota City-based Toyota Motor Corp., according to police
estimates and company statements.  Insurers may face claims of as much as $34 billion, which
would make the disaster the second costliest ever, according to
risk-modeling consultants AIR Worldwide.  AIG, which owned 55 percent of Fuji Fire, said on Feb. 10
that it planned to buy all common shares and stock acquisition
rights. Fuji Fire’s board of directors supported the tender
offer, it said.  “We have been doing business in Japan since 1946 and
remain strongly committed to its people and the Japanese
market,” said Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, in
an e-mail yesterday to Bloomberg News. “We also remain
committed to the Fuji transaction.”  Offer Price  The offer of 146 yen a share was 29 percent higher than
Fuji Fire’s average share price in the 20 days before the
announcement and valued the remaining stake at about 47 billion
yen ($565 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
a statement from AIG.  “We are proceeding with the planned takeover and we
haven’t been told otherwise,” said Mika Ono, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman at Fuji Fire, in a telephone interview today.  The tender offer began on Feb. 14 and is set to close next
week, the data show. Shares of Fuji Fire, which jumped 25
percent in the first trading day after the Feb. 10 announcement,
fell on each of the previous two days on speculation that AIG
wouldn’t follow through with the deal.  The decline left Fuji Fire’s shares at 139 yen yesterday,
4.8 percent below AIG’s bid. With the deal expected to close on
March 24, a 5 percent gain over nine days would equal a 204
percent return over a full year, Bloomberg data show.  Majority Stake  AIG built its majority ownership in Fuji Fire over a
decade. The U.S. insurer agreed to buy a 3.6 percent stake in
2000, prompting analysts to predict an eventual merger.  Fuji Fire was bailed out by AIG and Orix Corp. in 2002
after mergers among  Japan ’s biggest casualty insurers
intensified competition and hurt profits. AIG and Orix agreed to
buy 20 percent and 22 percent stakes, respectively, in Fuji Fire
to boost capital after it posted a 1.9 billion yen loss in the
prior six-month period.  A year ago, AIG agreed to increase its stake to more than
50 percent.  Fuji Fire’s profit will almost double to 9.1 billion yen in
the year ending this month from the previous fiscal year,
extending its rebound from a 59.6 billion yen loss in 2009,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The insurer still trades at 0.9 times book value, or assets
minus liabilities, in line with the average for the Topix index
of 1,666 companies, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. A
valuation of less than one suggests a company would fetch more
if shareholders fired its executives and sold all the assets.    Dish Network   Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,
the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider, won court
approval yesterday to acquire DBSD North America Inc., the
Reston, Virginia-based satellite communications company that
filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  Dish’s revised offer valued DBSD at $1.5 billion, according
to court filings. Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, a DBSD
creditor, is buying the firm from parent ICO Global
Communications (Holdings) Ltd. in Kirkland,  Washington .  Overall, there have been 4,701 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $462.3 billion, a 12 percent increase from
the $413.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 