-- 
Lufthansa Diverts Tokyo Flights South as Nuclear Risk Mounts

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-15T17:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/air-france-lufthansa-move-japan-based-crews-to-seoul-amid-radiation-risk.html
  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  rerouted its
Tokyo flights to the southern-Japanese cities of Nagoya and
Osaka, citing the risk of nuclear fallout and aftershocks
following last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  The German carrier’s services are also stopping in Seoul
for a crew change to avoid having staff stay overnight in  Japan ,
spokesman Michael Lamberty said in an interview.  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group is likewise routing flights via the South Korean capital
and other European carriers are taking similar steps.  “We’re doing this to be prepared for all possible
scenarios,” Lamberty said by phone from Lufthansa’s hub in
Frankfurt. “The radioactive particles are the main concern.”  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant was today rocked
by two further explosions and a fire as workers there struggled
to avert the risk of a meltdown, heightening concern about
radiation leaks after March 11’s earthquake and tsunami.  Austrian Airlines, a Lufthansa unit, said it would delay
today’s flight from Vienna to Tokyo by eight hours to avoid
winds that may cause radioactive contamination.  Air France is operating flights via  Seoul  while continuing
to serve the Japanese capital, spokesman Cedric Leurquin said by
phone. Prime Minister Francois Fillon told lawmakers in Paris
that the carrier has been told to “respond without delay” to
demands from French nationals who want to leave Japan.  Extra Crew  Austrian’s flights are also being routed via Seoul, and
Alitalia SpA said it has added extra crew on routes to Japan so
personnel don’t have to spend the night there. The Italian
company introduced the policy on March 13, according to a
spokesman who declined to be identified, citing company rules.
Flights are otherwise operating normally, he said.  Lufthansa’s Swiss International Airlines unit scrapped a
flight from Zurich to  Tokyo  on March 13 before resuming its
daily service yesterday, spokeswoman Sonja Ptassek said. Flights
are stopping in  Hong Kong  for a crew change, she said.  British Airways has put its Tokyo operations “under
review” while sticking with its usual timetable, spokeswoman
Cathy West said by telephone.  There are almost 24 hours until the next daily flight to
Narita airport and the five times-a-week service to the
capital’s Haneda terminal doesn’t depart until Thursday, giving
the London-based company time to mull options, she said.  Head South  French Prime Minister Fillon said citizens who don’t need
to stay in the country have been advised to fly home or head to
the south of Japan.  Air France has switched planes on its two daily Paris-Tokyo
flights to add 100 seats a day, spokesman Leurquin said. Clients
can use a ticket on any flight and special one-way fares are on
offer for people who aren’t sure when they’ll return, he said.  In the U.S., The Federal Aviation Administration is working
with airlines to ensure that flights to Japan comply with
airspace restrictions around the stricken nuclear plant.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  American Airlines  said they haven’t made any schedule changes.  United Continental and Delta have the greatest exposure to
Japan among U.S. carriers, Citigroup Inc. said in an investor
note. In  Europe ,  Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) , Alitalia and Air France-KLM are
most exposed, according to London-based analyst Andrew Light.  Finnair is “monitoring the situation closely” while
continuing to operate services to Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya,
spokeswoman Maria Mroue said from Helsinki.  Kan Appeal  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm as he
said the danger of further radiation leaks was rising at the
crippled Fukushima facility, 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of
Tokyo. Sea water is being pumped to cool the reactors and
prevent the uncontrolled release of radioactive material.  About 140,000 people within a radius of 20 to 30 kilometers
were ordered to stay indoors, Kyodo News reported.  The March 11 earthquake -- updated yesterday to a magnitude
of 9 from 8.9 by the  U.S. Geological Survey  -- and subsequent
tsunami have led to what Kan called the country’s worst crisis
since World War II. More than 2,000 people are confirmed dead
and there have been 405 aftershocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  