-- 
Al Jazeera Can Help U.S. Join Conversation: Lee C. Bollinger

-- B y   L e e   C .   B o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/al-jazeera-can-help-u-s-join-conversation-commentary-by-lee-c-bollinger.html
In the short time from  Tunisia ’s
Jasmine Revolution to the departure of  Hosni Mubarak  from Cairo
to the more ominous events unfolding in  Libya , many of America’s
assumptions about the Middle East have been challenged and
changed.  Along with discussions about what the future holds in Arab
nations, the public also has been focused on the power of the
media -- social and otherwise -- to drive popular movements
involving a new generation of young people. We must hope that
this discussion goes beyond the fascination with Facebook and
Twitter to reconsider the value of international news reporting
(from both U.S. and foreign outlets) to America’s interests in
an increasingly interconnected and interdependent world.  There is an unsustainable dichotomy in our nation’s
attitude toward foreign media companies and their journalism
that reveals deep-seated confusion about the global forum
provided by  National Public Radio , France 24, CCTV (China
Central TV), Russia Today, the British Broadcasting Corp. and,
most notably for the moment, Al Jazeera.  In the past year, Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen, Army General David
Petraeus, and Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John
Kerry , all have appeared on Al Jazeera’s English and Arabic-
language channels. According to a State Department Inspector
General’s report in November, Al Jazeera is becoming “a global
media power,” now with more than 60 million viewers.  Out of Conversation  The Qatar-based network’s reporting and viewership is by no
means limited to the Arab world: it has more bureaus in Latin
America than either  CNN  or the  BBC . As a State Department
official recently explained with respect to the government’s
engagement with  Al Jazeera , “If we are not in the conversation,
people will be speaking for us or about us.”  While the Obama administration recognizes the importance of
ensuring that the U.S.’s views are represented in the global
forum being created by Al Jazeera and other outlets, the
reciprocal opportunity for the American public to tap into this
conversation is almost non-existent. Broadcasts of Al Jazeera
English are available to fewer than 100,000 U.S. households in
and around Burlington,  Vermont ; Toledo,  Ohio ; and  Washington .  The arguments against access to foreign media are grounded
in fears about surrendering U.S. sovereignty. These objections
will be overcome only after we recognize that the information
available to us through the global public forum is critically
valuable both to our democracy and commercial interests in
international markets.  Travel Restrictions  Two opportunities for immediate action would serve to begin
this transition. First, steps should be taken to change existing
visa requirements that subject many foreign journalists to more
burdensome travel requirements than their fellow nationals
visiting the U.S. as businesspeople or tourists. In addition to
inhibiting entry by foreign reporters, the policy has the
perverse effect of making it more difficult for American
journalists to travel abroad.  The Obama administration unwisely has continued this
policy, enforcing these requirements in high-profile fashion at
the September 2009 Group of 20 summit in Pittsburgh.  Second, the Federal Communications Commission should use
its authority to expand access to foreign news broadcasts.  The FCC’s approval in January of Comcast’s acquisition of  NBC Universal  with “conditions and enforceable commitments”
offers such an opportunity. Among the requirements imposed on
the merged parties for fostering competition in the “video
marketplace” was a commitment by Comcast to provide 10 new
independent channels.  U.S. Disadvantage  Rather than limiting this focus on diversity to Spanish
language programming, children’s shows and local content, the
FCC should establish as a priority access to foreign news
outlets.  Failing to correct our course threatens to put America’s
understanding of the world at a significant disadvantage
relative to other countries. It is one thing for  Canada  to
approve comprehensive cable and satellite distribution of  Al
Jazeera  English in November 2009, but quite another for us to
witness the start of “Al Jazeera Turk,” a Turkish-language
news channel  reportedly  set to begin broadcasting soon.  It would not be surprising if Al Jazeera Turk, only the
second non-Arabic channel aired by the network, were to become a
symbol of Turkey’s new openness while providing an unflattering
contrast with limited access to Al Jazeera in the U.S.  The website for Al Jazeera English presently is mounting a
campaign for carriage of the network by U.S. cable and satellite
providers. After clicking on a button that says, “Demand Al
Jazeera in the USA,” people seeking to join the company-
sponsored lobbying campaign are shown model e-mail text notable
not for what it says about Al Jazeera, but for this basic
insight about America’s self-interest, one we need to embrace:  “In a world that is growing increasingly smaller and more
interconnected each day, it is more important than ever to have
full access to news from around the world.”  (Lee C. Bollinger, president of  Columbia University , is a
First Amendment scholar and author of “Uninhibited, Robust and
Wide-Open: A Free Press for a New Century.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Lee C. Bollinger at  freepress@columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  