-- 
Almost 15 Million in the U.S. Care for Alzheimer’s Patients

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/almost-15-million-in-u-s-provide-care-for-alzheimer-s-patients.html
Almost 15 million people care for
U.S. patients with  Alzheimer’s disease  and dementia, providing
17 billion hours of unpaid help valued at $202.6 billion, an
advocacy group said.  There are more unpaid caregivers, mostly family members and
friends, than people who live in  Illinois , the  fifth-largest
state , according to an annual report from the Chicago-based
 Alzheimer’s Association  today.  The number of people living with Alzheimer’s, the most-
common form of dementia, has risen to an estimated 5.4 million
as fewer people die from  heart disease , breast cancer, stroke,
HIV and prostate cancer, the group said. One in eight people at
least 65 years old is estimated to have Alzheimer’s, a
percentage that will increase as more people live longer, the
association said.  “Every time we save a person from another disease, they’re
a potential customer of Alzheimer’s disease,” said William Thies, the chief medical and scientific officer for the
Alzheimer’s group.  Rates of deaths from Alzheimer’s rose 66 percent from 2000
through 2008, the report said. The costs of Alzheimer’s and
dementia will be about $183 billion this year, about $11 billion
more than last year, the group estimates.  Alzheimer’s destroys brain cells progressively, making it
difficult for patients to think, remember, and function. The
time it takes to decline because of the ailment varies from
five or six years to more than two decades, Thies said.  Three Caregivers  Each person with Alzheimer’s disease generally has three
caregivers, Thies said.  Caregivers should build a plan for the Alzheimer’s patient
early, when that person can still help, said Beth Kallmyer, the
senior director of constituent services for the Alzheimer’s
Association. Those helpers should remember to go to the doctor
themselves, and ask for assistance when they feel overwhelmed,
she said.  Earlier diagnosis can help with planning for care as
patients decline, Thies said. There are six drugs in late-stage
clinical testing designed to delay the progression of
Alzheimer’s, including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
bapineuzumab, and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s solanezumab.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 