-- 
Alphabet Promotes Saiers to Investment Chief of Volatility Fund

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/alphabet-promotes-saiers-to-investment-chief-of-volatility-fund.html
Alphabet Management LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund that uses options to bet on the volatility
of stocks and other assets, promoted Nelson Saiers to chief
investment officer eight months after he joined the firm.  Saiers, 36, helped the fund post a 26 percent gain last
year and increase assets under management to $275 million from
$110 million at the start of 2010, according to Jason Adler, the
fund’s founder and managing member. Saiers joined from  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  in July as a head portfolio manager, overseeing a team
of eight traders, programmers and quantitative analysts at the
34-person firm.  “He’s made us a much stronger company,” said Adler, 39,
who started the firm in October 2007 with $11 million. “He’s
enhanced our quantitative modeling, which helps make us more
profitable.”  Alphabet’s strategy of betting on stocks’ volatility rather
than their direction means that the fund’s results aren’t
correlated to moves in other assets, Adler said. Its gain last
year compares with a 2 percent loss for the Newedge Volatility
Trading Index of 10 options hedge funds. Hedge funds globally
gained 9.8 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  "Investors want uncorrelated investments in the
alternative asset-management sector and volatility trading is
perceived to be inversely correlated with long-only strategies,"
saidAdam Zoia, founder and CEO of New York-based investment
management recruiter Glocap Search LLC. "That makes it more of
a true hedge compared to, say, stock-picking hedge fund
strategies.”  Pricing Models  Saiers and his team use derivatives including exchange-
traded options to bet that volatility levels for stocks and
other assets worldwide are too high or low in relation to each
other. The fund uses its own pricing models to monitor options
markets and make trades, according to a letter to investors last
month.  “The portfolio could be considered to be market agnostic,
with no predetermined directional bias,” Alphabet said in the
letter. “Thus, it is expected that the returns generated by the
fund will generally be uncorrelated to traditional benchmarks,
including stock indices and credit spreads.”  Saiers was a managing director for proprietary derivatives
trading at Deutsche Bank before joining Alphabet. He worked at  Germany ’s biggest lender in New York for three years and
previously held trading positions at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Susquehanna
International Group LLP. He earned his doctorate in  math  from
the  University of Virginia , in Charlottesville, at 23.  Funds Close  “Alphabet’s returns for 2010 were the strongest among
dedicated volatility funds in what was, in general, a difficult
year for these strategies,” said James Skeggs, London-based
head of research at Newedge’s prime brokerage business. The
Newedge Volatility Trading Index tracks returns for 10
volatility hedge funds, not including Alphabet.  Alphabet’s gain last year helped boost returns since its
October 2007 inception to 113 percent, according to a marketing
document. The  S&P 500  peaked on Oct. 9, 2007, then plunged 57
percent through March 2009 as the credit crisis wiped out $37
trillion in stock market capitalization worldwide.  As stocks rallied, some volatility funds closed, merged or
lost money. Artradis Fund Management Pte, whose Singapore-based  hedge funds  made $2.7 billion in profits for investors as
markets see-sawed in 2007 and 2008, is closing after losing
money from wagers on price swings in the last two years. New
York-based Vicis Capital LLC is returning money to investors,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked . AM
Investment Partners LLC and BAM Capital LLC, both New York-based
volatility funds, combined a year ago.  Benchmark Slumps  Bets on rising volatility lost as the benchmark index for
U.S. stock options slumped 18 percent last year and fell to a
three-year low in December. The VIX, as the Chicago Board of
Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, is down by more than
half from a May 2010 peak of 45.79 and has averaged 17.86 this
year, 12 percent below its two-decade average. The index
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which this month began the
third year of its biggest rally since 1955.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  