-- 
Manufacturing in New York Area Grew at Faster Pace in March Amid Recovery

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-15T13:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-grew-at-faster-pace-in-march-amid-recovery.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region accelerated in March at the fastest rate in nine months,
a sign factories remain at the forefront of the economic
expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 17.5 from 15.4 in February. Economists projected
an increase to 16.1, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Companies such as United Technologies Corp. are benefiting
from rising overseas sales, gains in business investment and
inventory rebuilding. Manufacturers in the U.S. may see some
overseas orders and supplies of parts interrupted in the
aftermath of an earthquake in  Japan  that damaged nuclear  power
plants .  “The outlook is still resilient, but there could be
supply-chain disruptions developing,” said  John Herrmann , a
senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets in  Boston .  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risk of further radiation
leaks from a nuclear plant are increasing. Contracts on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June slumped 2.5 percent
to 1,257.8 at 9:14 a.m. in New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 54 economists in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 10 to 22.4. The New York Fed’s
gauge of the outlook for six months from now was unchanged at
49.4, today’s report showed.  Employment Index Rises  A measure of factory employment rose to 9.1 from 3.6. The
gauge of new orders decreased to 5.8 from 11.8 last month, and a
measure of shipments fell to 1.6 from 11.3.  An index of prices paid for raw materials increased to
53.3, the highest since August 2008, from 45.8 in February,
while prices received increased to 20.8, the highest since
September 2008, from 16.9.  A separate report today showed that prices of goods
imported into the U.S. rose more than forecast in February, led
by gains in crude oil and food.  The 1.4 percent increase in the import-price index exceeded
the 0.9 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and
followed a 1.3 percent rise in January, Labor Department figures
showed. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.3 percent. Food costs over
the past 12 months posted the biggest gain since records began
in 1977.    Oil Prices   Oil for April delivery rose as high as $106.95 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 7, and has since
traded below $100 on speculation demand from Japan may fall
after last week’s earthquake. Crude is up 23 percent from a year
ago.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on March 1 said that the surge
in oil and other commodity prices probably won’t cause a
permanent increase in broader inflation.  Experience with such price gains in recent decades, along
with currently stable labor costs, suggests a “temporary and
relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer price inflation,”
Bernanke said during his semi-annual monetary policy testimony
before the Senate Banking Committee. He reiterated the Fed’s
outlook that while growth will accelerate this year, he still
wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job creation .”  Treasury Purchases  The comments suggest the Fed will stay on course to
complete $600 billion of Treasury purchases through June in a
bid to reduce unemployment. The  Federal Open Market Committee  is
meeting today for the second time this year and will announce
its policy decision at about 2:15 p.m. Washington time.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management  figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia Fed’s report is due March 17. The Institute for
Supply Management’s nationwide manufacturing report will be
released on April 1.  Overseas demand for American goods is helping support
manufacturers. Exports rose 2.7 percent in January to a record,
according to Commerce Department data released March 10.  United Technologies Corp., the Hartford, Connecticut-based
maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Carrier air
conditioners, on March 10 boosted the low end of its 2011
earnings forecast amid improving markets across its divisions.  ‘Good Start’  “We’re off to a very good start,” Chief Executive Officer
Louis Chenevert told analysts and investors at a meeting in New
York. “We’ve seen markets in line with expectations. We’ve
seen, in our short-cycle business, nice momentum.”    Consumer spending  in the U.S. will rise 3.1 percent this
year, the biggest gain since 2005, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey this month.  Manufacturing makes up 11 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s. Factories boosted payrolls by
86,000 workers in the first two months of the year, the best
two-month gain since October-November 1997, according to Labor
Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  