-- 
Areva Says Japan Nuclear Fallout Shows Need for Complex Plants

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-03-15T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/areva-ceo-says-japan-nuclear-fallout-shows-need-for-more-complex-reactors.html
  Areva SA (CEI)  Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  said explosions at a Japanese atomic power site
in the wake of an earthquake last week underscore her strategy
to offer more complex reactors that promise superior safety.  “Low-cost reactors aren’t the future,” Lauvergeon said on
France 2 television station yesterday. “There was a big
controversy for one year in France about the fact that our
reactors were too safe.”  Lauvergeon has been under pressure to hold onto her job
amid delays at a nuclear plant under construction in Finland.
The company and French utility Electricite de France SA, both
controlled by the state, lost a contract in 2009 worth about $20
billion to build four nuclear stations in the  United Arab
Emirates , prompting EDF CEO  Henri Proglio  to publicly question
the merits of Areva’s more complex and expensive reactor design.  Areva’s new EPR reactors, being built in France, Finland
and  China , boasts four independent safety sub-systems that are
supposed to reduce core accidents by a factor 10 compared with
previous reactors, according to the company.  The design has a double concrete shell to withstand
missiles or a commercial plane crash, systems designed to
prevent hydrogen accumulation that may cause radioactive
release, and a core catcher in the containment building in the
case of a meltdown. To withstand severe earthquakes, the entire
nuclear island stands on a single six-meter (19.6 feet) thick
reinforced concrete base, according to Paris-based Areva.  Japanes Quake  In  Japan , the 8.9-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami
on March 11 has led to two blasts at the Fukushima power
station. Operator Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it cannot rule
out that fuel rods are melting at the No. 2 reactor after they
became exposed for a second time by a drop in water levels.  Lawmakers and industry executives in nations including  India , the U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K. have called for reviews of
atomic safety procedures as Japan deals with the worst nuclear
accident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine.  Investment certificates for Paris-based Areva, in which the
state holds 85.7 percent, fell 9.6 percent today, the biggest
drop since November 2008, after the accident raised concerns
about expansion in the industry.  There are 442 reactors supplying about 15 percent of the
world’s electricity, according to the London-based  World Nuclear
Association.  Sixty five reactors are under construction, the
association said on its  website . There are plans to build more
than 155 reactors, mainly in  Asia , where Areva competes with
Russian, U.S., Korean and Japanese companies to win new
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  