-- 
Asian Stocks Drop a Second Day as Japan Warns on Nuclear Plant Explosions

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-15T11:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/asian-stocks-drop-a-second-day-as-japan-earthquake-clouds-economic-outlook.html
Asian stocks slumped, dragging the
benchmark index down by more than 10 percent from its January
peak, as Japan’s prime minister said the risk of further
radiation leaks has increased after a third explosion at a
nuclear power plant.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average plunged 11 percent today,
entering what some investors call a bear market after falling
more than 20 percent from its high this year on Feb. 21.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 1 publicly
traded bank, sank 8.8 percent. Honda Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor
Co. each fell at least 3.9 percent after halting operations at
factories following the nation’s worst earthquake. Australian
uranium producers dropped for a second day in Sydney.  “I don’t think people initially appreciated the scale of
the disaster,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage about $7.2
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.
“People are grappling with how it might impact different
industries. The nuclear situation just adds another aspect to it,
and the reaction is just one of panic and selling off.”  Citizens living within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant should stay
indoors, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said during a nationally
televised press conference.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 5.3 percent to 124.56 as
of 7:06 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge has dropped more than 10
percent from its Jan. 19 peak, a level that some investors
consider as a correction. About 19 times as many shares declined
as advanced, and all of the 10 industry groups lost more than
3.1 percent.  Bank of Japan  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell the most since
October 2008. The Osaka Securities Exchange halted trading twice
after 11 a.m. Japan time today following a plunge in futures.
The broader Topix Index suffered its worst two-day decline since
1987 on record trading volume.  Three days of declines have wiped more than $680 billion
from the market value of stocks in the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s
first section, which includes all stocks in the Topix.  The  Bank of Japan ’s step to provide short-term liquidity
and expand an asset-purchase program failed to contain investor
panic.  “We still don’t know what the damage really is in Japan,”
said  Stephen Wood , New York-based chief market strategist for  Seattle , Washington-based Russell Investments, which has $155
billion in assets under management.  Asia Ex Japan  “In the short term, this could actually be stimulative,”
he said. “Japan has been suffering from a lack of aggregate
demand for a long time, and this spending on reconstruction
could provide a boost for that.”  A measure of Asian stocks traded outside of Japan sank 3
percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 2.1 percent,
while  South Korea ’s Kospi Index declined 2.4 percent.  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 2.9 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.2 percent
today, following the gauge’s 0.6 percent decline yesterday in  New York  as investors struggled to assess how much damage  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record will do to the global economy.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  increased its rating of the
magnitude of the March 11 earthquake to 9 from 8.9. The official
death toll from the quake and tsunami stands at more than 2,000
Deputy Cabinet Secretary for Public Relations Noriyuki Shikata
told Bloomberg Television today.  Toyota, Fujitsu  “Stocks are pricing in uncertain factors including the
nuclear accident,” said Yutaka Yoshii, a strategist at Tokyo-
based Mito Securities Co.  Mitsubishi UFJ slumped 8.8 percent to 365 yen in Tokyo.
Honda dropped 3.9 percent to 2,974 yen and Suzuki fell 8.7
percent to 1,665 yen. Honda halted operations at five of its
factories in Japan after the earthquake, while Suzuki said it
will suspend production at all Japanese plants until March 16 to
ensure the safety of suppliers’ employees.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, dropped
7.4 percent to 3,065 yen as President Akio Toyoda said its
dealers, suppliers and partners were “directly hit and vastly
affected” by the earthquake and its aftermath.  Fujitsu Ltd., which yesterday said it halted operations at
10 factories due to power outages and damage from the earthquake
and tsunami, tumbled 9.3 percent to 428 yen. Sony Corp. fell 8.9
percent to 2,324 yen, even after the electronics maker said it
will resume operations at two factories on March 15.  “There are increasing signs of damage from the earthquake
on factories, and more and more companies are stopping
production, so some impact on earnings is unavoidable,” said
Takero Inaizumi, head of equity research in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co.  Danger Signs  Japan’s Prime Minister said the danger of further radiation
leaks from a crippled nuclear power station is rising after
three explosions and a fire at the site 135 miles north of Tokyo.  Prime Minister Kan appealed for calm in a televised
address, saying his government was doing its utmost to contain
the radioactive leakage at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant. Japan has sought aid from the United Nations
atomic agency, and the U.S. pledged any help needed.  “There’s global concern about a major nuclear accident in
Japan, which could turn a very bad situation into a terrible
one,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy in Sydney
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $98 billion.    Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  and other Australian uranium producers
and explorers slumped for a second day this week on concern
demand for nuclear energy will decline. Paladin fell 17 percent
to A$3.26, while rival  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT)  declined 18
percent to A$8.  Miners Drop  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 4.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.1 percent by the  S&P 500  and a drop of 1.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Mining companies slumped today after copper, zinc and lead
fell in  London  on the worsening demand outlook.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, dropped 2.5 percent to
A$42.97 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group the second-largest miner,
fell 2.2 percent to A$77.41.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and
gas producer, sank 1.5 percent to A$41.58 after crude oil fell
as much as 2.5 percent in New York. Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest
offshore energy producer, dropped 3.6 percent to HK$17.26 in
Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 