-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken as Japan's Worsening Nuclear Risk Bolsters Dollar

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-15T09:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/asian-currencies-weaken-as-japan-s-worsening-nuclear-risk-bolsters-dollar.html
Asian currencies retreated, led by  Malaysia ’s ringgit, as the deteriorating situation at a nuclear
power plant in Japan raised concern the global economic recovery
will slow, bolstering demand for the dollar’s relative safety.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, dropped
after Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan said the risk of further
radiation leaks is rising after a third explosion rocked the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant north of Tokyo. The MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares fell 5.2 percent, the most
in more than two years.  “The nuclear power plant explosion and concern the
situation will worsen are leading to selling of Asian assets and
currencies,” said Daisuke Uno, chief strategist in  Tokyo  at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “Sentiment, not only for Japan
but for the whole of Asia, is weak at this stage.”  The ringgit declined 0.8 percent to 3.0598 per dollar as of
4:45 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korea’s won weakened 0.5 percent to 1134.79,
the Philippine peso fell 0.6 percent to 43.83 and Thailand’s
baht dropped 0.5 percent to 30.47.  The  Bank of Japan  injected 5 trillion yen ($61 billion)
into money markets today to secure financial stability after the
March 11 temblor, the country’s strongest on record, and ensuing
tsunami. The central bank also said it will offer to buy 2
trillion yen in Japanese  government bonds  through repurchases.  ‘Market Still Unsure’  Japan was Malaysia’s third-biggest export market last year,
taking 10 percent of its shipments, according to official data.  “The market is still unsure about the extent of the impact
on the global economy,” said Azmi Shukri Rahman, a foreign-
exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.
“The concern is that Japanese investors will keep repatriating
their money.”    China ’s yuan forwards fell to a six-week low. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.3 percent to 6.4545 per
dollar in  Hong Kong , reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 1.8 percent in a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They touched 6.4605 earlier, the weakest level since
Feb. 1.  “The movement in the NDF market is now driven by the
broader risk aversion sentiment due to the earthquake in  Japan ,” said Pin Ru Tan, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group in  Singapore .    Taiwan ’s dollar fell for the third time in four days after
global funds sold $390 million more local shares than they
bought today, exchange data showed.  “The nuclear accident in Japan has caused a lot of
uncertainty, especially when Taiwan is so close to the
country,” said Eric Hsing, a debt trader at First Securities
Inc. in Taipei.  The Taiwan dollar declined 0.2 percent to NT$29.559 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar slid 0.6 percent to
S$1.2758, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesia’s
rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 8,783 and  India ’s rupee weakened 0.3
percent to 45.2285.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  