-- 
Massey Security Chief Pleads Not Guilty to Obstruction After Mine Disaster

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s   S t r a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/massey-security-chief-pleads-not-guilty-to-obstruction-after-mine-disaster.html
The security chief at the  Massey
Energy Co. (MEE)  coal mine in West Virginia where 29 workers died in
an explosion last year pleaded not guilty to federal charges of
obstructing justice and making false statements to U.S. agents.  Hughie Elbert Stover, of Richmond, Virginia-based Massey’s
Performance Coal unit, was indicted last month by a federal
grand jury investigating the cause of the blast, the worst U.S.
mine disaster in 40 years. The indictment is the first criminal
charge arising from the U.S. investigation of the April 5
disaster.  Stover, 60, of Clear Fork, West Virginia, is accused of
lying to an FBI agent and a U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration investigator about whether he instructed security
guards at Performance Coal’s Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal,  West Virginia , to announce the arrival of safety inspectors. The
U.S. also alleges Stover ordered the disposal of security-
related documents in January.  “Not guilty,” Stover said at his arraignment today in
federal court in Beckley, West Virginia.  Magistrate Judge R. Clarke VanDervort told Stover that he
had the right to be at all proceedings and asked if he wanted to
waive that right.  “I will be here, sir,” Stover replied.  VanDervort set an April 25 trial date.  ‘Committed to Cooperating’  “The company takes this matter very seriously and is
committed to cooperating with the U.S. attorney’s office,” M.  Shane Harvey , Massey’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The matter remains under review and the company has
no further comment at this time.”  When asked today at a news conference after the hearing
about the possibility of more indictments, R.  Booth Goodwin ,
U.S. attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia,
replied: “Stay tuned.”  Agents of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , working with
mine safety investigators, have been probing allegations that in
violation of federal law advance notice of inspections were
given on a “regular and continuing basis” at Performance’s
Upper Big Branch mine, the U.S. said in Stover’s indictment.  “The investigation revealed that there were multiple radio
channels that were used by the security guards at the Upper Big
Branch,” the U.S. said. One channel was called the “security
channel,” the other the “Montcoal channel,” according to the
indictment. “Radio transmissions on the Montcoal channel could
be heard by individuals working in the Upper Big Branch Mine
office.”  Company Policy  The U.S. claims that Stover falsely stated that Performance
Coal had “a practice and policy dating back to at least 1999”
that barred security guards at the Upper Big Branch mine from
giving advance notice of an inspection over the Montcoal
channel. In fact, Stover “directed and trained” guards at the
mine to give advance notice of an MSHA inspector’s presence over
the Montcoal channel, according to the indictment.  The U.S. also accuses Stover of directing “a person known
to the grand jury to dispose of thousands of pages of the
security-related documents, including documents that reflected
the presence” of inspectors at the mine. Stover was aware at
the time that the FBI and MSHA were investigating allegations of
criminal conduct, including claims regarding advance notices of
inspections, the U.S. said.  William Wilmoth, Stover’s attorney, didn’t immediately
reply to a call for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Stover, 11-cr-38, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of West Virginia (Beckley).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Stratton in Beckley, West Virginia, at
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 