-- 
Latvia’s Credit Rating Increased One Notch to Investment Grade By Fitch

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-03-15T16:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/latvia-s-credit-rating-increased-one-notch-to-investment-grade-by-fitch.html
  Latvia ’s credit rating was raised
to investment grade from junk status by Fitch Ratings as the
Baltic country’s economy recovers and debt levels stabilize.  The sovereign rating was increased one notch to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, from BB+, Fitch said in a statement
from  London  today. It also said the outlook was positive,
meaning the credit evaluator is more likely to raise the grade
than to cut it or keep it unchanged.  “Latvia is making good progress in its recovery from a
severe financial crisis, warranting a return to investment
grade,” Douglas Renwick, a director in Fitch’s Sovereign group,
said in the statement. “While Latvia’s weak external finances
continue to weigh on the rating, further evidence of sustainable
growth, fiscal  deficit reduction  and falling external debt
ratios could lead to a further upgrade.”  Latvia’s gross domestic product grew an annual 3.6 percent
in the last three months of 2010, the quickest pace of expansion
in three years, as exports and industrial production picked up.
The country wants to sell as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion) of bonds for the first time since 2008. The funds would
be used to refinance its international loans on the  bond market ,
Finance Minister Andris Vilks said last month.  ‘Strong Resolve’  Latvia has passed austerity measures equal to about 16
percent of GDP since the crisis began in 2008 and plans more in
a supplementary budget this year to comply with its 7.5 billion-
euro bailout from a group led by the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The country has shown strong political and social resolve
to adhere to the austerity measures in the program, underlined
by the government’s re-election in October 2010, and appears on
track to meet its objective of a sub-3 percent deficit in
2012,” Renwick said in the statement.  Fitch forecasts the economy will expand 3.5 percent this
year and 4 percent next year. The rating company considers a
risk of devaluation of the lats to be low.    Standard & Poor’s  raised Latvia’s credit-rating outlook to
positive on March 9 on the country’s growing competitiveness and
lower dependence on external financing. S&P rates Latvia BB+,
one level below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service
rates Latvian debt Baa3, its lowest investment grade, with a
stable outlook.  “In the coming weeks and months we’re getting closer and
closer” to the sale of euro bonds, Vilks said in an interview
in Brussels today. “It’s up to us, and up to the  credit rating
agencies . It seems to be the second half of the year, maybe
early summer. It will be interesting to see the rate offered to
us. Technically we are prepared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 