-- 
Australian Hotel Rates to Jump on Increased Business Travel, Room Shortage

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-15T23:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/australian-hotel-rates-to-jump-on-increased-business-travel-room-shortage.html
Hotel rates in Australia’s biggest
cities will rise this year on a revival in corporate travel and
a shortage of new supply,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said.  An increase in business travel will push up room rates in
Sydney by as much as 10 percent, in  Melbourne  by up to 5 percent
and Brisbane rates by about 7 percent by the end of 2011, Karen
Wales, senior vice president for Asia-Pacific research at  Jones
Lang LaSalle Hotels , said in an e-mail ahead of a briefing in
Sydney today on the Chicago-based broker’s outlook for property
markets. Occupancy levels in Sydney, already at record levels,
are expected to end the year at 85 percent, while they are set
to rise to 80 percent in Melbourne and Brisbane, she said.  “Most capital city hotels are trading very well, with
occupancies near peak levels, corporate travel returning and
solid growth in terms of demand,”  Wales  said in a telephone
interview. “We’re quite optimistic for growth as we don’t have
any new supply.”  Australian business confidence in February rose to the
highest in almost a year as profitability improved and optimism
grew about the rebuilding efforts in flood-damaged Queensland
state.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , which reported a fourfold surge in
profit in the six months ended Dec. 31, last month predicted an
increase in business travel after passenger numbers jumped.  Occupancy rates in four- and five-star hotels in Sydney are
at 82.6 percent, in Melbourne at 75.2 percent and in Brisbane
77.4 percent respectively, Maria Lee, author of a report on
hotels released yesterday by economic forecaster  BIS Shrapnel ,
said in an e-mail.  “The market is carrying on from where it left off before
the global financial crisis interrupted what was promising to be
a strong cyclical upswing,” Lee said in an e-mailed statement.  Leisure Weakness  Across  Australia , occupancies will increase to almost 66
percent and room rates will climb by about 6.5 percent by the
end of 2011 from a year ago, which reflects the struggles still
faced by the regional hotels that cater to leisure travelers,
said Rutger Smits, Sydney-based national leader for tourism,
hospitality and leisure at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  “Leisure destinations will grow by a lot less than
corporate,” Smits said in a telephone interview. “Households
are saving more than they used to, and they’re affected by
rising food and other costs.”  The Australian dollar’s strength and flooding in Queensland
are also hurting leisure destinations such as the Great Barrier
Reef and Hamilton Island, Smits said. A strong local currency
makes overseas travel cheaper for Australians and visits to the
nation more expensive for overseas travelers.  The Australian dollar reached parity with its U.S.
counterpart in October for the first time since 1982 and has
been hovering at record levels since then.  Oprah Effect  Australia last year spent A$3 million ($3 million) to host
billionaire talk-show personality  Oprah Winfrey  in an effort to
boost the number of overseas visitors.  The return to the Australian economy from Oprah’s visit and
the resulting shows -- which aired in January just after the
floods in Queensland that inundated more than 75 percent of the
state -- could be more than 100 times what Australia spent,
Brand Finance Plc, a London-based company that values brands,
said in December.  “We haven’t seen the full impact of Oprah’s visit,” Smits
said. “Overseas visitors have longer lead times, and book
further in advance. But they will come.”  Constraints on new developments as debt availability
remains tight and borrowing costs rise will gradually push
occupancies and room rates higher in leisure markets, he said.  Tight Supply  About 800 rooms were added across major markets in the
second half of 2010 and 3,300 rooms are in the pipeline, lower
than the average of about 5,000, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said
in a February report.  “The next four years are highlighted as a potential sweet
spot,” the report said. With supply increases across major
markets expected to peak at a low 1.5 percent this year,
“capital city room rates in particular are expected to rise
strongly as operators switch from a volume to rate strategy.”  The scarcity is the result of developers preferring
commercial and residential buildings over hotels, and a lack of
land in central locations, said Rob Cross, director for hotels
in Australia and  New Zealand  at  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   “Any land available is worth up to 30 percent more as
commercial property than as a hotel,” Cross said. The resulting
shortage and revenue growth will keep a lid on sales and
investment activity, at least for the next year, Cross said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  