-- 
Lawmakers Preparing Bills to Delay Debit ‘Swipe’ Fee Caps

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-15T12:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lawmakers-preparing-bills-to-delay-debit-card-swipe-fee-caps.html
U.S. Senate and House lawmakers
will propose legislation to delay proposed debit-card “swipe”
fee caps that have been challenged by financial companies and
questioned by bank regulators.  Senators worked to complete their bill late yesterday and
will introduce the legislation today as  House Republicans  got a
first look at language that would put a hold on Federal Reserve
rules aimed at making fees paid by retailers “reasonable and
proportional” to processing costs, as required by the Dodd-
Frank Act.  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, will file a bill
that would place a two-year delay to the rules as the effects of
the Fed proposal are studied. Tester, who will be taking on the
second-ranking Democrat in the Senate,  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois, as he pushes the measure, said he thinks he can get
the support to move the bill forward.  “We’re going to work hard to get more sponsors on this
bill when we get it dropped in today and I think there will be
solid support,” Tester said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  House Republicans are planning a bill that would impose a
shorter hold, Representative Randy Neugebauer said yesterday.  “In the House bill you’re going to see a one-year delay
and a study of what should be the composition of an interchange
fee,” Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who leads a Financial
Services subcommittee, said in an interview.  Wal-Mart, Target  The Fed’s December proposal to cap debit-card fees at 12
cents per transaction set off a battle that has pitted lobbyists
for retailers  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  against
financial-industry groups that say the limits could cost card
issuers such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
$12 billion in annual revenue.  Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia
Republican who is in line to introduce the House bill, said
lawmakers will seek input as they complete the measure.  “We’ve been looking at how we can answer what I think are
some of the very unanswered questions,” Capito, who leads the
Financial Services subcommittee that oversees  consumer credit ,
said in an interview yesterday. “We’re closing in on deciding
what we’re going to do.”  Joint Study  The House bill would require a joint study conducted by the
Fed’s board, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., the Comptroller of the Currency and the chairman of the  National Credit Union Administration , according to a draft copy
of the legislation obtained by Bloomberg News.  The study would focus on two primary components: the costs
associated with debit transactions and the effect of the Fed’s
proposal on consumers, merchants and card issuers, as well as an
examination of network exclusivity and routing provisions.  The regulators would be required, within eight months, to
submit a joint report to Congress that would include any
recommendations for revisions. The central bank would then be
required to revise the rules if at least two Fed board members
and the FDIC, OCC and NCUA chairmen agreed that consumers would
be adversely affected, the exemption for small institutions
would be ineffective or that the rules didn’t account for the
full costs associated with debit-card transactions, according to
the draft bill.  Should the Fed be required to revise the rules, it would be
required to finish the changes within four months.  Visa, MasterCard  The Fed’s proposed caps would replace a formula that
averages about 1 percent of the purchase price. Shares of  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , which set the so-called interchange
fees and pass the money to card-issuing banks, fell more than 10
percent after the central bank released its proposal Dec. 16 on
investor concern the caps would harm their business model.  Dodd-Frank requires the Fed to complete work on the caps by
April 21 and have them implemented by July 21.  Senate talks have been ongoing behind closed doors for the
past few weeks, with Tester and Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee
Republican, leading efforts to craft a bipartisan bill.  “We need to understand that we’re not repealing this
rule,” Tester said today. “We’re going to delay it, we’re
going to study it and we’re going to take a look at it to make
sure it is what it is advertised as.”  House lawmakers have been more outspoken on the issue, with
Republicans and Democrats using a Financial Services Committee
hearing on the issue last month to question Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  on the effects of the proposal on smaller lenders.  First Step  The House will wait for the Democrat-led Senate to take the
first step, Representative  Spencer Bachus  said last week.
Bachus, the Alabama Republican who leads the House Financial
Services Committee, said his members wanted “assurances” that
the Senate was ready to act before they took on the issue.  Legislation to delay the fee caps would end the first phase
of a behind-the-scenes lobbying battle that started after the
provision was signed into law as part of Dodd-Frank in July.
Retail and merchant groups have pushed lawmakers to defend the
measure, which was backed by 64 of the Senate’s 100 members.  “We made history last July when we passed this legislation
and I think we took the financial-services industry by
surprise,” Dennis Lane, a 7-Eleven Inc. franchise owner in
Quincy,  Massachusetts , said during a visit to  Washington  last
week. The banking industry has made pushing back the rules a top
priority since then, Lane said.  Fighting Back  Retailers have fought back, bringing about 200 retail and
convenience store owners to  Capitol Hill  last week to lobby
against a delay. Before visiting lawmakers’ offices, the
business owners stood out in front of the Capitol Building in
the pouring rain, rallying to defend the Fed proposal.  Tester’s legislation, if it is introduced today, will
coincide with the arrival this week of more than 900 bankers in
Washington for the American Bankers Association Government
Relations Summit. The bankers will make their way to Capitol
Hill to visit congressional offices, according to  John Hall , the
Washington-based group’s spokesman.  Durbin, the  Illinois  Democrat who crafted the swipe-fee
provision, took to the Senate floor last week to battle the
efforts to delay the proposal. He accused small banks and credit
unions -- two groups that were given an exemption from the rules
-- of providing political and lobbying cover for the large banks
and payment networks.  ‘Shoveling Billions’  “It wasn’t that long ago we were shoveling billions of
taxpayer dollars to these banks, so they can’t lobby,” Durbin
said March 10. “The credit card companies can’t lobby because
they have no popularity with the American consumer, so what do
they do? They have some beards.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair 
questioned the effectiveness of the exemption for lenders with
less than $10 billion in assets, bolstering the argument of the
community bank and credit union groups that have urged a delay.
The efforts have gained traction. As of the end of last week, 10
senators who voted for the proposal had signed onto comment 
letters  with the Fed voicing concerns over the effectiveness of
the proposal.  The stakes are high, said Representative  Peter Welch , a
Vermont Democrat who has pushed for the rules.  “I haven’t been in Washington that long, at least not as
long as Senator Durbin, but I do know, in Washington, to delay
something means to kill it,” Welch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  