-- 
Bahrain Declares a Three-Month State of Emergency as Gulf Soldiers Arrive

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-15T19:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bahrain-declares-three-month-state-of-emergency-on-protests-state-tv-says.html
  Bahrain  declared a three-month
state of emergency as a second contingent of forces from Gulf
states arrived in the kingdom to support its government
following persistent protests.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa asked the head of the
military to guarantee security, state television said. Police
opened fire on protesters in the village of Sitra, killing one,
the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights said in a statement.
Hundreds of people were injured, according to Ali Al-Akri, a
doctor at the emergency room of the Salmaniya Medical Complex.
He didn’t have details on the kind of injuries sustained.  Imposing a state of emergency “probably means they are
running out of options,” said Gala Riani, a Middle East analyst
at London-based forecaster IHS Global Insight. “If we see more
violence against protesters than I suspect it’ll incite further
unrest.”  Clashes between mainly Shiite protesters and Bahraini
forces escalated on March 13, with more than 100 people injured
as demonstrators demanded democracy through elections from their
Sunni monarch. The protests have fueled fears that unrest may
spread to  Saudi Arabia . Many Shiite Bahrainis retain cultural
and family ties with Iran and Shiites in eastern Saudi Arabia;
Bahrain’s ruling family has close links with Saudi Arabia, which
holds 20 percent of global oil reserves. Shiites comprise as
much as 70 percent of the Bahraini population.  Popular Uprisings  Bahrain’s long-term foreign currency Issuer Default Rating
was lowered from A- to BBB, the lowest investment grade, Fitch
said in a statement today. The long-term Issuer Default Ratings
were put on creditwatch negative, indicating that more cuts may
follow. Bahrain’s credit ratings were cut on Feb. 21 at  Standard
& Poor’s , another rating agency.  Troops from the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Saudi
Arabia, moved into Bahrain yesterday, the first cross-border
intervention since a wave of popular uprisings swept through
parts of the Arab world. Additional forces arrived today, BNA
reported.  Bahrain denied a report that a Saudi soldier was killed,
according to the official Bahrain News Agency.  The yield on Bahrain’s 5.5 percent bond maturing in March
2020 climbed 33 basis points to a record 6.93 percent as of 6:08
p.m. in Dubai, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps rose 40 basis points to 355, the highest
since July 2009.  Iranian Statement    Iran  criticized the GCC deployment. “The presence of
foreign troops and meddling into Bahrain’s internal affairs will
only further complicate the issue,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in Tehran today.  Bahrain, which is home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet, recalled
its ambassador to Iran after Mehmanparast’s statement, Bahrain’s
state television reported.  “Bahrain strongly denounces and absolutely rejects the
Iranian statement which is considered an intervention in its
domestic affairs and a threat to regional and international
peace and security,” Foreign Ministry Undersecretary for
Regional and GCC Affairs Hamad Al Amer said, according to BNA.  In Sitra, Bahraini police fired tear gas at hundreds of
Shiite protesters wielding metal rods. At least two police
helicopters could be seen flying above the village. Riot police
fired rubber bullets and shotguns, killing one protester, the
Youth Society said.  In the capital, Manama, thousands of protesters marched
toward the Saudi Embassy.  ‘Adding Fire’  “The Saudis are adding fire to the situation,” said
Hussein Ali, a 40-year-old mechanical engineer, who camped
overnight on a main street in the financial district. “We
consider the Gulf force to be an invader.”  Ebrahim Sharif, head of the opposition National Democratic
Action Society, called the GCC deployment “an occupation.”  GCC forces will protect “vital installations in Bahrain
and maintain stability and security,” Jamal Fakhro, the first
deputy chairman of the Bahrain Shura Council, said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  King Hamad has offered a national “dialogue” in response
to the demonstrations, which hasn’t quieted protesters.  The king declared the state of emergency “after all
peaceful doors to find solutions to the violence,” Fakhro said
on state-run television today. “I am sad about what happened
and sad about the bad economic, social and political situation
we have reached. Bahrain is looking into an abyss.”  Shiite Protests  Gulf states said on March 10 that they plan to provide
Bahrain and Oman, which also faces a popular protest movement,
with $10 billion each over a decade.  “The GCC stands behind the Sunni-controlled monarchies in
the region and it is not a political structure they are willing
to negotiate on,” Riani said.  Saudi Shiites, who make up about 10 to 15 percent of the
population, have been holding protests every Thursday and Friday
for the past few weeks in towns and villages a short drive from
the Bahrain causeway connecting the two countries. Saudi Shiites
have demanded the release of Shiite prisoners held without
public trial since 1996.  The U.S. State Department urged citizens to defer travel to
Bahrain and advised those in the island kingdom to “consider
departing,” the State Department said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. is urging Bahrain to allow nonviolent protests and
encouraging Gulf nations to use restraint, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 