-- 
Bahrain Riskier Than Lower-Rated Lebanon First Time Since 2009 on Protest

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-03-16T06:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bahrain-riskier-than-lower-rated-lebanon-first-time-since-2009-on-protests.html
The cost of insuring against a
default by  Bahrain  surpassed Lebanon for the first time since
July 2009 as officials declared a state of emergency and  Fitch
Ratings  lowered the Persian Gulf nation’s  credit rating .  Bahrain’s five-year default swaps surged 44 basis points
yesterday to 359.37 while contracts for Lebanon, whose debt
carries a lower credit rating, climbed 4 basis points to 359.17.
Bahrain’s swaps have increased the second most in the world this
year after  Pakistan , according to CMA prices in London. The Gulf
nation’s stock exchange suspended trading today.  Bahrain security forces clashed with protesters today in
the capital Manama and hundreds of riot police were deployed.
Fitch lowered its rating on the nation’s foreign debt two levels
yesterday and said another downgrade is possible. Bond yields
and credit risk of governments in the Middle East surged this
year as popular uprisings toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .
Iran condemned the “meddling into Bahrain’s internal affairs”
as troops from the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council arrived
to bolster security.  “The biggest danger is that Bahrain becomes the
battleground for Saudi Arabia, the U.S. and Iran in the same way
Lebanon has traditionally been the place that geopolitics played
out,” Oliver Bell London-based, senior investment manager at
Pictet Asset Management said yesterday. “It wasn’t clear things
had escalated inside Bahrain to necessitate the request for help
from Saudi Arabia.”  Rating Outlook  Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa  Al Khalifa  declared a state of
emergency for three months as mainly Shiite protesters in
Bahrain, which is ruled by Sunnis, demonstrated, demanding
democracy and free elections. Shiites are the majority in
Bahrain and are from the same branch of Islam as practiced in  Iran .  The yield on Bahrain’s 5.5 percent bond maturing in March
2020 climbed 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage point, to a
record 6.88 percent yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Fitch cut the nation’s credit rating to BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade, from A-, citing increased political risk.
Fitch rates Lebanon’s debt B, five steps below investment grade.  Credit-default swaps for  Russia , rated the same as Bahrain
by Fitch, rose 5 basis points yesterday to 137.  The outlook for Bahrain’s rating is negative, indicating
that more downgrades may follow. Bahrain’s credit ratings were
lowered Feb. 21 at  Standard & Poor’s .  Lebanon Assassination  “The two-notch downgrade reflects further material
escalation in political risk in recent days, following
significant violent domestic protests, military intervention by
Gulf nations and the imposition of a state of emergency,” Purvi
Harlalka, Director in Fitch’s Middle East and Africa Sovereign
Ratings Group, said in a statement.    Syria  sent troops into Lebanon in 1976, a year after civil
war broke out.  Saudi Arabia  helped broker the Taif Accord that
ended the 15-year civil war in 1990. Syria pulled its remaining
forces out in 2005 amid an international outcry in the aftermath
of the assassination of former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri .  Bahrain has the lowest proven crude oil reserves in the
region, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Its  unemployment rate  is 3.8 percent, Finance Minister Sheikh
Ahmed bin Mohammed al-Khalifa said March 11.  Limited Changes  The country, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, has 2.87
billion dinars ($7.61 billion) of debt outstanding, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Debt equaled 33 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, Fitch said in its statement.  “They are not particularly credit constrained,” said
David Zervos, managing director of global fixed income strategy
at Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “There’s credit risk in the
short term with the short-term turmoil. Longer term, these are
probably much stronger bonds than maybe the ratings downgrades
would indicate.”  Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said
yesterday that “the presence of foreign troops and meddling
into Bahrain’s internal affairs will only further complicate the
issue.”  Bahrain’s ruling family has close links with Saudi Arabia,
which holds 20 percent of global oil reserves.  Bahrain’s king has offered a national “dialogue” toward
limited changes in response to the protests. Along with Saudi
Arabia, the  United Arab Emirates  has sent some 500 soldiers to
Bahrain, U.A.E. Foreign Minister Abdullah bin Zayed al Nahyan
said.  ‘Kind of Massacre’  A Bahraini protester ran over a policeman with a car and
killed him yesterday, the kingdom’s official Bahrain News Agency
reported. Earlier, one protester was killed in the town of
Sitra, Al Wasat newspaper reported on its website, without
saying how it obtained the information.  “It was a kind of a massacre,” lawmaker Mohammed Baqer
said in a telephone interview yesterday, saying that he and a
fellow lawmaker, Nada Haffad, have quit to protest the violence,
which he blamed on the government. The protesters are “young
people ready to die,” he said.  The escalation in violence followed a decision by the GCC
this month to provide Bahrain and Oman, another country that has
seen anti-government protests, with $10 billion each over a
decade to promote development.  Credit default swaps on Bahrain have almost doubled from
185 basis points at the start of 2011, according to CMA prices
in  London .  Default Swaps  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on Bahrain’s 6.247 percent Islamic note due June
2014 gained 57 basis points yesterday to 4.45 percent, the
highest in more than a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fitch said that the downgrade also reflected the risk that
instability in Bahrain may harm its “attractiveness as an
international financial and business center, which plays an
important role in Bahrain’s economic model.” Financial services
make up 25 percent of the country’s output, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  