-- 
Baht Falls on Concern Japan Nuclear Accident to Hurt Growth

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-15T08:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/baht-falls-on-concern-japan-nuclear-accident-to-hurt-growth.html
  Thailand ’s baht fell by the most in
six weeks as the deteriorating situation at a nuclear power
plant in  Japan  boosted concern the global economic recovery will
slow, cutting demand for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of regional shares dropped by
the most in two years on concern damage caused by the temblor
and ensuing tsunami, which triggered explosions at a nuclear
power plant, will hurt the Japanese economy. The Northeast Asian
nation was Thailand’s second-largest export market last year,
taking 10.5 percent of its shipments, according to government
data. China was the No. 1 destination.  “The nuclear power plant explosion and concern the
situation will worsen are leading to selling of Asian assets and
currencies,” said Daisuke Uno, chief strategist in  Tokyo  at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “Sentiment, not only for Japan
but for the whole of Asia, is weak at this stage.”  The baht weakened 0.6 percent to 30.49 per dollar as of
3:44 p.m. in Bangkok and earlier touched 30.51 earlier, the
weakest level since March 4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slumped 5.2
percent today.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further radiation leaks from a nuclear power plant was
increasing. Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant was today rocked by two more explosions and a fire.
Shipments to Japan from Thailand increased almost 30 percent
last year, according to official data. Overseas sales make up
for about two-thirds of  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, declined 2.5 basis points
to 2.585 percent. The yield on the 3.125 percent debt due
December 2015 was unchanged at 3.32 percent. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  