-- 
Baltic Pain Turns to Growth While Protests Mean No Greece Gain

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-03-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/baltic-pain-turns-to-economic-growth-while-protests-mean-no-gain-in-greece.html
Allan Martinson, managing partner
of Estonian private equity company MTVP, saw Baltic companies he
invested in cut spending as much as 30 percent starting in 2008
to cope with Europe’s worst recession.  They all survived, even as their earnings plunged in part
because of government austerity measures. Now that  Estonia ,
Latvia and  Lithuania  are growing, Martinson is putting money
into such startups as Estonian online dating site Flirtic.  The Baltics’ ability to tolerate economic pain has been
praised in recent months by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
Klaus Regling, chief of the European Financial Stability
Facility. Latvia’s gross domestic product fell 18 percent in
2009 and Estonia’s fell 14 percent. That’s what it will take to
get Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain through their current
crisis, Martinson says.  “I would be very surprised if the southern European
countries would be able to go through with necessary measures on
their own,” Martinson, 44, said in a phone interview in
Tallinn. “I think it will take very strong coercion to get them
to do that. Perhaps  Europe  needs financial police.”  He has been investing in the Baltic region since the
countries emerged from the collapse of the Soviet Union in the
early 1990s, when a computer cost seven times his monthly wage.  After suffering through the worst drop in economic output
in the world, the Baltic countries have been growing on a
quarterly basis since the beginning of 2010. Estonian stocks
were the world’s third-best performers last year.  Rising Ratings  Latvia’s  credit rating  was raised to the lowest investment
grade from junk status by Fitch Ratings yesterday; the country
also has investment-grade ratings from Moody’s Investor’s
Service. Standard & Poor’s rates Latvia BB+, its highest
speculative grade, with a positive outlook.  Credit default swaps, which investors use to protect
against default or speculate on creditworthiness, in the three
countries are below those for  Greece , Ireland, and Portugal.
Greece is only slightly less risky than  Pakistan  while Estonia
is ranked almost as safe as  France , according to CDS prices.  Lithuania’s Apranga AB, the biggest Baltic clothing
retailer, returned to profit last year and now plans to open as
many as eight new shops this year. The company had cut its
workforce by 16 percent in 2009 and trimmed wages by 30 percent
to cope with tumbling  consumer spending . Shares rose 160 percent
last year.  Estonia, which adopted the euro in January, saw its OMX
Tallinn Index rise 72.6 percent last year. Latvia and Lithuania
were among the top 10 performers. Greek stocks fell 41 percent.  Political Favor  What’s more, political leaders in the three countries have
found support from the electorate. Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  widened his government coalition’s majority in
elections held on March 6. Latvians in October re-elected Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, while Lithuanian Premier  Andrius Kubilius ’s governing party garnered twice as many votes as polls
predicted in municipal elections on Feb. 27.  Estonia mastered the economic crisis “in an admirable
way,” Merkel said in a Berlin news conference with Ansip on
Oct. 21. “It’s a good, even remarkable signal that Estonia
fully met the criteria for joining the euro during such
difficult economic times.”  Greece, which turned to a group led by the EU and the IMF
for a 110-billion euro ($152 billion) bailout in May last year,
had its credit rating cut three steps to Ba1 by Moody’s
Investors Service on March 7.  Street Protests  Greeks took to the streets with 496 protests and marches
last year, according to police, as the government passed tax
increases and budget cuts to meet the terms of its loan. Three
people were killed in a fire during riots in  Athens  in May.  And Moody’s cut  Spain ’s rating to Aa2 on March 10, saying
the cost of shoring up the banking industry will eclipse
government estimates.  Ireland’s austerity program, bank bailout and international
loan led to an election win for the opposition last month, the
biggest political shift in the country’s history. The previous
government lost support by turning to the IMF and euro countries
for an 85-billion euro rescue package in November.  To be sure, it wasn’t all stoicism in the Baltics. A
peaceful protest of about 10,000 people on Jan. 13, 2009, turned
violent as a few hundred people rioted in the old city of  Riga .
The Latvian government collapsed about a month later.  Then Lithuanians rioted, about a month after Kubilius took
power in general elections and after the government announced
tax increases and spending cuts.  Euro Discipline  In both regions,  currency devaluation , the traditional path
to exports and growth, is not an option. The southern European
countries are in the euro, as is Estonia, and Latvia and
Lithuania aim to join by 2014 and thus have to limit exchange
fluctuation.  A key difference, though, may lie in the recent history of
the Baltics, said Hardo Pajula, an economist with SEB AB in
Tallinn. Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, occupied by the  Soviet
Union  for almost 50 years, lived through its collapse. The last
few years before independence in 1991 brought hyperinflation,
food and fuel shortages and a wipeout of savings.  “It is rather hard to envisage a pampered citizen of a
mature Western welfare state accepting the pay cuts that were
pushed through in this part of the woods in the last couple of
years,” Pajula said. “A great fuss has been made about the
Baltic GDPs having fallen by 16 percent or 17 percent in 2009,
but you have to see these things in context. Aggregate output
fell perhaps by 70 percent at the beginning of the 1990s.”  Food Coupons  Shortages were so severe that coupons for staples like food
and soap and alcohol had to be used. Inflation reached about
1,000 percent in the region in 1992 and savings were wiped out.  EU membership in 2004 led to a fall in  interest rates , a
boom in lending and rising housing prices and wages. Then the
global credit crisis hit just as the regional expansion was
running out of steam.  Latvia has implemented austerity measures equal to about 16
percent of GDP since the end of 2008, when it turned to a group
led by the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5
billion-euro loan. Estonia passed measures equal to 9 percent of
GDP; Lithuania’s budget discipline totaled 12 percent of GDP in
a plan the IMF  called  “unprecedented by historical and
international standards.”  Over Years  While the Greek package agreed to last year calls for
budget cuts worth 14 percent of GDP, it will take place over
four years. Spain is enacting austerity worth 8.2 percent of GDP
between 2009 and 2013.  To be sure, the deal struck by euro-area leaders last
weekend to create a permanent safety net for indebted countries
starting in 2013 and lower interest costs for Greece boosted the
chances they will survive the debt crisis.  Only Greece and Ireland have had to seek aid;  Portugal  says
no bailout is needed and Spain is moving ahead to rescue its
banks without emergency aid. The country’s Ibex 35 Index is up
6.2 percent and Greece’s ASE Index up 18 percent this year,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index is down 0.8 percent.  Greece’s public debt, though, was 140 percent of GDP and
its  budget deficit  9.6 percent last year, the European
Commission said.  Estonia’s measures helped keep its public debt at the EU’s
lowest level, 8 percent of GDP. The budget deficit declined to 1
percent of GDP. Exports of goods rose 35 percent last year to a
record after declining 23 percent in 2009.  To Martinson, the same future could await Europe’s heavily
indebted countries if they take the needed measures.  “With or without a European financial police, southern
Europe will have to go through with own austerity program
anyway,” he said. “It is just a matter of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net 
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  