-- 
BOJ Fails to Contain Investor Panic as Nuclear Risk Rises

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-15T08:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bank-of-japan-fails-to-contain-investor-panic-as-nuclear-danger-escalates.html
The Bank of  Japan ’s step to provide
short-term liquidity and expand an asset-purchase program failed
to contain investor panic today as the risk of nuclear radiation
leaks north of  Tokyo  escalated.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s pledge yesterday to secure
financial stability and prevent investors from becoming more
risk averse was overwhelmed today, with the Topix index of
stocks suffering its worst two-day drop since the 1987 crash. In
the interbank lending market, overnight call loan rates traded
between 0.08 percent and 0.13 percent, according to Ueda Yagi
Tanshi Co., higher than the BOJ’s target of zero to 0.1 percent.  “The market’s chaos won’t calm down unless the BOJ will
take more bold actions,” said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for
Japan at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA in Tokyo. “A further
plunge in stocks will pressure the BOJ into additional easing.”  While the central bank said after its policy meeting
yesterday that the economy remained on course to emerge from its
fourth-quarter slump, risks to  consumer confidence  intensified
with the government’s failure to contain a crisis at a nuclear
power plant. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in a televised
address that the threat of further radiation leaks is rising.  Government Reaction  The Topix slid 9.5 percent at the close, following a 7.5
percent drop yesterday. Japan’s currency rose 0.2 percent to
81.46 per dollar. Bonds halted a two-day rally, sending 10-year
yields 1.5 basis points higher to 1.215 percent.  Government officials sought to play down the rout.  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told
reporters markets will eventually stabilize, and there was no
reason to suspend them. The slide in equities is due to
uncertainty, and the economy is healthy, he said, adding that it
was too early to comment on share-support measures. Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said officials will closely
monitor markets.  Shirakawa yesterday committed at a news conference in Tokyo
to keep pumping cash as needed after unleashing a record 15
trillion yen ($183 billion) in one-day operations. The central
bank added 8 trillion yen today. The bank yesterday also decided
to double its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen, an
increase that’s about one-tenth the size of the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s Treasuries-buying effort.  ‘Missing the Chance’  “The  Bank of Japan  is missing the chance of doing
something more aggressive,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who used to work at
the central bank, said yesterday. “What the BOJ should do now
is to anchor investors’ sentiment” with accelerated purchases
in its program, he said.  Should the equity market keep tumbling, Japan’s central
bank may increase its purchases of risk assets under its asset-
buying program, said  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Research and Consulting Co. in Tokyo.  “If stocks continue to drop more and the yen gains further,
it will probably have an adverse effect on corporate sentiment
and household consumption,” Miyagawa said. “So the BOJ may
need to take further action.”    Jim O’Neill , the London-based chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, said the yen remains overvalued, giving the
BOJ cause for more robust monetary stimulus.  “There is now clearly a case for being bold to ensure a
speedy recovery from this tragedy,” O’Neill wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. “Events certainly require it.”  Closed Plants  Manufacturers from Sony Corp. to Toyota Motor Corp. closed
plants yesterday, with Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, halting operation at 10 factories and two
research centers. Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said it
closed all 12 factories in Japan through March 16.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. battled to avert a meltdown in the
nuclear power plant damaged from the temblor, the magnitude of
which was revised up to 9 yesterday from 8.9, and its aftermath.  The Tokyo-based company today confirmed the third explosion
at the No. 2 reactor of its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant 220
kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo after cooling systems
failed. The company said a fire had broken out at the building
housing its No. 4 reactor, one of three that had been shut
before the quake for maintenance.  Tokyo Electric has implemented rolling power cuts in the
capital city and surrounding areas, a burden that, with the
“ripple effect on other industries,” may cut gross domestic
product by 0.3 percent, Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts estimated.  Spending Package  Government officials said they were continuing to assess
the damage of the quake and it was too early to say how large a
spending package would be. Noda has said policy makers couldn’t
compile the bill as soon as by month-end. Lawmakers drafted a
2.7 trillion yen extra budget in May 1995 after the Kobe
earthquake.  While Standard and Poor’s said the earthquake had no
immediate effect on the nation’s AA- sovereign credit rating,
Moody’s Investors Service said Japan may “at some point” reach
a fiscal “tipping point” if investors lose confidence in the
soundness of public finances and demand a  risk premium  on  government bonds , adding that such a crisis isn’t “imminent.”  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan’s top official
indicated yesterday that the government could use funds for
lower-priority initiatives in the budget to pay for rescue and
reconstruction efforts, a sign officials are trying to balance
the need for extra money with the nation’s growing debt load.  Bond Sales ‘Questionable’  “It would be questionable to use bond sales to pay for the
entire supplemental budget,”  Katsuya Okada , secretary general
of the DPJ, told reporters.  The BOJ will increase buying of government debt in the fund
by 500 billion yen and boost purchases of short-term  government
securities  by 1 trillion yen. Corporate debt will rise by 1.5
trillion yen and it will also take on an additional 450 billion
yen in ETFs and 50 billion yen in Real Estate Investment Trusts.  Before the quake, Japan’s economy was showing signs of a
revival, after shrinking an annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year.  Kanno at JPMorgan shaved 0.5 percentage point from his GDP
growth forecast for the first quarter, bringing it to 1.7
percent, and cut his second-quarter projection to 0.5 percent
from 2.2 percent. He anticipates a rebound in the second half as
reconstruction occurs, with a 4 percent expansion in July to
September and 2.5 percent gain in the final three months of 2011.  “You wouldn’t expect a macro effect” from the BOJ’s steps
so far, said  Richard Jerram , chief economist at Macquarie
Securities Ltd. in  Singapore . “The liquidity supply was a
normal response to make sure the markets function in an orderly
fashion. It was nothing more than standard operating
procedure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  