-- 
Batista Has Five Potential Offers for Offshore OGX Oil Assets

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-03-15T15:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/batista-80-billion-wealth-target-turns-to-colombia-with-two-ipos-planned.html
Billionaire Eike Batista said he
received five potential offers for stakes in Brazilian  oil
fields  controlled by his  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  as
crude prices trade near their highest in 29 months.  Batista said yesterday in an interview that the offers
didn’t come from Chinese companies, without naming the potential
bidders. In September, he said that  China ’s Cnooc Ltd. and China
Petrochemical Corp. were among those interested.  OGX, whose market value is 61.6 billion reais ($37.1
billion) and Batista’s main source of wealth, has a total of 6.7
billion barrels of potential reserves, according to a 2009
report by consulting firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton. The company
doesn’t need to sell the Campos stakes because it has $3 billion
of cash and field development costs are low, Batista said during
the interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.  “We have five potential offers, including from  oil
companies ,” he said. “We will decide what suits us best but
theoretically you don’t need to sell.”  Batista said in August he would sell as much as 30 percent
of seven blocks in the Campos basin, holding up to 3.69 billion
barrels of crude, to raise cash for further exploration. The
fields are located in shallow water off the coast of Brazil.  The world is “definitely” running out of oil and people
should get accustomed to prices at $100 per barrel as accessing
new reserves becomes more complex and emerging markets like
China and Brazil drive increased demand for crude, he said.  $22 Per Barrel  OGX, based in  Rio de Janeiro , needs oil prices of at least
$22 per barrel for the company to be profitable, Batista said.
The company, which has about 90 percent of its exploration areas
in shallow waters, said it can have the same productivity in
these wells as in the deep waters of the so called pre-salt
areas, site of the largest oilfield discovery since 1976.  “It’s extremely high productivity, which means lower”
investments required to extract the oil, he said. “It’s a
bonanza, these are bonanza assets.”  OGX plans first crude output at its Waimea field in the
third quarter. The company aims to produce 20,000 barrels a day
by year-end, total output of 730,000 barrels a day by 2015 and
1.38 million by 2019.  OGX plans to add three wells to Waimea in 2012 and higher-
than-expected production means it will use fewer wells to supply
offshore platforms, Production Director Reinaldo Beloitti said
in an interview at company headquarters on Feb. 24.  OGX fell 35 centavos, or 1.8 percent, to 18.70 reais in Sao
Paulo trading at 11:01 a.m.  New York  time. The stock fell about
6.4 percent this year, more than a 4 percent decline for the
benchmark Bovespa Index in the same period.  100 Percent Success  OGX has had a 100 percent success rate at Campos, where the
company operates five exploration blocks and has minority stakes
in another two. The company expects DeGolyer & MacNaughton to
complete a certification of the company’s reserves by the end of
this month.  BTG Pactual said in a report on Feb. 10 that the data on
Waimea was “very encouraging” after the company released test
results the previous day. OGX said that the well’s data was
similar to that “obtained in the best wells in the country.”  Batista, 54, is the richest person in  Brazil  and the eighth
in the world with assets worth $30 billion, according to  Forbes
magazine’s  annual global ranking of billionaires. The Brazilian
billionaire sold a stake of OGX, which doesn’t yet produce any
oil, in June 2008.  Crude futures have surged about 10.5 percent since Jan. 14,
when the president of  Tunisia  was ousted in the first wave of
the unrest that has rocked the Middle East and North Africa,
including  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and Bahrain.  Prices touched a 29-month high of $106.95 a barrel in
intraday trading March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  