-- 
Beijing Airport Eclipses London Heathrow; Hong Kong Top in Cargo

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-16T02:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/beijing-airport-eclipses-london-heathrow-hong-kong-top-in-cargo.html
Beijing surpassed  London  Heathrow
as the world’s second-busiest airport last year, and  Hong Kong 
climbed to the top spot for freight, as  China ’s economic growth
fueled passenger and cargo volumes.  Traveler numbers in the Chinese capital jumped 13 percent
to 73.9 million, trailing only Atlanta, according to data
published yesterday by  Airports Council International . Heathrow
fell to fourth from second, with passenger numbers dropping 0.2
percent to 65.9 million, as a sluggish U.K. economy and
cancellations after a volcanic eruption in Iceland hurt demand.  China’s gross domestic product grew 10.3 percent in 2010,
the fastest in three years, as the nation of 1.3 billion people
surpassed  Japan  to become the world’s No. 2 economy. Beijing
airport was 14th globally as recently as five years ago with 41
million passengers, a total now matched by airports in Guangzhou
and  Shanghai , which rank in the top 20, according to ACI.  “It’s reasonable to think China can continue with double-
digit growth for the foreseeable future,” said  Nick Cunningham ,
an analyst at Agency Partners in London. “We’re really only
scratching the surface and there’s still unsatisfied demand.”  Cunningham said  air travel  typically expands at twice the
pace of the economy, and Chinese demand should, therefore,
increase at close to 20 percent a year, though that may be
curbed by constraints such as a lack of trained pilots.  Atlanta, London  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, Atlanta attracted
89.3 million passengers last year, up 1.5 percent and still 15
million ahead of Beijing. Chicago O’Hare International Airport
ranked third globally with 66.7 million customers after growth
of 3.3 percent.  Beijing Capital International Airport Co., operator of the
city’s airport, rose 0.7 percent to HK$4.09 yesterday at 9:37
a.m. in Hong Kong trading. It’s dropped 1.5 percent this year.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the city’s biggest carrier, climbed 2.2 percent
to HK$7.14.  Heathrow, where strikes by British Airways crews added to
disruption from the Icelandic volcano, remained  Europe ’s busiest
as next-ranked Paris  Charles de Gaulle  added only 0.4 percent
more passengers, the third-worst performance in the top 30.  Las
Vegas  had the only drop other than Heathrow, down 2.6 percent.  “While  North America  and Europe have struggled to reach
pre-crisis passenger volumes, the Asia-Pacific, Latin America-
Caribbean and the Middle East sustained a strong momentum and
gained market share,” Angela Gittens, director general of the
ACI, an industry group, said in a statement.  Hong Kong Cargo  In the freight market, Hong Kong’s volumes surged 23
percent to 4.17 million metric tons, propelling it past Memphis
International,  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ’s main hub, which had a 5.9 percent
increase to 3.9 million tons.  Hong Kong-based  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  became the
world’s biggest international air-cargo carrier in 2010,
supplanting Korean Air Lines Co. with help by exports from the
neighboring  Pearl River Delta . FedEx, No. 1 when both
international and domestic shipments are included, and United
Parcel Service Inc. have opened hubs in the region.  Shanghai was the world’s third-busiest cargo airport last
year, when it also became the busiest container port. China
boosted exports of electronics, clothes and other goods 31
percent in 2010, while the rising number of millionaires is also
spurring inbound shipments of  luxury goods  and fresh foods.  Global passenger traffic rose 6.3 percent overall, based on
results from more than 900 airports, ACI said. Cargo rose 15
percent and aircraft movements increased by less than 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  