-- 
Benin Tension Rises as Ruling Party, Opposition Clash Over Election Result

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-15T09:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/benin-tension-rises-as-ruling-party-opposition-clash-over-election-result.html
Political tensions in  Benin  rose
after the ruling party declared victory for President Thomas Boni Yayi in a March 13 vote and the main opposition challenger
claimed fraud.  Boni Yayi won a second term with 55.8 percent of the vote,
a ruling-party spokesman, Marcel de Souza, said yesterday in
Cotonou, the commercial capital. His main rival, Adrien Houngbedji, disputed the results today and said he would face
Boni Yayi in a runoff election. To win in a first round, a
candidate must capture more than 50 percent of the vote.  The head of the West African nation’s electoral commission,
Joseph Gnonlonfoun, said today that counting is continuing at
the 13,000 polling stations.  “Candidates have to avoid confrontation and violence,” he
said in a phone interview. The commission will probably release
the results of the first round tomorrow, he said.  Floods in  Benin , which borders  Nigeria , Niger, Togo and  Burkina Faso , cut the outlook for economic growth this year to
3.4 percent from 4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda
told the  International Monetary Fund  in a letter published on
the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Boni Yayi, 58, was tarnished by the June collapse of ICC
Services. ICC was the largest of a group of microcredit lenders
that defrauded 150,000 depositors of the equivalent of 5 percent
of the nation’s gross domestic product, according to IMF. He
appeared in photographs with officials from ICC Services before
it collapsed while denying any knowledge of the scheme.  Houngbedji, 69, lost to Boni Yayi in a runoff in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 