-- 
Bernie Madoff Would’ve Made a Dandy NFL Owner: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bernie-madoff-would-ve-made-a-fine-nfl-owner-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
  Fred Wilpon  once offered his pal,  Bernie Madoff , an ownership stake in baseball’s  New York Mets .
The response was no.  Maybe Madoff, a convicted con man, would’ve felt more
comfortable somewhere in the National Football League, where the
practice of obfuscation seems to be thriving.  We’ve heard countless stories about Madoff’s unwillingness
to show interested parties just how he achieved, year-after-
year-after-year, glowing investment returns. Trust me, he said.  There’s a similar message emanating from NFL owners in
their labor battle with players, whose now-dissolved union
demanded to see 10 years of audited team financials as a
condition to their pursuing a path of negotiation over
litigation.  Like Madoff the football owners said no, which sure makes
you wonder what they don’t want the rest of us to see.  Owners in all sports leagues are fond of describing the
management-labor dynamic as a partnership.  OK, then, ask yourself this: If you were a partner in a $9
billion a year enterprise, and the other party was clamoring for
significant changes to your agreement, saying the status quo
stifled their ability to reinvest in the business, wouldn’t you
want to see as much information as possible before agreeing to
make alterations?  That’s what’s happening here.  A la Madoff, NFL owners won’t embrace clarity and
specificity. If we learned anything from Madoff and the
financial crisis it’s this: transparency is good.  How to Share  “Any smart businessman would want to see full audited
financials in the event that someone wanted you to write a check
for a billion dollars,” said Kevin Mawae, president of the  National Football League  Players Association.  Owners under terms of the recently expired contract took $1
billion off the top for expenses like, say, stadium
construction. Now they want another $1 billion before the
sharing even starts, saying expenses are rising faster than
revenue.  Before discussing givebacks and concessions, however, the
players wanted proof that things really are that bad. They
wanted to see the numbers. Trust me doesn’t work anymore. Nor
should it.  Fudging Numbers  Should the residents of South Florida trust the leadership
of baseball’s Marlins, who trimmed payroll and sought taxpayer
assistance for their new stadium while privileged financial
statements obtained by the website  Deadspin.com  showed the team
turned an operating profit of about $49 million for the combined
2008 and 2009 seasons?  Should players and fans trust George Shinn, who, the
 Charlotte Observer  revealed, was underreporting attendance for
the Hornets as it lobbied the  National Basketball Association 
for a move to  New Orleans ? Here was a case of an owner fudging
the numbers to get what he wants.  And then there’s Minnesota Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor,
who knowingly violated the NBA’s labor agreement when in 1999 he
entered into a secret contract with a player.  “What was done here was a fraud of major proportions,”
NBA Commissioner David Stern said at the time. “The magnitude
of this offense was shocking.”  It’s worth noting that league owners in 2008 elected Taylor
chairman of their Board of Governors. Trust us.  NBA Disclosure  NFL officials defend their position in part by pointing to
the NBA, where they contend the league’s decision to disclose
its audited financials hasn’t helped owners and players to reach
agreement. Only I asked Billy Hunter, executive director of the
basketball players union, if the financial information that he’s
received is satisfactory.  He said no.  Trust us.  Perhaps the NFL is wary that full disclosure might prove
embarrassing to some of its owners.  That’s precisely what happened to the owners of the  Los
Angeles Dodgers , Frank and Jamie McCourt, whose lavish
lifestyle, disclosed in divorce papers, was the stuff of
snickers. A Beverly Hills hair stylist, for instance, was paid
more than $150,000 a year to primp both in their home.  Hard to plead poverty or justify a hike in ticket prices
when you’re spending like that. Who knows what audited team
financials would show about private jets, clothing allowances
and grooming expenses for oh, say, Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones .  “Maybe you should ask the owners if they trust each other
to see each other’s books,” Mawae said.  Madoff would’ve loved this bunch.  (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  