-- 
Blackburn May Bid $24 Million for Arsenal Striker Bendtner: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-15T11:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/blackburn-may-bid-24-million-for-arsenal-striker-bendtner-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bendtner for Blackburn?  Blackburn  may bid as much as 15 million pounds ($24
million) for  Arsenal  striker Nicklas Bendtner in the offseason,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  Signing a star player is still one of the main priorities
of club owner Venky’s Ltd., an Indian operator of poultry farms
that bought the team in October, the newspaper added.  The club, which is one point above the relegation zone, has
made “ambitious” efforts to sign  David Beckham  and Ronaldinho,
although Bendtner is seen as a more realistic possibility, the
Mail added.  Nani Exit?  Manchester United ’s Nani has told friends he may want to
move to Italy, the  Sun  reported.  Nani’s representatives believe the Portuguese winger should
be making 100,000 pounds a week, instead of his current 65,000
pounds.  The club told Nani’s representatives that there is “no
way” they’ll be renegotiating his current deal, the paper said.
Nani still has three years left on a four-year contract.  Sunderland Chasing N’Zogbia  Sunderland  manager Steve Bruce may bid as much as 9 million
pounds for Wigan winger  Charles N’Zogbia  this summer, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  Bruce also wants permanent deals to keep loan players
including Sulley Muntari and Danny Welbeck.  Liverpool Close in on Marveaux  Liverpool  manager  Kenny Dalglish  may sign Rennes winger
Sylvain Marveaux on July 1, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 24-year-old, who is out of contract this summer, has
sparked interest from Chelsea and  Manchester United  and a 3
million-pound offer from West Ham was turned down by the French
side last year, the paper said.  “I am very close to reaching agreement with Liverpool
about joining them next season,” the paper quoted Marveaux as
saying.  Dalglish Permanent?  Liverpool may offer Kenny Dalglish a two-year deal by the
end of the month, the  Sun  said.  First, new Liverpool owner  John Henry  wants to see how the
club does during three key games in the coming two weeks, the
paper said. The Reds play Braga in the Europa League and go to
Sunderland and West Brom in the Premier League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 