-- 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit to Convene Top Players

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-15T13:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bloomberg-new-energy-finance-summit-to-convene-top-players.html

Press Release  Experts, Including Executives from Bank of America, Google, and
the US Dept. of Energy, to Identify Opportunities in the Clean
Energy and Carbon Markets, April 4-7, 2011  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the world’s leading
provider of news, data and analysis on the clean energy and
carbon markets, has announced the provisional speaker lineup for
its upcoming Summit, to be held April 4-7, 2011 in  New York City .
Now in its fourth year, the Summit has established itself as the
leading forum for decision-makers in the clean energy and carbon
markets.  The Bloomberg New Energy Finance Summit is an invitation-only
event for senior executives, policy-makers and investors. The
goal is to identify and address key issues facing the clean
energy sector, and to help decision-makers identify
opportunities that will enable them to succeed.  The first three days of the event - entitled Innovate, Generate,
Integrate - are structured around the three key challenges of
the clean  energy industry : technology development, building a
clean energy infrastructure, and integrating into the world’s
energy system. The program will draw on thought leadership from
key figures in industry, academia and policy, including:  - Dan Arvizu, Director of the National Renewable Energy Lab  - Nigel Brandon, Director, Energy Futures Lab, Imperial College  London   - Jeff Broin, Chief Executive Officer, POET  - Yehudit “Dita” Bronicki, CEO/Managing Director, Ormat  - Margaret Catley-Carlson, Chair of the Global Water Partnership  - Charles “Chad” O. Holliday, Jr., Chairman, Bank of America  - Bjorn Lomborg, author of “The Skeptical Environmentalist” and
“Cool It”  - Michael G. Morris, Chairman/CEO, American Electric Power  - Rick Needham, Director Green Business Opportunities, Google  - Jean Quan, Mayor of Oakland  - Steen Riisgard, President and Chief Executive Officer,
Novozymes  - Jonathan Silver, Executive Director, Loan Programs Office, US
Dept. of Energy  - Marcelo Tokman, Head of Gov Relations, Vestas Latam & Former
Minister of Energy, Chile  The fourth day of this year’s Summit consists of a special
roundtable event being run by Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
association with UN-Energy, an interagency initiative of the UN.
It will advance two agendas: providing input from the financial
community into the negotiations on financing climate solutions
in the developing world; and exploring new financing
opportunities to address the needs of the world’s energy poor.
Participants will include senior figures in the world of climate
finance and policy, as well as decision-makers from  developing
countries .  The Bloomberg New Energy Finance Gala Awards Dinner, taking
place April 6, will look back at the League Table results and
showcase a number of new award winners, which will be announced
that night. The dinner is a unique celebration of the leading
market participants in the renewable energy and low carbon
sectors, providing an evening of entertainment and networking.  “Over the past four years we have worked hard to create the
leading market-place for decision-makers in clean energy and
carbon markets to meet and challenge each other’s ideas,” said
Michael Liebreich, Summit chairman and head of Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “This year’s Summit is going to be more
provocative and make a more important contribution to the
industry than ever. And it’s not just about talk - previous
events have lit the fuse for the investment of tens of billions
of dollars in clean solutions around the world.”  Partnered with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in supporting the
Summit is Areva, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Hitachi, and
Lockheed Martin.  For an up-to-date list of thought leaders and more information
on the agenda, please visit  http://www.bnefsummit.com .  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg New Energy Finance  Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading
independent provider of news, data, research and analysis to
decision‐makers in renewable energy, energy smart technologies,
carbon markets, carbon capture and storage, and nuclear power.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff of more than 180, based
in London, Washington D.C., New York,  Tokyo , Beijing,  New Delhi ,  Singapore ,  Hong Kong , Sydney,  Cape Town , São Paulo and Zurich.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep
market analysis to investors in wind, solar,
bioenergy, geothermal, carbon capture and storage,  energy
efficiency , and nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services
for each of the major emerging carbon markets: European, Global
Kyoto,  Australia , and the U.S., where it covers the planned
regional markets as well as potential federal initiatives and
the voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s
Industry Intelligence Service provides access to the world’s
most comprehensive database of investors and investments in
clean energy and carbon. The News and Briefing Service is the
leading global news service focusing on clean energy investment.
The group also undertakes applied research on behalf of clients
and runs senior‐level networking events.  New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P. in
December 2009, and its services and products are now owned and
distributed by Bloomberg Finance L.P., except that Bloomberg
L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute these products in  Argentina ,  Bermuda ,  China ,  India ,  Japan , and  Korea . For more
information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance:  http://www.bnef.com   About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Sarah Feinberg, +1 202-654-4360,  sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net 
