-- 
BMW Targets 2011 Profit Growth on Luxury Sales Amid Rising Output in China

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-15T13:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bmw-targets-2011-profit-growth-on-sales-of-x3-6-series-models.html
  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , aims this year to beat
2010’s record results, buoyed by revamps of the X3 sport-utility
vehicle and 6-Series coupe.  The carmaking division will probably exceed the earnings
before interest and taxes margin of 8 percent of sales reported
in 2010, the Munich-based company said today. BMW began rolling
out the overhauled X3 in January and started sales earlier this
month of the refurbished 6-Series convertible, which will be
followed by the coupe version in the fall, it said.  Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said at a press
conference today that BMW is “closely watching” how the after-
effects of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  influence operations
in  Asia , including China. Over the coming days, the manufacturer
will evaluate its direct and indirect suppliers in Japan to
ensure that BMW can maintain its own production, said Herbert Diess, the German carmaker’s purchasing chief.  “No one knows how the situation will further develop” in
Japan, Reithofer said. “It is extraordinarily difficult to
shift to everyday business after the shocking events.”  The 43,644 BMW and Mini models that the manufacturer sold
in Japan last year represented 3 percent of the company’s
worldwide deliveries of 1.46 million vehicles. Fewer than 2
percent of components were obtained from Japan, Diess said.  Shares Fall  BMW dropped as much as 6.8 percent to 52.01 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since Nov. 3, 2009, and was down 4.8
percent as of 2:11 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. European stocks
slid as concern grew that a Japanese nuclear power plant damaged
by the March 11 earthquake will leak radiation.  Germany ’s
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell as much as 5.6 percent.  Analysts expect BMW to record a 13 percent increase in net
income to 3.64 billion euros ($5.05 billion) in 2011, according
to the average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
carmaker is targeting record deliveries of “well” more than
1.5 million vehicles this year and all-time highs for the BMW,
Rolls-Royce and Mini brands.  “Earnings will likely increase more this year than in
2012,” when BMW’s product lineup will be a bit older and facing
competition from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi, said Alexis Albert, a London-based analyst at Nomura
Securities with a “neutral” recommendation on the stock.  Chinese, Indian Plants  BMW is adding production in  China  and  India  to meet the
record demand. The carmaker will assemble the X3 at its plant in  Chennai , India, starting in the second quarter as it expands
capacity to 10,000 vehicles a year from 8,000. A new factory in
China will build the X1 compact SUV starting next year.  Further production sites, including new facilities in  South
America , are being considered as BMW strains to keep up. A
decision on expanding in  Brazil  will be made this year, Frank- Peter Arndt, BMW’s production chief, said at the news conference
in Munich.  The carmaker reported record net income of 3.23 billion
euros in 2010, a 15-fold increase from 2009, as new models
helped BMW recover from the global recession. Demand for the
overhauled 5-Series model rose 36 percent after an extended
version for China was added to the lineup, while the X1 sold
more than 100,000 units in its first full year.  “Handling the level of demand has been a tour de force for
our international production network,” Reithofer said at BMW’s
annual press conference in Munich. “At the end of the year, we
had about 100,000 units more on the books than originally
planned.”  Pay Raise  The manufacturer raised Reithofer’s pay and bonuses by 66
percent last year to 4.3 million euros, according to the 2010
 annual report  published today. Combined compensation for BMW’s
seven-member management board increased 70 percent to 18.2
million euros.  Gains from foreign-exchange fluctuations this year will
probably contribute a “low three-digit” million euro sum,
while profit will probably be burdened by higher raw material
costs in a similar range, Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said at the press conference. The raw material costs
will be more than compensated by productivity gains, BMW
executive Diess said.  Industry Hiring  Luxury-car manufacturers are forecasting sales gains this
year because of higher spending in the U.S. and growing wealth
in China, the two biggest car markets. Daimler, whose Mercedes-
Benz division ranks second to BMW in worldwide sales, plans to
recruit more than 10,000 employees this year, including staff
for a new car factory in  Hungary . Volkswagen is adding shifts to
meet demand, Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn said March 10.  BMW, which employs almost 95,500 people, shed about 800
jobs last year through early retirement, buyouts and not
replacing people who quit. BMW plans to hire about 1,300 people
this year to support development, purchasing and sales, the
company said Feb. 24.  The carmaker proposed a record dividend on March 10 of 1.30
euros per common share, more than four times the 30 cents paid
the previous year. The higher payout comes even as BMW trails
rivals in profitability.  Margin Comparisons  The auto division’s 8 percent Ebit margin in 2010 compares
with 8.7 percent at Mercedes-Benz and 9.4 percent at Audi. BMW’s
Ebit-margin target range for the carmaking operation has been 8
percent to 10 percent by 2012, and Reithofer said today that
there’s a “good chance” it will maintain that rate of
profitability beyond 2012.  The carmaker is expanding its lineup to reach a goal of
selling more than 2 million cars and SUVs annually by 2020. It
will introduce a plug-in hybrid version of the 5-Series for
China at the Shanghai car show in mid-April, BMW said today.  The company said in February that it’s creating the “i”
electric-car sub-brand, which will start in 2013 with the i3, a
battery-powered city car previously known as the Megacity
Vehicle. BMW is also planning the i8, a hybrid supercar based on
the Vision Efficient Dynamics prototype. The sub-brand’s models
will display a blue ring around the BMW logo.  To prepare for the electric-vehicle rollout, BMW is
providing selected customers with Active E test car, a battery-
powered version of the 1-Series compact, Reithofer said today.  BMW is also pushing into transport-related services and is
experimenting with short-term rentals as it seeks to appeal to
consumers more interested in gadgets like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
than cars. The company started a $100 million venture capital
unit and invested in the MyCityWay smartphone application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Munich at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  