-- 
Bogart Is Still Biggest Star 54 Years After Death: Rainer File

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-03-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/bogart-is-still-biggest-star-54-years-after-death-rainer-file.html
Humphrey Bogart is still on top
after all these years.  The  American Film Institute  named him the greatest male
star of all time, Warner Home Video recently released a
wonderful 24-film, 12-disc boxed set called “ Humphrey Bogart:
The Essential Collection ” and he’s the subject of a new
biography, Stefan Kanfer’s “ Tough Without a Gun: The
Extraordinary Afterlife of Humphrey Bogart .”  Kanfer’s title comes from a letter Raymond Chandler wrote
to his publisher upon hearing that Bogart had been cast as
Philip Marlowe in “The Big Sleep.”  “Bogart can be tough without a gun,” Chandler wrote.
“Also he has a sense of humor that contains the grating
undertone of contempt. Alan Ladd is hard, bitter and
occasionally charming, but he is after all a small boy’s idea of
a tough guy. Bogart is the genuine article.”  Actually, Bogart came from a privileged family. His father
was a Yale-educated New York physician, his mother a leading
commercial illustrator. Expelled from the prestigious Phillips
Academy because of disciplinary problems, he ended up on
Broadway in the 1920s playing mostly preppies, including one who
may have been the first to utter the immortal line, “Tennis,
anyone?”  Early on he wasn’t a critics’ darling. Reviewing the 1922
play “Swiftly,” Alexander Woollcott wrote that Bogart’s acting
was “what is usually and mercifully described as inadequate.”  ‘Petrified Forest’  It wasn’t until he was cast as the thug Duke Mantee in
“The Petrified Forest” (1936), the movie version of the Robert
E. Sherwood play he starred in a year earlier on Broadway, that
Bogart became Bogart.  Cynical, gruff, with a sliver of sadism in his smile,
Bogart was remaking himself into what would become the classic
anti-hero of 1940s movies. The character was epitomized by his
roles as a Dillinger-esque gangster in “High Sierra” (1941),
the private eye Sam Spade in John Huston’s “The Maltese
Falcon” (1941) -- his first real A-list film at the ripe age of
41 -- and Marlowe in “The Big Sleep” (1946).  But Bogart didn’t need to be uncouth and unshaven to be an
anti-hero. He could also do it in a tuxedo.  Perhaps his most iconic role is the nightclub owner Rick
Blaine in “Casablanca,” where his cynicism turns out to be the
thinnest of veneers for his romanticism. This mixture of scorn
and chivalry accounts for much of Bogart’s lasting appeal,
although thankfully he never overplayed his soft side. He could
be uncompromising.  ‘Maltese Falcon’  A kinder-gentler Bogart would not have thrown over Mary
Astor at the end of “The Maltese Falcon.” And certainly, if
Bogart was intent on preserving a sympathetic image, he wouldn’t
have played the paranoid gold prospector in “The Treasure of
the Sierra Madre” (1948) or the strawberry-snooping Captain
Queeg in “The Caine Mutiny” (1954).  Both “The Maltese Falcon” and “The Treasure of the
Sierra Madre” were directed by Bogart’s frequent collaborator
John Huston, who understood perhaps better than anyone else the
dark depths Bogart was capable of reaching.  Huston also recognized the comic side of Bogart in a way
few others did. His grimy, cigar-chomping riverboat captain
Charlie Allnut in “The African Queen” (1951) won him an Oscar.
“Beat the Devil,” although its commercial failure severed the
Bogart-Huston connection, is his most audaciously funny film.  Existential Hero  Bogart is an international icon. Among the intelligentsia
in  France  he has long been the poster boy for a kind of trench-
coat existentialism. One of the most memorable moments in Jean- Luc Godard’s “Breathless” (1960) comes when its footloose
hoodlum, played by Jean-Paul Belmondo, looks up at a movie
poster of Bogart, smooths his lips to mimic the actor’s snarl,
and mutters “Bogie.”  Bogart may have epitomized the romantic loner but the
romance always took precedence over the loneliness. His pairings
with Ingrid Bergman (“Casablanca”) and Katharine Hepburn
(“The African Queen”) are highpoints in movie romance.  And “To Have and Have Not” (1944), where he met his
future wife Lauren Bacall, is maybe the sexiest onscreen wooing
in Hollywood history. By the time they made “The Big Sleep”
two years later, they were twin luminaries.  Bogart died at 57 in 1957. It was a relatively short career,
but none burned brighter. Here’s looking at you, kid.    Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  