-- 
Borders Wins Approval of $505 Million Bankruptcy Loan

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-15T17:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/borders-wins-approval-of-505-million-bankruptcy-loan-from-geec-led-group.html
  Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the second-
biggest U.S. bookstore chain, will get approval of a $505
million loan to fund operations in bankruptcy after the
agreement is changed, a judge said.  Separately, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said today a
motion filed by Borders’s law firm, Kasowitz, Benson, Torres &
Freidman LLP, copied one made by  Weil Gotshal  & Manges LLP in
the bankruptcy of Blockbuster Inc. Kasowitz can’t seek fee
reimbursements for the work, Glenn said in  Manhattan .  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , previously received
permission to draw $400 million on an interim basis from the
loan from lenders led by General Electric Capital Corp. Glenn
said that he will give final approval after changes to the
initial agreement are approved and entered into court documents.  “When I look at the incremental cost of new money coming
in, it’s pretty steep,” Glenn said. The loan nonetheless
appeared to be the best available option for Borders, he said.  Borders, operating under Chapter 11 protection, is
liquidating 200 stores in a deal that may bring in $175 million
to creditors. The company plans to reorganize its remaining
stores.  “The debtors must have credit. Without that, it can’t
survive,” lawyer David Friedman told Glenn.  ‘Almost Verbatim’  Glenn said he would approve a motion to pay  utility
companies , with some revisions. In the middle of hearing the
motion, he broke from normal court procedure to quote Charles
Caleb Colton: “imitation is the sincerest form of flattery,”
Glenn said, telling Borders lawyer Jeffrey Gleit that the motion
is “taken almost verbatim” from Weil Gotshal’s request to pay
utilities in Blockbuster and didn’t cite Weil. Glenn said
Kasowitz is barred from submitting a fee request for its work on
the motion, including those for inserting the Borders case
caption on a Weil pleading.  “I understand your honor’s point, and it’s well taken,”
Gleit said, apologizing. The former Weil associate said he often
sees passages he drafted in Weil’s motions.  The $505 million loan is a “lifeline” that will allow the
company to reorganize, and the ability to draw on it already has
allowed the company to replenish depleted inventory and beat its
initial budget, Borders said in court papers. Changes made to
the loan agreement include a provision that gives a committee of
unsecured creditors $125,000, up from $50,000, to fund
investigations of claims of secured lenders.  Sagging Sales  Separately, Glenn gave the company more time to assume or
reject leases for its locations and approved employee wages.  Borders  filed for Chapter 11 protection in February after
management changes, job cuts and debt restructuring failed to
make up for sagging book sales in the face of competition from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The company made an emergency request to close at least 200
of its 642 stores, and potentially 75 more, to stem losses of
about $2 million a week. The stores are under the Borders,
Waldenbooks, Borders Express and Borders Outlet names in the
U.S. and  Puerto Rico .  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 