-- 
Brazil's Real Declines on Japan Nuclear Risk; Rate Futures Gain

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-03-15T21:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/brazil-s-real-drops-most-in-three-months-on-japan-nuclear-disaster-concern.html
  Brazil ’s real declined as investors
fled high-yielding emerging-market assets amid increased risk in
Japan of radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear power station.  The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.6653 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, from 1.6598 yesterday. Earlier, the currency slid
1.1 percent for the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 6.  The Bank of Japan’s moves to provide short-term liquidity
and expand an asset-purchase program failed to contain investor
concern as the risk of nuclear radiation leaks north of  Tokyo 
escalated. Stocks worldwide sank, with the Nikkei 225 index
posting its biggest two-day drop since 1987.  “The market is totally stressed,” said Felipe Brandao, an
emerging-markets analyst at currency broker ICAP Brasil SA in  Sao Paulo . “Investors are seeking the safety of hard
currencies.”  Real-linked debt may fall as Japanese investors, the
largest holders of the bonds, bring funds home to pay for
reconstruction following the earthquake, according to Guggenheim
Capital Markets. Japanese investors will repatriate funds as the
nation seeks to recover from the earthquake, Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio with  Tom Keene .  The real is falling today as investors anticipate Japanese
investors who put money into Brazil seeking high  interest rates 
will now pull money out, Vladimir Caramaschi, chief strategist
at Credit Agricole Brasil SA, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo.  Moving to Safety  Brazil’s benchmark interest rate is 11.75 percent, while  Japan ’s target rate is between zero and 0.1 percent.  Twenty-two of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg fell against the U.S. dollar today.  “It’s a global movement to safety,”  Andre Perfeito , the
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s not only Brazil, it’s all the
emerging markets.”  The central bank said it twice bought U.S. dollars in the  spot market  today, first at 1.6700 reais and then at 1.6670
each. The purchases are part of an effort to stem the
appreciation of the currency which has gained 39 percent since
the end of 2008.  The  Finance Ministry  raised its 2011 inflation forecast to
5 percent, from a previous estimate of 4.5 percent, according to
a report posted on its website. The ministry also said in the
report that gross domestic product will expand 5 percent this
year, down from a previous forecast of 5.5 percent.  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
reversed earlier declines and rose after the Labor Ministry said
the economy created 280,799 government-registered jobs in
February, compared with 190,900 jobs projected by the median
estimate of five economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 rose 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
12.72 percent.  Yields on the contracts rose as traders increased bets for
how much the central bank will raise borrowing costs to curb
inflation after the ministry’s report showed “strong” job
growth, David Rocha, a trader at Renascenca DTVM Ltd., said by
phone from Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  