-- 
Broaddus Says Fed to Delay Any Upgrade of Outlook: Tom Keene

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-15T14:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/broaddus-says-fed-to-delay-any-upgrade-of-outlook-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  will delay any
upgrading of its economic outlook today as its policy committee
weighs the economic impact of the earthquake in Japan and rising
oil prices, former Richmond Fed President Alfred Broaddus said.  “With all that has happened -- the tragedy in Japan, the
recent run-up in energy prices -- all of that takes the
likelihood of any significant change at all, even any small
change, pretty much off the table,” Broaddus said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “What they are going to want to signal is continuity and
steadiness for now.”  Fed policy makers may reaffirm their plans to complete
purchases of $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries aimed at boosting
job growth, Broaddus said. The  Federal Open Market Committee ,
led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, will make an announcement today
at about 2:15 p.m.  The former Fed official’s view echoed the opinion of
economists. Of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
week, 49 said the Fed will buy the full amount of bonds in a bid
to boost the economy. Thirty-one said the central bank won’t
adjust the pace or duration of the purchases, as it did in the
first round of so-called quantitative easing in 2009-10.  Recent divisions among policy makers may reflect greater
transparency rather than more conflict than in past decades, as
the Fed tries to decide on when to exit from record stimulus,
Broaddus said.  Stronger Economy  Broaddus, 71, said a stronger economy that seemed to be
developing before recent turmoil in the Middle East and the
earthquake in  Japan  could lead to “more inflation down the
road. The Fed is going to have to front-run that. The problem we
had throughout much of my career in the 1970s and 1980s is we
got behind the curve.”  “We would tighten policy, but tighten too late, and then
have to tighten very strongly, which many times was
destabilizing. The key is to try to stay ahead of that,”
Broaddus said.  The Fed was divided over whether further evidence of a
strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing the
$600 billion of Treasury purchases, according to minutes of its
January meeting. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser ,
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker and St. Louis’s  James Bullard  have urged a review of the purchases in light of a
strengthening economy and concern over future inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  