-- 
Brown Budget Fix Heads to Legislative Vote as Talks With Republicans Stall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-16T20:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/brown-says-he-ll-seek-california-budget-vote-as-talks-struggle.html
California lawmakers are scheduled
to begin voting today on Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget, even
though he said he has yet to win enough Republican support for a
referendum on extending $9.3 billion of higher taxes and fees.  The Senate and Assembly both began voting today, almost a
week after the deadline Brown gave lawmakers to pass the
package. He asked for a delay March 10 to negotiate with a group
of Republican senators seeking spending and pension concessions
in exchange for their votes. No deal was reached.  The tax extension is at the heart of Brown’s plan to
eliminate a $26.6 billion deficit through June 2012. He also
seeks to slash spending by $12.5 billion. Brown, who took office
in January, has pledged to repair the financial strains that
have left  California  with the biggest deficit among U.S. states
and the lowest credit rating. Brown said he’ll propose another
$10 billion of cuts if the tax measure fails.  “The issue isn’t whether to tax or not, but whether to
deny the people the right to decide whether they want $25
billion of cuts,” Brown said yesterday.  “Unfortunately, there are more extreme elements in the  Republican Party  that are branding any Republican lawmaker that
votes for the tax extension as a terrorist and an evil being for
giving the people the right to vote,” the governor said.  Poll Support  As lawmakers took up Brown’s proposals, a new poll showed
that a majority of California voters support a combination of
spending cuts and increases in  tax revenue  to tackle the
deficit.  The approach is backed by 52 percent of voters, according
to a statewide survey by the  University of California , Berkeley,
and The  Field Poll , released today. Brown’s call for extending
temporary tax increases won support from 58 percent.  While Democrats control the Legislature, they lack the two-
thirds needed to authorize the statewide ballot Brown wants.
Republicans have pressed the governor and Democrats to cut
pension benefits for government workers, to cap spending and to
ease business and environmental regulations. Brown needs at
least four Republican lawmakers to create a two-thirds majority
to put the tax question before voters in June.  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has coped
with a combined $100 billion of deficits in the past three
years. U.S. governors face gaps totaling as much as $112 billion
in the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-based
Center on Budget & Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group
that focuses on issues affecting lower-income Americans.  Taxes, Fees  If the ballot measure passes the Senate and the Assembly,
voters would be asked to retain a 0.25 percentage-point increase
in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the
retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate
for auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15
percent of a vehicle’s value; and a reduction of the state’s
child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Brown has said he wants to know the outcome of that vote
before  June 15 , the constitutional deadline for the Legislature
to send him a budget. Last year’s financial plan was passed a
record 100 days into the fiscal year, which begins July 1.  California shares with Illinois the lowest  credit rating  of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities and
the lowest for any state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  