-- 
Buffett Still Gets Lubrizol at Lehman-Bust Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 
2011-03-15T20:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/buffett-still-gets-lubrizol-at-lehman-bust-price-after-183-gain-real-m-a.html
  Warren Buffett  is still getting the
same discount for his takeover of  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  even after the
maker of engine lubricant almost tripled since the billionaire
investor said it was time to start buying U.S. equities.    Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  will pay about $9 billion for
Lubrizol in its second-largest purchase since Buffett said in
October 2008 he was staking his personal fortune to American
stocks. While Lubrizol surged 183 percent over that span, its
equity and net debt was valued at 5.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization prior to
yesterday’s announcement, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 5.7 times when Buffett made his
comments a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Even with a 24 percent premium, the Ebitda multiple that
Buffett is paying for Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol is still
the cheapest for a specialty chemicals company in 12 years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Lubrizol has doubled earnings and
its operating margin in the past two years and controls 35
percent of sales in an industry dominated by four companies.  “Being an excellent investor means you don’t overpay,”
said Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors
LLC, which oversees $7 billion. “It’s a pretty good deal for
Buffett in terms of the kind of stuff that he tends to gravitate
towards.”  Barish’s $1.44 billion  Cambiar Opportunity Fund (CAMOX)  has
outperformed 99 percent of rival funds over the past year.  ‘Major Acquisitions’  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer . Julie Young, a spokeswoman for
Lubrizol, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-mail.  The Lubrizol deal comes two weeks after the billionaire
said in his  annual letter  to shareholders on Feb. 26 that he was
looking for “more major acquisitions,” a year after spending
$26.5 billion to buy Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad in
his largest purchase.  Buffett said Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, whose cash
rose to a three-year high of $38.2 billion, needed more buyouts
and that his “trigger finger is itchy.”  Lubrizol, the world’s largest producer of lubricant
additives, was one of more than 40 companies that Bloomberg
identified this month that fit criteria listed in his letter.  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his report. His takeover strategy has shifted as
Berkshire has grown to focus on “capital intensive
businesses,” such as power producers and railroads, which
require consistent investment in infrastructure and equipment.  Relative Value  Lubrizol’s capital expenses in the past 12 months accounted
for 15 percent of net fixed assets, and its average price-
earnings ratio over five years was 11.9, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The maker of engine lubricant posted a return on equity of
34 percent last year, the highest for a company taken over in
the specialty chemicals industry in a deal worth more than $1
billion since Inspec Group Plc in 1998, the data show.  Lubrizol also makes plastics used in pipes, auto parts and
electronics; Carbopol polymer for personal-care products such as
hair gel; and acrylic resins and other materials for coatings.  Berkshire is acquiring Lubrizol after its stock reached a
high of $114.81 on Oct. 25, 2010. The shares climbed 183 percent
from Buffett’s comments in October 2008 to $105.44 on March 11,
the last day of trading before the deal was announced. Lubrizol
fell 91 cents to $133.77 at 4 p.m. on the  New York  Stock
Exchange after surging 28 percent yesterday.  ‘Got Good Value’  “The stock has gone up a lot,” said  John Carey , a Boston-
based money manager at Pioneer Investments, which oversees about
$250 billion. “He’s not getting it at as cheap a price as he
might have. He evidently feels that it’s still got good value.”  Lubrizol’s trailing 12-month Ebitda doubled during the same
period to $1.26 billion, keeping the company’s enterprise value
-- or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash -- to Ebitda
multiple little changed, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buffett wrote in the New York Times on Oct. 17, 2008, that
exaggerated concern about the long-term prosperity of
financially secure U.S. companies was foolish, and most would be
setting profit records in years to come. A month earlier, New
York-based Lehman had filed for the largest bankruptcy in
history, deepening a global credit crisis and the worst American
recession since the Great Depression.  ‘Run the Math’  The $135-a-share price for Lubrizol represented a premium
of 24.2 percent over the 20-day trading average. That’s in line
with the 24.8 percent average for Berkshire takeovers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t even need to run the math,” said  Philip Orlando ,
the New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which manages $341.3 billion. “I’m completely
confident that he has established the normal parameters of his
valuation disciplines.”  The agreement to buy Lubrizol at 7.3 times Ebitda is the
cheapest takeover of a specialty chemicals company greater than
$500 million since  Imerys SA (NK)  in Paris paid 5.4 times for English
China Clays in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bid is even lower at 6.7 times estimated 2011 Ebitda of
$1.38 billion, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Berkshire is getting an attractive valuation,” said
Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies Group
Inc. who recommends buying the shares. “The deal suggests
Berkshire is more upbeat about the sustainability of margins.”  ‘Worry About’  Lubrizol has the largest share in the lubricant additives
industry, where more than 90 percent of sales are controlled by
four companies, said Michael Sison, a Cleveland-based analyst at
KeyBanc Capital Markets. They have been able to raise prices to
recoup oil-based raw materials costs and limit capacity
additions, he said.  “Pricing power seems to be something that this company
does not have to worry about,” Dmitry Silversteyn, an analyst
at Longbow Research in Independence,  Ohio , said of Lubrizol.  Lubrizol’s operating margin, or the amount of income
retained for each dollar of sales, climbed to 20 percent last
year from 9.1 percent in 2008.  The company’s lubricant additives business brought in $3.9
billion, or 72 percent of revenue last year, while advanced
materials made up 28 percent of sales.  ‘American Industry’  “It’s a relatively easy business to understand and one
that Buffett can really get his arms around at a decent price,”
said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based
Harris  Private Bank , which oversees $55 billion and owned
Lubrizol shares as of Dec. 31. “Future growth prospects are
rather predictable. It’s a Buffett bet on industrial growth, on
the growth of American industry.”  The Lubrizol acquisition now leaves Buffett with about $29
billion in cash, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With Berkshire generating almost $1 billion in free  cash
flow  a month and near zero percent interest rates limiting
returns in fixed-income markets, Buffett will probably be eyeing
more takeovers, Cambiar’s Barish said.  Excluding Lubrizol, there are still 34 companies with
market values from $4 billion to $20 billion that have capital
expenses accounting for at least 5 percent of their net fixed
assets; a return on equity exceeding 10 percent; profit growth
in the past five years that ranked in the top 50 percent; and an
average price-earnings ratio in that span that was less than the
median in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Buffett’s Criteria  The list includes discount retailer  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR)  of
Chesapeake,  Virginia ;  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) , the Austin, Minnesota-
based maker of Spam luncheon meat; and  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , the
Milwaukee-based mining-equipment maker that sells drills and
shovels.  “It sounds like he does intend to buy more stuff,” said
Cambiar’s Barish. “He really does want to get cash to work in
good businesses that are durable franchises that will benefit
from economic strength. That’s clearly what he’s trying to do.”  Overall, there have been 4,604 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $457.7 billion, a 13 percent increase from
the $403.6 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 