-- 
Calpers Says Middlemen Were Paid $180 Million to Win Investment Business

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/calpers-says-placement-agents-were-paid-180-million-to-win-fund-business.html
The  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System’s outside money-managers paid $180 million
over the past decade to middlemen they hired to win business
from the largest U.S. public pension, according to a report
examining the use of so-called placement agents.  The  report  faults those money-managers for failing to
properly oversee the use of middlemen to help private-equity and
real-estate firms win contracts to investment money for the
$228.2 billion fund.  “There was, in our view, at least some obligation on the
part of the external managers hiring placement agents to monitor
whether the millions of dollars they were paying were, in turn,
corrupting internal practices at Calpers,” according to the
report whose lead author was  Philip Khinda , a  Washington , D.C.-
based lawyer with Steptoe & Johnson LLC.  Calpers  commissioned the report amid federal and state
inquiries into influence-peddling for access to the $2 trillion
in U.S. public retirement funds. Its findings add detail to
investigations into the conduct of  Alfred Villalobos , who served
on the board from 1993 to 1995 and later became a placement
agent.  “As a former Villalobos associate said, ‘Do you think we
just did this in California? We took the show on the road,’”
according to the report, which didn’t name the associate.  The California attorney general’s office has  accused 
Villalobos of trying to improperly influence investment
decisions with favors such as travel and use of a Lake Tahoe
mansion. Villalobos has denied any wrongdoing.  Calpers Relationships  Khinda and others interviewed more than 140 people and
scoured about 70 million pages of documents in unraveling the
relationships among Villalobos, former Calpers Chief Executive
Officer Federico Buenrostro Jr. and former board members,
according to the report.  “I believe this is a turning point for our organization,
and a pledge to our members, employers and stakeholders, that
misconduct and serious ethical breaches have no place at
Calpers,” Chief Executive Officer Anne Stausboll said in a
statement yesterday.  Villalobos and Buenrostro, who also has denied wrongdoing,
declined to cooperate with the review and weren’t legally
obliged to, according to the report. Calls to Villalobos’s
office after regular business hours, and to William Barnes and
Seth Rafkin, lawyers for the men, weren’t immediately returned
yesterday. Buenrostro’s telephone number in Sacramento has been
disconnected.  Apollo, Medco  Villalobos represented New York private-equity firm Apollo
Global Management and New Jersey-based  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS) , the largest U.S. prescription-benefits manager. In a
letter to Calpers in April, Apollo said it would no longer use
placement agents to secure business from the pension fund.
Medco, in a regulatory filing Feb. 22, said it’s cooperating
with investigations.  Khinda’s report said the middleman exercised undue
influence over Buenrostro and hosted former board members at his
Lake Tahoe retreat, after which the board members voted in favor
of Medco’s $26 million contract to manage pharmaceutical
benefits for more than 300,000 members of Calpers’ preferred-
provider organization health plan.  Then-Attorney General  Jerry Brown , now governor, sued
Villalobos and Buenrostro in May 2010 for fraud involving more
than $47 million in “undisclosed and unlawful” commissions for
selling $4.8 billion worth of securities to Calpers.  No Experience  Khinda’s report said Villalobos, who had no experience in
pharmaceutical-benefits contracts, was retained as a consultant
by Medco for $4 million after company CEO David Snow and
Buenrostro were hosted at Villalobos’ Lake Tahoe home in May
2004. Calls after business hours yesterday to Lowell Weiner and
Jennifer Luddy, spokesmen for Medco, weren’t returned.  Villalobos later played host to Snow and three Calpers
board members -- Charles Valdes, Kurato Shimada and Robert Carlson -- in September 2004, according to the report. As
members of a Calpers committee, Valdes and Carlson later voted
to award the contract to Medco, while Shimada injected himself
into discussions on the contract although he didn’t sit on the
committee, the report said.  Valdes, Shimada and Carlson, who are no longer on the
board, weren’t accused of wrongdoing. A call to Valdes after
regular business hours wasn’t immediately returned yesterday.
Carlson  died  in September, according to a statement by CSEA
Retirement Inc., an organization for California state government
retirees.  ‘Not True’  “There’s a lot of things that have been written by Mr.
Khinda that are not true,” Shimada said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There are a lot of assumptions.”  While the events in 2004 and 2005 surrounding the award of
the pharmaceutical benefits management “contract provide a
striking example of the manner in which certain business was
apparently conducted while Buenrostro was CEO of Calpers, those
events would not come to light until much later,” according to
the report.  Calpers has adopted changes intended to keep situations
such as those described in the report from being repeated, state
Treasurer Bill Lockyer, a member of fund’s board, said in a
statement.  Among other measures, Calpers said it has opened an ethics
hotline to collect tips about possible corruption. The fund said
it also requires additional disclosures from board members and
has established new rules of communication involving investment
contracts.  “Swindlers have used PERS to line their pockets, and if
they have committed criminal acts, they should be prosecuted and
put behind bars,” Lockyer said, referring to Calpers. “At a
minimum, former officials have committed despicable breaches of
the public trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  