-- 
Canada February Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-15T13:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/canada-february-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), national
resale housing activity in February 2011 ran close to the five-
year average for the month, continuing a theme that has
characterized the past four months.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) national sales activity via the
Multiple Listing Service (MLS) Systems of Canadian real estate
Boards came in 5.9 per cent below levels reported last February.
This marks the smallest year-over-year decline in nine months,
and the fourth consecutive month in which sales activity was on
par with the five-year average for that month.  Seasonally adjusted home sales activity edged down 1.6 per cent
in February 2011 compared to the previous month on a national
basis. Sales activity eased in almost two-thirds of all local
markets from the previous month, offsetting monthly increases in
activity among other markets including  Vancouver  and Calgary.  Nationally, new listings in February edged up 1.5 per cent from
the previous month on a seasonally adjusted basis, which builds
on the 4.3 per cent monthly increase in January. The rise in new
listings is consistent with CREA’s expectation that many
sellers, who shied away from listing their home last summer when
the national housing market softened, would list their home in
early 2011, having by now observed improved demand and stable
prices.  With both sales activity and new supply little changed in
February, the housing market remained firmly in balanced
territory. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a measure
of market balance, stood at 53.5 per cent in February. This is
little changed from the previous four months.  “Most local housing markets in  Canada  are well balanced, but
there are still a number of buyers’ and sellers’ markets,” said
Georges Pahud, CREA’s President. “Housing market trends often
evolve and diverge from national trends due to local factors, so
buyers and sellers should consult their local REALTOR to
understand how the housing market is shaping up where they
live.”  The number of months of inventory represents the number of
months it takes to sell current inventory at the current rate of
sales activity, and is another measure of the balance between
housing supply and demand. The seasonally adjusted number of
months of inventory stood at 5.7 months at the end of February
on a national basis. This is little changed from the 5.5 months
reported in January, when it reached the lowest level since last
April.  The national average price for homes sold in February 2011 rose
8.8 per cent year-over-year to $365,192. “The average price has
been skewed higher nationally and in British Columbia recently
by a record number of multi-million dollar sales in a couple of
areas in Greater Vancouver,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief
Economist.  “When you take Vancouver out of the equation, the year-over-year
increase in the national average price drops to 3.4 per cent,”
added Klump. “While that’s still stronger than in the past six
months or so, national average price gains may recede after
tighter mortgage regulations take effect in March.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales information
from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  