-- 
Canada’s Dollar Tumbles Most in 10 Months as Oil Drops Amid Japan Concern

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-15T21:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/canadian-dollar-falls-as-japanese-radiation-threat-saps-risk-demand.html
  Canada ’s dollar tumbled the most in
almost 10 months versus the greenback as concern that a nuclear
accident outside of  Tokyo  may cripple the global economy damped
investors’ appetite for assets related to growth.  The currency, known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened versus the yen on
speculation Japanese investors will bring home overseas assets.
It also slumped as commodities including crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, dropped. The loonie fell versus most major
currencies, while the U.S. dollar rose against most.    Japan , Japan, Japan was the theme of the day,” said Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of capital markets at the
currency trader Tempus Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “The
commodity-based groups moved lower, bringing the commodity-
linked currencies with them.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 1.2 percent to 98.59
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.38 cents
yesterday. It fell as much as 2.4 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since May 20. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0143.  Raw materials including oil account for about half of
Canada’s export revenue.  The loonie rose 0.7 percent against the Australian dollar,
another currency linked to commodities. It traded at 97.68 cents
per Aussie.  The Canadian dollar pared losses versus the greenback as
oil trimmed its decline after  Bahrain  declared a three-month
state of emergency and Group of Eight officials failed to agree
on a no-fly zone over  Libya . A second contingent of forces from
Gulf states arrived in Bahrain to support its government.  Called for Calm  The franc, dollar and yen were the among the five top-
performing major currencies as investors sought refuge after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called for calm amid efforts
to cool earthquake-damaged nuclear reactors. Engineers restored
water to safe levels at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. nuclear power
plant 135 miles north of Tokyo, helping to contain radiation
emissions.  “The market is thinking about what is going to be the
impact for commodities in this environment,” said  Paul Mackel ,
a foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London .  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials 
declined for a sixth day, the longest losing streak since
August. It slid 3.6 percent, the most since Nov. 12.  The Canadian dollar touched 99.74 cents per greenback, the
weakest level since Feb. 11, as crude oil dropped as much as 4.4
percent to $96.71 a barrel in New York. It later traded at
$97.42 a barrel, down 3.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 1.1 percent after declining earlier as much as 2.7
percent.  Labor Productivity  The loonie weakened even after government data showed
Canadian labor productivity rose more than forecast in the
fourth quarter. It increased 0.5 percent, up from a revised 0.4
percent in the third quarter that was greater than first
estimated,  Statistics Canada  said today. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey had estimated the measure of worker output
would rise 0.2 percent from a previous reading of 0.1 percent.  The currency erased its gain for 2011 and fell 0.2 percent
in a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
has lost 1.6 percent, while the euro has advanced 3.5 percent.  Canadian  government bonds  rose today, pushing the yield on
the two-year note down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.63 percent. It touched 1.52 percent, the lowest
level since Nov. 9. The price of the 1.75 percent note due in
March 2013 increased 8 cents to C$100.24. The 10-year benchmark
yield reached 3.12 percent, the lowest since Jan. 4.  Fed on Recovery  Canada’s dollar remained lower versus its American
counterpart after the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee said
the economic recovery is gaining strength and that higher energy
prices will have a temporary effect on inflation.  Federal Reserve policy makers reaffirmed plans to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June to spur growth and held their
benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by
all 101 economists in a Bloomberg survey. It hasn’t been changed
since December 2008.  “No one is really quite sure what to make of the Fed’s
commentary,” said Tempus’s Salvaggio. “The statement hasn’t
changed anyone’s perception, although they think that inflation
pressures could become a problem.”  The  Bank of Canada  has held its key rate at 1 percent since
September after raising it three times last year. Policy makers
reiterated on March 1 that a strong currency poses challenges to
the nation’s exporters.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  