-- 
CFTC to Focus on Swaps Data to Shape Regulations, O’Malia Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-03-15T18:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/cftc-to-focus-on-swaps-data-to-shape-regulations-o-malia-says.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission will focus on collecting data to inform how it
completes regulation of the $583 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market , said Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  The information on how many swaps trade per day and which
contracts are considered standardized by the industry will make
it easier to know which trades can be guaranteed by a
clearinghouse, O’Malia said today in an interview at the  Futures
Industry Association  annual conference in  Boca Raton . Once
clearing is established, how the trades are executed on
exchanges or similar systems can be determined, he said.  “There’s a recognition that we need to phase” the
rulemaking, he said. “It’s something I’ve been asking for, to
step back, and I greatly appreciate that the commission and the
chairman are willing to do that,” he said, referring to CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are writing rules to
oversee interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps for the
first time after the market complicated efforts to resolve the
financial crisis. Credit swaps were also used to mimic returns
of subprime mortgages that sparked the 2007-2008 credit crisis.
The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission have until July
to finish the rule writing.  The process is now halfway done, and it’s time for the
industry to work with regulators to finish the job, O’Malia
said.  “We’ve defined in the draft rules what this market will
look like,” he said. “We’re in this regulatory pause, but the
staff is really working hard to order and sort this out.”  O’Malia had previously raised concerns that the commission
was moving forward without definitions in place that would allow
swaps users to know how they fit into the regulations. Proposed
rules on clearing were decided before the standards to be a
swaps dealer were released, for example.  The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law last year, requires
all swaps transactions to be reported to swap-data repositories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 