-- 
China May Start Importing Rare Earths to Meet Demand, Mining Official Says

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-03-15T17:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/china-soon-may-need-to-import-rare-earths-on-demand-mining-official-says.html
  China , which controls about 95
percent of global shipments of rare earths, may start importing
some of the material to meet rising domestic demand, according
to Liu Junhua, a Chinese official.  “China may eventually need to import the materials,” Liu,
the deputy secretary for Baotou Rare Earth High-Tech Industrial
Development Zone Committee said today in an interview after
speaking at the International Rare Earth Summit in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. There’s a “strong possibility of importing heavy
rare earths” in the next three to four years, he said through
an interpreter.  Domestic Chinese demand for rare earths has increased as
much as 200 percent in the last 12 months, with almost half of
that increase coming since the start of the year, Liu said.  Rare earths are a group of 17 elements; the mines in the
Baotou region produce so-called light rare-earths including
lanthanum, cerium and samarium. Heavy rare-earth production,
concentrated in the south of China, includes the elements
dysprosium, gadolinium and terbium.  The Chinese government slashed export quotas by 72 percent
in the second half of last year for the elements that have uses
ranging from high-end magnets in U.S. weapons to catalysts in
petroleum refining. The country has committed to a 35 percent
cut in the first half of 2011 from the level a year earlier.
Export quotas for the second half of 2011 may be announced only
in July, Liu said.  China has about 36 percent of global rare-earth reserves
and the U.S. has 13 percent, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  Japanese Consumption    Japan , the world’s largest rare-earth importer, saw prices
of the materials almost triple last year after China clamped
down on exports and also briefly banned shipments to Japan,
Furkhat Faizulla, marketing manager, Advanced Material Japan
Corp. said at the conference organized by Asian Metal.  Although normal shipments have resumed, the export license
fee charged by China has risen to as much as $70 a kilogram from
$2 a kilogram last year, Faizulla said: “We are the importers
and we see the situation.”  Restricted supply of heavy rare-earths will continue for
the next two to five years if China continues its current
policies, Faizulla said.  If all other rare-earth mining projects in the world come
online as planned, China’s share of global supplies may drop to
70 percent in the next five years from more than 90 percent now,
Faizulla said.  New rare-earth projects in development include  Molycorp
Inc. (MCP) , of  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , owner of the largest rare-
earth deposit outside China; Canada’s  Great Western Minerals
Group Ltd. (GWG) , of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; and  Avalon Rare Metals
Inc. (AVL)  of Toronto. Lynas Corp. of Sydney,  Australia  also is
developing projects in the country.  Countering China  U.S. lawmakers including Senators  Charles Schumer  and
Debbie Stabenow today called on President Barack Obama’s
administration to block Chinese mining projects as a step to
counter China’s curbs on rare-earth exports.  The Democratic lawmakers -- Schumer from  New York  and
Stabenow from Michigan -- said in a statement they would write
to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , asking for action.  The senators will ask Geithner to block World Bank funding
for any Chinese mining projects, and ask Salazar to prohibit
Chinese-funded work in the U.S., according to the statement.  Prices for some rare earths jumped more than 1,000 percent
last year because of the restrictions, Molycorp said in
December.  Global demand for the elements may more than double by 2020
from 125,000 metric tons last year, according to Molycorp’s
filing last month with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Pittsburgh via 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  