-- 
China’s February Foreign Direct Investment Increases 32.2%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-15T05:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/china-s-february-foreign-direct-investment-increases-32-2-2-.html
Foreign direct investment in China
climbed in February, indicating investor confidence in the
world’s second-biggest economy as Premier  Wen Jiabao  vows to
boost household incomes.  Investment rose 32.2 percent to $7.8 billion last month
from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement on its website today. That compares with a 23.4
percent gain in January.  Raising wages and reducing  income inequality  will be among
the government’s top tasks in the next five years as the nation
switches the focus of growth to consumption from investment, Wen
said on March 5. Companies including Belgian beermaker Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV are increasing their presence in the world’s most
populous nation to take advantage of growing spending power.  “If you want to make money, go to emerging markets, and
China stands out among them,”  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based
economist with Industrial Bank Co., said before today’s release.
“Economic growth prospects remain robust and the risk of
inflation getting out of control is almost negligent.”  Foreign investment in the first two months rose 27.1
percent to $17.8 billion, the commerce ministry said today. The
number of newly approved foreign-invested companies in the first
two months of the year rose 7.5 percent from a year earlier to
3,399, according to the statement.    Luxury-Goods  Surge  The government aims to increase urban and rural per capita
net income by more than 8 percent a year in real terms over the
next five years, the National Development and Reform Commission
said on March 5. It estimated retail sales will expand 16
percent this year.  Anheuser-Busch, the world’s largest brewer, said last month
it will buy a 25 percent stake in Dalian Daxue Brewery Co. from
Kirin Holdings Co. as part of a strategy to “expand its
footprint” in the biggest beer market. The company plans to
build a new brewery in northeastern  China ’s Liaoning province to
produce Budweiser and Harbin beer brands, it said.  Chloe, the French fashion label owned by Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, aims to add four stores in China this year and
expects the Asian nation to be its largest market within two
years, Chief Executive Officer Geoffroy De La Bourdonnaye said
in an interview on Feb. 25.  China may surpass  Japan  to become the world’s biggest
consumer of luxury goods by 2015, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming 
said on March 7. Domestic consumption of high-end  consumer goods 
gained 23 percent last year, he said.  Rising Consumption  There will be “strong” increases in salaries in the five
years from 2011 through 2015 as the nation’s supply of labor
declines and consumers spend more and save less, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a report dated Jan. 1. Wages may rise by 19
percent a year and private consumption may climb to 41.7 percent
of gross domestic product in 2015 from 35.6 percent last year,
the bank estimated.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  