-- 
China's Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low on Concern About Japan Radiation Leak

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-15T07:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/china-s-stocks-fall-most-in-2-months-on-concern-about-japan-radiation-leak.html
  China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to its lowest in more than two weeks, after the
risk of radiation leaks in Japan escalated and concern grew that
last week’s quake will slow Asia’s economic growth.  Dongfang Electric Corp., which makes nuclear power-related
products, fell 5.2 percent after Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  said the danger of further radiation leaks was rising at a
nuclear facility north of  Tokyo . Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led
declines among coal producers on concern Japan’s demand for the
fuel will decline.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the nation’s
second-biggest life insurer, slid 2.8 percent after selling
shares to a Hong Kong billionaire to boost capital.  “Investors are worried about the situation in Japan as the
blast at the nuclear plant makes it a regional risk,” said Zhou Xi, a strategist at Bohai Securities Co. “It’s not about the
earthquake but more about radiation leakage concerns which will
drag down the economy in Japan and even the whole of Asia.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 41.37 points, or 1.4 percent,
to 2,896.26 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest since Feb. 25. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 1.8 percent to 3,203.96, with all 10 industry
groups falling more than 1 percent.  Japan’s shares plunged for a second day, with the Topix
index suffering its worst two-day loss since the 1987 stock
market crash, as the country continued to reel from the March 11
earthquake. Blasts have occurred at three of the station’s six
reactors since March 12 and a fire was discovered in a fourth
unit’s building today.  Investors sought the relative safety of government debt as
Treasuries surged to become the world’s best-performing bonds
over the past week after the temblor.  Nuclear Plans  Dongfang Electric plunged 5.2 percent to 30.20 yuan. China
First Heavy Industries Co., a manufacturer of nuclear power
generators, slid 6.3 percent to 6.08 yuan.  China, the world’s biggest polluter, is building more
nuclear reactors than any other nation in an effort to cut
emissions and protect its environment while trying to maintain
economic growth. The country is tripling the number of reactors,
building 27 units to add to the 13 that are already operational,
according to the London-based  World Nuclear Association .  “China will become more cautious while developing nuclear-  power plants  but is unlikely to alter its long-term nuclear
development plans,” Dave Dai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., said by phone March 13.
“The accident in Japan may trigger increased public concerns
over building atomic plants.”  Energy Producers  Crude oil fell in  New York  as concerns that damage from
Japan’s earthquake will limit crude demand outweighed
heightening tensions in the Middle East. Prices plunged as much
as 2.5 percent as factory plants remained shut in Japan.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil company, fell 1.3
percent to 11.54 yuan. Yanzhou Coal slumped 5.1 percent to 30.02
yuan. China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest coal
producer, lost 2.7 percent to 26.69 yuan.    Japan  relies on imports for almost all of its coal
consumption, according to China Merchants Securities Co. The
Asian country imports about 180 million tons of coal every year,
accounting for about 20 percent of the global trade of the fuel,
Lu Ping and Wang Peipei, analysts at China Merchants wrote in a
report dated yesterday.  A one-percentage-point growth slowdown in Japan’s economy
is expected to cut China’s overall exports by 0.2 percentage
point, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. analysts led by Ling Peng
wrote in a report yesterday. About 8 percent of China’s exports
go to Japan and 12 percent of China’s imports are from Japan,
according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  China Cosco Holdings Co.,  Asia ’s largest shipping line by
market value, dropped 3 percent to 10.16 yuan. China Southern
Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest airline, lost 2.5 percent to
8.22 yuan.  ‘Buying Opportunities’  Japan’s earthquake creates “buying opportunities” for
Chinese equities as the temblor may ease pressure on the central
bank to tighten monetary policy, according to China
International Capital Corp.  “The quake may bring a glimmer of hope that China’s
central bank may ease the strength of its tightening monetary
policies as uncertainty rises significantly overseas,” Hao Hong, global equity strategist, said in a report yesterday.
“The market may become more volatile and the market corrections
will provide buying opportunities.”  Overtakes Japan  China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-biggest
equities market by value, as the Japanese earthquake spurs
concern rebuilding efforts will curb manufacturing and add to
the world’s largest public debt.  Ping An fell 2.8 percent to 49.45 yuan. The company raised
HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion) selling shares to a Hong Kong
billionaire. The share sale to Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd. is
“less justified” than a full rights issue from the viewpoint
of existing shareholders, Deutsche Bank AG said.  While the placement will “strengthen” the group’s overall
solvency ratio above 200 percent even when considering the
capital needs of Shenzhen Development Bank Co., “we question
the strategic value in introducing Chow Tai Fook,” Bob Leung,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report dated yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  