-- 
Chu Says No Need to Suspend New U.S. Nuclear Plant Permits

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-15T21:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/chu-says-u-s-doesn-t-need-to-suspend-new-nuclear-plant-permits.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said
the U.S. doesn’t need to suspend work on new nuclear permits
while investigating the crisis in  Japan , where officials are
struggling with reactors damaged by an earthquake and tsunami.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  review is long enough
that revisions can be made to reflect findings from the
examination of failures at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Daiichi
nuclear station, he said.  “If you look at the process in which the NRC approves
going forward with construction projects and nuclear reactors,
it’s a thoughtful process,” Chu told reporters today after
appearing before the House Appropriations subcommittee on energy
and water development. “It’s a multiyear process and because of
its very nature, I think these things can proceed.”  Lawmakers set aside plans today to review the Energy
Department’s 2012 budget and focused on how U.S. nuclear
reactors withstand what Chu referred to as the “double-barrel
whammy” that crippled reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi plant
and raised the threat of a catastrophic radiation leak.  “We need to take a hard look at any lessons learned from
this tragedy that can further improve the safety of our
reactors,” Chu said during the subcommittee hearing.  U.S. power-plant developers are required by regulators to
design plants that can survive worst-case scenarios, such as
earthquakes and tsunamis, said Chu, who won the  Nobel Prize  for
physics in 1997.  Providing Expertise  The administration sent equipment and nuclear experts to
Japan to provide advice and technical assistance, Chu said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the NRC is
constantly reviewing safety at currently operating plants and
has the authority to order a shutdown of any facility that
doesn’t meet standards or to upgrade safety procedures.  He declined to comment on the German government’s decision
to take its seven oldest nuclear reactors offline as part of a
nationwide safety review. The NRC is “constantly” evaluating
standards, “and that would apply to old reactors as well as
newer ones.”  Nuclear power was defended by members of the energy and
water development subcommittee, including Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, a New Jersey Republican and chairman of the
panel.  Administration Support  Chu reiterated the administration’s support for nuclear
power and said new reactor designs similar to  Southern Co. (SO) ’s
Vogtle unit are safer because they rely less on electric power
to pump cooling water to prevent overheating.  The planned Vogtle plant, which received $8.3 billion in
loan guarantees from the Energy Department, would use the AP
1000 reactor design by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Co.  The reactor “relies on the natural forces of gravity,
natural circulation and compressed gases to keep the core and
containment from overheating,” according to the  company’s
website .  Chu said the new design doesn’t require “numerous backup
systems.”  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is reviewing the permit
application for the Vogtle plant.  Carney said Obama “believes that we need to proceed
responsibly with the safety and security of the American people
in mind and, if we do that, that nuclear can continue to be an
element in our energy arsenal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  