-- 
Clean-Energy Companies Jump for Second Day After Japanese Atomic Accident

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-15T17:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/clean-energy-companies-jump-for-second-day-after-japanese-atomic-accident.html
Equipment makers for solar and wind
energy climbed as much as 27 percent, rallying for a second day
on speculation that clean energy will benefit in the aftermath
of  Japan ’s nuclear-reactor accident.  In  Germany , the world’s largest solar-panel market,
photovoltaic panel producer  Solarworld AG (SWV)  jumped 23 percent at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in  Frankfurt . Rival Q-Cells AG
gained 17 percent. Among wind turbine companies,  Nordex SE (NDX1)  rose
19 percent, and in the U.S.  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  jumped 24
percent.  Germany will halt nuclear reactors accounting for 25
percent of its atomic energy capacity as part of a safety review
after explosions at reactors in Japan,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told reporters in Berlin today. The government will use the
three-month moratorium on the extension of the life of German
nuclear plants announced yesterday to review whether the country
can speed up installations of renewable energy.  “The nuclear catastrophe in Japan has changed the value of
nuclear for good -- and inversely that of all alternatives, the
best of which being hydro,” Ing Becker, an analyst at Kepler in
Frankfurt, wrote in a note to customers yesterday.    Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA (SLR) , a Madrid-based
developer of solar farms and maker of photovoltaic panels,
jumped 27 percent, its biggest increase on record.  In  Austria ,  Verbund AG (VER)  rose the most since November 2008 in
intraday trading, up 9.6 percent in Vienna. Austria’s biggest
utility gets about 90 percent of its domestic output from
hydropower. It had the biggest increase in the 29-member
Bloomberg European Utilities Index, which fell 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  