-- 
Clinton Hears Requests for Help from Libyan Opposition in Paris Meeting

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-15T02:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/clinton-hears-requests-for-help-from-libyan-opposition-in-paris-meeting.html
  Libya ’s opposition asked Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  for military help in a meeting
yesterday, including a request that the West bomb three of
Muammar Qaddafi’s airfields, U.S. officials said.  Clinton, in Paris for a meeting with Group of Eight foreign
ministers, met privately with Mahmood Jibril, the foreign
affairs representative of the Libyan  Interim Transitional
National Council .  A U.S. official, who briefed reporters on condition that
his name not be used, described the 45-minute meeting as
constructive.  Jibril asked for the U.S. to supply opposition rebels with
combat material, the official said, as well as political and
economic aid. The U.S. will consider the requests, the official
said.  The official said the rebels have a number of  requests,
including bombing the airfields. Clinton told Jibril that the
U.S. would supply additional support beyond humanitarian aid but
did not get into details, the official added.  Clinton, who travels today to  Egypt  for meetings on that
country’s move toward democracy, had two goals in mind for her
meeting with Jibril, the official said.  The Obama administration wanted to make sure that Jibril
heard from a very high-level official of the U.S.’s commitment
to help, the official said. Clinton also wanted to get a good
understanding of who the people were on the council and what
they were seeking, the official said.  Broad and Inclusive  The official said that Jibril described the opposition
movement as broad, inclusive and youth-driven, and that he
pressed upon the Americans the legitimacy of the council and the
movement.  Jibril and Clinton discussed the steps toward gaining
international consensus on imposing a no-fly zone over Libya,
using the  United Nations  and momentum that has built up in the
Arab world. The  Arab League  endorsed the idea at a meeting in
Cairo on March 12.  The prospect of a no-fly zone had come up earlier in the
day at a Group of Eight dinner meeting, said a second U.S.
official who also was not authorized to speak except with his
name withheld. Ministers agreed that that further discussions on
the issue should take place at the  United Nations Security
Council .  While the  Arab League  called for the establishment of a no-
fly zone over Libya, the U.S. does not have a clear
understanding what those countries think that entails, said the
second official, also speaking on condition of anonymity.  UAE Official  Clinton also discussed establishing a Libyan no-fly zone in
a morning meeting with United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister
Abdullah Bin Zayed Al-Nahyan. The first administration official
said the secretary emphasized that Arab leaders have to take the
lead on acting on Libya.  She also expressed concern that the UAE and  Saudi Arabia 
have sent troops into Bahrain to quell unrest there. Clinton
urged restraint, said the second official.  Clinton and Abdullah also discussed the need for
cooperation between the U.S. and the Gulf Cooperation Council
for the long-term development of Egypt and  Tunisia , the official
said, particularly the role that the GCC could play in spurring
long-term investment. Clinton visits Tunisia later this week
before returning to  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Paris at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  