-- 
Clinton Announces $2 Billion of New Egypt Aid in Cairo

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-15T21:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/clinton-announces-2-billion-of-new-egypt-aid-in-cairo-visit.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced a $2 billion aid package for Egypt to bolster
its economy while the nation considers new government structures
following the ouster of former President Hosni Mubarak’s regime.  “The Egyptian people have made clear that their country’s
economy must provide opportunities for all Egyptians,” Clinton
said, adding that economic reform is as important as political
reform. “The  United States  will support their efforts,” she
said.  The Obama administration’s move to stabilize Egypt comes as
turmoil sweeps the region from North Africa across to the the  Persian Gulf .  Israeli troops intercepted a shipment of arms bound for
Egypt and the Gaza Strip today; Bahrain declared a three-month
state of emergency as a second round of Gulf forces arrived in
the country and news reports said hundreds had been injured; and
forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  closed in on rebel
strongholds.  Clinton arrived in Cairo four days before Egyptians vote on
a constitutional referendum that will determine whether
parliamentary and presidential elections are held in June and
August. Some opposition groups say the referendum doesn’t go far
enough to advance democracy.  In what may be a nod to opposition criticism of how swiftly
the referendum is being held, Clinton said that successful
balloting takes time.  Time to Organize  “While democracy requires elections, elections require
preparation, including time for new parties to organize and
build support, so the Egyptian people have a real choice when
they go to vote,” Clinton said at a press conference with
Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil al-Arabi.  She called for Egyptians to strengthen other elements
needed for a “thriving democracy.”  She cited a need for constitutional reforms, lifting the
emergency law, support for an independent judiciary and free
press, and protections for civil society, so it has the freedom
to operate. She met with civil society leaders later in the day.  “All Egyptians will need to be part of the work ahead,”
Clinton said.  Clinton said she “applauded” the announcement today that  Egypt  will dismantle the State Security Investigations Services.
She and al-Arabi discussed efforts to rebuild the security
forces “on the principles of respect for the rights of all
citizens without the recourse to violence,” Clinton said.  Concrete Help  A thrust of her message was that the U.S. was ready to
offer concrete help to Egypt, not just rhetoric.  “One of the best ways to create jobs is to support small
and medium-sized enterprises, which represent 99 percent of the
jobs in Egypt,” Clinton said.  The U.S. aims “to encourage foreign direct investment that
will help these businesses grow,” she said.  The  Overseas Private Investment Corporation  will provide as
much as $2 billion to encourage private sector investments in
the Middle East and North Africa, Clinton said. The U.S. Export-
Import Bank has also approved $80 million in insurance cover to
support letters of credit issued by Egyptian financial
institutions, on top of $90 million in previously announced
emergency economic aid.  Pending approval by Congress, a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund
would be created with $60 million to stimulate private sector
investment and provide businesses with access to low-cost
capitol.  Clinton and al-Arabi discussed preparation for the
referendum and the role of the military, which stepped in to
take control of the country Feb. 11, after President  Hosni Mubarak  left office. Clinton praised military leaders as acting
“patriotically and responsibly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Cairo at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  