-- 
Commodities Tumble, Led by Oil, Copper as Japanese Quake Threatens Demand

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 
2011-03-15T11:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/commodities-tumble-led-by-oil-copper-as-japanese-quake-threatens-demand.html
Commodities fell for a fourth day,
led by a 3.3 percent slide in crude oil, as  Japan ’s biggest
earthquake and nuclear crisis spurred concern that demand for
raw materials, including some energy products, will shrink.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot index of 24 commodities
dropped 2.4 percent, capping the longest losing streak since
Aug. 24, to 683.12 at 10:57 a.m. in London as crude futures in  New York  slid below $100 a barrel and U.S. gasoline lost as much
as 4.2 percent. Gold, copper and corn also declined.  “What you’re seeing in Japan is a demand-destructive
event,” said  Stephen Wood , New York-based chief market
strategist for Russell Investment Group. “We saw the supply
side to the equation with what’s going on Libya and  Egypt  and to
some extent Bahrain, and now you’re seeing the other side.”  Commodities are retreating after a sixth monthly gain in
February as Japan, the world’s third-biggest economy, grapples
with the aftermath of the quake, the magnitude of which was
revised upward to 9 yesterday from 8.9. A third blast occurred
today at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, and Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risk of further radiation leaks is
rising. The March 11 temblor caused an estimated 10,000 deaths,
shutting down factories,  power plants  and oil refineries.  Crude oil for April delivery dropped as much as $3.38 to
$97.81 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.23 at 11:01 a.m. in London. European
benchmark Brent crude futures traded 2.9 percent lower at
$110.39 on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil Refineries  The earthquake has shut or disrupted production at
refineries accounting for at least 29 percent of Japan’s
processing ability, cutting demand for crude supplies. The
country is the world’s third-largest oil consumer.  U.S. crude futures surged to a 29-month high of $106.95 a
barrel in intraday trading March 7 as violence in  Libya  cut
crude production and threatened to spill into the Middle East.  Gasoline futures on Nymex declined as much as 12.4 cents to
$2.8361 a gallon, the lowest in more than two weeks.  The production halt at some of Japan’s nuclear plants may
boost demand in the country for other fuels, including liquefied
natural gas and  diesel fuel , which many power stations burn to
produce electricity.  Japan will need as much as 10 million metric tons of
additional LNG as a result of the quake and its aftermath, said
Jonathan Stern, director of gas research at the Oxford Institute
for Energy Studies. A “dramatic” increase in LNG demand was
possible if damage to Japanese nuclear facilities proves more
severe than he currently expects, Stern told reporters today at
a conference in Doha, Qatar. Natural gas futures in the U.S. and
U.K. rallied.  Precious Metals  Immediate-delivery gold bullion fell as much as 1.5 percent
to $1,404.95 an ounce. Palladium for immediate delivery dropped
as much as 3.8 percent to $718 an ounce after losing 1.8 percent
yesterday, while platinum decreased as much as 2.2 percent to
$1,715.18 an ounce. Cash silver fell as much as 3.8 percent to
$34.56 an ounce.  “Gold and other precious metals are coming under pressure
as commodities decline across the board,” said Chae Un Soo, a
Seoul-based trader at KEB Futures Co. “The decline in
commodities also coincided with the need for gold to take a
breather after a recent rally to a record.”  Demand for palladium and platinum has been hurt by
shutdowns in auto plants in Japan,  Hussein Allidina , head of
commodity research at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report. The
metals are used to make pollution-control devices.  Carmakers Hit Brakes  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, will
suspend output at 12 Japanese factories today and tomorrow,
spokeswoman Shiori Hashimoto said yesterday. Isuzu Motors Ltd.,
a Toyota affiliate, will halt production at its two Japanese
plants until March 18, spokesman Koichi Ito said. Honda Motor
Co. and Nissan Motor Co. also shut facilities in northern Japan.  Copper for three-month delivery dropped as much as 2.6
percent to $8,950 a ton on the  London  Metal Exchange.  Agricultural commodities also fell. Zen-Noh, Japan’s
largest corn buyer, yesterday said operations to unload U.S.
corn at Kashima and other northern ports were suspended because
of power outages. The country is the biggest buyer of U.S. corn
and ranks second for American wheat and third for soybeans.  Corn for May delivery lost as much as 2 percent to $6.53 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while wheat fell as much
as 2.8 percent to $7.0025 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  