-- 
Congress Won’t Consider Defense Spending as Separate Issue, Durbin Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-03-15T21:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/congress-won-t-consider-defense-spending-as-separate-issue-durbin-says.html
  Richard Durbin , the U.S. Senate’s
second-ranking Democrat, said the Defense Department spending
bill for 2011 won’t be passed separately from a larger package
funding the government.  Durbin, an Illinois Democrat who serves as assistant
majority leader, said that including the defense spending bill
is critical to passage of the overall spending package funding
the government through Sept. 30, when fiscal year 2011 ends.  The U.S. government, including the Pentagon, has been
funded through a series of stopgap bills, called continuing
resolutions, for five months while Congress debates long-term
budget-deficit reduction.  It’s time to bring “this ugly chapter” of stopgap bills
to an end, Durbin said. The defense appropriations bill needs to
be part “of the conversation.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has called on Congress to
finish the 2011 defense spending bill while broader budget
policies are debated.  Under budget rules, the Pentagon can’t start new programs
under a continuing resolution, which extends spending levels
from the previous year. The Pentagon would have to scrap $2.8
billion in contracts that would have started in 2011, according
to a Bloomberg analysis. It may also have to fund some areas
where the military says more money isn’t needed, such as for
more mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, or MRAPs.  Both the Republican-controlled House and Democratic-led
Senate have proposed spending packages for the rest of 2011
including the defense appropriations bill. The two chambers
haven’t reached a compromise on those proposals.  Vote This Week  Congress by the end of this week is expected to send
President  Barack Obama  another continuing resolution expiring
April 8. That measure is expected to give the House and Senate
more time to negotiate.  Two Republican members of the Senate Armed Services
Committee,  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Susan Collins  of  Maine ,
said they will try to carve the 2011 defense appropriations bill
out of the rest of the spending package and offer it as an
amendment to other bills which the Senate will take up.    Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate
Armed Services Committee, said he would support a separate vote
on a defense-spending bill for 2011.  “It is fine to have a separate vote on it,” Levin said in
a brief interview today. “I do not like this whole process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  