-- 
Connecticut Is No. 1 in Women’s Tournament, Seeks Third Straight Title

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/connecticut-is-no-1-in-women-s-tournament-seeks-third-straight-title.html
University of Connecticut  coach
Geno Auriemma said he doesn’t care that his team is the top seed
entering the national women’s college basketball tournament. It
only matters if the Huskies finish No. 1.  Expectations at UConn have risen as the school seeks a
third consecutive championship, matching its run from 2002-04
and  Tennessee ’s streak from 1996-98.  “Winning 30 games is not a big deal. Going to the Sweet 16
is not a big deal. Going to the Final Four is not a big deal.
Winning the national championship is,” Auriemma  said  yesterday
after  Connecticut  was seeded as the top team in the 64-team
National Collegiate Athletic Association field.  The University of Tennessee,  Stanford University  and Baylor
University are the other regional No. 1 seeds.  If UConn (32-1) reaches the Final Four in Indianapolis, the
Huskies could face Tennessee (31-2) for a spot in the
championship game. Auriemma has seven national titles, one fewer
than Tennessee coach Pat Summitt.  Connecticut’s tournament run will start March 19 at home
against American East Conference champion Hartford. The Hawks
are coached by former Huskies player Jen Rizzotti, who was the
point guard for Auriemma’s first championship team in 1995.
Hartford is 0-11 all-time against UConn.  Auriemma said while he’s “thrilled” for Rizzoti, whose
team recovered after a 1-9 start this season, those emotions
won’t carry over to the court.  “The kids that play for me, they were in grade school when
Jennifer played here. They don’t know about that stuff,”
Auriemma said. “They just want to play in their first NCAA
game. We have an agenda here. We’ve got work to do.”  The women’s championship game is April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  