-- 
Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Tumble on Indications of Reduced Demand From Japan

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/corn-soybeans-wheat-tumble-on-indications-of-reduced-demand-from-japan.html
Corn and soybeans tumbled the
maximum allowed on the Chicago Board of Trade and wheat plunged
the most in seven months on concern that the earthquake and
nuclear crisis in  Japan  will reduce raw-material demand.  Equities in Japan had the biggest two-day drop since the
1987 crash as the risk of radiation leaks north of  Tokyo 
escalated. U.S. Treasuries surged. Japan is the world’s leading
buyer of corn, the third-largest importer of soybeans and the
fifth-biggest purchaser of wheat.  “Increasing levels of radiation have people dumping
positions in stocks and commodities and piling assets into
cash,” said Alan Brugler, the president of Brugler Marketing &
Management LLC in Omaha, Nebraska. “There’s increased  risk
aversion  until the situation stabilizes in Japan.”  Corn futures for May delivery fell by the CBOT limit of 30
cents, or 4.5 percent, to close at $6.36 a bushel at 1:15 p.m.,
the lowest since Jan. 20.  Soybean futures for May delivery declined the 70-cent
maximum, or 5.2 percent, to close at $12.70 a bushel, the lowest
since Dec. 13.  Wheat futures for May delivery dropped 53 cents, or 7.4
percent, to close at $6.6775 a bushel in  Chicago , the biggest
decline since Aug. 6.  Oats fell the 20-cent maximum to a six-month low, while
rice and soybean-oil futures also fell by the exchange limits in
Chicago.  Shipments into Kashima and other ports on Japan’s east
coast were stopped because of power outages after the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami, Zen-Noh, Japan’s largest corn
buyer, said yesterday. Japan said today it plans to buy 32,381
metric tons of wheat in a tender on March 17, 76 percent less
than it purchased last week.  Screen Imports  Asian countries moved to screen food imports from Japan
following explosions at the Fukushima nuclear plant that raised
radiation levels at the complex to harmful levels.    South Korea ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand , Malaysia,  Singapore  and
the Philippines took steps to check fruit, vegetables, meat and
seafood from Japan for nuclear material.  “It’s a fear-driven trade” focused on Japan, said Frank Cholly Sr., a senior strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in
Chicago. “Demand is going to slow down, because even though
they need to eat, they have more urgent things. They’ve got to
stop the radiation leak, and they’ve got to find any
survivors.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest, behind hay, at $13 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 