-- 
European Company Bond Risk Jumps Most in 7 Months on Japan Risk

-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 
2011-03-15T14:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/corporate-bond-risk-jumps-most-in-9-weeks-on-japan-nuclear-risk.html
The cost of insuring against
default on European corporate bonds surged the most in seven
months as  Japan  struggles to avert a nuclear meltdown after an
earthquake caused a tsunami that disabled cooling systems.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 20 basis
points to 409, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 2:30 p.m. in  London . That would be the biggest jump since the 21.75-basis-
point gain on Aug. 11, excluding index rolls, according to data
provider CMA.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further leaks from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant
damaged by the nation’s biggest earthquake was increasing, and
the  Bank of Japan  added 8 trillion yen ($98.2 billion) into
money markets, adding to yesterday’s record cash injection. The
plant today was hit by two more explosions and a fire.    Risk aversion  is back in force,” Simon Ballard, a
London-based credit strategist at  RBC Capital Markets , said
today in a note to clients. “The sell-off in Asian equities may
be overdone, but if negative headlines continue to emerge from
Japan, the flight to quality trade will remain solid and credit
markets will struggle to find support in the near-term.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 4.5 basis points to 106, JPMorgan
prices show. That’s the highest level since Jan. 11, according
to CMA. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and
insurers increased 5.5 basis points to 165 and the subordinated
index rose 5 basis points to 285.  The indexes are benchmarks for the cost of protecting bonds
against default and a decline signals improvement in perceptions
of  credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.9 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  