-- 
Cotton Demand Outlook Is ‘Very Optimistic’ on China, India, Olam Predicts

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T03:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/cotton-demand-outlook-is-very-optimistic-on-china-india-olam-predicts.html
The outlook for demand for cotton,
the best-performing commodity in the past year, is “very
optimistic” as economic growth in  China  and  India  boosts
incomes, driving consumption,  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  said.  “Consumption is closely entwined to economic prosperity,”
said Jagdish Parihar, managing director, cotton division at Olam,
a Singapore-based trader of farm commodities. “Three-to-four
percent sustained demand growth is quite a realistic
possibility,” Parihar said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.  Cotton has more than doubled in the past year, reaching an
all-time high this month, on shrinking global supplies and
increased demand, especially from China, the biggest user.
Prices will be volatile, with supply set to fluctuate as the
crop competes for acreage against costlier food, said Parihar.  “The cotton market is part of the agricultural complex
which is itself undergoing a significant demand-supply imbalance
as a result of the economic and commodity supercycle that we are
experiencing,” he said. “Food inflation is high, and therefore
cotton will always be fighting for acres.”  Cotton surged 92 percent in 2010, the biggest annual gain
since 1973. The price has advanced 157 percent in the past 12
months on the S&P GSCI Commodity Index, beating rallies in
silver and coffee, which also more than doubled. The price,
which peaked at $2.1970 per pound on March 7, traded at $1.9393
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  at 11:02 a.m. in  Singapore  today.  ‘Increasing Prosperity’  “I’m optimistic on prices because we have this structural
supply-demand imbalance,” said Parihar, who’s set to speak at
an industry conference in Dubai today. “We have increasing
prosperity and GDP growth in China and India. The demand
prospects look very optimistic.”  Global cotton output in the year to July 31 will be 0.3
percent smaller than forecast in February because of lower
output in China and India, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said on March 10.  Production will total 114.95 million, 218-kilogram bales in
the year, compared with 115.25 million bales forecast a month
earlier. Global use will be 116.61 million bales, up from last
month’s projection of 116.55 million, the USDA said that day.  “The problem is while demand is growing, production is
subject to very sharp fluctuations,” said Parihar.  The rally may prompt farmers to boost planting. Output in
India, the second-largest grower, may gain to a record 40
million bales in 2011-2012, said Parth Mehta, joint managing
director of Bhadresh Trading Corp., the nation’s top cotton
exporter. A bale in India weighs 375 pounds, or 170 kilograms.  Global production may rise 11 percent to a record 27.6
million tons in the year from Aug. 1 as higher prices prompt
farmers to increase output, the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee  said in a report on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Dubai on  mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  