-- 
Oil Falls Most in Almost Five Months on Japanese Demand Outlook

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-15T20:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/crude-oil-drops-as-loss-of-demand-in-japan-outweighs-middle-east-tension.html
Oil tumbled the most in almost five
months as concern that damage from  Japan ’s earthquake will curb
crude demand outweighed speculation of supply disruptions in the
Middle East.  Oil fell 4 percent as a third explosion and fire struck
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima nuclear plant. The March 11
temblor caused a tsunami that disabled cooling systems at the
facility. Bahrain declared a state of emergency as a second
contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the kingdom,
while Libyan government forces moved against rebels.  “The unrest in  Libya  has been pushed to the back burner by
the tragedy in Japan,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The third
fire at the Fukushima plant is a sign that we’re looking at a
longer-term problem, which will have a considerable impact on
the Japanese economy.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped $4.01 to $97.18 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Feb. 28. Futures fell the most since Oct. 19
and are up 22 percent from a year ago.  Prices pared losses from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 91,000 barrels to 348.6 million. April oil
fell $3.59, or 3.5 percent, to $97.60 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:31 p.m.  Brent oil for April settlement declined $5.15, or 4.5
percent, to $108.52 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, the biggest one-day drop since Feb. 4, 2010.
Prices fell to a three-week low.  Japan was responsible for 5.2 percent of global oil demand
in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes its BP Statistical
Review of World Energy each June. Japan is the third-biggest
crude-consuming country after the U.S. and  China .  Panic Selling  “This looks a lot like panic,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis . “The move lower is probably overdone. Once the
rebuilding gets under way, there will be a big increase in
demand for commodities.”  Japan’s Topix stock index fell 9.5 percent after reports of
the explosion and fire, the largest one-day slide since October
2008. The gauge has dropped 18 percent since the quake.  Refinery closures in Japan have affected about 1.3 million
barrels of the country’s 4.52 million barrels a day of capacity,
based on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan.  Refinery Fire  JX-Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai
and Kashima in Japan’s northeastern Tohoku region. A fire at the
Sendai plant was extinguished at about 2:30 p.m. local time
today. The Negishi plant near  Tokyo  is also shuttered.  Cosmo Oil Co. shut its 220,000-barrel-a-day Chiba refinery
following fires at liquefied petroleum gas storage tanks.
Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. has shuttered its 175,000-
barrel-a-day facility in Ichihara, near the capital.  Sony Corp., the country’s biggest export of consumer
electronics, stopped operations at 10 factories because of power
outages and damage. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
automaker, has closed all of its plants.  “In the short term, demand is likely to take a hit,” said  David Fyfe , head of the  International Energy Agency ’s oil
industry and markets unit in Paris. “Initially, because of the
curtailment of industrial activity, we may well see lower oil
demand in Japan.”  Gasoline for April delivery fell 15.74 cents, or 5.3
percent, to settle at $2.8029 a gallon in  New York , the biggest
one-day drop since July 8, 2009.  ‘Suffering in Japan’  “It’s sad to think that the only way motorists here will
be getting relief at the pumps is on the backs of the suffering
in Japan,” McGillian said.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
0.2 cent to $3.556 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.
It was the first drop in a month.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain asked the head of
the military to guarantee security across the country, state
television said. Clashes between mainly Shiite protesters and
Bahraini forces escalated on March 13, with more than 100 people
injured as demonstrators demanded democracy through elections
from their Sunni monarch.  Troops from the Gulf Cooperation Council, including  Saudi
Arabia , moved into  Bahrain  yesterday, the first cross-border
intervention since a wave of popular uprisings swept through
parts of the Arab world.  Iranian Reaction    Iran  criticized the deployment. “The presence of foreign
troops and meddling into Bahrain’s internal affairs will only
further complicate the issue,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign
Ministry spokesman, said in Tehran today. Bahrain recalled its
ambassador after the statement, the island kingdom’s state
television reported.  Libya’s oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and sanctions following a
rebellion against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , the International
Energy Agency said today in its monthly Oil Market Report.  The Energy Department tomorrow will probably say U.S. crude
oil supplies rose 1.3 million barrels last week from 348.9
million, according to the median of 15 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department report
tomorrow.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 804,028
contracts as of 4:44 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 565,955
contracts yesterday, 29 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.59 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  