-- 
Crude Oil Drops as Loss of Demand in Japan Outweighs Middle East Tension

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-15T11:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/crude-oil-drops-as-loss-of-demand-in-japan-outweighs-middle-east-tensions.html
Oil fell to its lowest price in
almost three weeks in  London  as concern that damage from Japan’s
earthquake may limit crude demand outweighed speculation of
supply disruptions in the Middle East.    Brent crude  slid as much as 4.5 percent as factories,  power
plants , and about 29 percent of refining capacity remained shut
in the world’s third-largest crude user following the March 11
temblor, the strongest in Japan’s history. Saudi Arabia sent
troops into Bahrain in response to a request from its neighbor
following demonstrations by Shiite protesters there.  “In the short term, demand is likely to take a hit,” said  David Fyfe , head of the International Energy Agency’s oil
industry and markets unit in Paris. “Initially, because of the
curtailment of industrial activity, we may well see lower oil
demand in  Japan .”  Brent oil for April settlement fell as much as $5.13 to
$108.54 a barrel, the lowest price since Feb. 23, and was
trading at $109.01 at 11:47 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. Crude for April delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  was at $97.30 after dropping as much as
$4.09, or 4 percent, to $97.10, the lowest since March 1.  Gasoline fell as much as 4.5 percent to $2.8268 a gallon in
New York, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 19. Prices are
down 5.1 percent this week.  Saudi Soldiers  Crude prices erased gains that were driven by Saudi
Arabia’s movement of forces into Bahrain.  Saudi Arabia ’s cabinet
said the kingdom has responded to a Bahraini request for
“support” amid civil unrest. Mainly Shiite protesters in
Bahrain have been demonstrating since Feb. 14, demanding
democracy through free elections from their Sunni monarch.  “The Saudis will not accept any sort of disruption in the
nearby countries,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager
with Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo . “They have to stop this from
happening so that’s why they are sending soldiers.”  Violence in Libya, which has cut at least two-thirds of the
nation’s crude production, continued as forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  carried out air strikes against rebels in the
town of Ajdabiya.  Futures had surged more than 10 percent in  New York  as of
yesterday’s close since Jan. 14, when the president of  Tunisia 
was ousted. Prices climbed to a 29-month high of $106.95 a
barrel trading March 7.  Refinery closures in Japan have affected about 1.3 million
barrels of the country’s 4.52 million barrels a day of capacity,
based on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan.  Refineries Closed  JX-Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai
and Kashima in Japan’s northeastern Tohoku region. A fire at the
Sendai plant was extinguished at about 2:30 p.m. local time
today. The Negishi plant near Tokyo is also shuttered.  Cosmo Oil Co. shut its 220,000-barrel-a-day Chiba facility
following fires at liquefied petroleum gas storage tanks.
Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. has shuttered its 175,000-
barrel a day facility in Ichihara, near the capital.  Sony Corp., the country’s biggest export of consumer
electronics, stopped operations at 10 factories because of power
outages and damages. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
automaker, has closed all of its plants.  The U.S. Energy Department is scheduled to release its
weekly report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute will report its own
data today.  Stockpiles of crude oil in the U.S. probably rose 1.75
million barrels from 348.9 million in the seven days ended March
11, according to the median of estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  Gasoline inventories dropped 2 million barrels from 229.2
million a week earlier, according to the survey. Stockpiles of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, slipped 1.5 million barrels from 155.2 million the
previous week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  