-- 
CuCo Resources Raises $45 Million to Boost Congo Copper

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-15T18:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/cuco-resources-raises-45-million-in-private-share-sale-to-fund-congo-plan.html
CuCo Resources Ltd. said it raised
$45 million in a private sale of shares to investors, including
Macquarie Bank Ltd., to boost production at its Congo
operations.  The sale brings total funds raised to $75 million since the
Toronto-based company was founded in 2007, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The copper and cobalt company will use
proceeds from the share sale to accelerate development of its
two main properties in the Katanga province of the Democratic
Republic of Congo, the company said.  “CuCo has generated strong support from investors in
completing this private financing and is now advancing efforts
to complete an initial public offering” on the Toronto Stock
Exchange in 2011, it said.  CuCo’s two main projects are both located in Congo’s main
copperbelt. The Pumpi concession is adjacent to Freeport McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s $2 billion Tenke Fungurume project. Tenke
is expected to produce as much as 225,000 metric tons of copper
per year in the coming years, according to the fourth quarter
report of Freeport’s Tenke subsidiary. The Kisanfu project is
located next to another site also under exploration by Freeport.  “CuCo’s initial 2010 exploration results indicate a
continuation of Tenke Fungurume’s copper deposit into its own
Pumpi permits,” CuCo said.  Kisanfu will generate $21.9 million in revenue in 2011 and
a copper processing facility will produce about 19,000 tons of
copper, the company said.  The private placement was led by GMP Securities LP, Cuco
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in London at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  