-- 
Cuomo’s Plan to End New York Millionaire’s Tax Opposed by Fellow Democrats

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-03-15T18:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/cuomo-s-plan-to-end-new-york-millionaire-s-tax-opposed-by-fellow-democrats.html
  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
plan to let the state’s highest income-tax rate expire is
opposed by fellow Democrats in the Assembly who  propose  to keep
the top levy on those earning $1 million or more.  The 8.97 percent millionaire’s tax is included in a budget
 resolution  before the  Assembly , where Democrats hold a 99-to-51
advantage. A vote on the budget plan is expected in Albany
today, according to Sisa Moyo, a spokeswoman for Assembly
Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat from  Manhattan .  “It’s definitely better than nothing,” said Frank Mauro,
an economist at the  Fiscal Policy Institute , which advocated
extending all the higher tax rates set to expire Dec. 31.  New York’s fiscal year begins April 1, and lawmakers in the
Senate and the Assembly haven’t agreed on a spending plan with
Cuomo. Under his proposed budget, the top tax rate would revert
on Jan. 1 to 6.85 percent for taxpayers with incomes above
$40,000. The 8.97 percent rate now applies to all taxpayers with
incomes above $500,000.  A budget resolution in the Senate, where Republicans hold a
majority, would leave Cuomo’s tax plan unchanged, while adding
$280 million of spending for local schools, mostly rural and
north of  New York City , Senate President  Dean Skelos , a
Republican from  Rockville Centre  on  Long Island , said at a press
conference in Albany.  Republican Plan  The Republican plan holds spending at about Cuomo’s level
and pays for some increased outlays by eliminating $500 million
of incentive grants the governor proposed for better-performing
school districts.  The nonbinding plans in the Senate and Assembly are to be
considered in conference committees where the two chambers iron
out their differences. Cuomo may accept their plan or veto parts
of it that create spending programs or increase outlays above
his budget.  Retaining the higher tax through the end of 2012, as the
Assembly is proposing, may produce $3.4 billion of  revenue 
annually for the state, according to Ron Deutsch, a spokesman
for New Yorkers for Fiscal Fairness, a coalition of citizen
groups and unions. They want the extra revenue used to shrink
the spending cuts proposed by Cuomo in his $132.5 billion
budget.  School Aid  The Assembly’s  plan  assumes $684 million more  tax revenue 
than Cuomo’s, including the extension of the 8.97 percent tax
rate, and would raise spending by $500 million to $133 billion.  The Assembly would use 30 percent of the additional revenue
for school aid,  according  to a spending bill cited in the
resolution. The remainder would be spread among other social
programs, Deutsch said.  Cuomo, 53, was elected in November on a promise to balance
the budget without raising taxes. He remains opposed to
extending beyond Dec. 31 the higher personal income-tax rates
approved in 2009, said Joshua Vlasto, a spokesman.  To close a $10 billion gap in his  budget , Cuomo proposed
Feb. 1 about $8.9 billion of spending cuts, below outlays called
for under existing law. The biggest reductions were $2.85
billion in aid to schools and $2.38 billion in state spending on
Medicaid, according to budget documents. His initial proposal
for $2.85 billion of Medicaid cuts was reduced as the state
lowered its estimates for cost of the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in  Albany , New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  