-- 
Czech Central Banker Says Rates May Increase Before End of 2011

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 9 2 4 2 1 0 ]   A l a n   C r o s b y   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-15T11:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/czech-central-banker-says-rates-may-increase-before-end-of-2011.html
Czech central bank board member
Pavel Rezabek said the monetary authority may “slightly” raise
the benchmark two-week repurchase rate earlier than near the end
of the year as suggested in the bank’s latest forecast.  Rezabek spoke in an interview yesterday in Prague on the
economy and interest-rate outlook:  On demand pressures:  “There is no indication at present that inflation in the  Czech Republic  wouldn’t be anchored at low levels.  “Wage growth was relatively weak last year, compared with
previous periods. Wage negotiations for this year also indicate
moderate growth and there are also expectations of persisting
higher unemployment. From this point of view, I don’t see
demand-driven inflationary pressures in the Czech economy.  “The Czech Republic is registering increased demand from
abroad but that doesn’t have to mean a significant increase in
inflation. I’m not worried that increased demand pressures,
generating demand-driven inflation, will emerge in a relatively
near-term period.  “Retail sales are also a good indicator of demand
pressures in the economy. The data from the end of last year,
which included the Christmas shopping period, didn’t indicate
any threat of demand pressures.”  On commodity-price pressures:  “After a sharp increase in commodity prices, the trend has
turned around and we now see a decline. Especially food prices
are showing a visible decrease.  “If the decline in commodity prices continues, the
spillover into other prices will be relatively small.”  On the interest-rate outlook:  “The economy should be given time to take a breath as it
recovers. For me, demand pressures are the main risks in terms
of inflation, and since there are no such risks visible in the
near term, the question is when to tighten the monetary
conditions.  “I am prepared for a hike because I don’t find such low
rates favorable for overall longer-term economic stability. The
question is the timing of the hike.  “I would like to see the debt situation in  Europe , and
partly in the world, to calm down a little more.  “But I would expect a slight monetary-policy tightening
earlier than indicated in our latest forecast, which sees it at
around the end of this year.  “At the same time, seeking to meet the inflation target --
as far as I am concerned -- is a high
priority when considering an interest rate change.”  On the impact of European Central Bank rate changes:  “The market appears to be thinking we will automatically
follow the ECB. But there has been a negative, as well as
positive, differential between the ECB rate and the Czech policy
rate in the past. The relation between the ECB and Czech
monetary policy is not that automatic. The Czech economy is in a
different situation than the  euro zone .  “The Czech koruna’s exchange rate is now moving at around
levels expected by the Czech National Bank.  “The question is whether the German engine can continue to
carry the entire European economy because a number of states
still have economic and financial problems.  “The European Union has just agreed to increase the rescue
fund. The  European Central Bank , while signaling an increase in  interest rates , is not planning to end liquidity programs. This
itself is not a reason to be overly optimistic and it shows the
problems in Europe are not solved yet.” 