-- 
Czech Central Bank May Raise Benchmark Interest Rate Earlier Than Forecast

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-15T11:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/czech-central-bank-may-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-earlier-than-forecast.html
The Czech central bank may raise  interest rates  earlier than it suggested in its latest forecast
to reinforce longer-term economic stability, board member Pavel Rezabek said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka isn’t under pressure to increase
rates immediately as the economy lacks demand-led inflation
pressures Rezabek, 50, said in an interview in Prague yesterday.
He didn’t give a timeframe for when he thinks rates will rise.  The Hungarian and Polish central banks have raised rates by
75 basis points and a quarter-point respectively as policy
makers around the world are struggling to contain inflation,
driven by surging global food and fuel prices. The  European
Central Bank  may raise interest rates next month, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 3.  “I would expect a slight monetary-policy tightening
earlier than indicated in our latest forecast,” Rezabek said.
“I’m prepared for a hike, because I don’t find such low rates
favorable for overall longer-term economic stability.”  Policy makers left the main Czech rate unchanged on Feb. 3
after three of the seven board members voted for a quarter-point
increase. One of the supporters of higher borrowing costs,  Robert Holman , has since left the central bank’s board at the
end of his term and was replaced by Lubomir Lizal on Feb. 13.  Voting Results  Rezabek voted for no change in all four meetings when at
least one board member voted for an increase in borrowing costs.
The bank has kept the two-week repurchase rate unchanged since
May after cutting it in steps by a total of 3 percentage points
since August 2008.  Czech inflation unexpectedly slowed to 1.7 percent in
January, from 2.3 percent in December, and the February reading
of 1.8 percent remained below the central bank’s 2 percent
target.  The bank  estimates  inflation will match its 2 percent
target in the first quarter of 2012 and accelerate to 2.1
percent in the following three months. It signaled in its
February forecast interest rates may increase near year-end.  Czech inflation is currently “anchored at low levels,” as
salary negotiations indicate moderate wage growth for this year
and “there are also expectations of persisting higher
unemployment,” Rezabek said. “From this point of view, I don’t
see demand-driven inflationary pressures in the Czech economy.”  Economic Growth  The economy returned to growth last year as demand for its
products, including cars assembled by Volkswagen AG’s unit Skoda
Auto AS, improved in western  Europe , mainly  Germany . Gross
domestic product growth slowed to an annual 2.6 percent in the
final quarter of 2010, from a revised 2.7 percent in the
previous three months.  “The economy should be given time to take a breath as it
recovers,” Rezabek said. “For me, demand pressures are the
main risks in terms of inflation, and since there are no such
risks visible in the near term, the question is when to tighten
the monetary conditions.”  Investors boosted their bets that Czech rates will start
rising earlier than suggested in the forecast after Trichet’s
comments that the ECB may lift rates as early as next month.  Czech forward-rate agreements locking in the three-month
interest rates in three months’ time has since dropped to 1.42
percent, from 1.52 percent on March 4, while still maintaining a
premium over the  Prague  Interbank Offered rate, or PRIBOR, which
stood at 1.19 percent today.  “The market appears to be thinking we will automatically
follow the ECB,” Rezabek said. “The relation between the ECB
and Czech monetary policy is not that automatic. The Czech
economy is in a different situation than the  euro zone .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  