-- 
Dating Agencies, Smartphones Added to U.K. Inflation Basket

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T10:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/dating-agencies-smartphones-added-to-u-k-inflation-basket.html
The price of smartphones and
dating-agency fees will help determine Britain’s inflation rate
after the  Office for National Statistics  added them to the list
of goods and services it monitors to gauge living costs.  They will be included for the first time in the basket of
about 650 goods and services that make up the consumer prices
index and the retail prices index, the agency said in an e-
mailed  statement  released in London today. The revised basket
will be incorporated into February’s inflation data, due to be
released on March 22.  The list is reviewed annually to ensure it represents  consumer spending , with changes made for reasons ranging from
improved technology to popularity. The changes announced today
reflect “new trends” in spending habits, the ONS said. As well
as smartphones, the software applications that run on them will
replace mobile-phone downloads such as ringtones and wallpaper
images, it said.  “Many of these new items show the way technology is
changing our lives,” ONS statistician Phil Gooding said in the
statement. “Powerful smartphones and the applications that run
on them have become essential for many when communicating or
seeking information. Likewise, increasing numbers of people now
seek a partner via internet dating sites.”  The ONS will also add sparkling wines and remove vending-
machine cigarettes and replace pork-shoulder joints with oven-
ready joints. Television prices will now be collected
differently, with the price of televisions bigger than 32 inches
(81 centimeters) being measured separately to reflect the trend
of households now setting up “home-cinema” systems, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  