-- 
Debt Tsunami Battles Radiation for Biggest Risk: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-15T03:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/debt-tsunami-fights-radiation-for-bigger-risk-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
In high-tech, hypermodern  Tokyo  the
most sought-after items are decidedly primitive: candles,
flashlights, surgical masks and duct tape.  For that, we have more than just Friday’s deadly earthquake
and tsunami to blame but also the nation’s shameful nuclear-
safety record. It is boomeranging on all of us 126 million Japan
residents. What’s freaking us out even more than quakes and
tsunamis is the risk of radiation drifting our way.  Yes, it was a huge quake and Japanese officials are working
tirelessly and putting themselves in harm’s way to avoid the
worst. And yes, Monday-morning quarterbacking is of limited
utility with Japan still counting the costs of the tragedy in
lives and destruction. Yet Japanese have been put at risk by
years of institutionalized neglect.  Neither has the information flow inspired much trust.
Government officials say don’t worry, radiation risks are
“containable” and at the same time they tell people to
evacuate. If we learned anything from the subprime-loan crisis,
it’s that anytime a public official uses the C-word it’s time to
run for the hills.    Japan ’s traumatized masses deserve better from their public
officials. One moment, people 10 kilometers from nuclear sites
are at risk. The next, the hazard zone is 20 kilometers wide.  Risks Abound  Here, Tokyo Electric Power Co., which is working to avert a
meltdown in Fukushima, is the poster child of distrust. In 2002,
whistleblowers revealed abuses that forced it to say it had
faked reports on repairs since the 1980s. Its chairman and
president resigned and all 17 of its reactors were temporarily
shut by government inspectors.  Amidst the latest accident, in Fukushima, Tokyo Electric is
facing criticism for responding slowly. What a shock! This
latest fiasco further damages the industry’s reputation after a
string of embarrassments over the last 12 years.    Tokyo Electric  is flushing three reactors at the plant with
water after cooling systems failed and a blast tore through a
containment building. It comes less than four years after a
quake shut another plant run by the utility and in the wake of
industry scandals involving faked reports and fatal accidents.  In 1999, two workers were killed by  radiation exposure  at a
fuel processing plant. They actually used buckets to estimate a
uranium mixture that caused a blue flash of light and a chain
reaction that went unchecked for 20 hours.  Doctored Records  In 2004, a burst pipe at a  reactor  run by Kansai Electric
Power Co. killed five workers. The burst-pipe section had been
omitted from safety checklists and hadn’t been inspected for 28
years. Then 2007 brought fresh revelations that utilities had
regularly doctored safety records.  Unfolding events at Fukushima aren’t the first quake-
related accident for Tokyo Electric. In July 2007, a 6.8
magnitude temblor caused a fire and radiation leaks that shut
down the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s biggest.
The government had failed to conduct sufficient checks for
seismic faults at the site.  On Monday, the U.S. 7th Fleet repositioned its ships and
aircraft away temporarily from the Fukushima power plant after
detecting low-level contamination in the area. It was a reminder
of how many Japanese are learning more about risks from non-
Japanese  government  officials than their own elected ones.  Cheap Joke  It’s easy to go for the cheap joke here -- comedian Gilbert
Gottfried did. The voice of Aflac Inc.’s duck mascot got fired
after posting messages on Twitter that made light of the deadly
flooding here in Japan.  Economists see little to giggle about. They are focusing on
that other tsunami: debt. Will the untold hundreds of billions
of dollars needed for rebuilding efforts tip Japan toward the
bond crisis pundits have long feared? For the average Japanese,
today’s worry is Fukushima.  Japan is the world’s most earthquake-prone country. The
wisdom of littering it with nuclear power plants is now more
questionable than ever.  Lacking oil and natural resources, Japan relies on 54
nuclear reactors to supply 30 percent of its power. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  says exports of nuclear technology from
Toshiba Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. could help revitalize the economy
and meet greenhouse-gas emissions targets.  Japan’s Masses  While that’s all very important, risks to Japan’s masses
deserve more attention. Unless Japan figures out how to
construct nuclear plants out of rubber or put them on top of
massive shock absorbers, it should stop building them. The
nuclear  industry  needs to plan better for tsunamis, too.  This is a call to arms for scientists to find an
alternative to more plants. Japan’s regulatory framework also
breeds dangerous conflicts of interest. Those writing the rules
are too often the same people doing the surveys and signing off
on the inspections. Those days are over. If nuclear sites were
better inspected and maintained, we would all be better off.  The world should heed Japan’s experience as it mulls a so-
called nuclear renaissance. How’s that for a contradiction in
terms? If anything is clear, Japanese have even less trust in
nuclear power today than a week ago.  The U.S. had its  Hurricane Katrina . Then-President  George W. Bush ’s fumbled reaction in 2005 dented America’s global
standing. The devastation following the Sichuan earthquake in
2008 also raised questions and much-hyped  China . The eyes of the
world are very much on Kan and other top Japanese officials.  Last week’s quake, the worst ever recorded in Japan, was
huge indeed. Yet we would all feel better off if regulators and
corporate executives had operated more competently and
transparently in years past. It’s vital that they act more
responsibly in the days ahead.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net 
--With assistance from Jason Clenfield and Yuriy Humber in
Tokyo.
Editor: Peter Langan  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net  