-- 
Delta, United Keep Tokyo Flights as Lufthansa Stops

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-15T20:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/delta-united-keep-tokyo-flights-as-lufthansa-stops-after-radiation-scare.html
The largest U.S. airlines
maintained service to  Tokyo  as  Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
pulled out of the Japanese city because of the risk of
radioactive fallout and aftershocks from last week’s earthquake.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  advised carriers today
to reroute flights if needed to meet airspace restrictions
around a stricken Japanese nuclear power plant.  Delta Air Lines
Inc. , United and Continental began offering refunds on tickets
for some Japan flights, while American waived change fees.  Japan likely restricted air space around the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant, about 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of
Tokyo because of the uncertainty of radiation levels following a
series of explosions, former airline pilots and safety
consultants said. Jet engines take in outside air, compress it,
heat and cool it and then pump the air into the aircraft cabin.  “So far, we’re looking at very, very low levels of
radiation, but it’s still atmospheric,” said John Nance, a
retired military and commercial pilot who is now an industry
consultant in  Seattle . “You want to stay the heck away from it
so as not to have any potential exposure.”  Lufthansa moved Tokyo service to the southern Japanese
cities of Nagoya and Osaka, and joined  Air France-KLM (AF)  and
Austrian Airlines AG in stopping in Seoul for crew changes to
keep workers from staying overnight in Japan. Major U.S.
carriers haven’t made changes, spokesmen said.  ‘Potentially Hazardous’  “We want to make sure U.S. carriers are aware of the
restrictions and don’t fly into any situations that could be
potentially hazardous,” said Diane Spitaliere, an FAA
spokeswoman.  About 7 percent of Delta’s total capacity is generated in
Japan, followed by 5 percent for the combined  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and 3.5 percent for  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines , according to Gary Chase, a Barclay
Capital analyst in New York.  American, United and Continental added more contingency
fuel than normal to flights across the Pacific in case of
unexpected diversions, spokesmen said. United and Continental
have 183 weekly departures to Japan from the U.S. mainland and
1,000 employees in Japan, said Andrew Ferraro, a spokesman for
the Chicago-based carrier.  Safety is ‘Paramount’  “The safety of our crews and passengers is paramount, and
we are completely focused on avoiding the affected area,”
Ferraro said of the restricted air space. “We are working
closely with the Department of State, FAA and other government
agencies on developments in  Japan .”  The  Association of Flight Attendants -CWA, which represents
workers at 21 airlines, has “significant concerns” about the
safety of Japan flights, Corey Caldwell, a union spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. Government agencies and experts consulted by
the union have advised that “at the moment, it is okay to fly
to certain places in Japan.”  Radioactive particles won’t affect the operation of
aircraft, and radiation carried on dust or dirt might be
filtered out of air going into planes, said John Cox, president
of Safety Operating Systems LLC and a former commercial pilot.
Radiation in any  water vapor  should be removed by systems that
make airplanes “one of the driest places on earth,” he said.  “Over the last 72 hours they have had some really bad
scares and probably aren’t done yet with the amount of radiation
that may or may not come from the reactors,” Cox said. “If you
are going to be conservative, blocking off a big section of air
space would be prudent.”  United Continental fell 38 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $23.61
at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, while
Delta declined 28 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $10.69 and AMR
slipped 4 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $6.52.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  