-- 
Devon Energy, Trevor Rees-Jones Found Liable for $116 Million in Texas

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-15T21:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/devon-energy-trevor-rees-jones-found-liable-for-116-million-in-texas.html
Devon Energy Production Co. and
Trevor Rees-Jones must pay the Dallas billionaire’s ex-partner
$116 million for defrauding him of his true share of a company
that Devon later bought for $2 billion, a Houston jury said.  A  Texas  state court jury yesterday awarded damages to D.
Bobbitt Noel Jr., a former minority partner in Chief Holdings
LLC, which Rees-Jones sold to Devon in 2006. Jurors found Rees-
Jones profited in excess of $360 million by selling Chief
Holdings to Devon for 20 times the value he placed on the
company when he bought Noel out in 2004.  “The two men were friends going back to high school, and
the jury held that Rees-Jones didn’t fully and fairly disclose
the value” when he bought out his minority partner, Noel’s
lawyer,  Grant J. Harvey  of Gibbs & Bruns LLP in Houston, said
today in a telephone interview.  Chief Holdings’ mineral rights were located in a
historically lower-yielding section of the Barnett Shale, a
prolific tight-gas reservoir near  Fort Worth , Texas, Harvey
said. Rees-Jones learned of a technological breakthrough that
could dramatically increase production from his part of the
formation, thus boosting its value, and he didn’t tell Noel
about it, Harvey said.  “A number of advances revealed a large upside that wasn’t
revealed before,” Harvey said. “Mr. Noel sold without that
knowledge.”  Noel’s Stake  Noel sold his 5.76 percent stake in Chief Holdings to Rees-
Jones for $6.5 million in 2004, Harvey said. Jurors found that
if he’d retained the interest, it would be worth $116 million
today.  Craig Haynes, Rees-Jones’s lawyer, said he expects the
oilman to prevail in spite of the jury’s verdict. Noel signed a
release of all claims and promised never to sue Rees-Jones as
part of the sale of his stake, which could lead the judge to
disregard the jury’s findings, Haynes said.  “We are confident that release is going to be enforced as
a matter of law and that no judgment will be entered,” Haynes
said in a telephone interview. “There was another partner in
the same position and making the same claims as Noel, and his
release has been enforced in a different court.”  Rees-Jones also disputes the damages calculation, in that
Texas law forbids jurors to award “consequential damages,”
which is how the $116 million was characterized, Haynes said.
The true damages should be $8 million, based on the value of
Noel’s stake at the time Rees-Jones sold it to Devon, he said.  Devon Found Liable  Devon, as successor-in-interest to Chief, was also found
liable for the fraud by the jury.  “Devon acquired Chief Holdings in 2006, two years after
the events in question occurred, and was named as a defendant
solely because it had assumed the legal liabilities of Chief
Holdings in connection with that acquisition,” Chip Minty,
Devon’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The
plaintiff did not allege any misconduct of any sort by any
persons at Devon.”  Minty said Oklahoma City-based Devon plans to appeal the
verdict and seek full payment of any judgment and legal expenses
from Rees-Jones, under an indemnity agreement. The lawsuit isn’t
anticipated to have any material effect on the company, he said.  Devon Energy fell $1.02, or 1.2 percent, to close at $87.55
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
has risen 29 percent in the last year.  The case is Noel v. Devon Energy Production Co., 2008-
39598, 127th Judicial District Court of Harris County, Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 