-- 
Dining Out Is In as Tax Cuts Help Fill Cheesecake Factory, Texas Roadhouse

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/dining-out-is-in-as-tax-cuts-lift-darden-texas-roadhouse-sales.html
Americans are back to eating out at  Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE)  and  Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH) , putting the
restaurant industry on track for its best showing in more than
three years as the recovery broadens.  Sales at full-service eateries, where customers pay after a
meal rather than before, will rise 0.7 percent in 2011 after
adjusting for inflation, the first year-over-year increase since
2007, according to a National Restaurant Association forecast by
Malcolm Knapp, a New York-based consultant who has monitored the
industry since 1970.  Buoyed by savings from payroll-tax cuts and improving job
prospects, households are starting to indulge on discretionary
items. The pickup may help jump start a restaurant rebound after
a record stretch of sales declines and reinforces growing
strength in household spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “Consumers are finding some retail therapy in things like
eating out,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “They
may not be ready for that two-week vacation in  Europe  yet, but
they’ll go to a restaurant once every couple of weeks. It’s an
affordable luxury.”  Company executives also are becoming more upbeat.
Cheesecake Factory’s forecast of 1 percent to 3 percent same-
store sales growth this year reflects an increase in guest
traffic and average check totals, Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Benn said on a Feb. 10 conference call.  ‘More Optimism’  “Most of the news that I’m reading about the consumer and
most of what I’m seeing shows some more optimism for 2011 than
what we saw in 2010,” he said. The Calabasas Hills, California-
based company’s comparable restaurant sales increased 2 percent
last year, after posting a 2.6 percent decline in fiscal 2009.  Texas Roadhouse, a steakhouse chain based in Louisville,  Kentucky , projects comparable restaurant sales will rise 3.5
percent this year, up from 2.4 percent in 2010, and is
increasing menu prices by an average of 1 percent.  “Our momentum has continued, and we are pleased to have
seen continued traffic growth,” Gerard Hart, chief executive
officer, said in a Feb. 22 statement.  Investors aren’t as enthusiastic. A Bloomberg index that
tracks 18 full-service chains, including  Darden Restaurants
Inc. (DRI) ’s Red Lobster and Olive Garden and Glendale, California-
based  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) ’s Applebee’s, is up 0.8 percent since
November 30, compared with a 9.8 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks.  Erode Profits  Persistently higher energy and commodity costs may erode
restaurant profits or prompt eateries to raise prices, which
“might not be good for their sales,” said David Yucius,
president of Aurora Investment Counsel in Atlanta, who oversees
$250 million.  The price of a gallon of regular gasoline has surged 16
percent this year to an average $3.558 on March 13, the highest
since October 2008, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA,
the nation’s largest motoring organization.  Even with the increase, “there’s more upside” for
restaurant stocks, said Yucius. He owns Darden, which has gained
0.78 percent this year to $46.80 yesterday, and  Buffalo Wild
Wings Inc. (BWLD) , which jumped 21 percent to $53.22. He is
“cautiously optimistic” about the industry and says it
represents an “opportunity” for investors.  “The financial repair of household balance sheets is going
on pretty well, and we’ve crossed the psychological hurdle of
how bad things have been,” he said.  Encouraging Prospects  David Tarantino, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin , also is encouraged.  “Maybe 2011 is an inflection point when the industry sees
some positive trends that gradually keep improving as employment
picks up and the tax cuts kick in,” said Tarantino, who has
“outperform” ratings on 9 of 15 stocks he covers, including
Buffalo Wild Wings and Texas Roadhouse. “The key driver will be
how quickly employment comes back.”  The jobless rate fell in February to 8.9 percent, the
lowest since April 2009 and the third straight monthly decline,
while the economy added 192,000 workers to payrolls, the most
since May, according to Labor Department data.  Inflation-adjusted sales for full-service restaurants
declined 1 percent last year, following a 5.2 percent drop in
2009 amid job losses, plunging  home prices  and credit
restrictions.    Turning Point ’  The “turning point” came in late 2010, Knapp said, after
the economy expanded in all four quarters of the year for the
first time since 2007. Same-restaurant sales have risen in six
of the last eight months, with February up an estimated 1.6
percent, the highest in more than a year, according to the
Knapp-Track Index, which follows casual-dining locations open at
least 16 months. Declines in December and January partly
reflected winter storms that curtailed visits.  Now, “there are more markers” for growth, Knapp said.
Shoppers are redeeming holiday gift cards and getting extra cash
from the extension of Bush-era tax cuts and renewal of emergency
jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed. They’re also
helped by the government’s 2 percentage-point cut in Social
Security payroll taxes, which will account for about a third of
the 3.1 percent increase Knapp sees in full-service restaurant
sales this year to $194.6 billion.  Additional growth also will come from new locations and
being able to charge a bit more, Tarantino said. Companies that
“offer the consumer strong benefits relative to the occasion,
not necessarily the lowest prices,” are most likely to gain, he
said.  Dining Dollars  Restaurant sales represent 4 percent of gross domestic
product, and every dollar spent on dining out generates $2.05
spent in the overall economy, according to the  restaurant
association . The industry is the second-largest private-sector
employer in the U.S., comprising about 10 percent of the
workforce, the association said.  “The economic environment continues to improve, and our
brands continue to achieve competitively strong results,”
Clarence Otis, Darden’s chief executive officer, said in a Jan.
31 statement. The  Orlando , Florida-based company, which also
owns the upscale Capital Grille steakhouse, said per-share
earnings from continuing operations will rise an estimated 17
percent to 18 percent this year from $2.86 in 2010. That’s an
improvement from the company’s December projection of a 14
percent to 17 percent increase.    PF Chang’s China Bistro Inc. (PFCB)  also is optimistic after
posting an increase in traffic at both its Bistro and Pei Wei
chains last year.  “After several years of declining traffic, this is a
noteworthy accomplishment and hopefully marks the turning point
in consumer trends,” Mark Mumford, chief financial officer of
the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company, said on a March 7
conference call. “We are hopeful that the economic recovery
that we saw in 2010 continues and possibly strengthens in
2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  