-- 
Dish Network's Revised Offer for Bankrupt DBSD Wins Court's Approval

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/dish-network-s-revised-offer-for-bankrupt-dbsd-wins-court-s-approval.html
  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s revised
agreement to acquire DBSD North America Inc., a satellite
communications company, won court approval after DBSD sought
rival bids.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in  New York  approved
the investment agreement at a hearing today. Reston, Virginia-
based DBSD values the Dish deal at about $1.5 billion, according
to a court filing.  “The bottom line is very, very favorable for the creditor
community,” the judge said.  DBSD filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and won court approval
for a restructuring plan that would have given most of the
equity in the company to noteholders. Unsecured creditors were
slated to get “pennies on the dollar,” Steven Reisman, an
attorney for those creditors, said at the hearing. They will now
see a full recovery under the Dish investment.  “We should really get out of Dodge as quickly as we can
here,” said Reisman, who urged Gerber to approve the investment.  Dish, a DBSD creditor, fought the original bankruptcy plan
all the way to a federal appeals court before announcing a deal
in February to buy DBSD for about $1 billion. A hearing to
approve the investment was postponed after Harbinger Capital
Partners and Solus Alternative Asset Management said they wanted
to acquire the company.  DBSD sought competing bids and received a rival proposal on
March 10 from another bidder that it didn’t name in court
papers. Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, the second-largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, improved its offer to provide
$325 million to DBSD’s parent, Kirkland, Washington-based ICO
Global Communications (Holdings) Ltd., according to court
papers.  The case is In re DBSD North America Inc., 09-13061,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 