-- 
Djibouti Bans a U.S-Backed Democracy-Advocacy Group One-Month Before Vote

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T12:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/djibouti-bans-a-u-s-backed-democracy-advocacy-group-one-month-before-vote.html
  Djibouti ’s government ordered a
U.S.-backed democracy-advocacy group to leave the country, less
than a month before the country holds a presidential election.  Democracy International , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , had
attempted to resolve problems with President Ismael Guelleh’s
administration that began after opposition protests started in
the country last month, Chris Hennemeyer, head of the group’s
electoral-observation mission, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Unfortunately my earlier optimism proved to be unfounded,”
Hennemeyer said. “The Djiboutian government has confirmed its
order that DI cease all activities and we are complying with
their directive.”  Government spokesman Moussa Mohamed Omar said he didn’t
have any information on the issue when contacted by phone in
Djibouti City today. Calls to Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh,
Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef and Communications Minister
Ali Abdi Farah weren’t answered.  Djibouti is scheduled to hold a presidential election on
April 8. The Horn of Africa nation has been ruled by Guelleh’s
People’s Rally for Progress party since independence in 1977.
Guelleh, first elected in 1999, amended the constitution in
March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by two more six-year
terms.  Opposition parties staged a protest on Feb. 18 demanding
the 63-year-old leader’s resignation. Subsequent demonstrations
have been blocked by security forces. The opposition Union for a
Democratic Alternative and Union for a Democratic Movement plan
to boycott the vote, saying conditions for a fair election don’t
exist. They have vowed to protest every Friday until Guelleh
resigns.  Military Base  DI began its two-year, $2.2 million U.S. Agency for
International Development-funded program in July, according to
the group’s chief of party, Kit Spence. It ran the only program
of its type in the nation that hosts the sole U.S. military base
on the continent, he said in an e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. government may make a statement once it has full
details, Omar Cardentey, public affairs officer at the U.S.
Embassy in Djibouti, said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 