-- 
Mideast Stocks Fall, Led By Saudi Arabia on Gulf Stability Concern, Japan

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-15T14:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/dubai-shares-fall-second-day-on-gulf-political-stability-japan-earthquake.html
Middle East shares slumped, sending
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark index down the most in two weeks, as
concern escalated about the region’s stability after Bahrain
declared a state of emergency and Gulf Arab states sent troops
to the island nation.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, declined the most in two weeks. The
Tadawul All Share Index tumbled 3.5 percent, the most since
March 2, to 6,011.85 at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh . Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 1.9 percent and Israel’s TA-25 fell 0.9
percent. In  Japan , stocks plunged on concern about possible
further leaks from a nuclear power plant. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf shares retreated 2.5 percent.  “I would put it down to political uncertainty as key given
the situation in Bahrain and the risk of it spreading to the
rest of the Gulf Cooperation Council,” said Adnan Haider, head
of fixed income and equities at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC.
“And then the global uncertainty in Japan.”    Bahrain  declared a three-month state of emergency as a
second regional force from the six-member GCC entered the
kingdom to maintain security. Saudi Arabia, one of the world’s
top oil exporters, sent troops to Bahrain yesterday, the first
international intervention since a wave of popular uprisings
swept through countries in the Arab world.  The yield on Bahrain’s 5.5 percent dollar bond maturing in
March 2020 gained 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to
a record 6.88 percent. Bahrain’s stock gauge gained 1.3 percent,
paring yesterday’s drop, as 698,000 shares traded compared with
a 12-month daily average of 1.8 million shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Earthquake  Mainly Shiite protesters in Bahrain have been demonstrating
since Feb. 14, demanding democracy through free elections from
Sunni rulers. Shiites comprise as much as 70 percent of the
population. King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa has offered a national
“dialogue” toward limited changes.  In Japan, the Topix index suffered its worst two-day
decline since 1987 as concern grew about the safety of nuclear
plants damaged by the country’s worst earthquake on record. The
measure sank 9.5 percent today and the cost of protecting
Japan’s sovereign debt surged to a record.  Crude oil fell to a two-week low in  New York  as concern
that damage from Japan’s earthquake may limit crude demand
outweighed speculation of supply disruptions in the Middle East.
Crude oil for April delivery fell 3.3 percent to $97.87 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf
Cooperation Council, including  Saudi Arabia  and the U.A.E.,
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Sabic slid 5.3 percent, the most since March 1, to 94.75
riyals.  Property Prices    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, fell 2.5 percent to 2.74 dirhams, the
lowest since March 10. Real-estate prices in Dubai may face
“further downward pressure” this year, Deutsche Bank AG said
in a research report dated yesterday.    Dubai Financial Market (DFM) , the only Gulf Arab stock market to
sell shares to the public, slid 5.6 percent, the most since Feb.
22, to 1.19 dirhams. The exchange said net income slumped to
78.9 million dirhams ($21.5 million) from 346.6 million in 2009.
The mean estimate of seven analysts was for profit of 122
million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  fell 1.4 percent and Oman’s benchmark
stock index declined 1.7 percent. Abu Dhabi’s measure lost 0.6
percent and Kuwait’s SE Price Index dropped for the first time
in six trading days, sliding 1.3 percent. In Jordan, the Amman
SE General Index fell 1.6 percent, while Tunisia’s benchmark
Tunindex dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  