-- 
Japanese Flee Disaster Zone as Aftershocks, Reactor Fires Hamper Rescuers

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-03-16T14:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/earthquake-strikes-south-of-tokyo-as-northern-survivors-face-cold-weather.html
Hundreds of cars streamed south of
Japanese areas devastated by last week’s earthquake and tsunami
as technicians battled to contain fires and radiation leaks at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station.  In the city of Sendai, near the epicenter of the March 11
temblor that was  Japan ’s strongest on record, vehicles were
wrapped four-high in places around the airport’s perimeter
fence. The top floor of a two-story house dragged from its
foundations as the 7-meter (23-foot) wave retreated could be
seen in wreckage that was studded with uprooted trees.  In Fukushima city, capital of the prefecture where Tokyo
Electric Power Co. workers are struggling to prevent a nuclear
meltdown, about 200 people lined up at the Co-op supermarket to
buy provisions. The line at a local gasoline station stretched
for more than a kilometer (0.6 miles), there was no running
water and portable toilets were overflowing.  “People still think this is a dream, and that they’re
going to pinch themselves and it won’t have happened,” said
Keiji Kakogawa, 34, a social worker who arrived in the area from
Kyoto, central Japan, two days ago to search for a female friend
living in a nearby town that bore the tsunami’s brunt. “A few
days ago they were asleep in their homes. Now everything has
changed.”  Driving South  For the past two days, the road headed south of Fukushima
has been clogged with cars. Last night, an unbroken line of
vehicles about 40 kilometers long was crawling toward  Tokyo . In
the capital, supermarkets reported panic buying of household
goods and fears of nuclear contamination have prompted some
people to leave the city. Four-hundred kilometers southwest of
Tokyo in Osaka, some hotels said they were fully booked.  “Right after the quake, we got a lot of cancellations,”
said Michiko Fujikawa, a spokeswoman for Swissotel Nankai Hotel.
“Now we don’t have enough rooms.”  The hotel will accommodate 120 employees of a European
financial company, she said, declining to identify it. The hotel
will also set up an office in its banquet room for the company,
she said.  SAP AG, the world’s biggest business software company, said
it has reserved 520 rooms in  Osaka  and Kobe that employees and
their families can use. Austria’s ambassador in Japan is leaving
Tokyo because of the reactors’ “unpredictability” and will
work from Osaka, the state-run Austrian Press Agency reported.
The German government said today it’s moving part of its embassy
operations to Osaka.  U.S. Stays  Unlike the French and German embassies, the U.S. hasn’t
recommended its citizens leave Japan. American Ambassador John Roos said the U.S. isn’t recommending evacuation as its experts
agree with the Japanese government’s response to the crisis.  Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. is flying two
extra flights from Tokyo today due to “rapidly increasing
demand from people wishing to return home to  Hong Kong  and
elsewhere,” Chief Operating Officer John Slosar said in an e-
mailed statement.    Alitalia  SpA joined Deutsche Lufthansa AG in rerouting
flights away from Tokyo. Alitalia will divert its 14 weekly
trips to Tokyo from  Rome  and Milan to the southern city of
Osaka, which it already serves with four weekly flights, the
company said in a statement today.  Some people at Tokyo Station in the downtown Marunouchi
district said they were still worried, even though the
government has sought to play down the danger.  ‘Panic’  “I’m just going to Osaka, to stay at a relatively safer
place,” said Nodir Shermatou, 23, a student at Chiba University
from Uzbekistan who has lived in Japan for 2 years. “Panic is a
very contagious thing.”  A magnitude 6 aftershock to the east of Sendai shook
buildings in Tokyo at 12:52 p.m. local time, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey . There have been more than 450
aftershocks since the magnitude-9 temblor left hundreds of
thousands stranded and without power, with disruptions to food
and water supplies. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called for calm as
he dispatched 100,000 troops to the northeastern region.  The official death toll at 4 p.m. local time was 3,771
people, with 8,181 missing, the  National Police Agency  said. The
tsunami and fears of a meltdown plant forced 451,059 people from
their homes.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said she wanted
to convene talks by the Group of Seven industrial nations on the
financial response to Japan’s earthquake.  Emperor  Japanese Emperor Akihito expressed condolences to the
victims of the earthquake and gratitude to the rescuers.  “By mustering all of our strength for a swift rescue
effort, I can only wish for even the smallest improvement in the
situation of the victims, to provide hope for restoration,” he
said.  Tepco said it is building a power line to the Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant’s cooling systems, which were knocked out by the
quake. The company aims to restore the systems today, the
Yomiuri newspaper reported. The failure of backup generators
caused explosions in at least three of the station’s reactors,
as well as a fire in a pond containing spent fuel rods.  “We are making a maximum effort” to ensure that a worst-
case scenario doesn’t occur, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said today.  Eleven of Japan’s 54 reactors have been operating for 35
years or more. Two of those rank among the 10 oldest operating
units in the world, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  Stocks Rebound  Japanese stocks rebounded as investors bet that yesterday’s
9.5 percent drop, the biggest decline in 2 ½ years, was
excessive. The Topix index closed 6.6 percent higher at 3 p.m.
today. Plywood-maker Kanematsu-NNK Corp. jumped 38 percent.
Nissei Build Co., a maker of prefabricated buildings, surged 33
percent. Ceramic tableware maker Noritake Co. rose 29 percent.  The earthquake and tsunami will boost the yen as the
economy’s focus shifts from exports to reconstruction,
increasing demand for raw-material imports and fueling the
commodity boom, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “The destruction of infrastructure will require a massive
reconstruction effort,” HSBC economists including London-based  Stephen King  and Madhur Jha said in a note to clients dated
yesterday. “The yen should rise to divert resources away from
exports toward domestic reconstruction.”  The yen approached a 16-year high versus the dollar as
Japan’s nuclear crisis intensified, increasing speculation
Japanese companies and investors will repatriate funds to help
pay for earthquake and tsunami damages.  Yen Steady  The yen was little changed at 80.77 per dollar at 9:57 a.m.
in  New York , from 80.72 yesterday. It earlier touched 80.46. The
currency reached 80.22 yen on Nov. 1, the strongest since April
1995, when it touched a post-World War II high of 79.75.  Japan has distributed 230,000 units of iodide to evacuation
centers around the nuclear plants, according to officials. The
ingestion of iodide can help to prevent the accumulation of
radioactive iodine in the thyroid.  “The Japanese government are saying ‘it’s safe, it’s safe’
but you’ve got the overseas media saying that there’s a very
real nuclear threat here,” said Julian Litt, 38, a New
Zealander who has lived in Japan for 15 years.  In Sendai, the psychiatric wards at the 1,308-bed Tohoku
University Hospital are full as people seek treatment for
anxiety and other mental problems, Katsutoshi Furukawa, a brain
surgeon, said by telephone. Supplies of sedatives are “limited,
so we are prescribing the minimum amount” before sending them
home, he said.  U.S. Aid  The first U.S. military transport aircraft, a C-130
Hercules, landed in strong and freezing crosswinds at the city’s
recently cleared runway to aid efforts to clear debris and
search for bodies. A car was wrapped around the airport’s metal
“welcome” sign, while some windows in the second floor of the
three-story building are shattered.  The U.S. military is sending more supplies to quake-hit
areas in Japan, Air Force Master Sergeant Jeremiah Coomer said
in an interview near the airport.  “We are here to give as much assistance as possible and to
do anything that we can,” Coomer said from the wheel of a
Humvee that arrived on board the C-130 Hercules.  Aside from aid workers and military personnel, there were
few people around the airport. Busloads of mostly elderly people
who had been sheltering at the site were being driven home or to
evacuation shelters.  One man, identifying himself as Nakagawa, said his family
had survived but his house in a village 8 kilometers away was
destroyed.  Cesar Eduardo, a Peruvian factory worker, said the wave had
stopped about 500 meters from his house in the village of Natori
Hongo several kilometers inland. His wife, who works for Japan
Airlines Corp., survived by taking refuge on the third floor of
the airport building, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  