-- 
Earthquakes Don’t Add to the Wealth of Nations: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/earthquakes-don-t-add-to-wealth-of-nations-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
It takes a crisis, such as the
financial meltdown in 2008, to rally support for a Keynesian
style fiscal stimulus.  It takes another kind of crisis, specifically the
earthquake and tsunami that devastated the northeastern coast of  Japan  last week, to expose the Keynesian fallacy that the
government can spend its way to prosperity.  For that reason, Acts of God provide a teaching moment.
They make the distinction between spending and wealth so
blatantly obvious that even the most dyed-in-the-wool believer
in the value of digging holes and filling them up will be hard
pressed to deny it.  The flawed thinking emerges right on cue after every
earthquake, flood or other natural disaster when economists put
pen to paper, or input into model, to calculate the effect.  First comes the hit to output, or gross domestic product.
Some of Japan’s productive capacity was destroyed. Power
disruptions forced other companies, including the country’s auto
manufacturers and chipmakers, to halt production, creating a
ripple effect through the entire supply chain, in Japan and
abroad.  Small businesses destroyed by the earthquake may not be
able to make payroll or pay their creditors, in some cases
causing them to default on their bank lines. Most companies will
feel the effect of the damage to the national infrastructure,
including roads, railways and the  power grid .  Et Alia  The list goes on. You get the idea that what happened is a
big negative for the Japanese economy, which never regained its
position in the global hierarchy following the bursting of the
real estate and stock-market bubbles in 1989.  Yet some economists still see a silver lining for Japan’s
economy in the wake of the disaster, claiming reconstruction
efforts will create jobs and stimulate growth.  They’re not optimists; they’re just misinformed.    Larry Summers  managed to put his foot in his mouth last
week when asked about the effect of the earthquake. The former
top economic adviser to President  Barack Obama , former Harvard
University president, former Treasury secretary and now ordinary
professor at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government,  told CNBC 
the earthquake and its aftermath “may lead to some temporary
increments, ironically, to GDP as a process of rebuilding takes
place. In the wake of the earlier Kobe earthquake, Japan
actually gained some economic strength.”  General Theory of Nonsense  Too bad Japan had to wait 16 years for another opportunity.  The blogosphere was quick to pounce. At Cafe Hayek, George
Mason University economics professor Russell Roberts provided a
 translation  of Summers’s comments for readers who responded to
his initial post.  “He wasn’t saying the tsunami was a good thing,” Roberts
said. He was saying that “rebuilding would be good for the
economy, that spending creates prosperity.”  For  John Maynard Keynes ,  building pyramids  in the 20th
century made sense, too. And two “masses to the dead” were
better than one, he wrote in “The General Theory of Employment,
Interest and Money.” “Pyramid-building, earthquakes, even wars
may serve to increase wealth” and cure involuntary
unemployment.  Eighty-five years before Keynes penned the “General
Theory,” French political economist Frederic Bastiat pointed
out the fallacy in his thinking.  “Destruction is not profit,” Bastiat wrote in his 1850
 essay , “That Which Is Seen and That Which Is Unseen.”  Seen vs. Unseen  I’m glad to see that Bastiat is enjoying something of a
revival, judging from the numerous post-earthquake commentaries
that reference his parable of the broken window. Bastiat used
the analogy of the broken window, and the spending that flows
from it (that which is seen) to point out that which is unseen:
How the money used to repair the window --  government spending 
on fiscal stimulus -- could have been spent more efficiently if
the window hadn’t been broken.  Japan won’t be better off -- richer, as a nation -- as a
result of the rebuilding effort. Housing starts will increase,
but the housing stock won’t. The same goes for factories and
office buildings.  A nation isn’t richer when it has to allocate scarce
resources to rebuilding. Just think how the money could have
been used, in ways only entrepreneurs can envision, rather than
rebuild what was destroyed.  Here’s Bastiat again:  “If, on the other hand, you come to the conclusion, as is
too often the case, that it is a good thing to break windows,
that it causes money to circulate, and that the encouragement of
industry in general will be the result of it, you will oblige me
to call out, ‘Stop there! your theory is confined to that which
is seen; it takes no account of that which is not seen.’”  One hundred and fifty years later, Keynesians are still
flying blind.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  