-- 
East Africa to Appeal for $1 Billion to Build Ports, Roads

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-15T10:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/east-africa-to-appeal-for-1-billion-to-build-ports-roads-1-.html
East African nations will ask
donors for $1 billion to improve infrastructure such as ports
and roads at a conference planned for September, said Frank
Matsaert, head of the regional trade promotion organization.  Poor infrastructure in East Africa has increased the cost
of doing business, with the price of transport in the region as
much as 70 percent higher than the U.S. and  Europe , Matsaert,
Chief Executive Officer of  TradeMark East Africa , told reporters
today in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi.  “This is a big drain on competitiveness,” he said.  Upgrades are required at the ports at Kenya’s Mombasa city
and Tanzania’s commercial hub of  Dar es Salaam  to handle the
growth in cargo volumes, as well as at land border crossings to
cut lengthy delays, he said. Traffic was reportedly backed up
for about 25 kilometers (15 miles) over the Christmas holiday at
the Malaba border point between Uganda and Kenya, Matsaert said.  The proposed date of the donor meeting is from Sept. 28 to
Sept. 29, he said, without indicating the location.  The  East African Community , a market of 133 million people
with an annual gross domestic product of $74 billion, was
founded by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania in 1999. Rwanda and
Burundi joined four years ago.  In July, the five countries expanded the bloc’s five-year
old customs union to a common market, allowing the free movement
of people and investment. Member states are currently
negotiating a monetary union expected to take effect next year.  Intra-regional trade among EAC members doubled to $3.5
billion in 2009, or 11 percent of total trade, from $1.8 billion
in 2004, David Nalo, Kenya’s permanent secretary in the  Ministry
of East African Community , said at the same event today.  TradeMark East Africa, funded by the governments of  Belgium ,  Denmark ,  Sweden  and the U.K., is a non-profit group
aiming to boost the ability of member nations to trade amongst
themselves and outside the bloc, in a bid to accelerate economic
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 