-- 
Lebanon’s Maronite Church Elects Al-Rai as New Patriarch

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-15T12:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lebanon-s-maronite-church-elects-beshara-al-rai-as-new-patriarch.html
Lebanon’s  Maronite Catholic Church 
said it elected Beshara al-Rai as its new patriarch, replacing
Cardinal Nasrallah Boutros Sfeir, who retired.  Rai, 71, who is the archbishop of Jbeil, is the 77th
patriarch of the Maronite Church, a position that has wielded
influence in the country’s politics. Sfeir, 91, who held the
post since 1986, had been a vocal anti-Syrian critic and had
called for  Syria  to withdraw its forces from Lebanon as early as
2000.  Syria sent troops into Lebanon in 1976, a year after civil
war broke out. Under the terms of the Saudi Arabia-brokered Taif
Accord that ended the country’s  15-year civil war  in 1990, Syria
was supposed to withdraw in 1992. It finally pulled its
remaining forces out in 2005 amid an international outcry in the
aftermath of the assassination of former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri .  Sfeir had been a critic of Hezbollah, the Shiite movement
backed by Syria and  Iran , which along with its allies brought
down a national unity government led by Hariri’s son Saad in
January. Hezbollah, which is represented in Lebanon’s
parliament, is the only party that was allowed to retain weapons
after the country’s civil war and was viewed by the church as an
extension of Syrian interference in Lebanon.  Members of the Free Patriotic Union, the second-largest
bloc in parliament headed by former army General Michel Aoun,
had been vocal critics of the former archbishop, who had
supported Hariri and Christian groups that are rivals of Aoun.  New Government  The appointment of Rai comes at a critical period in
Lebanese politics. Billionaire Najib Mikati, tasked with forming
a new government, and who is backed by Hezbollah and Aoun, is
conducting negotiations over cabinet portfolios.  Rai was elected after almost a week of deliberations by 38
bishops at the Maronite Patriarchate in Bkirki over who would
head the church, Lebanese MTV news channel reported today. His
election was celebrated by a televised mass while Maronite
churches across the country rang bells at midday in celebration.  “The elections took place with love and peace,” Rai said
in a televised speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 