-- 
EBay Cuts Fees to Attract Merchants, Boost Turnaround Effort

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-03-15T21:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ebay-cuts-fees-to-attract-merchants-boost-three-year-turnaround-effort.html
  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the world’s
largest e-commerce market, lowered fees for the second time in a
year to attract more sellers to its main site and boost a three-
year turnaround.  Users may list for free as many as 50 auction items a month
on the site beginning in April, the  San Jose , California-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. EBay also will
charge a smaller commission on items sold, beginning in July.  The company is trying to attract more buyers and sellers,
many of whom have fled to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in recent years,
according to Forrester Research Inc. EBay also is encouraging
merchants to offer free shipping by taking a larger commission
from businesses that charge for delivery. The move may help
consumers even as it means higher fees for some sellers.  “We think these changes will really improve the
marketplace for both buyers and sellers,” Todd Lutwak, vice
president of seller experience, said in an interview. “We’re
listening to our customers. We’re trying to understand their
needs.”  As part of the new fee structure, EBay will charge a 10
percent commission in the apparel category on the first $50 of
merchandise sold, down from 12 percent. Commissions vary by
category. Sellers offering less than 50 auctions a month used to
pay anywhere from zero to 20 cents a listing, depending on the
initial asking price.  New Shopping Cart  The company also introduced a shopping cart to help
consumers keep track of multiple items. Previously, consumers
had to buy items individually in checkout carts provided by EBay
and by third-party software developers such as  Auctiva  and
ChannelAdvisor Corp. Those independent carts will be eliminated
at the end of June.  EBay, whose shares have risen 9.4 percent this year,
slipped 33 cents to $30.44 today in trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe is two-thirds of the
way through a three-year effort to reinvigorate growth after
losing ground to Amazon and other e-commerce providers.  As EBay retools the site, it hasn’t escaped the ire of some
small merchants, who have said changes to seller rating systems
and the site’s search engine last year hurt their business.
Today’s changes were no exception, they said.  “It may ‘encourage’ offering free shipping, but will wind
up costing the buyers more by sellers having to build in enough
shipping cost,” Melissa Arnold, who runs a store on EBay
selling china, pottery and other collectables, said in an e-
mail.  Still, the turnaround efforts have been largely positive,
according to  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP. EBay
reported record sales of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter,
helped by growing demand for its PayPal payment service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  