-- 
ECB Rate Increase Less of a ‘Done Deal’ as Japan Aftermath Clouds Outlook

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ecb-rate-increase-is-less-of-a-done-deal-as-japan-disaster-aftermath-looms.html
Investors and economists are paring
bets that the  European Central Bank  will raise  interest rates 
next month as the aftermath of Japan’s biggest earthquake
overshadows prospects for the global economy.  Money-market futures fell, indicating investors are curbing
expectations that the ECB will proceed with lifting borrowing
costs after stocks, bond yields and commodities slumped on
concern a nuclear disaster is unfolding in Japan. Economists at
Nomura International Plc, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said the ECB may wait to assess
the impact on markets and the global economy.  “The ECB is still more likely to raise rates than not next
month, but it’s by no means as much a done deal as it was,”
said Laurent Bilke, head of global interest-rate strategy at
Nomura International in London. “It could risk really spooking
markets and exacerbating panic. There is just so much
uncertainty around.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  surprised investors 12
days ago by saying that the central bank may tighten policy for
the first time in almost three years. The ECB is concerned that
inflation, which has breached its 2 percent limit since
December, may become entrenched as workers demand wage increases
to compensate for higher costs.  “The probability of an increase is somewhere between 50
and 75 percent now” instead of maybe 90 percent before, said  Kenneth Broux , senior market economist at Lloyds Bank in London.
“The deeper the selloff in risk, the greater uncertainty and
the more bad news from Japan, the more likely they’d wait to
understand to discover the implications.”  Rate Survey  A survey of fund managers published today by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch found 72 percent expect the ECB to raise
rates before July, up from zero in February. The poll was taken
before Japan’s earthquake and the agreement by European leaders
to let their bailout fund buy bonds from governments.  “Maybe investors are being too aggressive in terms of the
ECB rate rise,” said  Gary Baker , head of European equities
strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch. “Markets would still be
expecting a rate rise, but it’s not a foregone conclusion.”  German investor confidence fell for the first time in five
months in March on expectations of a rate increase and after the
earthquake, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said today. Its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict developments six months in
advance, declined to 14.1 from 15.7 in February.  ‘Too Early’  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said yesterday
evening that it’s “too early” for any conclusion on how the
Japanese disaster may impact officials’ resolve to raise rates.
Nowotny said “we never pre-commit” and developments have to be
“observed very closely.”  Forward contracts on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, for the day of the next ECB interest-rate decision fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 0.9205 percent
as of 3 p.m. in  London , according to data from Deutsche Bank AG.
The declines indicate investors are paring bets on an increase
in borrowing costs next month.  The 10-year German breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, fell for a fourth day, declining three basis
points to 198 basis points. The rate climbed as high as 215
basis points on March 3.  Euribor futures jumped today, sending the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December down 15 basis points to 1.88
percent, signaling traders are reducing bets for higher interest
rates in the euro area through the end of the year.  ‘Extreme Situation’  Even so, holding off “would completely dilute and erode
any impact of signaling rate increases in the first place,”
said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital 
in London. “They’ve only done that once in 2007 and at the time
the situation was critical, money markets had completely frozen
plus they had already raised rates quite a bit.”    Europe ’s economy is gathering strength, with manufacturing
growth accelerating to the fastest pace in more than ten years
in February and confidence in the economic outlook jumping to
the highest in more than three years last month. Inflation has
reached 2.4 percent and it will stay above its ceiling for the
whole of 2011, the central bank said in its latest forecasts.  The effect of Japan on financial markets and the global
economy may yet override the ECB’s determination to curb
consumer prices, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist
at RBS in London.  “What’s happening in  Japan  is significant,” he said. “It
has more implications for damping global demand in the medium
term so reduces the chances of rate hikes post-April, but you
cannot rule out an extreme situation preventing them from
raising rates” in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at  
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  