-- 
Lehman Brothers Said to Seek Partner on Real Estate Development Projects

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lehman-said-to-seek-partner-for-residential-property-development-projects.html
  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  sent
requests to at least six homebuilders and developers seeking
partners for 75 real estate projects in 19 states, according to
executives at three companies who reviewed the solicitations.  Homebuilders PulteGroup Inc.,  Standard Pacific Corp. (SPF)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , along with developers DMB Associates Inc.,
FivePoint Communities Inc. and Newland Communities received
proposals, said the executives, who asked not to be named
because of a confidentiality agreement. The requests, which came
from Alvarez & Marsal Inc., Lehman’s bankruptcy restructuring
firm, didn’t detail the property portfolio, they said.  Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  said in December that
Lehman is seeking to bring “strategic projects involving some
very high-quality assets” to market in 2011 as property values
rise. The company’s holdings include residential and master-
planned communities valued at about $2 billion, down from as
much as $8 billion before the real estate crash, said Tony Avila, CEO of Avila Advisors, a homebuilding consulting firm in  San Francisco .  “It’s big,” Avila, who hasn’t seen the solicitation, said
in a telephone interview today from  London .    Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman in New York,
declined to comment.  Lehman listed total real estate assets of $23 billion the
day before its Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy, the largest in U.S.
history. They had a market value of about $14 billion nine
months later, according to court papers.  ‘Operational Expertise’  The Lehman “portfolio has obviously been on the radar
screen of the real estate community since late 2008,” said
Richard Gollis, principal at  Concord Group , a real estate
advisory firm in Newport Beach,  California . “In our view, it
will only move forward with long-term capital combined with
specific operational expertise in entitlement and development.”  All of the companies that received solicitations develop
master-planned communities. PulteGroup, which builds communities
for older homeowners through its Del Webb brand, declined to
comment, said Travis Parman, a spokesman for the Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based company. Fred Cooper, a spokesman for Toll
in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , also wouldn’t comment.  Standard Pacific, which has announced plans to spend more
than $500 million on lots for homes this year, mostly in
California, declined to comment as well, said Scott Stowell, a
spokesman for the Irvine, California-based company.  DMB, FivePoint  DMB Associates , based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , develops
master-planned communities in Arizona, California, Hawaii,
Nevada and Utah. Aliso Viejo, California-based FivePoint
Communities, which is 60 percent owned by homebuilder  Lennar
Corp. (LEN) , is focused on the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas.
 Newland Communities  of  San Diego  has communities in 14 states.  Brittney Kaufmann, a spokeswoman for DMB; Glenn Bunting, a
spokesman for FivePoint; and Dana Hughens, a spokeswoman for
Newland, all declined to comment.  Lehman foundered because of risky real estate bets and too
much debt, according to a report by bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas. Some of its properties are pledged to investors as
backing for securities, according to court filings. One deal,
called Fenway commercial paper, allowed Lehman to transform
souring real estate investments into securities that the bank’s
insiders dubbed “goat poo,” according to court records.  Apartment Owner Archstone  The company’s biggest real estate asset is apartment-
complex owner Archstone, which completed a restructuring in
December. Archstone, which a Lehman-led group acquired for $22
billion in 2007, may go public again, CEO Scot Sellers said in
November.  Other Lehman real estate, such as properties claimed by
SunCal Cos., an Irvine, California-based developer, remain
tangled in bankruptcy court disputes.  “There’s going to be extensive litigation over the
plans,” said Paul Couchot, a Newport Beach-based attorney with
Winthrop & Couchot PC, who represents SunCal in a dispute over
20 bankrupt California housing projects. The projects are valued
at as much as $461.5 million, according to court documents.  The most valuable of the SunCal properties are Marblehead
in Orange County and Ritter Ranch Project in northern Los
Angeles County, Couchot said. Marblehead, perched on one of the
last undeveloped stretches of Southern California oceanfront,
planned for 308 residences on 247 acres (100 hectares). The
Ritter Ranch project consists of 10,625 acres in the city of
Palmdale entitled for development of as many as 7,200 homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 