-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Eight Months on Japan Nuclear Concerns

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T22:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/emerging-market-stocks-decline-most-in-a-month-on-japan-nuclear-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in eight months, currencies sank and borrowing costs rose
as growing concerns of a nuclear disaster in  Japan  and conflict
in the Middle East spurred investors to sell riskier assets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 2.2 percent to
1,092.65, the biggest drop since June 29. The extra yield on
emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped 7 basis points
to 2.74 percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index
showed. Bahrain’s credit risk soared to a 20-month high as Saudi
Arabian troops entered the country.  The MSCI index extended this year’s loss to 5.1 percent
after Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said danger of further
radiation leaks was rising at a crippled nuclear facility 135
miles (220 kilometers) north of  Tokyo . South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
sank the most in four months, while shares in Taiwan posted the
biggest drop since February 2010.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 0.2
percent. South Africa’s currency tumbled 2.1 percent, the most
in emerging markets, after Societe Generale SA said Japanese
investors may sell rand-denominated debt to raise cash following
the March 11 tsunami that destroyed coastal towns.  “Markets are getting very nervous over what’s happening in
Japan, people are being risk averse and panicky,” said Raymond Tang, who oversees $6.4 billion as chief investment officer at
CIMB-Principal Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  Global Selloff  Benchmark equity indexes retreated in all 15 major emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg that were open for trading today,
with indexes in South Korea, Taiwan and South Africa tumbling
more than 2 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
retreated 3.5 percent, the most in two weeks.  Japan’s  Nikkei-225 (NKY)  Stock Average posted its biggest two-day
plunge since the global stock-market crash of October 1987.
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken nuclear power plant was
today rocked by two further explosions and a fire as workers
struggled to avert the risk of a meltdown.  The  Bank of Japan  injected 8 trillion yen ($98.8 billion)
into money markets today, adding to yesterday’s record cash
injection, to secure the nation’s financial stability following
the March 11 quake -- updated to a magnitude of 9, from 8.9, by
the U.S. Geological Survey.  “Investors are worried about the situation in Japan as the
blast at the nuclear plant makes it a regional risk,” said Zhou Xi, a strategist at Bohai Securities Co. “It’s not about the
earthquake but more about radiation leakage concerns, which will
drag down the economy in Japan and even the whole of  Asia .”  Bahrain, Saudi  The MSCI Emerging Markets Information Technology Index
plunged 3.8 percent, the biggest slide since May.  South Korea’s Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the world’s second-
largest computer-memory chipmaker, slid 4.7 percent. In addition
to a possible drop in demand from Japanese electronics makers,
supplies of semiconductor components may be disrupted after the
earthquake, Mirae Asset Securities said.  Japanese companies including Toshiba Corp.,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  supply 20 percent of the
world’s technology products, including 44 percent of audio-
visual equipment, 40 percent of electronic components and 19
percent of semiconductors, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets estimates.
Plant closures since Tokyo Electric requested companies to cut
electricity consumption to ease shortages include two at Toshiba
and eight each at Sony and Canon Inc.  Commodities Producers  Commodities producers fell on concern demand for energy and
raw materials will shrink after Japan’s biggest earthquake and
nuclear crisis. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company known as Petrobras, fell 0.9 percent and
Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, declined 1.7
percent. PetroChina Co., the listed unit of  China ’s biggest
energy company, dropped 3.5 percent in  Hong Kong .  Credit-default swaps on Bahrain jumped 44 basis points to
359, the highest since July 2009, according to CMA. The
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of Persian Gulf shares sank 2.5 percent.
Saudi Arabian troops arrived in Bahrain as part of a regional
force from the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, the first
outside intervention since a wave of popular uprisings swept
through parts of the Arab world.  Bahrain declared a state of emergency for three months and
King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa asked the head of the military to
guarantee security across the country, state television said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  