-- 
Tepco Market Value Slumps $24 Billion as Japan Utility Faces Atomic Crisis

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 
2011-03-16T06:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/tepco-s-value-falls-18-billion-as-utility-faces-fukushima-nuclear-crisis.html
  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the
world’s most indebted utility, has lost 1.93 trillion yen ($24
billion) in market value as creditors snap up contracts to
protect against default following the worst nuclear disaster
since Chernobyl.  Shares in Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, have plunged 57 percent
in three days, as it battles to prevent a nuclear catastrophe at
its earthquake-damaged  Fukushima Dai-Ichi  plant. The cost of
insuring the company’s debt against default has surged almost
nine-fold since the March 11 earthquake on concern it will be
harder to service net borrowings of $88 billion, more than any
utility worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is no bottom in sight,” said Satoshi Yuzaki,
Tokyo-based head of the market information department at Takagi
Securities Co. “Nobody knows when or if the plants in Fukushima
will ever restart. There’s a possibility that they will have to
deal with liability issues as well.”  Tepco’s nuclear generating capacity will be held back for
years, forcing the company to build new stations and generate
power from more costly fossil fuel plants, Moody’s Investors
Service Ltd. said in a note to investors. More than 30 percent
of the power supplied to the utility’s 29 million customers in
2009 came from its  17 nuclear reactors . Ten of those are at two
plants in Fukushima, where the company is battling to keep
reactors from melting down amid fires and aftershocks.  Shares Slump  Tepco fell by the daily 25 percent limit to 921 yen in
Tokyo, and no trades took place until the close as sell orders
outweighed those to buy by a factor of five to one.  “The price to book ratio is around 0.6,” Yuzaki said by
telephone today. “If this was a normal time, the current level
would already be considered a low price, but investors are
continuing to sell. It’s psychological.”  A fire and aftershocks struck the crippled power station
today, as officials battling to prevent a nuclear meltdown said
fuel rods at two reactors may have been damaged.  The cost of insuring debt sold by Tepco for five-years
surged 253.5 basis points to a record 402.5 yesterday, according
to data provider CMA. That compares with the 577 basis point
high reached by credit-default swaps on 5-year debt for BP Plc
at the height of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill disaster last
year. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 1
billion yen ($13.4 million) of debt for five years is equivalent
to 100,000 yen.  Credit-Default Swaps  The credit-default swaps fell 34 basis points to 351 basis
points as of 1:08 p.m. in  Singapore , according to CMA. The
contracts closed at 40.5 basis points on March 11, before
financial markets reacted to the magnitude-9 earthquake’s impact
later that afternoon, CMA prices show. The temblor was  Japan ’s
strongest on record.  The disaster unfolding at the plant 220 kilometers (135
miles) north of Tokyo now ranks six on a seven-step
international scale for nuclear accidents, according to Andre-
Claude Lacoste, head of  France ’s Autorite de Surete Nucleaire.
The 1986 accident at Chernobyl was rated a seven because of
widespread health and environmental effects, while Three Mile
Island in the U.S. in 1979 was a five due to severe damage to
the reactor core, according to the IAEA.  The disaster at Fukushima isn’t the first quake-related
accident for Tepco. A 6.8 magnitude temblor on July 2007 caused
a fire and radiation leaks that shut down the seven-reactor
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s biggest. It took
almost two years to restart and three reactors remained shut
down at the time of last week’s quake.  2007 Disaster  The 2007 earthquake resulted in Tepco reporting a net loss
in both 2007 and 2008, Moody’s said. Profits in 2009 were still
about half of those earned in fiscal year 2006, the ratings
company said.  “This latest incident and the previous Chuetsu-Oki
earthquake indicate that the business risk of operating nuclear  power plants  in Japan is higher than previously contemplated,”
Moody’s analysts including Kenji Okamoto said in a note, putting
the company on a review for a possible downgrade.  Engineers today restored water coolant levels at reactors
No. 1 and No. 3 while the containment chamber of the No. 2 unit
may be damaged after a blast. The building that houses the No. 4
reactor has two holes in it and water in the spent fuel pool may
be boiling, Hidehiko Nishiyama, deputy director-general of
Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, said in Tokyo.  Radiation levels at the No. 4 reactor hampered efforts to
confirm a fire that broke out this morning had been
extinguished, a day after a similar blaze at the same structure.  Under law, the utility is required to carry liability
insurance of about 120 billion yen ($1.5 billion), Tokyo-based
Credit Suisse analyst Yuji Nishiyama said in a telephone
interview. If costs spiral above this, Tokyo Electric is likely
to receive government assistance, he said. The company also
faces public outrage and will need to compensate local
communities for the damage caused, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  