-- 
Equity Bank of Kenya May Beat 2010’s 69% Profit Growth This Year, CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-15T10:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/equity-bank-of-kenya-may-beat-2010-s-69-profit-growth-this-year-ceo-says.html
  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest
lender by market value, may this year exceed 2010 profit growth
of 69 percent as more branches become profitable and demand for
bank services grows, said Chief Executive Officer James Mwangi.  “We could be massively bigger or match what we had last
year, but I can’t see us worse than what we did,” Mwangi said in
an interview yesterday in  London . “We are now reaping the
benefits of previous strategic decisions.”  The Nairobi-based lender opened about 70 branches in the
past three years that have become profitable, which along with a
growing client base and partnerships with telecommunication
companies will help drive growth, he said.  Equity Bank has 6.1 million customers, up from 5.9 million
at the end of December, said Mwangi. More than three-quarters of
Kenyans don’t have a bank account, he said. “With the prospect
of the country continuing to grow and reducing abject poverty
more and more people will need banking services,” Mwangi said.    Kenya ’s economy, the biggest in East Africa, grew 5.4
percent last year, and may expand 6.5 percent to 8 percent over
the next two years, helping eradicate poverty and create more
jobs in the country, President Mwai Kibaki said Feb. 28.  Bank earnings in Kenya have been growing as accelerating
economic expansion spurs more Kenyans to take out loans, open
accounts and demand other financial services. The industry’s
combined pretax profit surged 46 percent to 66 billion shillings
in the eleven months through November on loan growth and higher
income from fees and commissions, the  Central Bank  of Kenya said
on Feb. 11.  Profit Surge  Equity Bank said Feb. 28 its full-year profit surged to
7.13 billion shillings ($82.3 million) in the 12 months through
December from 4.23 billion shillings a year earlier as interest
income, the money banks earn from interest charges on loans,
grew 28 percent.  Equity Bank plans to increase its customers in  Southern
Sudan  to 50,000 by end of the year, up from 30,000 now, Mwangi
said. The bank also wants to add another four branches to its
six in the newly independent country, two of which were opened
during its referendum in January, he said.  Southern  Sudan ’s plebiscite was the centerpiece of a 2005
peace accord that ended a civil war which lasted almost 50
years, except for a cease-fire from 1972 to 1983, between
Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional religions dominate. About 2 million people died in
the second phase of the conflict.  “Building capacity in Southern Sudan is quite challenging,”
he said. “This is a country that is coming out of war, so the
people are not really used to established entrepreneurship. The
banks see this as a huge opportunity to build capacity and in
the process maybe build loyalty.”  Tanzania, Rwanda  As many as 100,000 Tanzanians and 60,000 Rwandans will
become Equity Bank customers this year after the lender opens a
total of eight outlets in the “more developed” East African
nations in April, said Mwangi. There are no plans to expand
further into other countries until the new branches have been
“turned into profitable outfits.”  Equity has a partnership with  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , Kenya’s
largest company by market value and 40 percent-owned by Vodafone
Plc, that operates Mkesho, a service that enables clients to
open bank accounts through M-PESA, a mobile-money transfer
system. The service registered 613,000 users in the first five
months of operations, Safaricom said in November.  “The convergence with telecoms is causing a lot of
excitement in the market and Equity was really strategically
positioned because the IT platform is able to interswitch the
banking and telecommunication companies,” he said. “At the
moment, we seem to be the only bank able to handle that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 