-- 
Merkel Retreats on Nuclear-Power Extension in Bid for State Election Boost

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-16T10:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/merkel-retreats-on-nuclear-power-extension-in-bid-for-state-election-boost.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
backtracking on nuclear power as the atomic emergency in Japan
roils state-election campaigns.  Merkel’s decision yesterday to halt seven of  Germany ’s 17
reactors includes two in Baden-Wuerttemberg, where her Christian
Democratic Union party is battling to retain a half-century hold
on the state in a March 27 vote. Polls indicate a neck-and-neck
race between the local CDU-led coalition and opposition parties
including the anti-nuclear Greens.  “The events in Japan spell trouble” for Merkel, Oscar
Gabriel, a political scientist at the University of Stuttgart,
said in a phone interview. “Voters identify competence on
nuclear safety with the Greens, not the CDU. So the Greens may
well gain points among the voters.”  Baden-Wuerttemberg, home to companies such as  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
Porsche SE and SAP AG, is the most populous of seven German
states holding votes this year and has been under CDU control
uninterruptedly since the state’s founding after World War II.
Losing it risks undermining Merkel’s authority as chancellor and
would widen the opposition majority in parliament’s upper house,
where states are represented. Her party had its worst postwar
result in the first election of 2011, in Hamburg on Feb. 20.  EnBW Plants  Underscoring the CDU’s challenge, the state government in
Stuttgart agreed to buy Electricite de France SA’s 45 percent
stake in  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , Germany’s third-
largest utility, for 4.7 billion euros ($6.6 billion) last year.
EnBW operates the four nuclear power plants in the state.  Shares in  E.ON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility and the one
with the most nuclear generating capacity, rose 2.8 percent to
21.85 euros at 10 a.m. Berlin time, paring an 8 percent decline
over the previous two days.  Merkel’s nuclear-power predicament came just after scoring
a victory in Brussels, winning support from key allies for a
retooled plan to fight the euro-region debt crisis and a
commitment to enact budget rules into law.  She campaigned in 2009 promising to extend the use of
nuclear power, upending a phase-out enacted under her Social
Democrat predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder, that would have seen
all reactors close by about 2022. Last year, Merkel pushed
through a law extending the running time of nuclear plants by an
average of 12 years, so that the last plant is slated to close
in 2035, according to  the Environment Ministry . Germany gets 23
percent of its power from nuclear plants.  Stefan Mappus, the Baden-Wuerttemberg premier and a Merkel
ally, backed the extension, which is opposed by 80 percent
nationwide, according to an Infratest poll for ARD television
released yesterday.  Safety Review  Merkel has delivered the strongest European response to the
aftermath of  Japan ’s worst earthquake. Yesterday’s suspension
came a day after she put the extended use of nuclear power on
hold for three months for a safety review.  Balancing the requirements of  Europe ’s largest economy and
public opposition to nuclear power has been a challenge for
Merkel. Fifty-three percent of Germans want the nation’s nuclear
plants closed “as soon as possible,” the Infratest survey
showed.  Politics in Baden-Wuerttemberg, a state on the French and
Swiss borders that has Germany’s lowest jobless rate, was
shifting toward the Greens even before the nuclear crisis.  Station Protests  Plans for a new Stuttgart train station sparked protests
last year, helping give the environmental party a boost. Two
days ago, anti-nuclear protesters in Stuttgart mixed with the
traditional Monday demonstration against the rail project.
Opponents of nuclear power also picketed outside Merkel’s
Chancellery in Berlin.  Merkel’s CDU have 38-42 percent support and their Free
Democratic Party coalition partner 5-8 percent, according to the
five polls released so far this month. The opposition  Social
Democrats  have 22-26 percent and the Greens 19-21 percent. All
of the polls were taken before the atomic emergency in Japan.  Merkel may have misread Germans’ shock about events in
Japan as pressure to change her nuclear policy, said Manfred Guellner, head of the Berlin-based Forsa polling firm.  “Focusing on what’s happening in Germany only helps the
Greens, not the CDU,” he said in a phone interview. “A
chancellor has to show leadership, not do an abrupt about-
face.”  Mappus, the Baden-Wuerttemberg leader, backed Merkel’s
nuclear-power moratorium after meeting with the chancellor in
Berlin yesterday.  “Everyone realizes that last weekend was something of a
watershed,” he told reporters. “It’s right that we inspect
aging  power plants  while they’re off, so we can demonstrate the
maximum commitment to safety.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  