-- 
Merkel Atomic Delay Shows Fukushima Putting Europe’s Energy Goals at Risk

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-15T18:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/merkel-atomic-delay-shows-fukushima-putting-europe-s-energy-goals-at-risk.html
The political reaction to the
crisis at  Japan ’s Fukushima nuclear plant risks cutting output
from European reactors over the next decade, making it harder
for the region to meet targets to reduce emissions.  Germany began halting 25 percent of its nuclear capacity
for more safety checks after Chancellor  Angela Merkel  put plans
to extend the lives of its plants on hold for three months as
the events at Fukushima are examined. In the U.K., the
government ordered a review of nuclear safety. That’s likely to
delay Electricite de  France  SA’s plans for as long as year to
build a new reactor in England by 2018, Citigroup Inc. said.  Switzerland  halted plans for new reactors.  Atomic generation accounted for 28 percent of  Europe ’s
power generation in 2008, making building new reactors and
extending the use of existing plants key to meeting a 2020
target to reduce fossil fuel emissions 20 percent from 1990
levels. Reactors are still forecast to provide more than one-
quarter of power as of 2020, according to  Eurelectric .  “European governments will need to know what happened in
Japan and look at it in terms of nuclear new build and the
existing fleet,” said  Peter Atherton , a utility analyst at
Citigroup in London. “That’s a process that will take time. The
big question is what this means for EU energy targets. Will
politicians have the capacity to push them through.”  Carbon Allowances  European Union carbon dioxide allowances rose to the
highest price since May 2009. Permits for December rose 3.7
percent to 17.21 euros ($24.15) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Switching to fossil fuel generation from
nuclear would force utilities to buy more permits. The EU is
committed to binding CO2 reduction targets.  “European nuclear programs look the most vulnerable to
rethink or delay,” said Angus McCrone, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in London.   Germany , the U.K.,  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and the Netherlands are likely to see less
capacity in 2020 than previously thought.  The shares of nuclear generators declined in Europe today.
EDF fell 1.4 percent in Paris to the lowest price in two years.
E.ON, Germany’s largest utility, dropped 2.8 percent. RWE, the
second-biggest, closed at a six-year low.  System Failure  The cooling system failed at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station’s No. 1 and No. 3 reactors after the earthquake, and
broke at the No. 2 reactor yesterday. Operator Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said it can’t rule out that fuel rods are melting at
the No. 2 reactor after they became exposed for a second time by
a drop in water levels.  Germany’s 17 nuclear reactors accounted for 23 percent of
the power generated in the country last year, according to the
Berlin-based  BDEW  utility industry lobby group.  “There are no taboos,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin
yesterday. “Everything will be put under review.”  The government repealed last year a 2002 law, passed by a
coalition of Greens and Social Democrats under then SPD
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, that would shut down all German
nuclear plants by about 2022.  The SPD and Greens are running neck-and-neck with Merkel’s
bloc in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg before elections on
March 27. Baden-Wuerttemberg agreed to buy EDF’s 45 percent
stake in  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , Germany’s third-
largest utility, for 4.7 billion euros last year. EnBW is the
operator of four nuclear  power plants .  Oldest Reactors  The country will keep its seven oldest nuclear reactors
offline as part of the nationwide safety review to run through
June, Merkel told reporters in Berlin today. Two of the seven
are currently offline, while the remainder total 5.2 gigawatts
out of the 20.7 gigawatts installed over Germany’s seventeen
nuclear plants, according to Bloomberg calculations.  E.ON, RWE and EnBW will halt their Isar-1, Biblis A and
Neckarwestheim 1 reactors, the companies said in separate e-
mailed statements today.  Under the extension deal, the seven reactors built before
1980 will run eight years longer than planned and 10 newer
plants will run 14 years longer, for an average of 12 years.  In the U.K., Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , whose Liberal
Democrat party opposed nuclear power before entering a coalition
government last year, asked regulators to prepare a report on
Fukushima. EDF aims to build the first of four reactors in the
U.K. at Hinkley Point in southwest  England  by 2018.  Projects on Hold  The Swiss government put projects to renew three of the
country’s five nuclear power stations on hold yesterday. Legal
procedures to prepare for construction of the new plants at
Beznau, Goesgen and Muehleberg were suspended, the  Environment
Ministry  said March 14 in an e-mailed statement.  Elsewhere governments affirmed their commitment to nuclear
power. France will continue to rely on nuclear power, French
Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet told Europe 1
radio March 14. France has 58 reactors, more than any country
except the U.S.  “We can’t switch to renewables overnight,” Kosciusko-
Morizet said. “For the foreseeable future, we will need
nuclear.” EDF is building its 59th reactor and plans a 60th in
coming years.    Spain , which is extending the life of existing plants, said
Fukushima won’t hold back its nuclear policy. Officials in Italy
and Poland said the earthquake won’t lead the countries to
reconsider plans to build new reactors.  “We are aware that nuclear energy is not a panacea for
everything, but this is an important part of the solution,”
Hanna Trojanowska, Poland’s deputy economy minister for nuclear
strategy, told reporters today in Brussels.  There are 442 reactors supplying about 15 percent of the
world’s electricity, according to the London-based  World Nuclear
Association . There are plans to build more than 155 reactors,
mainly in  Asia . Sixty five reactors are under construction, the
association said on its website.  --取材協力：Tony Czuczka、Brian Parkin、Mathew Carr、Will
Kennedy、Tara Patel、Alessandra Migliaccio Editors: Will
Kennedy,  Mike Anderson   記事についての記者への問い合わせ先：
Frankfurt Nicholas Comfort +49-69-92041-213
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;  London  Kari Lundgren +44-20-7073-3442  klundgren2@bloomberg.net   記事についてのエディターへの問い合わせ先：
 