-- 
EU ‘Can’t Afford’ to Delay Short-Selling Rules, Barnier Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/eu-can-t-afford-to-delay-short-selling-rules-barnier-says-1-.html
The European Union “can’t afford
to delay” proposals to restrict short selling over concerns the
measures might harm liquidity in the sovereign-debt market, said  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services commissioner.  Barnier and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde 
pushed for the rules to limit some short selling after other
finance ministers complained the plans gave too much power to
new pan-European regulators and might harm the ability of
investors to hedge risk using debt issued by countries.  “Soft regulation advocated three or four years ago should
be a story of the past,” Lagarde said at a meeting of finance
ministers in Brussels today. “In  Greece , the markets plummeted
because we ignored” the situation.  Governments in the 27-nation EU and lawmakers in the
European Parliament are considering, in particular, measures to
restrict so-called naked short selling. That follows complaints
from politicians including German Chancellor Angela Merkel that
speculation using short sales has worsened the euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Finance ministers from Sweden, Luxembourg and  Italy  have
called the rules politically sensitive.  “Speaking of sovereign bonds and liquidity, in my opinion
we have to be more and more careful,” Italian Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti said.  Located, Reserved  Lawmakers in the parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee in Strasbourg,  France , voted last week in favor of
banning short selling of stocks or government bonds in the EU
unless traders have “located and reserved,” in advance, the
securities they intend to sell.  Short sellers seek to profit on declining markets by
selling borrowed shares or bonds, on the belief their price will
fall, then replacing them with securities bought at a lower
price. In an uncovered, or naked, short sale, the speculator
places the sell order without obtaining the underlying
securities.  The committee in Strasbourg also voted to ban traders from
using credit default swaps, or CDS, to profit from defaults on  government bonds , unless they either own the debt or another
asset which has a closely related price.  “Banning naked short selling is likely to raise the cost
of borrowing for EU governments,” the  Association for Financial
Markets in Europe , which represents international lenders
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , said in an e-mailed
statement. “It will make financial markets less liquid and add
uncertainty for European companies looking to hedge risk.”  ‘Complete Ban’  Barnier said the final rules wouldn’t harm liquidity and
that sovereign debt “must be covered” by the EU proposals.  “Parliament wants to go much further,” he said. “They
voted for a complete ban on naked short selling of sovereign
CDS.”  Weakening the rule would make getting an agreement with
parliament difficult, he said.  Governments will try to complete work on the short selling
rules by May, said  Gyorgy Matolcsy ,  Hungary ’s finance minister.
Hungary, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, will “work
hard to finalize the text for the next Ecofin meeting,” he
said, referring to a meeting of finance ministers.  Governments would need to reach a compromise with the
European Parliament on the rules before they could become law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  