-- 
EU Carbon Rises to Highest Price in Two Years as German Reactors Are Shut

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-15T19:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/eu-carbon-allowances-surge-to-highest-price-since-2008-on-nuclear-halts.html
European Union carbon permits
surged to their highest price in almost two years after  Germany 
said it will halt its seven oldest nuclear reactors, increasing
demand for replacement power from fossil fuels.  EU permits for December jumped 3.7 percent to 17.21 euros
($24.08) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , the highest close since May 2009. They traded earlier as
high as 17.49 euros, and volumes aggregated across all futures
surged to an all-time high of 51.6 million tons on the ICE,
making it the busiest day ever for carbon trading.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s decision today to suspend
the plants for safety checks following concerns about a meltdown
in  Japan  may remove 4.9 gigawatts of capacity from the power
market, said  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst at Orbeo.
Permanent closures would push up emissions by 270 million tons
through 2020, the equivalent of 13 percent of this year’s total
cap, as utilities rely more on electricity from coal, oil and
gas, Fages said today by e-mail.  “Today we are witnessing a perfect storm for the EU
emissions trading system,” said Matthew Cowie, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. During the next few
months, “we have high natural-gas prices and the probable
closure of older German nuclear plants,” he said. Europe may
have less nuclear output during the next few years and continued
high gas prices, which would force utilities to burn coal and
drive carbon prices “sharply” higher, Cowie said.  German power for 2012 rose as much as 4.6 percent today to
58.50 euros a megawatt hour, the highest intraday price since
October 2009, broker data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.K. gas
for delivery in the six months starting April 1, the summer
contract, increased as much as 3.4 percent today on ICE.  ‘Seems Overdone’  The surge in carbon permits in the past two sessions may be
“overdone” considering the oversupply of 515 million
allowances for the five years through 2012, not counting United
Nations offsets, according to Barclays Plc.  “What has happened to put 2 euros a ton on the price?”  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital ,
said today by e-mail. “Japan will take some more liquefied
natural gas and Germany has closed some nukes.”  Before today’s surge in carbon prices, the EU proposed
selling 120 million permits at early auctions next year to limit
price shocks as it phases out distribution of free allowances.
The price fell as much as 0.5 percent after that announcement.  The proposed volume would come on top of the 300 million
allowances from an EU reserve, designed to spur clean-energy
projects, scheduled to be sold in 2012 in advance of the next
eight-year trading period known as phase three. The total of 420
million permits to be sold early corresponds to 21 percent of
average annual supply in the current phase, which began in 2008.  Optimistic Forecast  The EU proposal for 120 million allowances is 45 percent
more than the 83 million-ton-average forecast from three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The 120 million tons looks optimistic,” Sikorski said,
earlier today. “It certainly helps mitigate some of the
tightness in the market, but the market will still need to rise
to meet the future level of hedges.”  EU permits for December may rise to 18.14 euros a metric
ton within the next few weeks, according to Brett Genus, a
broker at OTC  Europe  LLP in London. He cited Elliott Wave theory
and trading volumes.  Elliott Wave theory says that the price rises in a series
of five swings and falls in a series of three, based on rhythms
found in nature. December carbon volumes jumped 88 percent today
to a record 38.5 million tons on ICE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  