-- 
EU Proposes Selling 120 Million Carbon Permits at Early Auctions in 2012

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-15T10:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/eu-proposes-selling-120-million-carbon-permits-at-early-auctions-in-2012.html
The European Union proposed selling
120 million carbon permits at early auctions next year, an
amount near the midpoint of the range discussed with investors
and emitters to prepare for the trading period starting in 2013.  The proposed volume would come on top of the 300 million
allowances from an EU reserve, designed to spur clean-energy
projects, scheduled to be sold in 2012 in advance of the next
eight-year trading period known as phase three. The total of 420
million permits to be sold early corresponds to 21 percent of
average annual supply in the current phase, which began in 2008.  “The proposed amount is considered appropriate to ensure a
smooth transition to the third trading period,”  Jos Delbeke ,
director general for climate at the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulatory arm in Brussels, said today in a  statement .  The EU, which gave away the majority of allowances since
starting the world’s biggest emissions-trading program in 2005,
will require most emitters to buy their allotment of permits
when phase three begins in 2013. The EU consulted with climate
experts and power companies including  Germany ’s RWE AG to settle
on how many permits were needed before 2013 to ensure a smooth
transition. The expected range was zero to 300 million permits.  EU allowances for delivery in December fell after the
commission announcement, trading down 0.4 percent at 16.53 euros
a metric ton as of 10:15 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . They have gained 6.6 percent this month and closed
yesterday at the highest price in almost a year.  ‘Good Balance’  “This represents for us a very good balance between the
risk of over- and under-supply for the European market in
2012,” said Matthew Cowie, analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London. “While the exact volume required is a
difficult number to calculate, 2012 will be a very busy year for
the EU emissions trading system, making it prudent to supply
this volume to the secondary market to smooth the transition to
phase three. This is neutral for our price outlook.”  The commission proposal needs backing from representatives
of national governments in the EU  Climate Change  Committee. It
will then be included as an annex to the regulation on carbon
auctions that the commission formally adopted last November.  It’s not yet possible to determine the date of first early
auctions, the commission said on its website today. The volume
of early sales in 2012 will be deducted in equal parts from the
pool of allowances to be auctioned in 2013 and 2014.  Climate Change  The EU emissions program, designed to help fight climate
change, imposes CO2 quotas on about 11,000 power plants and
factories, requiring those producing more than their allowance
to buy more, while those that emit less can sell their surplus.
The EU carbon market was valued at $118.5 billion in 2009,
according to the  World Bank .  Eurelectric, the European electricity industry association,
said last April that the EU should auction as many as 500
million permits before 2013. That includes allowances from the
reserve for new companies entering the system, called NER300.
Power producers, most of which will no longer get free permits
in the next trading period, have said they need phase-three
permits immediately to hedge their future electricity sales.  Delbeke said earlier this year that a debate in December
showed expectations for the amount of permits to be auctioned
early were “much lower compared to where we started” as
industrial output in the EU declined and the commission
announced plans to sell permits from NER300 reserve.  “Together with stakeholders, we have identified the
relevant demand and supply factors to be considered,” the
commission said today. “There is broad consensus on these
factors, but also wide recognition that significant
uncertainties exist with regard to most of these factors which
will only be narrowed down over time.”  The 27-nation bloc will auction about 60 percent of all CO2
permits in 2013, according to the commission estimates. That
proportion will increase in coming years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  