-- 
Europe Eyes Nuclear Stress Tests as Japan Crisis Worsens

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-15T19:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/europe-eyes-nuclear-stress-tests-as-japan-crisis-worsens-1-.html
The European Union is planning
stress tests on nuclear plants this year to enhance safety
standards in the region as  Japan  struggles with reactors
crippled by an earthquake and a tsunami.  EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said member
states and power companies including German utility E.ON AG
backed the idea of voluntary tests at a meeting today. Energy
ministers, energy firms and regulators were called to Brussels
to discuss nuclear security and the situation in Japan, where
the government is battling to cool three reactors in the
northeast damaged by the worst quake in the country on record.  “We want to look at the risks and safety issues in light
of events in Japan,” Oettinger told a press conference after
the meeting. “We’ll conduct the tests as soon as we reach an
agreement on the criteria and the reach and the extent of them.
Recognized, independent experts will be responsible for carrying
them out in the course of this year.”  Nuclear power stations, owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and  Germany ’s RWE AG, currently produce
around a third of the electricity in the 27-nation bloc,
according to the commission. Safety competencies are shared
between national authorities and the European Commission, the EU
executive arm.  European Standards  E.ON’s Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen, also
present at the conference, welcomed the commission’s initiative
to introduce common European standards and said that while
nuclear operators were meeting all the applicable security
requirements, there was still room for upgrades.  “Yes, lessons need to be learnt,” Teyssen said. “We
cannot just rely on present safety standards; they will have to
be improved.”  Japan, which has no significant oil and gas resources, is
trying to avert a meltdown of fuel rods at Reactor No. 2 in the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station after they became exposed for a
second time by a drop in water levels. The March 11 earthquake
also crippled Fukushima’s No. 1 and No. 3 reactors.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of radiation leaks
increased at the nuclear facility, located 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of  Tokyo . That sent the nation’s Topix stock
index to its biggest two-day drop since 1987 as concern grew
over the government’s ability to contain the crisis.  Energy Mix  In  Europe , nuclear energy helps the region diversify its
energy mix and plays an important role in the EU transition to a
low-carbon economy, the commission has said. The bloc wants to
cut greenhouse-gas discharges by 20 percent in 2020 and between
80 and 95 percent in 2050.  The shares of nuclear generators declined in Europe today
after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the country will keep
its seven oldest nuclear reactors offline as part of the
nationwide safety review to run through June. Two of the seven
are currently offline, while the remainder total 5.2 gigawatts
out of the 20.7 gigawatts installed over Germany’s 17 nuclear
plants, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “Political debate is still ongoing among member states,
but as things stand today the development in Germany is rather
unusual and there are no other imitators yet among other member
states,” Oettinger said. “The decision on energy mix remains
in the hands of member states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  