-- 
EU’s ‘Good Girls’ Can’t Keep Footing Debt Bill, Halonen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-03-16T07:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/europe-s-good-girls-can-t-keep-footing-debt-bill-halonen-says.html
Europe’s top-rated economies like  Germany  and Finland need to stop paying for the fiscal sins of
the euro region’s weakest members if the bloc is ever to have a
“fair system,” Finnish President Tarja Halonen said.  “The good girls, like Finland and Germany, they are not the
payers for the future,” Halonen, 67, said yesterday in  New York 
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Andrea Catherwood .
“European citizens expect that there will be also a fair system
inside the European Union and in the euro, and that’s why we
have to have quite hard discipline.”  Finland, one of the single currency area’s six AAA rated
members, has seen anti-euro sentiment swell as polls indicate
taxpayers in the Nordic country are tired of supporting
governments that have overspent. Though  Europe ’s leaders on
March 12 agreed to boost the region’s bailout facility, they
remain divided on how to do so in practice. Finnish Prime
Minister Mari Kiviniemi said March 9 her government wants the
euro area to target stricter economic goals rather than allow
“joint liability.”  “We are ready to protect the euro,” Halonen, Finland’s
first female president, said in the interview. Still,
“everybody has to look after their own economy and follow the
rules,” she said.  Debt Costs  Finland pays 19 basis points more than Germany to borrow
for 10 years, the smallest yield premium in the euro area.
Greece’s premium is about 915, while Ireland’s is 613.
Portugal’s spread has climbed to more than 414, up from 370 at
the start of the year.    Portugal ’s debt rating was cut two steps by Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday to A3 amid a weaker economic outlook
and a possible need to recapitalize its banks, the agency said.  Euro area leaders broadened the size and scope of their 440
billion-euro ($614 billion) bailout fund and eased the terms of
Greek rescue loans. They resisted calls to buy bonds in the open
market or finance buybacks. The European Financial Stability
Facility will be able to spend its full capacity and buy bonds
directly from governments.  Finland’s opposition bloc yesterday passed a motion of no
confidence against the government for agreeing to the measures,
though the motion wasn’t upheld in parliament.  True Finns  Finland’s opposition to having the euro area’s top-rated
members support its most indebted nations has grown as the
Nordic country faces parliamentary elections on April 17.
Backing for the anti-euro True Finns party has soared, making it
the country’s fastest-growing movement, with opinion-poll
support to rival the biggest opposition party. Voters are
rallying to its argument that Europe shouldn’t have rescued  Greece  or Ireland, and that Finland should veto more cash for
the bailout fund.  Kiviniemi has said she may be willing to work with the True
Finns after the election. The party has about 18 percent
backing, according to a Feb. 17 Helsingin Sanomat poll.  Finland managed last year and the year before to keep its  budget deficit  within the 3 percent threshold of gross domestic
product required by the EU even as its economy contracted 8.2
percent in 2009, the biggest drop since the 1918 Civil War. The
euro area, by comparison, had an average deficit of 6.3 percent
last year, the European Commission estimated on Nov. 29.  All Options  Europe faces an end-of-month deadline to work out the fine
print of its weekend agreement. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker told reporters in Brussels this week the most
likely way of getting the full firepower out of the EFSF, now
constrained by collateral rules, would be for each country to
increase its guarantee.    Finland  wants to consider all options before deciding on
such a step, Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen told state-owned
broadcaster YLE yesterday. Other options could include lowering
the facility’s AAA credit rating or increasing capital available
to the fund, Katainen said.  “It’s much better to defend the system we have worked with
than to try to establish something new,” Halonen said. “We
will put more and more attention so that the system is
transparent and based on confidence.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  