-- 
Eurogroup’s Juncker ‘Not Happy’ With Credit-Rating Firms After Spain Cut

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 
2011-03-15T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/eurogroup-s-juncker-not-happy-with-credit-rating-firms-in-debt-crisis.html
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers, said he is
“not happy” about the role played by credit-rating companies
in Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, particularly in the case of  Spain .  “In the U.S., people are saying that financial markets
would not always be best advised to follow the assessments given
by the rating agencies,” Juncker told reporters yesterday in
Brussels, where he chaired a meeting of finance chiefs. “As far
as this very point is concerned, I’m very American.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Spain’s credit rating to
Aa2 on March 10, saying Spanish lenders will need as much as 50
billion euros ($70 billion) to meet new  capital requirements ,
more than double the 20 billion euros seen by the government in  Madrid . Juncker said it is “surprising” that Moody’s didn’t
wait to see the Bank of Spain’s assessment of lenders’ capital
shortfall, which was due on the same day, before downgrading the
nation’s credit rating.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said the ratings
downgrade is being studied as an example of problems with how
rating agencies work. “The fact that the downgrade came within
a few hours of that statement prompted a rejection of the way
they’re operating,” she said yesterday in Brussels. The European
Union wants to set new rules for the timing and justification of
such ratings changes, she added.  Warning Period  Credit-ratings companies may be forced to give governments
three days’ notice of any change to their rating under proposals
made in November by the  European Commission , the EU executive.
Extending the warning period to 72 hours, from the current 12
hours, would give countries a chance to point out “factual
errors” and “new developments” which may influence the
rating, according to the commission.  Moody’s said it “will continue to engage constructively
with European policy makers on the evolving regulation of our
industry,” according to an e-mailed statement from the company.
“Our ratings derive from transparent methodologies and are
supported by in-depth research and analysis.”  The Brussels-based commission also is considering setting
up a publicly funded agency to compete with companies such as
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. European Central
Bank officials have criticized rating companies for announcing
changes in sovereign ratings just as  Europe ’s debt crisis was
unfolding, exacerbating market turmoil.  Spain has taken unprecedented measures to avoid following
Greece and Ireland into a bailout, implementing the deepest
budget cuts in at least three decades. The government in Madrid
is tightening capital requirements for banks in an effort to
show investors that its lenders can weather a fourth year of
economic slump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;  David Tweed  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  