-- 
Coal at Highest Since 2008 as Europe Rethinks its Nuclear Policy

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-03-15T14:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/european-coal-derivatives-rise-to-highest-since-october-2008.html
Benchmark European coal derivatives
rose to the highest price since 2008 on speculation the
continent will cut nuclear power use following  Japan ’s atomic
crisis, boosting demand for fossil fuels.  Germany will halt nuclear reactors accounting for 25
percent of its atomic energy capacity as part of a safety review
after explosions at reactors in Japan. In the U.K., the
government ordered a review of nuclear safety. That’s likely to
delay Electricite de France SA’s plans to build a new reactor in
England by 2018 by as long as a year, Citigroup Inc. said.  Switzerland  halted plans for new reactors.  The decisions came after an earthquake and tsunami in Japan
on March 11 damaged the Fukushima nuclear plant where the
cooling system failed and fires broke out. Operator Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said it can’t rule out that fuel rods are
melting at the No. 2 reactor after they became exposed for a
second time by a drop in water levels.  “The nuclear implications from Japan will be global,”
Amrita Sen, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in London, said by
phone today. There may be “some reaction from France or the
U.K. and that will have a bearing on thermal generation.”  Coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with
settlement next year gained $2.75, or 2.2 percent, to $130 a
metric ton at 2 p.m. in London. That’s the highest since Oct. 7,
2008.  The data are drawn from information supplied by ICAP Plc,  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition Financial Services and Tullett
Prebon Plc.  Atomic generation accounted for 28 percent of  Europe ’s
power generation in 2008, making building new reactors and
extending the life of existing plants key to meeting a 2020
target to reduce fossil fuel emissions 20 percent from 1990
levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in  London  at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  