-- 
Ex-Yale Lab Worker Clark to Plead Guilty to Killing Annie Le, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ex-yale-lab-worker-clark-to-plead-guilty-to-killing-annie-le-lawyer-says.html
A former Yale University laboratory
worker will plead guilty to killing 24-year-old graduate student
Annie Le days before she was to be married, his lawyer said.  Raymond Clark will enter his plea tomorrow before  Connecticut  Superior Court Judge Roland Fasano in New Haven,
Clark’s lawyer, Beth Merkin, said in a phone interview
yesterday. Clark pleaded not guilty to murder and felony-murder
charges in January last year.  “We anticipate a change of plea,” Merkin said yesterday.
She declined to comment further, including whether Clark will
plead to murder or a lesser charge.  Clark, 26, was arrested in September 2009 and is being held
on $3 million bail. He’s accused of strangling Le, a
pharmacology student, five days before her Sept. 13, 2009,
wedding. Clark cleaned mouse cages in the Yale lab building
where her body was found.  Le’s body was discovered hidden behind a wall in the
basement of the Yale School of Medicine research lab at 10
Amistad Street in  New Haven  the day she was to be married. The
Office of Connecticut’s Chief Medical Examiner said Le died of
“traumatic asphyxiation due to neck compression.”  Le, a Vietnamese-American who was studying for her
doctorate, was from Placerville, California, according to a
September 2009 Yale University statement. She graduated from the
University of Rochester, in  New York , where she met her fiance,
Jonathan Widawsky, the university said.  Clark was suspended from his job when he was arrested, Yale
University President  Richard Levin  said in a 2009 statement.  The case is State v. Clark, CR09-97102-T, Connecticut
Superior Court (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 