-- 
Facebook's Pre-IPO Share Demand Exploited in Bogus-Stock Scams, Finra Says

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-15T18:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/facebook-pre-ipo-stock-may-be-touted-in-scam-finra-says.html
Facebook Inc.’s privately held
shares that are trading before an initial public offering may be
attracting con artists who exploit investor demand by selling
bogus stock, the main U.S. brokerage regulator  said .  “While most pre-IPO offerings are legitimate, some are
frauds in which con artists sell shares they do not actually
have,” the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today
in a statement. The watchdog learned of some “potentially
fraudulent schemes to sell purported shares” of  Palo Alto ,  California-based Facebook , it said, without elaborating.  Companies that haven’t yet held an IPO sometimes have
shares, such as stock issued to employees, that trade privately.
Facebook may let its workers sell as much as $1 billion of their
holdings in an offering that would value the company at almost
$60 billion, two people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. Investors interested in private shares should be wary of
unsolicited offers and take steps to ensure that sellers aren’t
just pretending to hold stock, Finra said.  “Investors might think they are getting in on the ground
floor of innovative social media companies, but instead find
that they may have handed over real money for non-existent
shares,” John Gannon, Finra’s senior vice president for
investor education, said in the statement.  ‘Next Big Thing’  Con artists touting pre-IPO shares for  Internet-based
companies  such as Google Inc. and Twitter Inc. have distributed
fraudulent e-mails and posted misleading investment videos on
YouTube, Gerri Walsh, vice president of investor education for
Finra, said in an interview. Anyone who becomes aware of such
offers should  contact Finra , Walsh said.  The scams are impossible to quantify and similar to those
“10 or 15 years ago when the Internet was first starting to
surge,” Walsh said. “We saw similar patterns of fraud using
that ‘next big thing’ as the hook.”  To comply with U.S. laws, private placements typically
aren’t advertised and may be limited to so-called  accredited
investors , such as people who meet minimum net-worth
requirements. While the offerings help companies raise capital,
the investments can be riskier than bets on publicly traded
stocks and carry restrictions, such as lock-up periods on future
sales, Finra said.  Investors flocked to the secondary market last year to seek
growth. Exchanges such as SecondMarket Inc. and SharesPost Inc.
gained popularity as investors poured funds into Facebook,
Twitter and Groupon Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  