-- 
FDIC Seeks Comment on Seeking Pay Clawbacks in Resolutions

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-15T17:35:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fdic-seeks-comment-on-clawbacks-for-executives-at-failed-financial-firms.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
is seeking comment on a measure that would subject executives
and directors to clawbacks of as much as two years’ pay if they
are found  “substantially responsible”  for the failure of a
systemically important financial company.  FDIC board members voted 5-0 to propose the rule, part of
the agency’s expanded liquidation authority under the Dodd-Frank
Act, at a meeting in  Washington  today. In the same vote, board
members laid out a framework for priority payment of creditors
and procedures for filing claims in liquidations of large,
complex firms, for which the FDIC would serve as receiver.  “Today’s action is another significant step toward
leveling the competitive playing field and enforcing market
discipline on all financial institutions, no matter their
size,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in a statement. “Under
Dodd-Frank, the shareholders and creditors will bear the cost of
any failure, not taxpayers.”  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
July, expanded the FDIC’s resolution authority from winding down
failed banks to untangling the affairs of systemically important
nonbanks when they collapse. Congress sought the liquidation
authority after the September 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  exacerbated the credit crisis and highlighted the
interconnectedness of the largest financial firms.  Lawmakers also directed regulators to rein in executive pay
after incentive-based compensation was faulted for inspiring
risk-taking at firms such as Lehman and  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that was rescued by the U.S. government.  Cases of Fraud  The rule proposed today authorizes the FDIC to recover pay
from senior executives and directors substantially responsible
for a failure for the two-year period preceding the date when
the agency is appointed as receiver. In cases of fraud, the time
period is unlimited, according to the proposal.  The agency will consider whether executives performed their
responsibilities with “the requisite degree of skill and care”
before seeking to recoup compensation, according to the FDIC.
Still, for top officials including the chief executive officer,
there will be “a presumption that they are substantially
responsible,” the agency said.  ‘You Are Guilty’  “At the margin, it will make  bank failures  a little bit
worse because the presumption is you are guilty,” said  Alan Johnson , managing director of New York-based compensation
consulting firm Johnson Associates Inc. “It will encourage
executives to get off the Titanic before it sinks, and it will
make it more difficult to hire bank executives,” Johnson said
in a telephone interview.  Executives recently hired to help improve the condition of
a company will be exempt, the FDIC said.  The framework for determining how and when unsecured
creditors get paid after a collapse gives top priority to
borrowings from the FDIC or other lenders to maintain a firm’s
operations after it is placed in receivership. Next come
administrative expenses and amounts owed to the  U.S. Treasury .  Lowest priority is given to distributions “on account of
equity to shareholders and other equity participants in the
covered financial company,” according to the rule.  The proposal defines a financial company as one that
derived at least 85 percent of total revenue from financial
activities in either of its two most recent fiscal years.  The board’s vote sends the proposal out for a 60-day public
comment period, starting with publication of the measure in the
Federal Register.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  