-- 
Fed Sees U.S. Economy on a `Firmer Footing' as It Affirms Bond Purchases

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-15T21:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fed-sees-u-s-economy-on-a-firmer-footing-as-it-affirms-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve policy makers said
U.S. growth is becoming more durable and higher energy prices
will have a temporary effect on inflation as they affirmed plans
to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in a
statement after a one-day meeting in Washington. The inflation
effects of increased commodity costs will be “transitory,” and
officials “will pay close attention to the evolution of
inflation and inflation expectations,” the Fed said.  U.S. stocks pared losses on the upgraded outlook from Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues, who dropped
language that the recovery is “disappointingly slow” and that
“tight credit” is holding back  consumer spending . Central
bankers went out of their way to acknowledge a rise in commodity
prices while dismissing any inflation danger.  “This statement takes QE3 off the table, as they are
taking off the downside risk in deflation and saying the economy
is on track,”  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina , said in a reference
to speculation that the Fed might embark on a third round of
quantitative easing.  The FOMC gave no indication what its next policy move will
be after finishing the asset purchases.  Cautionary Note  The statement echoed a cautionary note from the prior
release in January, saying that “the unemployment rate remains
elevated, and measures of underlying inflation continue to be
somewhat low, relative to levels that the Committee judges to be
consistent, over the longer run, with its dual mandate” for
stable prices and maximum employment.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent to
1,281.87 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after declining as much as 2.7
percent on concern a nuclear accident outside of  Tokyo  may
cripple the world economy. Treasuries rose, pushing the yield on
the 10-year note to 3.32 percent from 3.36 percent yesterday.
The Fed didn’t mention  Japan  in its statement today.  “They are coming to the view that the economy has improved
over time,” Silvia said. “They are going to finish QE2. There
is no need for more stimulus at this point.”  The Fed left its benchmark federal funds rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008, and
retained a pledge in place since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” Officials next
meet April 26-27 in Washington.  Payrolls Climb  Payrolls have increased by an average 134,000 a month for
the past five months and the  unemployment rate  has dropped by
almost 1 percentage point over three months to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest since April 2009. Still, the pace of job
growth is too slow for officials including New York Fed
President  William Dudley , who said in a speech last week that a
“substantial pickup is sorely needed.”  The average U.S. retail price of regular unleaded gasoline
rose to $3.56 a gallon this week, the highest since October
2008.  “Commodity prices have risen significantly since the
summer, and concerns about global supplies of crude oil have
contributed to a sharp run-up in  oil prices  in recent weeks,”
the Fed said. “Nonetheless, longer-term inflation expectations
have remained stable, and measures of underlying inflation have
been subdued.”  Preferred Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  One gauge of inflation expectations has approached levels
from before the financial crisis intensified in 2008. The
breakeven rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, which is the yield difference between the inflation-
linked debt and comparable-maturity Treasuries, declined to 2.45
percentage points yesterday since reaching 2.57 points on March
8, the highest since July 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Gasoline and other “highly visible” commodities have
shown “significant increases” since the U.S. summer, Bernanke
said in congressional testimony March 1. “The most likely
outcome is that the recent rise in commodity prices will lead
to, at most, a temporary and relatively modest increase in U.S.
consumer price inflation,” Bernanke said.  Unanimous Decision  The FOMC decision was unanimous for a second consecutive
meeting. That means Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , both skeptics of the
second round of so-called quantitative easing who voted for the
statement today, don’t disagree strongly enough with the path of
policy to dissent.  Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , who resigned in February
effective at the end of March, didn’t attend today’s meeting in
accordance with FOMC practice.  Bernanke, in two days of congressional testimony this
month, said that while growth will accelerate this year, he
still wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job
creation .” He has avoided indicating what the Fed’s next step
will be after finishing the $600 billion of purchases.  “While indicators of spending and production have been
encouraging on balance, the job market has improved only
slowly,” Bernanke, 57, a former Princeton University economist,
said March 1 and March 2 in semiannual hearings on monetary
policy.  ‘Positive’ Statement  Today’s missive is “one of the more positive statements
they’ve made on the economy since the recovery began,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in Pittsburgh. “But it hasn’t reached a point yet that it
would call for any near-term change in the fed funds rate or the
completion of QE2.”  The central bank, through the New York Fed’s traders, is
halfway through the purchases, having bought about $304 billion
of Treasuries as of March 9. The total is about $419 billion
including securities bought by reinvesting proceeds of maturing
assets from the $1.7 trillion first round of purchases of
mortgage debt and Treasuries.  The Fed chairman has tried to take credit for higher stock
prices and lower corporate-borrowing premiums since the central
bank started talking about the second round of quantitative
easing. In the testimony, he dated gains to two events in August
-- the FOMC’s decision to stop the securities portfolio from
shrinking by reinvesting maturing mortgage debt and a speech
signaling the possibility of QE2.  Bond Spreads  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased 14 percent
from Aug. 10. For investment-grade corporations, the difference
between companies’ rates and comparable government securities
has narrowed to 1.51 percentage point on March 11 from 1.88
point on Aug. 10, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries declined to 2.57 percent on
Nov. 3, when the Fed announced the second round of asset
purchases, from 2.76 percent on Aug. 10. They were up to 3.32
percent today. Bernanke said the initial drop reflected investor
expectations of Fed buying. Yields later rose “as investors
became more optimistic about economic growth and as traders
scaled back their expectations of future securities purchases,”
he said in the congressional testimony.  At the last FOMC meeting in January, policy makers raised
projections for economic growth this year and made few changes
to forecasts after 2011. They also made little change to
projections for unemployment and inflation.  Retail Sales  U.S. retail sales increased in February by the most in four
months, the Commerce Department said March 11. Further gains may
be tempered by concerns over higher fuel prices that helped push  consumer confidence  to a one-month low in the week to March 6,
according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Expectations for the inflation rate in one year rose to 4.6
percent in March from 3.4 percent in February, according to the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey
released March 11.  The central bank’s optimism on the economy was a “bit of a
surprise,” former Richmond Fed President J. Alfred Broaddus
said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Pleasanton, California-based Safeway Inc., the fourth-
largest U.S. supermarket chain by stores, expects that 2011,
“while it will be a challenging year,” will be “much better”
than 2009 or 2010, Chief Executive Officer Steven Burd said
March 8.  Hockey-Stick Curve  “The economy will improve, but only moderately,” Burd
said at the company’s investor conference. “We’re not looking
for any kind of a hockey-stick curve here.”  In Congress, lawmakers are debating how to cut spending to
reduce a record budget deficit. After the federal rescues of
home-finance providers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  cost taxpayers
$154 billion, politicians are also starting to consider ways to
reduce support and tax subsidies for the housing market, which
the FOMC described as “depressed” today for the third straight
meeting.  “During a time when we’re trying to create jobs, why in
good God’s name would you start to talk about changing policy
and tax implications for new-home purchases?” Robert Toll,
chairman of Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll Brothers Inc., the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder, said on a Feb. 23 conference
call with investors.  Purchases of new houses in the U.S. fell more than forecast
in January and are running at about one-fifth of the record rate
in 2005. Housing starts climbed 15 percent to a 596,000 annual
rate, a pace that is still less than one-third the homebuilding
boom’s peak of 2.27 million in 2006.  Manufacturing Expansion  Other parts of the economy are strengthening. Manufacturing
grew in February at the fastest pace in almost seven years,
while orders to U.S. factories climbed in January by the most in
more than four years, reports this month showed.  “There are certainly obviously significant downside risks
still to the outlook,” Broaddus said, citing Middle East
turmoil and fallout from Japan’s earthquake. “If we get through
that, this recovery now seems to clearly have legs in the U.S.,
and that’s true also in many other parts of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  