-- 
Fed's Next Steps as Asset Purchases Wind Down Divide Economists in Survey

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-15T13:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fed-s-next-steps-divide-economists-as-asset-purchases-wind-down.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are
almost certain to fulfill their plan to buy $600 billion in
Treasuries, a survey of economists shows. How they finish the
purchases and what they do next is a matter of disagreement.  Of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week, 49
said the Fed will buy the full amount of bonds in a bid to boost
the economy. Thirty-one said the central bank won’t adjust the
pace or duration of the purchases, as it did in the first round
of so-called quantitative easing in 2009-10. Respondents were
further divided over how long the Fed will keep its bond
portfolio stable after the purchases end, with a plurality of 16
betting on a period of four to six months.  The variance of opinion reflects differing assessments of
the strength of the U.S. recovery, said  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. It also shows
“uncertainty” about the benefits of the Fed’s policy of
reinvesting maturing debt into new securities, which began in
August, said  Kurt Karl , chief U.S. economist at Swiss
Reinsurance Co. in New York.  “You’ve seen the same kind of divisions amongst senior Fed
officials,” said Brown, who is based in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Some are more worried about the possibility of higher
inflation. Some are more worried about the amount of slack in
the economy and believe that amount of slack is going to keep
inflation mostly contained.”  Meeting Begins  The Federal Open Market Committee, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , began a one-day meeting at 8:30 a.m. today in
Washington and will issue a statement at about 2:15 p.m. Two
years after they first pledged to keep the benchmark interest
rate near zero for an “extended period,” Fed policy makers
will retain that language today, according to 45 respondents in
the survey.  Bernanke has signaled he’s in no rush to tighten credit
after the Fed finishes an expansion of record monetary stimulus,
seeing little inflation risk and still-slow job growth. The
chairman on March 1 told lawmakers that he needs to see “a
sustained period of stronger  job creation ” before he deems the
recovery firmly established.  While U.S. employers added 192,000 workers in February,
driving the  unemployment rate  below 9 percent for the first time
in almost two years, joblessness is still about double
prerecession levels. The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which
excludes food and energy, was the lowest in five decades during
December and January, and Bernanke said this month he doesn’t
expect a permanent boost to prices from the recent surge in
commodity costs.  Consumer Sentiment  Higher energy costs risk limiting  consumer spending , which
could affect the timing of policy tightening, Brown said.  Consumer confidence  fell last week by the most since October
2008, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
sentiment showed last week.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in a March 7
speech that he doesn’t expect consumer-price inflation to
accelerate because of the rise in food and energy costs.
Speaking to economists in Arlington, Virginia, Lockhart said he
is “very cautious” about further asset purchases, while not
ruling out the possibility because turmoil in the Middle East
and Africa risks slowing the  U.S. economy .    Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., was the only respondent to say the Fed will
stop short of $600 billion in asset purchases it has said it
will buy through June. He said prospects for the economy have
improved enough since Bernanke signaled on Aug. 27 that the Fed
would restart purchases.  ‘Night and Day’  “It’s night and day in terms of what the economy looked
like last year when they started floating the idea of QE2,”
said Rupkey, who is based in  New York .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 22 percent from Aug.
27 through yesterday, and the  risk premium  on high-yield, high-
risk bonds has narrowed to 4.88 percentage points from 6.81
percentage points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  It’s probably too early to judge how the March 11 earthquake
in Japan, which disrupted cooling systems at three nuclear
reactors, will affect the thinking of Fed officials on monetary
policy, said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “It certainly introduces yet another wild card or potential
risk,” said Stanley, a former Richmond Fed researcher. “Unless
this nuclear situation takes a big turn for the worse, my guess
is that the impact on the global economy will be relatively
limited.”  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks tumbled today, following a plunge in equities
in  Tokyo , as  Japan ’s government battled to cool the damaged
reactors. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2 percent to
1,271 at 9:32 a.m. in New York.  The Bloomberg News survey, conducted March 7-10, found the
majority of respondents don’t expect the Fed to adopt a strategy
of tapering off asset purchases, as it did with the $1.7
trillion first round. Bernanke opted in 2009 to gradually
complete the end of those purchases of Treasuries and mortgage
debt to promote a “smooth transition” in markets.  “This time around, I think the economy’s just in much
better shape” to forgo tapering, said Swiss Re’s Karl.  Brown, who expects tapering, said the Fed will consider the
impact in financial markets of a sudden drop-off in purchases,
the so-called “cliff effect.”  “Perhaps the ‘cliff effect’ isn’t quite as significant as
many people feared earlier, but I still think they would
probably taper it off to some extent, just so there aren’t going
to be any disruptions,” Brown said.  Maturing Debt  The survey’s widest spread of opinions dealt with how long
the Fed will retain the policy of reinvesting maturing debt
after finishing the $600 billion of Treasury purchases.  Five of 50 respondents said the Fed would halt the policy
once QE2 ends; 11 said it would keep reinvesting for one to
three months; 16 said four to six months; 14 said seven to nine
months; and four said more than nine months.  The variance owes to the complexity of the Fed’s exit
tools, including asset sales and interest rates, Rupkey said.
“That’s why you have greater divergence here.” In addition,
economists are divided over how the Fed should respond to the
size of the gap between the economy’s actual performance and its
potential, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  