-- 
FedEx Resumes Flights at Tokyo’s Narita Airport After Quake

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-03-15T15:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fedex-resumes-flights-at-tokyo-s-narita-airport-after-quake-1-.html
  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  restarted flights to
and from Tokyo’s Narita airport and is accepting inbound
shipments, except for perishable goods, after suspending them
because of last week’s earthquake.  The company is also offering relocation assistance to
employees and their families in Fukushima prefecture near the
quake-damaged nuclear plant, a spokeswoman, Sandra Munoz, said
today in a telephone interview.  “We’re resuming service to most of eastern  Japan ,” Munoz
said, adding that two cities in the area won’t receive
deliveries. “We’re still not going to accept perishables for
eastern Japan,  Guam , Okinawa and Saipan.”  FedEx said yesterday it would stop sending shipments to
Narita, reversing its initial decision to keep flying there, as
the world’s largest cargo airline struggles with the aftermath
of the March 11 quake. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company also
suspended ground deliveries in eastern Japan.    United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  suspended some deliveries in
eastern Japan while continuing to operate at Narita.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said today it was rerouting Tokyo flights to the
southern Japanese cities of Nagoya and Osaka, citing the risk of
nuclear fallout and aftershocks.  All FedEx employees in Japan are safe, Munoz said. The
company has about 12 workers in Fukushima, and they and the
FedEx facility in the prefecture are outside the evacuation zone
around the stricken Tokyo Electric Power Co. plant, she said.  “We have informed them and begun offering assistance for
the employees and their families to begin relocating,” Munoz
said.  The U.S. territory of Guam, Saipan in the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands and Okinawa prefecture, in the
Ryukyu Islands south of  Tokyo , are affected by the perishables
ban because those areas are served from Narita, Munoz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  