-- 
Finland’s Halonen Says Japan Crisis Shows Nuclear Power Is an Interim Fix

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 
2011-03-15T16:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/finland-s-halonen-says-japan-crisis-shows-nuclear-power-is-an-interim-fix.html
Governments should look at nuclear
power as an interim energy source only and continue to target
renewables after  Japan ’s crisis revealed the risks associated
with atomic fuel, Finnish President Tarja Halonen said.  Finland, which is building the world’s biggest nuclear
reactor, will continue with projects that have been approved by
the Helsinki-based parliament, Halonen said in a television
interview today recorded at Bloomberg’s New York office. Still,
the country should wean itself off nuclear power in the long
term in its drive to switch to green technology, she said.  “Nuclear power is not a miracle key for the future,”
Halonen said.  Finland was the second western nation after the U.K. to
start building nuclear power stations following the meltdown at
Ukraine’s  Chernobyl  plant in 1986. The Nordic country is
expanding its nuclear power generation to reduce reliance on
Russian electricity.  Finland , which is building its fifth atomic
reactor, has parliamentary approval to construct two more.  Explosions at nuclear plants in Japan, following the March
11 earthquake and tsunami that hit the country, should spur
governments to do more to develop renewable power sources,
Halonen said.  “This is one of the reasons why we have to get rid of the
so-called conventional forms and start looking forward to the
green economy,” Halonen said. “We all must invest much more in
renewable energy resources and new forms of energy.”  Sweden, Germany  Though Finland has paced its nuclear expansion in a
responsible way, the country’s commitment to building more
plants shows it’s “been more pro-nuclear power than Europeans
have been more generally,” Halonen said.  Electricity consumption in Finland is the highest in the
European Union per capita, in part because winter temperatures
can drop to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58 degrees
Fahrenheit). The country has no oil and gas and has used up most
of its available hydropower. Finland’s four existing nuclear
reactors generate a third of its power.    Sweden  is in principle much stricter concerning nuclear
power, while in practice, we have so far built less nuclear
power than the Swedes,” Halonen said.  Neighboring Sweden, which has 10 nuclear reactors, should
review security measures supporting its own atomic facilities in
the aftermath of Japan’s crisis, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said today at a press conference in the Lithuanian
capital Vilnius.  Nuclear Expansion  “We should learn from this experience,” Reinfeldt said.
“It’s too early” to adjust Sweden’s nuclear policy based on
Japan’s experience, though “the more renewable we can
introduce, the more we can push back nuclear energy,” he said.  Sweden’s parliament in 2009 lifted a ban on building
reactors, allowing utilities to replace existing reactors as
long as the total number doesn’t increase.    Germany  is halting its seven oldest nuclear reactors, about
25 percent of its atomic energy output, as part of a nationwide
safety review to run through June after the explosions at
reactors in Japan,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today. Plans
for extending the lives of the oldest plants were put on hold
for three months.  Finland’s Economy Ministry asked the Radiation and Nuclear
Safety Authority to draw up a review of the country’s nuclear
plants’ preparedness for floods and other natural disasters. The
U.K. has also asked for a safety review on its nuclear power.  While the crisis in Japan may prompt several governments to
rethink their nuclear programs, the industry is unlikely to
shrink, said Hans Blix, former United Nations chief weapons
inspector.  “I think there will be a nuclear expansion due to the
effect of global warming -- it’s a necessity,” Blix said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Andrea Catherwood  today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  