-- 
First Media, Jasa Marga, Wijaya Karya: Indonesia Equity Preview

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-03-15T01:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/first-media-jasa-marga-wijaya-karya-indonesia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  gained 0.8 percent to 3,569.84.  PT First Media (KBLV IJ): The provider of television and
broadband internet services is seeking investors to support its
five-year expansion plan,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported, citing
President Commissioner Peter F. Gontha. First Media is
negotiating with several banks including Standard Chartered Plc,
the report said. First Media rose 3.6 percent to 870 rupiah.  PT Jasa Marga (JSMR IJ): The Indonesian toll-road operator
plans to acquire two toll roads this year, one in Solo and one
in Surabaya, Investor Daily reported, citing Sumaryanto
Widayatin, deputy in charge of infrastructure and logistics at  Indonesia ’s State Owned Enterprises Ministry. The toll roads are
valued at a total of 5.1 trillion rupiah ($583 million), the
report said. Jasa Marga was unchanged at 3,300 rupiah.  PT United Tractors (UNTR IJ): The company’s heavy equipment
inventory of Komatsu Ltd. machinery is enough to cover two
months of sales, it said. The company “continuously carries out
a series of discussions with Komatsu” to estimate the impact of
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  on heavy equipment
supply, it said. United Tractors, Indonesia’s biggest heavy
equipment seller, fell 4.3 percent to 22,400 rupiah.  PT Wijaya Karya (WIKA IJ): The state construction company
has received financing commitments for as much as 5.1 trillion
rupiah from eight banks to fund expansion plans this year,
Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing Finance Director Ganda Kusuma.
Wijaya Karya was unchanged at 630 rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  