-- 
First Eagle Leads Top U.S. Mutual Funds Sticking With Japan Amid Selloff

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-03-15T13:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/first-eagle-leads-top-u-s-mutual-funds-sticking-with-japan-amid-selloff.html
Some of the top U.S. mutual funds
with the biggest allocations to  Japan  are sticking with their
investments, saying it’s too early to assess the impact of the
country’s worst earthquake on record.  “You have to ask what real value has been affected company
by company, and it’s not easy getting that information in these
circumstances,” Kimball Brooker of First Eagle Investment
Management LLC in  New York , who helps manage the $12.5 billion
Overseas Fund, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The fund had 29 percent of its holdings in Japan stocks as
of Feb. 28, making it one of 12 funds with more than $500
million in assets and more than 25 percent invested in Japan,
according to company information and data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fidelity Investment’s $593 million Japan Fund, which is 98
percent invested in Japan, and the $994 million Pacific Basin
Fund, with 37 percent, held the highest stakes in that group.  Investors fled Japanese stocks, sending the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average 16 percent lower since the start of the week,
after the 9.0-magnitude temblor and subsequent tsunami led to
what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called the country’s worst crisis
since World War II. Millions remained without electricity or
water following the quake, which may have killed 10,000.  “We are closely examining and evaluating developments in
Japan and the potential impact on companies in our portfolio,”
Ray Lewis, a spokesman for Brandes Investment Partners in  San
Diego , said in an e-mailed statement. “We remain committed to a
long-term investment perspective.”  Biggest Losses  Brandes managed two funds among the top 12 U.S. funds
investing in Japan. The $807 million  Brandes Institutional
International Equity Fund (BIIEX) , with 33 percent in Japan, fell 2.7
percent yesterday. The $1.74 billion Columbia International
Value Fund, owned by Minneapolis-based  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) 
and run by Brandes, declined 2.6 percent. That fund had 32
percent allocated to Japan.  The 12 funds together fell an average 2.6 percent
yesterday, led by a 7.4 percent decline in the Fidelity Japan
Fund. That fund is the only one of the 12 to focus exclusively
on Japan.  Vincent Loporchio , spokesman for Boston-based
Fidelity, declined to comment.  Ryan Lund, an Ameriprise spokesman, declined to comment on
the $642 million Columbia Multi-Advisor International Value
Fund, which fell 2.2 percent yesterday.  Stock Bargains  Kathleen Cardoza, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Nuveen
Asset Management, declined to comment on the $1.47 billion
Nuveen Tradewinds International Value Fund, which fell 2.1
percent.  Yesterday’s decline in Japanese stocks, the biggest in two
years, pushed valuations below levels in November, when a 19
percent rally began, luring investors who say equities will
prove bargains as the country rebuilds from its largest
earthquake on record.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees about $98
billion in Sydney, raised its Japan rating to “overweight”
from “neutral” yesterday after the Topix Index’s 7.5 percent
tumble made its price equal to its net asset value, said Nader Naeimi, an strategist for the firm. Polar Capital Holdings Plc’s
Japan Fund, which beat more than 85 percent of peers since 2006,
bought steel and construction companies, said James Salter, the
fund’s manager.  ‘Good Business’  David Herro, the Chicago-based manager of the $6.9 billion
Oakmark International Fund, said in February that Japanese
equities were comparatively cheap at more than 70 percent off
their 1989 record high. Herro said Japanese stocks should become
even more attractive as exporters increase trade with  China  and
companies start returning cash to shareholders.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell for a second day today, losing 11
percent to 8,605.15 in  Tokyo . The broader Topix index declined
9.5 percent to 766.73. All the 33 industry groups in the Topix
retreated.  First Eagle’s Brooker said he may see buying opportunities,
in construction for example, if prices continue to fall and the
companies’ business isn’t at risk of lasting damage. First Eagle
also runs the $25.5 billion Global Fund, with about 18 percent
of its holdings in Japan stocks.  Insurers Vulnerable  “If you’ve picked a good business, it’s investing in all
the future cash flows, not just the next two months’,” he said.
“We’re very focused trying to buy at a significant discount,
typically 30 percent to 40 percent below the intrinsic value.”  The most vulnerable holdings of the First Eagle Overseas
Fund, he said, may be Tokyo-based insurers  MS&AD Insurance Group
Holdings (8725)  and  NKSJ Holdings Inc. (8630)  The fund’s largest holding is
Osaka-based bicycle components maker  Shimano Inc. (7309) , which sells
85 percent of its product outside Japan and could emerge without
significant damage to operations, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  