-- 
Four People Who Get Why Wall Street Can Scoff: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/four-people-who-get-why-wall-street-can-scoff-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
There are many ways to fix an
accident-prone organization, though I’m partial to the NPR
Method, in which moronic blunders are followed by the hasty
departure of the offender, and, if called for, a quiet, off-site
farewell party for the chief executive.  That isn’t the way things happen at the U.S. regulator
charged with keeping the financial markets safe, where high-
level heads roll about as often as billion-dollar schemesters
get caught. The watchdog that missed Madoff; that fired an
investigator who pushed to question a powerful  Wall Street 
executive; and that got itself in the news for employing dozens
of on-the-job porn-watchers, has stepped in it again.  This time, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s former
general counsel, David M. Becker, was involved with the Madoff
bankruptcy case even as he had a personal stake in its outcome.
Becker and his two brothers inherited a $2 million Madoff
account when their mother died in 2004, yet the agency’s ethics
counsel -- who was supervised by Becker -- allowed him to work
on policy related to the Madoff Ponzi scheme that could have
benefited the three brothers.  The ethics guy, William Lenox, thought Becker’s personal
stake didn’t present “a financial conflict of interest,”
according to an  e-mail  to Becker on May 4, 2009. Things sure got
financial early last month, when Becker learned he had been
sued.  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s defunct
firm, is seeking $1.5 million -- the difference between the
initial investment by Becker’s mother and the amount the
brothers cashed in after she died.  Becker didn’t respond to telephone messages at his home.
SEC spokesman  John Nester  said Lenox had no comment beyond the
text of his 2009 e-mail. SEC Chairman Mary L. Schapiro told
lawmakers at a  congressional subcommittee hearing  that she
wished that Becker had recused himself.  The thing I wonder is whether there’s any way to get this
agency on track. Two whistleblowers, a professor, and a just-
retired regulator offered their thoughts:  --  Harry Markopolos , who badgered the SEC to go after
Bernard Madoff years before the Ponzi man confessed to his sons
and got arrested, pointed to problems broader than the SEC when
I caught up with him on the phone March 10. Markopolos says
there are too many regulators, and that an efficient approach
would combine them all in a single agency that stocks the
peccadilloes of finance’s sometimes nefarious players in one
handy computer system. If that doesn’t fly, at least we should
move Washington regulators like the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and the SEC to New York, where they belong:
“If you are really a regulator, go to where the action is.”  -- Gary Aguirre isn’t exactly a neutral commentator on the
SEC, but you can’t say he doesn’t have an insider’s view. The
SEC paid him $755,000 in 2010 to settle claims it wrongfully
fired him after he pushed to depose  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief
Executive Officer  John Mack  in an insider-trading investigation.
Today, he says the SEC “has been so compromised by its
connections with Wall Street, it cannot function.” To make
things right, Aguirre would require that at least five years go
by before an employee could get on a financial firm’s payroll.
The way things are now, “a guy at the SEC makes $200,000 a
year, leaves for a $2 million a year job, and when he needs a
favor, calls an old pal at the SEC.” The Government
Accountability Office plans to release a study on the revolving
door issue in July.  --  Peter Henning , law professor at  Wayne State University
Law School  in  Detroit , says an effective SEC would move away
from “low-hanging fruit” cases against inside traders to the
more pernicious action in derivatives markets. Financial
companies are digging out of the holes that their exotic credit
contracts caused in the crisis, he says, but the SEC needs to
keep a vigilant eye on them because “these companies are like
crack addicts -- they will smoke the thing that gets them high
and increases their revenue.”  -- Denise Crawford retired last month after 19 years as a
state securities regulator; she was commissioner of the Texas
State Securities Board and the most recent president of the  North American Securities Administrators Association , the state
regulatory group. Not that the other folks I talked to were shy
with their opinions, but there’s nothing like someone who’s no
longer on anyone’s payroll if you want to hear straight talk.
The SEC has “a failed culture” and doesn’t work anymore, she
said. Echoing Aguirre, she said the agency “hires lawyers who
ultimately will go to private practice and make big bucks” --
no formula for protecting investors. “Maybe it’s time to do
away with the SEC.”  In fairness, when all is said and done, I might be going
too far to suggest the SEC should, NPR-style, show the door to
every employee who embarrasses the agency with horrific
judgment. You can’t stage a showy ouster or resignation when the
revolving door already has deposited your employee at a new and
much better-paying job. It keeps things simpler not to have all
that firing drama anyway, and even has me thinking of a new
slogan to replace the agency’s old “ The Investor’s Advocate ”
motto. The SEC: Government’s Judgment-Free Zone.    Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in  New York  at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  