-- 
Freeze Says Investors Will ‘Back Away’ After Japan Earthquake

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-03-15T00:26:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/freeze-says-investors-will-back-away-after-japan-earthquake.html
Curtis Freeze, founder of Honolulu-
based Prospect Asset Management Inc., which manages $280 million
and has been investing in  Japan  for more than two decades,
comments on Japan’s strongest  earthquake  on record and the
social and economic impact on the country.  On market reaction:  “I don’t think the market is going to trade much at all,
meaning that it will be very illiquid. People are not thinking
about the market or about the stocks -- they have other things
to worry about. The real reaction is everyone backs away. I
don’t think anyone will see this as a short-term opportunity.  “The focus will be not so much on the market, but more on
the suffering, on the people missing and taking care of a lot of
people being hurt.  “Economic activity will be depressed for a month or so.
The only people you see in the streets of  Tokyo  now are people
buying groceries and stacking up anything that they need to stay
home. Economic activities have been cut off. People feel much
safer staying home and this will continue for a month or so. You
don’t feel like going out and having a good time when people are
in pain. Economic activity will go down.  “The whole country is in mourning and it is very similar
to the Kobe earthquake and it won’t recover for at least three
months.”  On the possible long-term effect:  “Over the next three months or so, things will get worse
before they get better. Over the longer-term, it could be that
demand will increase -- demand for rebuilding. If you take out
the excess capacity, it makes it easier for Japanese demand that
has struggled with excess capacity. So, prices will go up on the
back of a lack of excess capacity, but it’s hard to talk in this
terms when people are dying.”  On the nuclear situation:  Tokyo Electric Power Co., also known as Tepco, confirmed a
third explosion today at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
north of Tokyo, damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  “There are enough independent agencies monitoring any kind
of radioactivity situation in addition to the government. The
alternative source of information is out there and that would
let us know the truth. There is no conspiracy, but there is a
lot of confusion, and there is a big difference between
conspiracy and confusion.”  On impact on Tokyo Electric and insurers:  “Any costs of Tepco will be shouldered by the Japanese
consumers -- eventually, it’s not a cost for Tepco.  “The same goes to the insurance companies. Of course,
there is a short-term pain in that premiums will go up, but it’s
the consumers that will pay as well. It will all get passed on.
There are all in the same boat -- it’s not like one company made
a mistake and that company is going to take responsibility for
everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  