-- 
French Inflation Slows on Price of Clothes, Health Products

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-03-15T08:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/french-inflation-slows-on-price-of-clothes-health-products.html
  France ’s inflation rate fell in
February as lower costs for clothing and health-care products
offset rising food and energy prices.  Consumer prices based on European Union methodology rose
1.8 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 1.9 percent
increase in January, national statistics office Insee said
today. Economists expected a 1.9 percent increase, according to
the median of 10 forecasts gathered by Bloomberg.  With joblessness near a seven-year high and President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s government trimming spending, French
households are holding back, limiting retailers’ pricing power.
A prolonged seasonal sales period led to a 5.1 percent drop in
the price of shoes and clothing, while the cost of health
products declined 2.1 percent.  “Clothing sales were later and the rebates larger,
especially at the end of the period,” Paris-based Insee said.
“The biggest declines include women’s underwear, sportswear,
and street shoes.”    Europe ’s second-largest economy, like others around the
world, is grappling with  oil prices  that have jumped 45 percent
in a year and global food prices that have gained 40 percent,
according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture price
index. The increases have prompted the  European Central Bank  to
consider lifting interest rates on concern that higher prices
may stifle Europe’s expansion.  Energy prices were up 15 percent in a year on February and
food prices gained 1.3 percent, Insee said today.  “Energy and food prices are soaring,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  The 1.8 percent year-on-year increase compares with a 2.1
percent gain in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy.  French prices rose 0.5 percent last month from January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  