-- 
U.K. Stocks Tumble for Fifth Day; Burberry, Vedanta Lead Decline

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-15T16:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ftse-100-stocks-tumble-antofagasta-burberry-vedanta-lead-london-losses.html
U.K. stocks slumped for a fifth
day, tracking declines in global equity markets, amid concern
that a Japanese nuclear power plant will leak radiation.    Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  led European luxury stocks lower on
concern that sales in Japan may suffer following the country’s
strongest earthquake on record.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) ,  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  and Rio Tinto Group paced losses among raw-
material producers.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 79.96, or 1.4
percent, to 5,695.28 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge
has tumbled 6.5 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 8 amid
concern that higher  oil prices  prompted by Arab revolts will
curb global economic growth and as Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of further radiation leaks from the
earthquake-damaged Fukushima plant is increasing. The FTSE All-
Share Index fell 1.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
dropped 2.2 percent.  “Sellers are pushing against an open door,” slid  Richard Hunter , the London-based head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown
Plc. “What’s happening in  Japan  is just the latest in a long
list of concerns that investors are having to deal with. It’s a
very uncertain situation.”  Citizens living within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of the  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plant should stay indoors, Kan said
during a nationally televised press conference. The danger of
further radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear power station is
rising after three explosions and a fire at the site 135 miles
north of Tokyo, he said.  Equity Volatility  Option prices and bets on higher equity volatility jumped
from Tokyo to Frankfurt and Chicago today as investors sought
protection against stock-market losses, speculating Japan’s
nuclear accident may put the global economic recovery in
jeopardy.  Burberry retreated 1.2 percent to 1,110 pence, extending
yesterday’s 4.3 percent drop.  Antofagasta lost 1.7 percent to 1,309 pence, Vedanta
declined 1.2 percent to 2,203 pence and  Rio Tinto  slid 1 percent
to 3,935 pence. Copper, nickel, tin and lead prices dropped on
the London Metal Exchange.  International Consolidated Airlines Group, the parent
company of British Airways, sank 4 percent to 220.7 pence, the
lowest level since September. German rival Deutsche Lufthansa AG
rerouted its Tokyo flights to the southern-Japanese cities of
Nagoya and Osaka, citing the risk of nuclear fallout and
aftershocks.    Close Brothers Group Plc (CBG)  sank 2.4 percent to 840 pence. The
British investment bank founded in 1878 said fiscal first-half
profit fell 68 percent after it wrote down the value of a fund
administration unit it sold.    Hansen Transmissions International NV (HSN) , whose products are
used in wind generators, water treatment and cooling towers,
rallied 6 percent to 46.91 pence, the most since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  