-- 
Motomiya in Fukushima Serves as Staging Ground for Quake-Relief Efforts

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   E m i l y   Y a m a m o t o
-- 
2011-03-15T06:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fukushima-town-serves-as-staging-ground-for-quake-relief-effort.html
Motomiya, two-thirds of the way
between  Tokyo  and the tsunami-hit city of Sendai, has become a
staging point for recovery efforts as Japan struggles to rebound
from the worst earthquake in its history.  The  town  of about 30,000 is an evacuation center for people
fleeing the area around the damaged nuclear reactor in Fukushima
Prefecture, with 150 people sleeping in the town’s high school
overnight. Its only open gas station is a major refueling stop
for the convoys of Self-Defence Force troops, police, fire and
telephone servicemen as they travel 350 kilometers (217 miles)
north between Tokyo and Sendai along the Tohoku Expressway.  The March 11 earthquake broke sidewalks, cracked roads and
caused localized flooding in Motomiya and the surrounding area,
while leaving most buildings intact. Twenty kilometers to the
south, a factory owned by Hiyashi Seiki Sezo Co. collapsed in
the magnitude 9 quake and will be demolished. No one was injured,
a local official said.  “Fukushima has already started recovering so I hope we can
do the same for the north,” said Hiroyuki Kanno, a 33-year-old
employee of Tohoku Electric Power Co. who stopped in Motomiya on
the way to deliver helicopter fuel for relief efforts in the
north.  At the Idemitsu Kosan Co. gas station, a steady stream of
military trucks, uninterrupted for almost an hour, was clearly
visible on the highway heading north. As residents queued for
most of the morning to buy a 10-liter ration of gasoline, a
fleet of more than 20 fire trucks, ambulances and  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) 
repair vans pulled in for food and refueling. Gasoline isn’t
rationed for crews working on recovery efforts.  Rice Balls  Residents were handing out rice balls to rescue workers.
One woman, who declined to be identified, said all the people in
the area are victims of the earthquake and the food is a gesture
of gratitude to the relief workers.  While the expressway is reserved for rescue efforts,
Motomiya is connected to the country’s south by the Route 4
national highway. The cracked road is receiving patch-work
repairs, while at least one bridge is being supported by
hydraulic joists.  Still, Kanno, the Tohoku Electric worker, said the people
of this region are fortunate compared with many of those in
northern  Japan . His wife’s family remains out of contact in
Kesennuma, north of Sendai.
  “I will have to leave the family to my wife and focus on this
mission, to bring essential utilities to these areas,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  