-- 
Funds Shift From Asia Stocks to North America, HSBC Says

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-15T06:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/fund-managers-shift-from-asia-stocks-to-north-america-hsbc-says.html
The world’s largest fund managers
are shifting away from Asian stocks in the first quarter over
inflation concerns in favor of North American equities on an
improving economic outlook, said a  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  survey.  Half of the fund managers have a positive outlook on non-
Japan Asian stocks, down from 75 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to the quarterly survey. All of the 12 houses, which
manage a total of $3.98 trillion of assets, or 16 percent of
global funds under management, are bullish about North American
equities, up from 25 percent in the fourth quarter.  Investors had added capital to funds investing in Asia-
Pacific stocks outside of Japan from the first quarter of 2009
until the third quarter of 2010, according to HSBC data. Yet
such funds have seen outflows since the fourth quarter as
frequent central bank actions heightened concerns about imported
inflation and rising  interest rates , said Bruno Lee, HSBC’s Hong
Kong-based Asia-Pacific head of  wealth management .  “Fund managers are looking to North American equities
because of improving economic conditions, merger and acquisition
activities and encouraging company reports,” Lee added. “Fund
managers are lukewarm on Asia-Pacific ex-Japan due to concerns
over rising inflation in the region and less bullish on Greater
China equities as the market takes in the impact of ongoing
austerity measures to contain inflation.”  Accelerating Inflation  China announced on March 11 that its consumer prices rose a
4.9 percent in February, exceeding the government’s 4 percent
full-year inflation target and highlighting the insufficiency of
tightening policies so far. Inflation pressure also led  South
Korea ,  Thailand  and  Vietnam  to raise interest rates last week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan Index lost more than 6
percent this year, with indexes in Taiwan, Vietnam and  India 
among the 10 worst performers among 90 major indexes tracked by
Bloomberg.  Forty-three percent of the fund managers are neutral
towards Greater China stocks, 10 percentage points higher than
the fourth quarter, as tightening measures and credit control
policies have damped investor enthusiasm, the HSBC survey said.  Investor sentiment is changing from the fourth quarter,
when Greater China stock funds drew $2.2 billion of new capital
on economic growth, according to the HSBC survey.  ‘Short-Term Volatility’  The survey was conducted before the largest earthquake on
record in  Japan  wiped about $300 billion off the country’s stock
value yesterday and prompted the  Bank of Japan  to inject a
record 15 trillion yen ($184 billion) the same day to stabilize
the market. The benchmark index lost about 9 percent today.  “There’s still an awful lot of uncertainty,” Lee said of
the Japan earthquake’s impact. “We would not be surprised to
see short-term volatility and swings.”  Investors will now need to re-assess whether improving
export outlook and corporate earnings that lifted sentiment
towards Japanese stocks before the March 11 earthquake could
continue, he added.  “From a relative valuation stand point, it’s obviously
made Japan even more attractive,” he added.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average is trading at 14.7 times
estimated earnings, from a multiple of 18.7 three weeks ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Twenty-five percent of the fund managers polled were
underweight Japanese stocks, compared with 78 percent in the
fourth quarter. The percentage bullish about Japanese stocks
rose to 38 percent from zero, the survey said.  All fund management companies polled, including BlackRock
Inc., Fidelity  Investment Management  and Franklin Templeton
Investments, have turned bullish about Asian bonds this quarter,
up from 60 percent in the fourth quarter, it added.  Investors are betting on Asian companies to benefit from
improving export outlooks with global economic recovery, Lee
said. Asian bonds may also offer more attractive yields because
of the lower sovereign risk ratings and the region’s
appreciating currencies, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  