-- 
Funny Nerd Needs to Turn Laughs Into Votes: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/funny-nerd-needs-to-turn-laughs-into-votes-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
When someone as staid as  Indiana 
Governor Mitch Daniels turns out to have a sense of humor about
himself, it may be time to take him seriously.  One of what seems like 1,000 prospective Republican
presidential candidates, Daniels spoke at Saturday’s Gridiron
Club dinner, among the chummy rites of spring in which the
public’s suspicion about mutual backscratching inside the Beltway
is proven true.  Rather than afflict the comfortable, the press joins
official Washington in an orgy of self-celebration, devouring
rare meats, baby vegetables, petit fours and, supposedly, each
other. Club members made up of the journalistic elite put on
skits poking fun at the powers that be, then applaud the retorts
of the powers that be.  The event does serve the purpose of putting a rising star
through his or her paces outside the comfort zone of photo-ops
and canned remarks. The pressure to be funny or die can rattle
anyone.  You can wing it and fail (former presidential hopeful and  Nebraska  Senator Chuck Hagel in 2005), try hard and fail
(presidential still-hopeful  Mitt Romney  in 2007) or try hard and
succeed (then-Senator  Barack Obama , singing an a capella  parody 
of Senator  John McCain  in 2006).  “I bring greetings from my beloved Indiana,” Daniels
began on Saturday.   South Bend  is in the north, North Vernon’s
in the south, and  French Lick  is not what you hoped it was.”  Daniels concentrated on fiscal issues before it was cool,
balancing his state’s budget, lowering unemployment and
reforming property taxes and health care. He garnered
presidential mention for winning a second term in 2008 in a
landslide, even as Obama carried Indiana.  Boring and Balding  So Daniels could well afford to go negative on himself,
cataloguing the adjectives his name attracts: “small, stiff,
short, pale, unimposing, unassuming, uninspiring, understated,
uncharismatic, accountant-like, non-telegenic, boring, balding,
blunt, nerdy, wooden, wonky, puny and pint-sized.”  Daniels had one arm in a sling and turned that into a prop
to poke fun at one of the president’s more infamous public
statements. “Until this thing comes off,” he told Obama,
sitting a few seats away, “I can cling to my gun, or my Bible,
but not both.”  Wowing the Gridiron Club may be one more thing among many
working against a Daniels presidency. In a time of anti-
establishment, anti-intellectual and anti-Washington sentiment,
consorting with the enemy is dangerous. Most of his fellow
would-be candidates had pressing business elsewhere.  Well-Qualified  The question about Daniels isn’t whether he’s qualified;
the former adviser to  Ronald Reagan , executive at Eli Lilly &
Co. and budget director under  George W. Bush  is about the most
qualified on the long list of potential candidates. The question
is whether he’s too pragmatic, insufficiently ideological, to do
what has to be done to become president, which begins with doing
what has to be done to become the Republican nominee.  First he’d have to end his call for a truce on social
issues. The new majority in the House has introduced a series of
anti-abortion bills to show it’s in sync with conservative
legislatures around the country, including Nebraska’s, where one
 recent proposal  could make murdering an abortion doctor a form
of justifiable homicide.  He’d have to abandon his former boss, Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, a moderate at the top of the Tea
Party’s to-be-defeated list. He’d need to drop his pledge to
help “those on life’s first rung.”  He’d have to turn into Superman, to withstand all the
pressure to sign a “no new taxes” pledge, and Houdini, to
explain to those who would have liked a Wisconsin-like
confrontation with unions why passing a so-called right-to-work
 law  wasn’t a priority.  Road-Tested  To those who have watched  MitchTV , his Gridiron Club
performance was no surprise. He’s paid multiple visits to each
of Indiana’s 92 counties with a video camera running. He travels
in an RV and carries his own black bag into the homes of
strangers who put him up. There’s always time for a detour to a
diner where, puny or not, he eats anything deep-fried that
doesn’t eat him first.  His personal life is the opposite of  Newt Gingrich ’s. He
and his wife, Cheri, divorced in 1994, and she moved away and
married someone else. Daniels soldiered on, raising his four
daughters, who at the time ranged in age from 8 to 14. One day a
few years later, his wife came back. He was waiting for her.
They remarried in 1997 and have lived happily ever since.  That’s the sort of interlude that will be dissected should
Daniels run. When the Indianapolis Star asked about the episode, he replied,
“If you like happy endings, you’ll love our story.”  Short, pale and balding, yes, but not so wooden, after all.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  