-- 
G-8 Fails to Agree on Libya No-Fly Zone as Qaddafi's Planes Attack Rebels

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/g-8-fails-to-agree-on-libya-no-fly-zone-as-russia-germany-resist-proposal.html
Group of Eight foreign ministers
failed to agree on a possible no-fly zone over Libya as rebel
fighters were pushed back by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  Pro-Qaddafi fighters moved into the gateway city of
Ajdabiya, about 100 miles from the rebel capital of Benghazi.
The government forces attacked on two sides of the city with
airstrikes and artillery followed by troops entering in tanks
and personnel carriers, the  Associated Press  reported. Later
reports by al-Jazeera television said government forces didn’t
have control of the city.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  was meeting this afternoon with
his national security team to discuss ways to increase pressure
on Qaddafi’s regime, spokesman  Jay Carney  said. The
administration has been wary of a no-fly zone, a measure that
won  Arab League  backing. The plan faces opposition in the UN
Security Council, which planned discussions on Libya today.  “The international community has failed us,” Ahmed Omar,
a rebel army commander, said by telephone from Benghazi.  In Paris, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe of France, which
along with the U.K. has pressed for aggressive action against
Qaddafi, said he couldn’t persuade Russia to sign on to a no-fly
zone as other allies, including Germany, raised objections.
Juppe hosted a meeting of his G-8 counterparts to discuss  Libya .  ‘Slippery Slope’  “One has to ask the question whether military intervention
would hurt more than it helps,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters at the meeting. “We do not want to
get sucked into a war in North Africa and we would not like to
step on a slippery slope.”  Oil tumbled the most in almost five months as concern that
damage from  Japan ’s earthquake will curb crude demand outweighed
speculation of supply disruptions in the Middle East. Crude oil
for April delivery dropped $4.01 to $97.18 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since Feb. 28.
Prices fell the most since Oct. 19.  Libyan air force jets pounded Ajdabiya and the road linking
it to the oil port of Brega to the southwest, said Mohamed El
Megaryef, a resident. Helicopters dropped leaflets promising an
amnesty for people who backed Qaddafi, he said. Government
forces also recaptured Zwara, the last rebel-held town west of
the capital, Tripoli, after an artillery bombardment today, the
AP said.  Rebels Bombarded  In the rebel base in Benghazi, spokesman Mustafa Gheriani
said dozens were killed and hundreds wounded in air strikes on
Zwara, though he added that Qaddafi’s bombardment of such towns
doesn’t necessarily mean that government ground forces are able
to control them.  “If we had used military force last week to neutralize a
number of air strips and a few dozen of their planes, perhaps
the opposition’s reversal of fortune wouldn’t have happened,”
Juppe told Paris-based  Europe  1 in a radio interview today.  The U.S. and its allies have struggled to deliver a
response to the spiraling violence in Libya, as a monthlong
uprising against the Qaddafi’s four-decade rule suffers setbacks
in the face of aerial and artillery attacks from troops loyal to
the government in Tripoli.  Russia , a veto-wielding member of the  United Nations Security Council , has resisted a no-fly zone.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that even
though the Arab League has requested a no-fly zone, the body
would have to clarify how it reconciles such a measure with its
objection to foreign intervention.  Arab League  “We’re waiting for the Arab League to make specific or
concrete recommendations regarding the issue,” Lavrov said.  G-8 leaders pushing for a no-fly zone including French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
won support from the Arab League, which called on March 12 for
an aerial blockade to cripple Qaddafi’s advance. The G-8 is
comprised of Britain, Canada,  France , Germany Italy, Japan,
Russia, and the U.S.  “While not every nation sees eye-to-eye on the no-fly
zone, there is a common appetite to increase pressure on the
Qaddafi regime,” U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told
reporters.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini raised objections
to a military intervention, adding that a no-fly zone would be
insufficient to halt the violence.  ‘Tanks Move Faster’  “Tanks move faster than debates in the UN Security
Council, but we don’t want to respond to violence in the same
way,” Frattini said. “A no-fly zone alone would not be enough;
in and of itself it would not be a guarantee to stopping
violence. What we need is a range, a package of measures.”    Germany ’s Westerwelle said he was “very skeptical” about
any no-fly zone and that he couldn’t foresee German forces
participating in a military intervention in Libya.  “The message being sent to Qaddafi is that Western resolve
is weakening and this has emboldened him,” Shada Islam, a
Middle East and Asia expert at the Brussels-based  Friends of
Europe  policy-advisory group, said in a phone interview. “We’ve
been talking about a no-fly zone for three weeks and if we’d
acted three weeks ago we wouldn’t be where we are now.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who was also in Paris,
met yesterday with Libyan opposition figures who requested
military help, including a bombing raid on three of Qaddafi’s
airfields, U.S. officials said. She spoke privately with Mahmood
Jibril, the foreign affairs representative of the Libyan Interim
Transitional National Council. Clinton left the G-8 meeting
early today before the main session to fly to Egypt and  Tunisia .  NATO  NATO defense ministers last week balked at a no-fly zone,
saying the military alliance lacked the authority for such a
measure without a UN mandate. The alliance instead redeployed
ships closer to the Libyan coast and increased aerial
surveillance of the country to 24 hours a day.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  expressed caution about
a military measure, echoing European leaders who warned against
involving the West in a war in North Africa.  The U.S., Britain, France, Germany and Lebanon will present
a two-part draft resolution to the UN Security Council today
authorizing a no-fly zone over Libya and strengthening sanctions
adopted last month, according to a Western diplomat who spoke on
condition of not being identified because the plan hasn’t been
made public.  No-Fly Zone  Lebanon, on behalf of the Arab League, would present the
first part of the text, authorizing the no-fly zone, with
exceptions for evacuations of foreign workers, delivery of
humanitarian aid and enforcement.  Britain, France and Germany will take the lead on the
second part of the text, which would ask nations to bar flights
to Libya when there is reason to suspect they are carrying
mercenaries, authorize interception of ships at sea or planes
when there is reason to believe they are violating the UN arms
embargo on Libya, and designate additional government officials
and companies for the travel ban and asset freeze imposed last
month.  The turn against the rebels reflected further setbacks for
Arab populations in the Middle East seeking changes in their
governments. Saudi Arabian troops moved into Bahrain to quell
unrest following a month of protests by mainly Shiite
demonstrators calling for free elections. More than 100 military
vehicles have crossed into Bahrain,  Al Jazeera  reported.  “I don’t think the Arab spring is over,” the Friends of
Europe’s Islam said from Brussels. “These things take time as
we saw with the transformation to democracy in many Asian
nations.”  “Bahrain is something of a special case because the Gulf
uprisings are more about Sunni vs. Shiite rather than being
general mass uprisings,” Islam said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;  Robert Hutton  in Paris at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  