-- 
GE Trio Quit in 1970s Over Japan Reactor Design, ABC Says

-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-15T22:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ge-staff-quit-in-1970s-over-design-in-japan-reactor-abc-says.html
  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s design for a
nuclear reactor at a damaged Japanese power plant spurred the
1970s resignation of three employees over concern that its core
might not withstand the loss of cooling systems in a severe
accident, ABC News reported.  Japan is struggling to avert a meltdown at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant after cooling systems on so-called Mark 1
reactors were disabled in a March 11 tsunami that followed the
country’s worst-ever earthquake.  Five of the six reactors at the facility use the Mark 1
design,  ABC reported . Even after being retrofitted, they remain
more susceptible to an accident that might breach the
containment vessel, Dale G. Bridenbaugh, one of the three
workers who stepped down about 35 years ago, told ABC.  GE said the reactors have a proven track record of reliable
and safe performance, according to ABC. Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE is the world’s biggest supplier of power-generation
equipment.  “Everything we’ve heard from our partners so far is that
the plant operated as it was supposed to,” GE Power & Water
Chief Executive Officer Steve Bolze said in an interview today
with Bloomberg News.  While the 9.0-magnitude earthquake was stronger than  Japan ’s reactor-design requirements at the time, “from what we
understand the problem was the tsunami, and that’s what took out
auxiliary power” for the cooling systems, Bolze said.  Bridenbaugh said the design flaws that prompted his
resignation eventually were remedied in refits at Mark 1
reactors at Fukushima Dai-Ichi and around the globe, according
to the ABC report.  “They went back and re-analyzed the loads the structures
might receive and beefed up the ability of the containment to
handle greater loads,” Bridenbaugh told ABC. “The Mark 1 is
still a little more susceptible to an accident that would result
in a loss of containment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne at   rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  