-- 
Geithner Seeks ‘Deliberate’ Wind Down of Fannie, Freddie

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-15T16:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/geithner-says-wind-down-of-fannie-freddie-must-be-deliberate-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated the Obama administration’s position that
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should wind down “at a careful and
deliberate pace” and housing finance should be primarily a
private-sector activity.  Government guarantees, such as those insuring mortgage
debt, “are perilous”, he told the Senate Banking Committee at
a hearing today. “Governments are not very good at doing them,
not very good at pricing them.”  The administration of President  Barack Obama  has presented
Congress with three options for winding down the two mortgage
companies, which have been under government conservatorship for
more than two years, with the goal of drawing private capital
back into the housing market.  “It is very important that we wind down  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac at a careful and deliberate pace,” Geithner said.
Closing the firms “without consideration for the pace of
economic recovery could shock an already-fragile housing
market,” he said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were pushed to the brink of
insolvency in 2008 in part because they failed to charge enough
for the guarantees they sold to protect lenders and investors.
The government implicitly backed those guarantees for decades.  Geithner responded to questions about federal guarantees
from Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the panel’s top
Republican.  Politics  “Even if you keep the politics out of it, it’s hard to get
it right,” Geithner said. “If you don’t keep the politics out
of it, you have no chance of getting it right.”  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, said Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  pricing was a
key factor in their failure.  “The guarantees at Fannie and Freddie, in significant part
because they were implicit, were not set at the right pricing
levels,” Donovan said at the hearing. “That contributed to
their lack of adequate reserves.”  Geithner said policymakers should explore other sources of
mortgage funding, such as creating a framework for covered
bonds. Covered bonds are financial instruments backed by a pool
of assets like mortgages or public-sector loans as well as by
the issuer’s credit.  Geithner also said that Treasury is working with banking
and housing regulators to reach a settlement with mortgage
servicers, after flawed paperwork led many in the industry to
temporarily suspend foreclosures last fall.  Mortgage Market  Donovan said any restructuring of the mortgage market must
ensure access to affordable shelter.  “For the millions of Americans who rent, this means
designing a system that can consistently provide necessary
financing to appropriately maintain those rental properties and
support development of affordable housing opportunities in
communities that provide access to decent jobs and good
schools,” Donovan said in written testimony.  He reaffirmed the administration’s commitment to
homeownership, saying that “every American who has the credit
history, the financial capacity and the desire to own a home
should have the opportunity to take that step.”  The Treasury took control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in
September 2008 after mounting losses from subprime home loans
threatened them with collapse.  “Under normal market conditions, the essential components
of housing finance -- buying houses, lending money, determining
how best to invest capital, and bearing credit risk -- should be
private-sector activities,” Geithner said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  