-- 
European Power Prices Surge as Germany Decides to Shut Reactors

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T12:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/german-2012-power-rises-to-highest-since-june-as-gas-price-jumps.html
European power prices rose, surging
to their highest in more than two years in  Germany , where the
government decided to halt the country’s seven oldest nuclear
reactors following explosions at an atomic plant in Japan.  Baseload electricity for next quarter in Germany, Europe’s
biggest power market, rose to the highest price since November
2008. The contract increased as much as 8.75 euros, or 16
percent, to 62.75 euros ($87.23) and was at 62.70 euros as of
1:20 p.m. Berlin time, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Baseload is generated and sold around the clock.  “There was a massive reaction to the decision to halt the
nuclear plants and that caused an intraday rally,” Kevin
McDermott, a Tullett Prebon director for European energy and
commodities, said today by phone from  London . Volumes are set to
beat yesterday’s levels, the highest this year, he said.  Germany, Europe’s biggest power market, will keep its seven
oldest nuclear reactors off line during a three-month moratorium
it will use to evaluate the safety of the facilities,  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin today. The plants were
all built before 1980.  E.ON AG (EOAN)  is already preparing to take its
878-megawatt Isar-1 reactor built in 1977 off line, and will
close it in the coming days, according to a company statement.  Baseload electricity for next year in Germany rose to the
highest price since May. The regional benchmark climbed as much
as 2.50 euros, or 4.5 percent, to 58.45 euros a megawatt-hour.
Prices in the neighboring  Czech Republic  also surged following
the German government’s decision. Month-ahead Czech baseload
power gained 10.05 euros, or 19 percent, to 62.95 euros a
megwatt-hour.  “The market has another 2 euros to go for the next-year
contract to price in the decision to halt these old reactors,”
said Konstantin Lenz, portfolio management director at Kom-
Solution GmbH, an adviser to local Stadtwerke utilities. Some
capacity will be replaced by French nuclear imports, he said.  Safety Review    Japan ’s worst earthquake, which hit the nation on March 11,
led to three explosions at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.
Workers are struggling to prevent a meltdown, triggering a
review of nuclear safety at plants across the world.  The halt will cut German nuclear capacity by 4,900
megawatts, according to an estimate by Societe Generale analyst
Emmanuel Fages in Paris. Some 2,100 megawatts of nuclear
capacity is already off line, he said by e-mail.  U.K. natural gas for delivery in the six months from April
rose to its highest since October 2008 as demand for the fuel
increased in Japan to compensate for lost nuclear output after
reactors shut following the country’s worst earthquake.  Natural gas in the U.K.,  Europe ’s biggest market, gained as
much as 1.7 percent, to 65.25 pence, its highest price since
October 2008, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bloomberg tracks prices from brokers including ICAP Plc, GFI
Group Inc., Spectron Group Ltd., Tullett Prebon Plc and
Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  