-- 
Germany Halts All Pre-1980 Nuclear Power Plants to Conduct Safety Reviews

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-15T13:29:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/german-pre-1980-nuclear-plants-to-be-halted-merkel-says.html
  Germany  will halt nuclear reactors
accounting for 25 percent of its atomic energy capacity as part
of a safety review after explosions at reactors in  Japan .  The country will keep its seven oldest nuclear reactors
offline as part of a nationwide safety review to run through
June,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin today.
Two of the seven are currently offline, while the remainder
totals 5.2 gigawatts of the 20.7 gigawatts installed over
Germany’s 17 reactors.  Germany, which relies on reactors for 23 percent of its
power, is the first European country to take such measures after
explosions at Japan’s Fukushima plant sparked safety concerns.
German electricity, a European benchmark, rose on the outlook
for lower supply while European Union carbon dioxide permits
gained as utilities may burn more fossil fuels to meet demand.  “A general re-think on nuclear power is on the cards,”
UniCredit SpA analysts including Lueder Schumacher wrote in a
note today. The Japanese incident has “country-specific aspects
that are unlikely to apply to Europe, but the nuclear debate,
especially in Germany, is not governed by reason.”  The federal government and premiers of the German states
where nuclear-power stations are located have agreed that
facilities “that began operation before the end of 1980 are
being stopped for the duration of the moratorium,” Merkel said
after a meeting in Berlin today.  Prices Surge  The seven reactors are  E.ON AG (EOAN) ’s Isar 1 and Unterweser,  RWE
AG (RWE) ’s Biblis A and B,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ’s
Phlippsburg 1 and Neckarwestheim 1 as well as Brunsbuettel,
which is co-owned by E.ON and Vattenfall AB. Biblis B is already
offline for maintenance, while Brunsbuettel has been shut since
June 2007 following a short circuit in a nearby power network.  E.ON has begun preparations to halt Isar-1, the Dusseldorf-
based company said. EnBW said it will voluntarily shut down
Neckarwestheim 1 on a temporary basis. RWE said it will halt
Biblis A. The companies commented in separate e-mailed
statements today.  Baseload electricity for next quarter in Germany rose to
the highest price since November 2008, surging as much as 16
percent to 62.50 euros ($86.80) a megawatt-hour. The next-year
contract, a European benchmark, rose as much as 4.8 percent to
58.40 euros a megawatt-hour, its highest since October 2009.  European Union carbon dioxide allowances rose to the
highest intraday price since May 2009. Permits for December rose
4.3 percent to 17.32 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 1:41 p.m. Frankfurt time today.  Nuclear-Free Europe?  Germany’s move raises the prospect of a nuclear-free
Europe, said Guenther Oettinger, the European Union energy
commissioner, in an interview with ARD television today.  “It has to raise the question of whether we in Europe, in
the foreseeable future, can secure our energy needs without
nuclear power,” he said before a meeting with European energy
ministers, company executives and regulators in Brussels to
discuss reactor safety.  Merkel faces March 27 elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg, a
state that’s home to four of the country’s 17 reactors and has
been controlled by her  Christian Democratic Union  for five
decades. Eighty percent of Germans oppose Merkel’s decision last
year to extend the use of nuclear power by an average of 12
years past the previous phase-out date of about 2022, according
to an Infratest poll for ARD television released late yesterday.  The chancellor said the government will use the three-month
moratorium on the extension of the life of German nuclear
plants, which she announced yesterday, to review whether the
country can speed up the introduction of renewable energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  