-- 
German Government Bonds Rally as Japan Nuclear Threat Stokes Safety Demand

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-15T17:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/german-government-bonds-rally-as-japan-nuclear-threat-stokes-safety-demand.html
German government bonds surged as
the threat of nuclear disaster in Japan added to concern that
damage from the nation’s biggest earthquake will hinder the
global economic recovery, stoking demand for the safest assets.  The gains pushed 10-year bund yields down by the most in
almost two years after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  warned
today that the danger of further radiation leaks was increasing
following a third blast at the quake-hit Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant north of  Tokyo . Greek bonds fell as the country
said it intends to return to the  bond market  this year.  “People are bracing for the worst-case scenario,” said
Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. Events in Japan “are being seen as a
growth negative. People are moving out of equities and where do
you put your money? You put it in government bonds.”  Yields on 10-year bunds declined nine basis points to 3.14
percent as of 5 p.m. in London. Yields earlier fell as much as
15 basis points, their biggest intraday drop since March 2009.
The 2.5 percent security due January 2021 rose 0.735, or 7.35
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,390) face amount, to 94.695. Two-year
notes rose for an eighth day, sending yields down 11 basis
points to 1.53 percent.    Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and Topix equity indexes
suffered their third-worst daily declines in history and
commodity prices fell as the world’s third-biggest economy was
disrupted. The March 11 temblor in Japan and subsequent tsunami
is estimated to have killed more than 10,000 people and shut
factories belonging to companies including Sony Corp.  Winning Streak  “Flight-to-quality moves are now accelerating in financial
markets,” Koji Shimamoto, chief strategist in Tokyo at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote in a client note today. “Over the near term,
equity prices will plunge and bonds will rally.”  Two-year German notes extended their longest winning streak
since a nine-day rally ended Nov. 17, 2009 as investors pared
bets the  European Central Bank  will lift borrowing costs next
month. The notes also gained after a gauge of future German
investor confidence unexpectedly fell in March.  Forward contracts on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, for the day of the next ECB interest-rate decision fell
5.2 basis points to 0.9035 percent, according to data from
Deutsche Bank AG. Euribor futures jumped today, sending the
implied yield on the contract expiring in December down 11 basis
points to 1.915 percent, signaling traders reduced bets for
higher rates in the euro area.  Rate Outlook  “There is still a decent chance of a rate hike priced in,
but it’s fallen away from the highs immediately after the ECB
meeting,” said Benjamin Schroeder, a rate strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The expectation for an aggressive
ECB rate path later in the year is being priced out.”  The 10-year German breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, fell for a fourth day, declining as much as three
basis points to 198 basis points. The rate climbed as high as
215 basis points on March 3.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in  Mannheim ,  Germany , said today that its index of investor and analyst
expectations, which aims to predict confidence levels six months
in advance, fell to 14.1 this month from 15.7 in February. That
was lower than the 15.9 reading forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Important’ Backstop  Greek 10-year bonds fell, raising yields six basis points
to 12.50 percent. The nation doesn’t need to sell bonds “this
side of summer,”  Petros Christodoulou , director general of the
Greek debt management office, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Andrea Catherwood .  Borrowing costs are still “too high” and the nation would
need to see yields drop toward 5 percent to 5.5 percent, near
the cost of borrowing from the EFSF, before selling debt, said
Christodoulou.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said a March 12
decision by euro-area leaders to allow the European Financial
Stability Facility to purchase debt directly from governments in
the region was an “exceptionally important” backstop.  “We’ve seen strong flight-to-quality flows as a result of
what’s happening in Japan,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a London-based
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “All this has put
the EU council decisions on the sidelines for now. It is still
doubtful that  Greece  will be in a position to attract demand for
new Greek  government bonds  in 2012.”  The Greek government can rely on emergency loans from the
euro area and  International Monetary Fund  as well as on sales of
Treasury bills to meet its funding needs through 2011 while
needing to find buyers for 27 billion euros of bonds in 2012.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds declined six basis
points, leaving the yield spread over benchmark bunds three
basis points wider at 2.07 percentage points.  Belgian Delay    Spain  sold 5.5 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills
at an auction today, the Bank of Spain said, compared with a
maximum target of 6 billion euros.    Belgium  postponed a sale of six-year bonds, citing market
volatility caused by the nuclear threat in Japan. The country
today sold 1.804 billion euros of 12-month bills at an average
yield of 1.526 percent, compared with 1.542 percent at an
auction two weeks ago. Investors bid for 1.83 times the amount
of notes offered, down from 1.88 at a Feb. 15 sale.  Ten-year Belgian bonds rose for a fourth day, reducing
yields by eight basis points to 4.07 percent.  Italian 10-year bond yields were eight basis points lower
at 4.71 percent, while the rate on Portuguese bonds maturing in
2021 dropped two basis points to 7.42 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  