-- 
German Investor Confidence May Increase for Fifth Month in March

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-03-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/german-investor-confidence-may-increase-for-fifth-month-in-march.html
German investor confidence probably
increased for a fifth month in March as the recovery in  Europe ’s
largest economy broadened.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
will say its index of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict developments six months in advance, rose to 15.9
from 15.7 in February, according to the median of 31 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the highest since
July. ZEW releases the report at 11 a.m. today.  German companies are increasing investment and hiring to
meet booming export orders, fueling domestic spending and
putting the economic recovery on a firmer footing. Still,
surging energy costs are stoking inflation, prompting the  European Central Bank  to signal it may raise interest rates next
month, and stocks fell globally yesterday after Japan’s biggest
earthquake on record. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  has shed 7 percent in
the past four weeks.  “In Germany, we’re observing a broad-based economic
recovery whose foundations are becoming stronger and stronger,”
said Christian Melzer, an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“At the same time, political tensions in Libya, higher
commodity prices, faster inflation, a looming interest-rate
increase and the consequences of the Japanese earthquake may
weigh on investor confidence.”  Economic Sentiment  ZEW’s indicator measuring current economic sentiment
probably rose to 86 in March from 85.2 in February, according to
the Bloomberg survey. That would be the highest since July 2007.  The Bundesbank expects Germany’s economy to expand 2.5
percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010.  German carmakers are forecasting sales gains this year on
higher spending in the U.S. and growing wealth in  China .  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is adding shifts to meet demand, Chief Executive
Martin Winterkorn said on March 10. The same day,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
reported 2010 profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The improving outlook has fueled hiring, pushing the German
jobless rate down to 7.3 percent last month, the lowest since
December 1991. Factory orders jumped 2.9 percent in January and
manufacturing growth accelerated in February.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled on March 3 that the bank is ready to raise interest
rates next month after inflation in the 17-nation euro region
accelerated to 2.4 percent in February, breaching the ECB’s 2
percent limit for a third month.  Earthquake  “The prospect of higher  interest rates  is not exactly
inspiring markets,” said Andreas Moeller, an economist at WGZ
Bank in Dusseldorf. “While an increase is not going to kill off
the recovery, it’s enough to slow it down in some periphery
countries.”  The 8.9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan
on March 11, possibly killing more than 10,000 people, may also
have an adverse impact on Europe’s economy. Germany’s Metro AG,
the world’s third-largest retailer, said all of its stores in
Japan were damaged.  “It’s difficult to gauge the impact of the Japanese
earthquake on the various economies,” said  Joerg Lueschow , an
economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “Parts of the country are
so destroyed that there won’t be any production any time soon.
The Japanese economy will probably shrink this quarter and next
and that will also have an effect on trading partners.
Certainly, the risks for the euro area’s economic outlook have
increased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  