-- 
German Investor Confidence Unexpectedly Drops for First Time Since October

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-15T11:36:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/german-zew-investor-confidence-unexpectedly-declined-in-march.html
German investor confidence
unexpectedly fell for the first time in five months in March
after the  European Central Bank  said it may raise interest rates
and  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record caused a slump in
global stocks.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, declined to 14.1
from 15.7 in February. Economists had expected a gain to 15.9,
according to the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  extended its drop today, taking losses
in the past month to more than 11 percent, on concern about the
global economic impact of the disaster in Japan. The prospect of
higher ECB rates is also weighing on investor sentiment, ZEW
said. Still, German companies are increasing investment and
hiring to meet booming export orders, fueling domestic spending
and putting the economic recovery on a firmer footing.  “The recovery is not in danger yet, but the risks have
increased,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “The full scale of the catastrophe in Japan and
its economic impact can’t be estimated yet.”  The euro was little changed after the report at $1.3874.
ZEW’s indicator measuring current economic conditions rose to
85.4 in March from 85.2 the previous month.  ECB, Quake Impact  ZEW said survey responses that came in after an 8.9-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami struck Japan on March 11 were
significantly more pessimistic than those received beforehand.  Based on post-quake responses, the index would have dropped
to 9.1, ZEW said. The ECB’s surprise announcement on March 3
that it may raise borrowing costs in April to curb inflation
also damped sentiment. Responses received between March 4 and
March 10 yielded an index reading of 12.6, while those before
March 3 showed a jump in confidence with a reading of 22.5.  “I would suspect the figures would have deteriorated
further if we had conducted the survey Monday and Tuesday” this
week, said  Michael Schroeder , head of ZEW’s financial markets
department. “Seeing the news out of Japan, the indicator is
likely to drop further next month.”  Slower growth in Japan, the world’s third-largest economy,
may hurt its trading and business partners. Germany’s Metro AG,
the world’s third-largest retailer, said all of its stores in
Japan were damaged.  Risks for Europe  “It’s difficult to gauge the impact of the Japanese
earthquake on the various economies,” said  Joerg Lueschow , an
economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “Parts of the country are
so destroyed that there won’t be any production any time soon.
The Japanese economy will probably shrink this quarter and next
and that will also have an effect on trading partners.
Certainly, the risks for the euro area’s economic outlook have
increased.”  The Bundesbank expects  Germany ’s economy to expand 2.5
percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010.  German carmakers are forecasting sales gains this year on
higher spending in the U.S. and growing wealth in  China .
Volkswagen AG is adding shifts to meet demand, Chief Executive
Martin Winterkorn said on March 10. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , said today it aims
to increase profit in 2011 after record results last year.  More Jobs  The improving outlook has fueled hiring, pushing the German
jobless rate down to 7.3 percent last month, the lowest since
December 1991. Factory orders jumped 2.9 percent in January and
manufacturing growth accelerated in February.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 that
the bank is ready to raise  interest rates  next month after
inflation in the 17-nation euro region accelerated to 2.4
percent in February, breaching the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a
third month.  “The prospect of higher interest rates is not exactly
inspiring markets,” said Andreas Moeller, an economist at WGZ
Bank in Dusseldorf. “While an increase is not going to kill off
the recovery, it’s enough to slow it down in some periphery
countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  