-- 
Ghosn Forgoes Bonus, Rejects COO’s Resignation as Renault Spy Case Fizzles

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-15T08:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ghosn-returns-bonus-keeps-pelata-as-renault-spy-case-fizzles.html
  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  gave up his bonus and turned down second-in-command
Patrick Pelata’s resignation after wrongfully accusing senior
managers of spying in a case that has become a personal
embarrassment for the top two executives.  Ghosn said in January he was directly involved in the
internal probe and that the carmaker had an abundance of
evidence. Pelata said earlier this month that he would take
responsibility if it turned out the accused were innocent.  Renault’s mishandling of the espionage affair has weakened
the CEO in a tussle with the French state, its largest
shareholder, over the carmaker’s future, four people familiar
with the matter said. Ghosn’s decision to keep Pelata, who has
worked closely with the CEO since 1999, also highlights
Renault’s lack of succession planning, analysts said.  “It’s a mess,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “It’s obviously a huge
amount of embarrassment for the company and for Ghosn.”  Renault fell as much as 1.52 euros, or 4 percent, to 36.65
euros and was down 3.9 percent to 36.68 euros as of 9:15 a.m. in
Paris trading. The shares have dropped 16 percent this year,
valuing the automaker at 10.9 billion euros ($15.2 billion).  The French carmaker yesterday also announced disciplinary
action against three of its security officers and pledged to
compensate and reinstate the three executives fired on suspicion
of selling company secrets.  Pelata’s Role  Pelata’s resignation was rejected “in the interests of
Renault,” the CEO said on TF1 television. “I didn’t want to
add crisis to crisis.” Ghosn, Pelata and other executives
involved in the case will return 2010 bonuses and receive no  stock options  this year, the company said after an emergency
board meeting late yesterday.  Pelata, 55, graduated from  France ’s elite Ecole
Polytechnique in the same 1974 class as Ghosn, before joining
Renault as head of bodywork assembly at the carmaker’s plant in
Flins, west of Paris. In 1999, when Ghosn was sent by then CEO
Louis Schweitzer to rescue Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co.
from near-bankruptcy, he took Pelata with him and the two have
worked closely together ever since. Pelata took over day-to-day
control from Ghosn in 2008.  The departure of Ghosn’s No.2 would have left Renault
“without an operating manager” and no obvious successor,
Philippe Houchois, a London-based analyst with UBS, said before
the announcement. The carmaker “hasn’t done a very good job of
managing succession, and Pelata is one of the few people who can
hold his own against Ghosn when necessary,” he said.  Claims Retracted  The carmaker retracted its espionage claims yesterday after
Paris Chief Prosecutor Jean-Claude Marin said they had been
discredited by police. Pelata had pledged earlier this month
that managers would be held accountable “all the way up to me”
if the three were cleared.  Upstream development chief Michel Balthazard, his
subordinate Bertrand Rochette and deputy electric-car program
chief Matthieu Tenenbaum were fired in January after a company
investigation concluded they had received payments from Chinese
companies via foreign accounts.  Renault’s u-turn came three weeks after Ghosn presented a
medium-term plan to narrow the profitability gap with Volkswagen
AG, telling investors that Renault-Nissan’s capital structure
“can change over time and probably will.”  ‘Tough Times’  “Times for selling cars are tough enough, and Renault
needs the best people they have,” said London-based Credit
Suisse analyst  Arndt Ellinghorst , who has a “neutral”
recommendation on the stock. “As unfortunate as this situation
is, the company should return to running the business.”  Fallout from the spying affair will make it harder to win
government support for changes to the Nissan alliance, the
people said. Renault wants to reduce its Nissan stake and allow
the Japanese carmaker to vote as a Renault shareholder, they
said, declining to be named because the matter is confidential.
“Renault currently has no plans to reduce its stake in
Nissan,” alliance spokeswoman Rachel Konrad said, declining to
comment further.  The case against the three men was based on verbal
information obtained by security manager Dominique Gevrey from
an undisclosed source, for which Renault had paid more than
300,000 euros, the prosecutor said. Gevrey has been jailed,
facing charges of “organized fraud.” His attorney did not
return calls or messages left at his office outside regular
office hours.  Under Pressure  Ghosn has also come under pressure over the mishandled
investigation after an earlier TF1 appearance in January, when
he insisted there were “multiple” findings to support the
espionage claims.  The CEO yesterday issued a personal apology to the fired
executives and promised reparations to “restore their honor in
the eyes of the world, taking account of the serious prejudice
they and their families have suffered.”  “The situation at the company is such that they feel they
can’t take out their major players but they had to make some
kind of face-saving gesture,” said Alan Baum, an analyst at
industry consultant Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  Balthazard, a former management committee member, may seek
damages exceeding Ghosn’s 9.2 million-euro combined salary from
Renault and Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co. “Nobody would
be shocked if he left with 8, 9 or 10 million euros,”
Balthazard’s lawyer Xavier Thouvenin said in an interview.  Tenenbaum will also be seeking “substantial material
compensation,” his attorney Thibault de Montbrial said in an
interview broadcast on  i-Tele .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  