-- 
Ghosn Rebuked by France in Spy Case as He Prepares Nissan Quake Recovery

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-16T15:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ghosn-rebuked-by-france-in-spy-case-as-he-prepares-nissan-quake-recovery.html
  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn, forced to apologize publicly to three managers he
wrongly accused of spying, faces “consequences” from the
French government for the automaker’s bungled espionage probe.  “There will have to be consequences for the incredible
amateurism and lack of dignity in the accusations made against
these men,” Budget Minister Francois Baroin said yesterday. The
government, Renault’s biggest shareholder, “cannot just let
this pass,” he said.  Ghosn, who also heads alliance partner Nissan Motor Co., is
contending with dual crises after the espionage case he
personally oversaw unraveled and Japan was devastated by last
week’s earthquake, halting production at six Nissan plants.  The CEO plans to travel to  Japan  tomorrow to oversee
Nissan’s recovery operations, a person familiar with his
schedule said, declining to be identified because the plans are
private. Renault on Monday offered to reinstate and compensate
three executives after police discredited the carmaker’s claims
that they received payments from Chinese companies through
overseas bank accounts.  Renault was trading down 51 cents, or 1.4 percent, at 37.04
euros as of 4 p.m. in Paris. The shares have dropped 15 percent
this year, compared with a 9.2 percent decline in the 14-member
Stoxx 600 Automobile & Parts Index.  As the espionage case began to disintegrate earlier this
month, pressure mounted on Ghosn, who defended the spying claims
by saying in a January TF1 interview he had “multiple”
findings to support them. Ghosn on Monday retracted the
allegations and pledged to forego his 1.6 million-euro ($2.23
million) bonus and  stock options .  Case Crumbles  Ghosn’s “resignation isn’t a subject of discussion at this
stage,” Baroin, who is also the government’s official
spokesman, said on LCI television.  The case against the three fired executives was based on
verbal information obtained by security manager Dominique Gevrey
from an undisclosed source, for which Renault had paid more than
300,000 euros, Paris Chief Prosecutor Jean-Claude Marin said
Monday. Gevrey has been jailed to face charges of “organized
fraud.” His attorney Jean-Paul Baduel did not return calls and
messages seeking comment.  Chief Operating Officer Patrick Pelata and other executives
involved in the mishandled internal probe will also hand back
their 2010 bonuses and receive no stock options this year, the
company said.  Not The End  The government, which owns a 15 percent stake in Renault,
still expects an independent inquiry promised by the automaker
to “get to the bottom of who was responsible” Industry Minister
Eric Besson said today. It’s “not illegitimate” to consider
Ghosn and Pelata’s jobs as being in the balance, he added.    Carlos Ghosn  bears some of the responsibility, since he
was the one who went on TF1 to say he had ‘certainties’ about
the case,” Besson said on RMC radio.  Renault fired upstream development chief Michel Balthazard,
his subordinate Bertrand Rochette and deputy electric-car
program chief Matthieu Tenenbaum in January after accusing them
of espionage.  A meeting planned between Ghosn and Pelata and Balthazard
-- a former management committee member who has ruled out a
return to work -- has yet to be organized, his lawyer Xavier
Thouvenin said today. Renault spokeswoman Caroline De Gezelle
did not immediately return calls seeking comment.  Ghosn will head to Japan to oversee Nissan’s recovery from
the earthquake that has halted factories and threatened supply
lines. Nissan, Japan’s second-largest carmaker, suspended
operations at four plants until today and at two other plants
until March 18, the Yokohama-based company said on Monday.  Nissan may lose 2 billion yen ($25 million) for each day of
lost operations in Japan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  