-- 
Gill’s Shah Says Cotton Demand Robust, Some Resistance to Price

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-15T04:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/gill-s-shah-says-cotton-demand-robust-some-resistance-to-price.html
Mohit Shah, director at
Mumbai-based Gill & Co., which has been trading cotton for more
than a century, comments on demand. He spoke in an interview in
Dubai yesterday:  On demand:  “Cotton demand is going to continue to be very robust.  “You are seeing a good rebound in the U.S., you are seeing
strong demand in domestic markets in India and  China  and it’s a
combination of inventory rebuilding by the retailers of the
world, plus new demand which is occurring due of improved
economic outlook.  “I personally do not see any significant weakening in
demand.  “Yes, you will see spots of resistance if prices keep
going higher, however you will have a lot of support when the
markets correct because there is a very strong underlying demand
which we are foreseeing.”  On substitution:  “The price of cotton has reached a level where you could
start now seeing switches into other fibers, as a result the
pace of consumption growth although very healthy, may not
increase that dramatically in the coming season.  “The textile business in general, even in the coming
season, should be robust.  “After cotton, most of the switch is into polyester.
People will go into blended yarns, I don’t think there is going
to be a complete switch to polyester, but blended yarns you’ll
probably see increases there.  ‘It’s now starting to happen. You are hearing more and more
stronger voices, not only in  India , across the world, of some
demand rationing and resistance at these prices as well as
switching to polyester.  “When cotton reached $2, that’s the time when people are
really starting to scratch their heads and look for alternatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Dubai on  mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  