-- 
Global Demand for U.S. Assets Falls on Lower Purchases of Bonds, Equities

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-03-15T22:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-falls-on-lower-purchases-of-bonds-equities.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks,
bonds and other financial assets fell in January from a month
earlier on declines in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities,
according to the government’s international capital data.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$51.5 billion during January compared with net buying of $62.5
billion in December, according to the TICS data released today
in  Washington  by the Treasury Department. Including short-term
securities such as stock swaps, foreigners purchased a net $32.5
billion compared with net buying of $49.7 billion the previous
month.  “The U.S. remains the safest of safe haven countries for
global market investors to park funds in times of rising
geopolitical risks,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York,
before today’s report. “Investment monies are not gushing into
the U.S. like they did in prior months, but the inflows remain
substantial and if anything are likely to rise in coming months
reflecting the current uncertainty.”    China , the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries, saw
its portfolio fall by $5.4 billion to $1.15 trillion in January,
according to today’s report. Japan, the second-largest holder,
increased its holdings by $3.6 billion to $885.9 billion.  Hong
Kong , counted separately from China, reduced its holdings to
$128.1 billion from $134.2 billion.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities is a
bellwether of global confidence in the U.S. The economy is
recovering from the longest recession in seven decades and at
the same time facing uncertainty over the fate of federal, state
and local government finances.  U.S. Stocks  U.S. stocks escaped the brunt of a global selloff that sent  Tokyo  shares to the worst two-day drop since 1987, paring losses
as Japanese officials made progress stabilizing damaged nuclear
reactors and the Federal Reserve said the economy is improving.
Commodities slid and bonds rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent while the
MSCI All-Country World Index slumped 2.3 percent at 4:32 p.m. in  New York . Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures traded at 8,970 in  Chicago , up from the close of 8,620 in  Singapore , after the
index plunged 11 percent to 8,605.15 in Tokyo. Ten-year Treasury
yields lost five basis points to 3.30 percent. The yen rose 1.1
percent against the euro and dollar amid speculation investors
were repatriating foreign funds to pay for Japan’s recovery.  Second-Largest  “Japan is the second-largest external holder of U.S.
Treasury debt. There could be some selling of Treasuries -- and
other foreign bonds -- by insurance companies trying to raise
cash,” economist  Ethan Harris , head of Developed Markets
Economics Research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research in New York, wrote in a report today. “However, the
Bank of  Japan  has responded to the tragedy with a huge asset
buying program, including buying U.S. Treasuries in an attempt
to prevent the Yen from strengthening. We believe this buying
program will be the dominant story over the near term.”  Before today’s report was issued by the Treasury, the five
economists taking part in a Bloomberg News survey estimated net
long-term TIC flows would total $55 billion, while four
economists projected that total net TIC flows would be $37.5
billion. Both are median estimates.  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$46.5 billion in January compared with purchases of $54.6
billion in December.  U.S. Agency  Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from companies such as
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  registered net buying of $11.3
billion in January after buying of $9.4 billion in December.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $15.9 billion in
January after net purchases of $6.8 billion in December.
Investors purchased a net $655 million in U.S. corporate debt in
January after buying $2.6 billion in December.  The  budget deficit  -- estimated by the Congressional Budget
Office to reach a record $1.5 trillion in the current fiscal
year -- could lead to higher  interest rates  and curb economic
growth, according to  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.
In February, the government reported its largest monthly deficit
ever, a shortfall of $222.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  