-- 
Precious Metals Fall as Some Investors Make Up for Drops in Other Assets

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-15T19:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/gold-may-gain-for-third-day-as-japan-s-quake-mideast-unrest-boost-demand.html
Gold dropped the most in 10 weeks
in  New York  as some investors sold the metal to raise cash as
commodities and equities slid. Silver plunged, and palladium
and platinum slipped, on concern industrial demand will wane.  Global stocks fell and commodities declined as Japanese
authorities battled to contain a nuclear accident north of
Tokyo. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, and
other car manufacturers closed plants after Japan’s magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami last week. Platinum and palladium are
used to make pollution-control devices in automobiles.  “It is all related to the situation in Japan and some
people might have to sell whatever they can to raise funds,”
said  Peter Fertig , owner of Quantitative Commodity Research
Ltd. in Hainburg,  Germany . “With carmakers’ plants closed,
there is less demand. As long as the situation is uncertain in
Japan, the risk is that the knife may fall further.”  Gold futures climbed to a record $1,445.70 an ounce on
March 7 as investors sought a protection of wealth from the
escalating civil war in  Libya  and on concern inflation will
accelerate. Silver climbed to a 31-year high last week, and
palladium last month reached its highest price in a decade on
speculation industrial demand will increase. Silver, platinum
and palladium are used more in industry than gold.  Gold futures for April delivery fell $32.10, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $1,392.80 at 1:34 p.m. on the Comex in
New York. Earlier, the price dropped to $1,380.70, the lowest
since Feb. 17. It was the biggest retreat since Jan. 4.  Silver futures also dropped the most since Jan. 4, and
palladium and platinum declined to the lowest levels since at
least December.  Nuclear Plant Explosions    Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear-power plant was rocked by two explosions today as
workers struggled to avert a meltdown, leading Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  to appeal for calm. Engineers restored water
to safe levels after residents within 30 kilometers (19 miles)
were ordered to stay inside to avoid contamination, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said this afternoon in Tokyo.  Crude oil fell as much as 4.4 percent in New York, and all
six main industrial metals on the London Metal Exchange
declined. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares slipped as much as 3.8
percent today. More than 2,000 people are confirmed dead since
Japan’s strongest earthquake on record and a tsunami hit the
country’s northeast, an official said.  “People who have profits in gold are selling to meet
margin calls,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock in  Chicago . “Everyone is going to
have to raise cash on a day like today. This is all about Japan
and the potential change in the macro environment.”  Silver Slumps  Silver futures for May delivery fell $1.723, or 4.8
percent, to $34.117 an ounce on the Comex. Earlier, the price
fell as much as 6.3 percent to $33.565. It climbed to $36.745
on March 7, the highest level since March 1980, the year in
which futures reached a record $50.35.  Gold and silver had gained the past month as unrest spread
in North Africa and the Middle East. Muammar Qaddafi’s
warplanes carried out air strikes against rebels in the town of
Ajdabiya for a second day, as the Libyan leader’s offensive
sparked disagreements among Western nations over how to
respond. Momentum in the monthlong conflict has swung toward
Qaddafi.  Factories and power plants remained shut in  Japan , the
world’s third-largest economy. Toyota said it closed its plants
in the country through tomorrow, while companies including
Honda Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor Co. also halted operations.  ‘Selling Risky Metals’  “Precious-metals investors are selling risky metals with
high industrial exposure,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst at
LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . Plant
closings by carmakers have “a negative impact on metal
consumption. Uncertainty about the outcome in Japan is still
high and the market prices in short-term demand destruction.”  Palladium futures for June delivery fell $43.30, or 5.8
percent, to $704.90 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Earlier, the price touched $689.20, the lowest level since Nov.
30. Platinum futures for April delivery slipped $46.70, or 2.7
percent, to $1,705.60 an ounce, and earlier fell to $1,692.20,
the lowest price since Dec. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 