-- 
Rajaratnam Told of Goldman Talks on Wachovia, AIG Purchase

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-15T18:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/goldman-talks-on-buyout-of-commercial-bank-revealed-to-rajaratnam-by-gupta.html
  Rajat Gupta , while a member of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s board in 2008, told Raj Rajaratnam of
talks on whether to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or
Wachovia Corp., according to a wiretap recording.  Prosecutors at the insider-trading trial of Rajaratnam, the
co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, played the
recording of a July 2008 discussion between the men, one of
about 170 wiretaps the government said it will present to jurors
in Manhattan federal court. During the conversation, Rajaratnam
asked about a “rumor that Goldman may look to buy a commercial
bank.”  “Yeah, this is being discussed at the board meeting,”
Gupta replied, adding that it was “a divided” discussion.
Among the institutions the Goldman Sachs board discussed were  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Wachovia, now part of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and New York-based insurer AIG, according to the
transcript.  Prosecutors previously said that Gupta, who isn’t charged
with criminal wrongdoing, tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman
Sachs’s transactions, including Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s 2008
investment in the bank. Today’s recording was the first tape
played in which Gupta was a participant in the conversation.  Rajaratnam is the central figure in the largest crackdown
on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-
born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. The Galleon Group case has led to a nationwide
investigation implicating banks, consultants, technology
companies and other  hedge funds .  Planned to Invest  Former McKinsey & Co partner Anil Kumar, a government
witness, today described for the jury Rajaratnam’s relationship
with Gupta. Before prosecutors played the tape, Kumar said Gupta
invested or planned to invest in several Galleon Group funds.  In the taped conversation, Gupta takes Rajaratnam through a
portion of a recent Goldman Sachs board meeting.  “The view was very bearish on the commercial bank,” Gupta
told Rajaratnam, according to the recording. “I would be
extremely surprised if there was anything imminent.” Goldman
never purchased either one of the companies.  On the recording, Gupta said some Goldman Sachs board
members believed commercial banking was a “low-return
business,” while others said such a bank was a “low-cost
source” of funding. No evidence was presented that Rajaratnam
traded on Gupta’s disclosure about the board’s discussions.  AIG, Wachovia    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, and  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman
for Wells Fargo, declined to comment. Anne Granfield, a
spokeswoman for Gupta, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Rajaratnam’s defense attorney,  John Dowd , began cross-
examining Kumar shortly after the tape was played. The lawyer’s
initial focus was on Kumar’s alleged refusal to tell the  Internal Revenue Service  whether he holds offshore accounts.  Kumar has pleaded guilty in the Galleon case and is
testifying for prosecutors in exchange for leniency.  The recording, which includes Rajaratnam complaining about
Kumar, was played for jurors as Kumar sat on the witness stand.
The former McKinsey partner had just testified that he decided
in 2006 not to join Gupta and Rajaratnam in a private-equity
fund called New Silk Route. Yesterday, Kumar testified that
Rajaratnam paid him $2.6 million for inside information on
McKinsey clients including  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers.  ‘Mini-Rajat’  Kumar wants to “be a mini-Rajat” without “bringing
anything to the party,” Rajaratnam told Gupta on the recording.
Rajaratnam said on the tape that he had been paying Kumar $1
million annually for years -- “after-taxes, offshore, cash” --
in return for “little or nothing.”  “Keep your eyes and ears open,” Rajaratnam told Gupta.
“If you hear anything, just anything you think may be
interesting -- which I will track down and see what’s in the
market -- I’ll bring that angle to you.”  Prosecutors also had Kumar testify about the links between
Rajaratnam and Gupta. In addition to co-founding and investing
in New Silk Route, Rajaratnam wanted Gupta to be chairman of an
investment fund called Galleon International, Kumar alleged.  “What he does is, he gives bit of cachet in  South Asia ,”
Rajaratnam told Kumar on May 28, 2008, according to another
recording played by prosecutors. On the tape, Kumar said the 10
percent ownership stake Rajaratnam offered in Galleon
International was “reasonable,” even if Gupta wanted 15
percent.  Complained About Gupta  Gupta also owned a 20 percent stake in Galleon’s Crossover
Fund, which invested in small businesses, and he had lost
millions of dollars in Galleon’s Voyager Fund, Kumar testified.
Kumar said that, in October 2009, Rajaratnam complained to him
about Gupta.  Rajaratnam “told me Mr. Gupta had confronted him and said
he, Mr. Rajaratnam, should have paid more attention to what was
happening with Voyager,” Kumar testified.  Kumar said that days before his and Rajaratnam’s October
19, 2009, arrest, the two men and their wives traveled to
Trinidad for a wedding and returned to  New York  through Miami.
While in  Florida , Rajaratnam took a call on his mobile phone and
returned to tell Kumar that he’d been told that an ex-employee,
Ali Far, is “now wearing a wire,” Kumar said.  ‘Really Disappointed’  “I’m really disappointed in him,” Rajaratnam said,
according to Kumar. “He said, ‘You should be careful, you
should be using pre-paid phones when you’re calling me.’”  Earlier in the day, Kumar testified that he tried to
protect a McKinsey employee he described as his “protege,”
David Palecek, from being lured into Rajaratnam’s insider-
trading scheme.  “I did not want the Galleon Group to suck him into the
mistakes I was making,” Kumar testified.  Yesterday, prosecutors played a tape in which Rajaratnam’s
brother, Rengan, said that Palecek might be willing to “play
ball” with Galleon. Palecek died last year.  Catherine Redlich, a lawyer for Palecek’s wife, said
yesterday that Palecek “never agreed” to assist Galleon.  U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 