-- 
Rajaratnam Was Told by Gupta Goldman Sachs Considered Buying Wachovia, AIG

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/goldman-board-s-talk-of-wachovia-aig-buyout-leaked-to-rajaratnam-by-gupta.html
While serving on  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s board in 2008,  Rajat Gupta  told Raj Rajaratnam of
talks about whether to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  or
Wachovia Corp., according to a wiretap recording.  Prosecutors at the insider-trading trial of Rajaratnam, the
co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, yesterday played
the recording of a July 29, 2008, discussion between the men.
During the conversation, Rajaratnam asked about a “rumor that
Goldman might look to buy a commercial bank.”  “Yeah, this was a big discussion at the board meeting,”
Gupta replied, adding the board was “divided.” Gupta told
Rajaratnam that among the institutions the Goldman Sachs board
discussed were  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Wachovia, now
part of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and New York-based insurer AIG,
according to the transcript.  Prosecutors have told jurors that Gupta, 62, was a “co-
conspirator” with Rajaratnam, alleging he tipped the hedge fund
manager about Goldman Sachs’s transactions, including the 2008
investment in the bank by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. Gupta isn’t charged with a crime and has denied wrongdoing.
Anne Granfield, his spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Yesterday’s recording was the first tape played in which
Gupta was a participant in the conversation. The exchange was
one of about 170 wiretaps the government said it will present to
jurors in Manhattan federal court. Rajaratnam, 53, is the
central figure in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund  insider
trading  in U.S. history. He is accused of making $45 million
from confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge fund traders.  Nationwide Investigation  The Galleon Group case has led to a nationwide
investigation implicating banks, consultants, technology
companies and other  hedge funds .  Former McKinsey & Co. partner  Anil Kumar , a government
witness, yesterday described Rajaratnam’s relationship with
Gupta, McKinsey’s former worldwide director. Before prosecutors
played the tape, Kumar said Gupta had invested or planned to
invest in several Galleon Group funds.  In the taped conversation, Gupta takes Rajaratnam through a
portion of a recent Goldman Sachs board meeting, calling his
colleagues “an opportunistic group.”  “We aren’t having trouble funding ourselves but, you know
we should explore more global sources of funding,” Gupta quoted
board members as saying. “It’s quite conceivable they’d come
and say ‘Let’s go buy Wachovia,’” Gupta said, “Or even AIG.”  The board’s view was “very bearish” on buying a bank,
Gupta told Rajaratnam. “I would be extremely surprised if there
was anything imminent.” Goldman Sachs never bought Wachovia or
AIG, and no evidence was presented that Rajaratnam traded on
Gupta’s disclosure about the board’s discussions.  AIG, Wachovia    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, and  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman
for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, declined to comment.  Kumar testified Gupta invested in a Galleon fund and told
him he’d lost $10 million when it failed in 2008. Gupta was also
in talks to become the chairman of a Galleon fund known as
Galleon International, Kumar said.  Rajaratnam told Kumar that Gupta “gives a little bit of
cachet in  South Asia  and globally,” according to the May 28,
2008, recorded call played for the jury. “He wanted to be
chairman of Galleon International, and that’s fine, you know.”  Kumar replied he was surprised Gupta was willing to serve,
noting he was also on the boards of American Airlines Inc. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   “It’s now reached a point where it’s physically and
humanly impossible to do the things he’s doing, right?” Kumar
said, according to the recording.  Telephone Call  The jury heard a tape of a July 29, 2009, telephone call in
which Rajaratnam complained to Gupta about Kumar. The former
McKinsey partner had just testified that he decided in 2006 not
to join Gupta and Rajaratnam in a private-equity fund called New
Silk Route.  On March 14, Kumar testified that Rajaratnam paid him
$2.6 million for inside information on McKinsey clients
including  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-largest maker
of processors for personal computers.  “You know I’m giving him a million dollars a year for
doing literally nothing,” Rajaratnam said on the tape.  “Kumar
wants to “be a mini-Rajat” without “bringing anything to the
party,” Rajaratnam told Gupta.  The two men also discussed the structure of New Silk Route.  “Keep your eyes and ears open,” Rajaratnam told Gupta.
“If you hear anything, just anything you think may be
interesting -- which I will track down and see what’s in the
market -- I’ll bring that angle to you.”  Direct Testimony  Just before he concluded his direct testimony, Kumar told
jurors about a conversation he had with Rajaratnam, weeks before
both men were arrested on Oct. 19, 2009, on insider trading
charges. He said they traveled with their wives to Trinidad for
a wedding and stopped over to stay at Rajaratnam’s vacation home
in Miami.  While on the beach in Miami, Rajaratnam took a call on his
mobile phone and returned to say, “‘I just got a call, Cisco is
buying a company called Starent,’” Kumar testified that
Rajaratnam told him, referring to  San Jose , California-based
Cisco Systems Inc. and Tewksbury, Massachusetts-based Starent
Networks Corp. “He told me he ‘just got a call from a Cisco
executive.’”  Kumar said he purchased about 7,000 shares based on
Rajaratnam’s tip.  In the same discussion, Rajaratnam also warned Kumar,
saying, “You know Anil, I’m really disappointed, I’m told
there’s a gentleman who used to work for me who is now wearing a
wire,” Kumar testified. Kumar said Rajaratnam identified the
informant as ex-Galleon employee Ali Far.  ‘Really Disappointed’  “I’m really disappointed in him,” Rajaratnam said,
according to Kumar. “He said, ‘You should be careful, you
should be using pre-paid phones when you’re calling me.’”  Gupta also owned a 20 percent stake in Galleon’s Crossover
Fund, which invested in small businesses, and lost millions of
dollars in Galleon’s Voyager Fund, Kumar testified.  Kumar said that, in October 2009, Rajaratnam complained to
him about Gupta.  Rajaratnam “told me Mr. Gupta had confronted him and said
he, Mr. Rajaratnam, should have paid more attention to what was
happening with Voyager,” Kumar testified.  Yesterday afternoon, Rajaratnam’s attorney,  John Dowd ,
cross-examined Kumar, focusing on his cooperation agreement with
the U.S. Kumar has pleaded guilty in the Galleon case and is
testifying for prosecutors in exchange for leniency. Kumar
testified that insider trading wasn’t part of the original
consulting agreement between him and Rajaratnam.  Kumar’s Housekeeper  The defense attorney asked Kumar about using the
name of his housekeeper, Manju Das, on the Galleon account that
held the money Rajaratnam paid him. Kumar testified that
Rajaratnam told him in late 2006 that Galleon was coming under
increased scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission
and urged him to transfer the account from Das.  Dowd confronted Kumar with letters and e-mails showing he
tried to produce phony documents to prove that Das, who lived
with Kumar’s family in Saratoga,  California , instead resided in  India . He testified that the phony documents, which included a
note from an Indian doctor and a false affidavit, were part of a
plan to switch the account from Das to a limited partnership.  Dowd had Kumar testify that Rajaratnam didn’t participate
in his efforts to transfer the account. Dowd asked Kumar if he
created the phony documents to cheat his McKinsey partners and
evade taxes, then later falsely blamed Rajaratnam.  “You made up a story to please the government, to put the
blame on Raj,” Dowd said to Kumar. “It’s all just a lie, a
monstrous lie. Isn’t that a fact, sir?”  “I hope this court will decide who is lying and who is
not, sir,” Kumar answered.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 