-- 
Banks Cut Hours, Allow Work From Home as Japan Reels From Quake

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   P h i l i p   L a g e r k r a n s e r
-- 
2011-03-15T08:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/goldman-jpmorgan-say-no-plans-to-move-japan-operations-on-quake.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among global banks allowing employees to
work from home or leave the office early as Japan’s strongest
earthquake disrupts public transport in Tokyo.  JPMorgan employees in Japan are being allowed to work from
home, or take vacation if their managers approve, said
spokeswoman Sachiko Hasegawa in an interview. Credit Suisse is
allowing employees to leave work early, according to Isamu Kajino, a spokesman for the Swiss bank.  The banks, along with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , said they have no plans to move operations out of
Japan, even after Prime Minister Naoto Kan warned the risk of
radiation leaks at an earthquake-damage nuclear plant north of  Tokyo  is rising.  “Our business is as usual,” JPMorgan’s Hasegawa said.  The German Embassy  in Tokyo has said it recommended its
citizens in Japan consider leaving the country following last
week’s earthquake and explosions at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
nuclear power plant in Fukushima. About 100 Germans live in the
Tohoku area, where a magnitude 9 quake struck March 11, while
2,600 people are in Tokyo and 900 in the Kanagawa area,
according to Mari Shindo, a spokeswoman at the embassy.  The power plant, where four of six reactors have been
damaged by explosions, is 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of
Tokyo. The death toll from the earthquake and tsunami rose to
2,478 at 2 p.m., according to the  National Police Agency  in
Tokyo.  Business as Usual  UBS AG,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Bank of America were among 
other financial companies that said their operations in Japan
aren’t being affected by the disaster.  “Our goal is to remain open as long as the markets remain
open, and to operate as normally as possible under challenging
circumstances,” said Mika Watanabe, a spokeswoman for New York-
based Morgan Stanley, in an interview.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, the Asian securities affiliate
of France’s Credit Agricole SA, has non-essential Japan-based
staff working from home, said spokeswoman Simone Wheeler. The
firm’s business, including broking and trading, is operating as
normal, she said.    Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s 174 retail brokerage branches are
doing business as usual, and employees are allowed to take
holidays if needed, according to spokeswoman Keiko Sugai.  “We don’t see any employees moving out of  Japan  except
people who were scheduled to take a holiday,” said Natsumi Akita, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The U.K. lender has no plans to move operations out
of Japan, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  