-- 
Goldman Sachs Seeking to Sell Litton Mortgage-Servicing Unit

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-15T23:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/goldman-sachs-seeking-to-sell-litton-mortgage-servicing-unit.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said it’s trying to sell
Litton Loan Servicing LP, the Houston-based mortgage-servicing
unit it acquired more than three years ago.  “Goldman Sachs is exploring strategic options for Litton
Loan Servicing, which include a possible sale,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The company bought Litton in December 2007 as investors
including billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC purchased mortgage servicers to help them better
understand the market and profit from buying discounted loans.
Goldman Sachs is selling after failing to find enough
opportunities to buy distressed  mortgage loans , said a person
familiar with the situation.  The unit is cooperating with investigations by the  attorneys general  from 50 states of the mortgage industry’s
foreclosure practices, which began after they discovered some
firms used faulty or falsified paperwork to seize homes.  The inquiries “may result in the imposition of fines or
other regulatory action,” Goldman Sachs said March 1 in its
annual 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Since Goldman Sachs bought Litton, the value of the
company’s mortgage-servicing rights has also evaporated. By the
end of 2009, Goldman Sachs’s estimate for the fair value of the
rights had dropped to $88 million from $283 million at the end
of February 2008, according to regulatory filings. In the latest
filing, the firm disclosed that as of Dec. 31, 2010, their value
“was not material.”  Radian, C-Bass  Goldman Sachs never disclosed how much it paid to acquire
Litton, which added about 1,000 employees to the company’s
staff. Goldman bought Litton from Credit-Based Asset Servicing
and Securitization LLC, known as C-Bass.  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , a
part owner of C-Bass, disclosed a month before the sale was
completed that the unit would be sold for about $467.9 million
to an unnamed buyer.  Before buying Litton, Goldman Sachs had tried to avoid
businesses that involved the mass-market or “retail” customer.
David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, told
analysts in September 2006, more than a year before the company
bought Litton, that Goldman Sachs was reluctant to buy a lender
because of the “retail concern.”  “Goldman Sachs is largely an institutional business,”
Viniar said at the time. “There are different risks when you’re
touching the retail customer.”  The New York Times reported Goldman Sachs’s plan to sell
Litton earlier today. The Financial Times reported in December
that Goldman Sachs was considering a sale of Litton and that
talks with one potential buyer had fallen apart over price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 