-- 
Google Is Said to Test Mobile-Payment System With VeriFone

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-03-15T21:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/google-is-said-to-ready-payment-test-in-new-york-san-francisco.html
  Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to start testing
a mobile-payment service at stores in  New York  and  San Francisco 
within four months, letting shoppers use their phones to ring up
purchases, three people familiar with the project said.  The company will pay to install thousands of special cash-
register systems from  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  at merchant
locations, said one of the people, who requested anonymity
because Google’s plans haven’t been made public. ViVOtech Inc.,
a provider of mobile-payment technology, will also play a role
in the tests, which will include Los Angeles, Chicago and  Washington , D.C., one of the people said.  The project would put Google in a growing field of
companies experimenting with so-called near-field-communication
technology, which lets consumers pay for products and services
by tapping a device against a register at checkout, giving them
an alternative to cash or physical credit cards. The Google
service may combine a consumer’s financial account information,
gift-card balances, store loyalty cards and coupon subscriptions
on a single NFC chip on a phone.  The registers would accept payments from mobile phones
equipped to take payments via NFC technology.  Nathan Tyler, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, and Lindsay Durfee, a spokeswoman for VeriFone in
San Jose, California, declined to comment. Mohammad Khan,
 president  of ViVOtech, also declined to comment.  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, has
used its Android operating system to take a leading role in the
smartphone industry.  Android’s Reach  The company offers Android for free to phone manufacturers,
aiming to boost revenue from services such as mobile advertising
and expand the market for its search engine. Google’s software
leads the market for smartphone operating systems, according to
research firm Canalys.  Google’s mobile-payment service would face competition from
EBay Inc.’s PayPal and  ISIS , a joint effort of several mobile
companies. The ISIS system, backed by AT&T and Verizon Wireless,
will rely on Discover Financial Services to handle the payments.
ISIS plans to test its mobile service this year, a person
familiar with the trial said.  The adoption of NFC payment systems will hinge on the
availability of phones with the technology. Samsung Electronics
Co.’s Nexus S phone already allows for NFC transactions, while  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  and Research In Motion Ltd. have vowed to bring NFC-
enabled phones to market.  Google slipped 43 cents to $569.56 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 4.1
percent this year. VeriFone jumped $3.55, or 7.4 percent, to
$51.46, a record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto  ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 