-- 
Gundlach, Klarman See Bull Market Undermined by U.S. Budget Gap

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-03-15T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/gundlach-sees-bull-market-undercut-by-u-s-debt-in-view-shared-by-klarman.html
As signs of a sustained U.S.
recovery increase, so do the ranks of big-name investors warning
that economic growth will be undercut by the rising federal
budget deficit.  Shrinking the gap between government revenues and spending
will reduce the nation’s standard of living, slow the economy
and crimp returns on stocks and bonds, according to DoubleLine
Capital LP founder  Jeffrey Gundlach , who managed the top-rated
intermediate-term U.S. bond mutual fund for 15 years. Failing to
fix the problem could trigger another financial crisis, said  Robert Rodriguez , who ran the best-performing diversified U.S.
stock fund for a quarter century.  “Unless we get government under control, we will see
negative consequences in the form of higher inflation and higher
interest rates,” Rodriguez, chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based First Pacific Advisors LLC, said in a telephone
interview.  Prominent investors including Seth Klarman of Baupost Group
LLC and  David Einhorn  of Greenlight Capital Inc. have sounded
similar alarms. Concern that the expansion will be hurt by the
deficit, as well as by political turmoil in the Mideast and
North Africa and  Europe ’s debt crisis, could threaten the
biggest bull market since 1955.  “All of a sudden you have this cascade of ominous
headlines raining down and investors are trying to figure out
what it means for the market,”  Jack Ablin , who helps oversees
$55 billion as chief investment strategist at Chicago-based
Harris Private Bank, said in a telephone interview.  Standoff in Congress  Democrats and Republicans in Congress are divided on ways
to reduce  government spending  in the current fiscal year, which
started Oct. 1. The 2011 budget will climb to a record $1.5
trillion from $1.3 trillion in 2010, according to a
Congressional Budget Office estimate released Jan. 26. A
bipartisan group of senators led by Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner  and Georgia Republican Saxby Chambliss are working on a
plan that would cut the projected deficit over 10 years.  U.S. net government debt will equal 74 percent of gross
domestic product this year, compared with 42 percent in 2007,
according to IHS Global Insight, a Lexington, Massachusetts-
based consulting firm.  Japan , at 120 percent, has the highest
debt burden among developed countries, IHS data show.  “When you are addicted to living beyond your means and you
fill the gap with debt, you reach a point where you are going to
feel the pain,” Gundlach said in a telephone interview from Los
Angeles.  Whittling down the debt will require higher taxes and lower
spending, both of which will act as a brake on the economy’s
growth, he said, and higher debt-service payments will create an
additional burden.  Blunt Assessment  Gundlach, 51, was fired by TCW Group Inc., a unit of Paris-
based Societe General SA, in December 2009 after a dispute with
the firm’s management. His  TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  had
returned 7.6 percent annually in the previous 15 years, the most
by any intermediate-term bond fund, according to data from
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc.   At his new firm, the $5.3 billion DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund has topped all rivals in the same category, returning
19 percent from inception in April 2010 through March 11,
Morningstar data show.  Klarman, founder of Boston-based Baupost, is blunt in
acknowledging the costs of cutting the deficit.  “Restoring fiscal sanity will be bad for the economy and
financial markets,” he wrote in a Jan. 26 letter to clients.
The alternative is worse, he said.  Positive Signs  “Governments that run huge deficits, promise entitlements
that will be next-to-impossible to deliver and depend on the
beneficence of foreigners to stay afloat inevitably must
collapse -- perhaps not imminently, but eventually as Greece and
Ireland have recently discovered,” he wrote.  Greece and Ireland accepted bailouts after the cost of
financing their debt became unsustainable.  Baupost managed $23 billion last year, putting it in a tie
with Angelo Gordon & Co. as the 11th-largest hedge fund in the
world, according to a ranking by Bloomberg Markets. The fund
returned about 19 percent a year from 1983 through 2009, and
almost 14 percent in 2010, data provided by Baupost show.
Klarman declined to comment.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a benchmark for U.S.
stocks, has gained 92 percent since hitting a 12-year low on
March 9, 2009. Gross domestic product will grow 3.1 percent this
year, its best performance since 2005, according to the average
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sustainable Growth  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest level in almost two years, and employers
boosted payrolls amid growing confidence in the expansion, the
Commerce Department said March 4.  “We think the economy is in a self-sustaining recovery
right now,”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at New York-based
Barclays Capital Inc., told Bloomberg Television after the
employment report was released.    Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
West Chester, Pennsylvania, said a multiyear plan to cut the
deficit can be carried out without derailing the recovery.  “Shrinking the deficit is likely to be a drag, but it
doesn’t need to undermine growth,” he said in a telephone
interview. Zandi recommended in a report last month that
Congress postpone spending cuts until 2012, when he anticipates
the  U.S. economy  will be stronger.  “If  Washington  comes out with a plan that begins to
restore some semblance of sensibility to our fiscal situation,
the markets would see that as a positive,” Brian Berghuis,
manager of the $21.4 billion T. Rowe Price Mid-Cap Growth Fund,
said in telephone interview.  Underachieving Market  Such a deal could boost the dollar and stocks while cutting
commodity prices and expectations for inflation, Berghuis said.
His Baltimore-based fund beat 89 percent of rivals over the past
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rodriguez, the CEO of First Pacific Advisors, isn’t
optimistic about the immediate future. He said stock market
returns will “underachieve” for the next several years and the
economy’s growth will be sluggish as consumers struggle to
recover from the financial crisis.  “There is a possibility we are already seeing the high-
water mark in employment growth,” Rodriguez said.  Rodriguez told clients in 2009 that if the U.S. government
didn’t get its finances in order, the nation would face a crisis
in three to seven years that could rival the financial meltdown
of 2008.  Music May Stop  “I haven’t changed my opinion,” Rodriguez said. He
believes the next crisis could be triggered by investors balking
at buying  U.S. debt , which in turn could cause the dollar to
plummet and  interest rates  to soar.  “You never know when the music is going to stop,”
Rodriguez said.  Rodriguez, 62, ran the $1.4 billion FPA Capital Fund from
1984 through 2009, when he left on a one-year sabbatical. In
addition to CEO, he’s an adviser to the funds at First Pacific,
which manages $16 billion. In the 25 years ended Dec. 31, 2009,
FPA Capital gained 15 percent a year, better than all
diversified U.S. stock mutual funds, Morningstar data show.  Rodriguez isn’t alone in warning that the next crisis could
involve government debt.  “The global economy is in a period between two crises,”
Greenlight’s Einhorn said in a December interview with  Charlie
Rose . Einhorn’s New York-based firm manages $6.8 billion and
profited from betting against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ‘Tough Spot’  The debt problems that caused the 2008 crisis have shifted
from the private to the public sector without being addressed,
Einhorn told Rose. The combination of “a very large  budget
deficit  and a monetary policy that is extremely easy” could
eventually bring the economy “to a tough spot,” Einhorn said.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark lending rate at
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008. Einhorn
declined to be interviewed.  Rodriguez says there are glimmers of hope on the fiscal
front. States such as Wisconsin,  New Jersey  and  Ohio , he said,
are trimming their deficits with spending cuts, potentially
providing a road map for politicians in Washington.  “I don’t say it is impossible to change course, but the
time frame is growing short,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  