-- 
Gunshots Rattle Hills as Merlot Rebounds From ‘Sideways’ Gibe

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-03-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/gunshots-rattle-hills-as-maligned-merlot-rebounds-from-sideways-putdown.html
As winemaker  Philippe Melka 
unlocked the gate of his Knights Valley  vineyard  in Sonoma,
California, gunshots echoed from the hills surrounding his plot.  “It’s pretty dangerous to make merlot in California,” he
joked. “There’s a lot of issues with marijuana growers here.
The last time I was harvesting, the cops were all over.”  Even scarier for merlot makers is Miles Raymond, the pinot
noir-loving wine snob played by Paul Giamatti in the 2004 movie
“ Sideways .”  Raymond’s disparaging remarks about merlot
sparked a decline in the wine’s U.S. sales. Now, the red
varietal is on the rise again.  “Merlot is coming back,” said Janet Trefethen of
 Trefethen Family Vineyards , whose merlot sales rose 8 percent
last year.  Once the most popular red wine in the U.S., merlot sales
dropped 2 percent in the three months after “Sideways” was
released.  While merlot has never regained the top spot -- it’s third
in U.S. popularity, behind chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon --  California  winemakers say sales of upscale merlots are rising.
And, after four years of declines, new acreage devoted to the
grape almost tripled in 2009.  Sold Out  Melka, who has spent the past two decades working for some
of the world’s most famous wineries, released his first merlot
blend under his own label last year. The $125 Metisse Knight
Valley wine sold out in months.  He said drinkers may be looking beyond cabernet sauvignon,
which can be fat and sweet when grown in warmer areas.  “Consumers are starting to get away from those types of
wines,” Melka said. “That’s why I like merlot right now.”  In 2008, a documentary called “ Merlove ” featured
top producers extolling the grape’s virtues. Since then wineries
have been releasing new merlot labels.  Jeff Smith, owner of the Napa winery  Hourglass , bought a
41-acre property in 2006 with some merlot vines on it. Instead
of replacing it with more popular cabernet grapes, he decided to
keep the merlot.  “I thought, ‘Why should we dance around the issue?’ Smith
said. “Why shouldn’t we just go straight at it?”  ‘Sideways’ Hangover  Merlot’s downfall was quite a turnaround from the 1990s,
when U.S. drinkers fell in love with the wine. By 2000, it was
the best-selling red wine in the U.S.  Sales surpassed previous leader cabernet sauvignon by 2000.
Growers responded by planting more of the grapes, eventually
leading to poorly made bottles, said Doug Shafer, of Napa’s
 Shafer Vineyards .  “It can make a not very attractive wine,” said Shafer,
who started making merlot in 1983. “Miles was right.”  Petra Polakovicova, wine director of  Epic Roasthouse  in  San
Francisco , said there’s still some hangover from the
“Sideways” slight.  “I see people who will say, ‘I don’t drink merlot,’” she
says. “I like to ask them what they don’t like merlot, just so
I can help them out.”  Duckhorn Vineyards’  merlot lineup displays the grapes’s
many facets. The winery’s 2007 Three Palms vineyard ($85) is a
powerhouse meant for aging, while the 2007 Rector Creek vineyard
($85) displayed elegant, floral characteristics.  Shafer’s 2008 Napa Merlot ($48) features raspberry and
black cherry flavors, kept in check with massive acidity.
Hourglass’s 2008 Blueline Vineyard Merlot ($75) is a rich,
extracted version that tastes like raspberry compote, finishing
with sweet-tart acidity.  Miles Raymond may not like merlot, but plenty of others do.
Shafer said “Sideways” eventually had a positive effect on
merlot, forcing bad producers out of the market.  “In the short term, ‘Sideways’ was horrible for merlot,”
he said. “In the long term, it’s the best thing that could have
happened.”    Ryan Flinn  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net . 