-- 
Gupta Revealed Goldman Talk of Purchasing Commercial Bank, Recording Shows

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-15T16:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/gupta-revealed-goldman-talk-of-purchasing-commercial-bank-recording-shows.html
Rajat Gupta, while on the  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board in 2008, told Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  of the board’s talks on whether to buy
AIG Inc. or Wachovia Corp., according to a wiretapped recording.  Prosecutors at Rajaratnam’s insider trading trial this
morning played a recording of a July 2008 discussion between the
two men, one of about 170 wiretaps the government said it plans
to present in Manhattan federal court. During the conversation,
Rajaratnam asked about a “rumor that Goldman may look to buy a
commercial bank.”  “Yeah, this is being discussed at the board meeting,”
Gupta replied, adding that it was “a divided” discussion.
Among the institutions that the Goldman Sachs board discussed
were Charlotte, North Carolina-based Wachovia, now part of  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and New York-based insurer  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , according to the transcript.  Testimony in Rajaratnam’s trial continued today with former
McKinsey & Co partner Anil Kumar, a government witness, who
described Rajaratnam’s relationship with Gupta. Before
prosecutors played the tape, Kumar testified that Gupta had
invested or planned to invest in several Galleon Group funds.  Prosecutors previously said that Gupta, who is not charged
with criminal wrongdoing, tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
transactions, including Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s 2008
investment in the bank. Today’s recording was the first tape
played in which Gupta was a participant in the conversation.  On the recording, Gupta said some Goldman Sachs board
members believed commercial banking was a “low-return
business,” while others said such a bank was a “low-cost
source” of funding.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, 
Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, and Christopher Mumma, a spokesman 
for Gupta, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 