-- 
Miami-Dade Voters May Oust Mayor in Largest Municipal Recall

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-03-15T16:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/miami-dade-voters-may-oust-mayor-in-largest-municipal-recall.html
Miami-Dade County voters are poised
to oust Republican Mayor Carlos Alvarez today after he raised
property taxes to help close a deficit.  Florida ’s most-populous
county would become the largest U.S. municipality to recall a
top official.  Voters in the county, home to the city of Miami, favor a
recall by 67 percent,  according to a poll  commissioned by the
Miami Herald dated March 5. They may also remove Commissioner
Natacha Seijas, the survey showed. The newspaper said the poll
reflected “discontent crossing all political and demographic
lines.” Forty-one percent cited the tax increase as their reason
for favoring a recall.  Alvarez, 58, angered residents with the tax increase as
property values fell 22 percent in three years, according to the
appraisers’ office. Omaha,  Nebraska , voters sought to expel
Democratic Mayor Jim Shuttle in January for raising taxes, an
effort he survived. Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ’s curbs on
union rights led to recall petitions against state legislators
there this month.  “Recall elections tend to be less about the policies taken
up by the ‘offending’ official and more about voter anger and
frustration,” said  Joseph Uscinski , who teaches politics at the  University of Miami  in  Coral Gables . Alvarez “pursued policies
that could not be avoided given the financial crises the city,
state and nation are in.”  ‘Unfair Light’  Miami-Dade, with about  2.5 million residents , according to
the U.S. Census Bureau, would be the largest local government to
recall a top official, said Joshua Spivak, a senior fellow at
the Hugh L. Carey Institute for Government Reform at Wagner
College in  New York City . Californians removed Democratic
Governor Gray Davis in 2003.  Alvarez’s $7.6 billion  fiscal 2011 budget , which began Oct.
1, used the tax increase, plus $186.7 million of spending cuts,
including union wage concessions, to help close a $440 million
revenue gap. It was adopted by the 13-member County Commission
in September.  In the poll, 41 percent cited the tax increase as their
reason for favoring a recall. The second most-cited reason,
ineffectiveness, was picked by 15 percent.  Focusing on the tax increase “casts the budget in an
unfair light,” said Victoria Mallette, Alvarez’s spokeswoman.  “We saved taxpayers $225 million with the collective-
bargaining agreement,” she said in an interview. “The mayor
has no regrets about his budget. He wanted to maintain
services.”  The recall drive was led by Norman Braman, a local car
dealer and former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles National
Football League team. He criticized the mayor for giving high-
ranking county officials raises while lifting taxes. He also
opposed the county’s $347 million contribution toward a new
ballpark for the  Florida Marlins , a Major League Baseball team.  Elected in 2004  Alvarez, a native of Cuba, became mayor in 2004 and was re-
elected in 2008. County commissioners would have 30 days to
appoint a new mayor or call a special election to complete
Alvarez’s term, which ends in November 2012.  Miami-Dade is Florida’s largest municipal borrower after
the state, with $17.8 billion of debt outstanding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.    Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have negative outlooks on Miami-Dade, partly because of
revenue declines. S&P rates its general-obligation bonds AA-,
the fourth-highest grade. Moody’s and Fitch rate them third-
highest, at Aa2 and AA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 