-- 
Import Prices in U.S. Increased 1.4% in February on Oil, Food

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-15T13:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/import-prices-in-u-s-increased-1-4-in-february-on-oil-food.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose more than forecast in February, led by gains in crude
oil and food.  The 1.4 percent increase in the import-price index exceeded
the 0.9 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and
followed a 1.3 percent rise in January, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.3
percent. Food costs over the past 12 months posted the biggest
gain since records began in 1977.  Expanding economies in  Asia  and Latin America are
generating greater demand for raw materials, while turmoil in  Libya  has pushed up crude  oil prices . So far, companies are
limited in their ability to pass along those costs, helping
explain why Federal Reserve officials meeting today are likely
to stay the course on monetary policy to spur growth.  “The import price gains are all capturing the higher cost
of energy and raw materials,” said Stephen Gallagher, chief
U.S. economist at Societe Generale SA in New York, who forecast
a 1.5 percent February increase. “Underlying price pressures
aren’t doing much. The Fed will stay on hold.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey of 51 economists ranged
from a drop of 0.3 percent to a gain of 3 percent.  Separate figures showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region accelerated in March at the fastest rate in nine months,
a sign factories remain at the forefront of the economic
expansion.  Empire State Index  The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index rose to
17.5 from 15.4 in February. Economists projected an increase to
16.1, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-called
Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey ,
and southern  Connecticut .  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risk of further radiation
leaks from an earthquake-damaged nuclear power plant are
increasing. Contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
expiring in June slumped 2.5 percent to 1,257.7 at 9:15 a.m. in
New York.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices increased 6.9
percent, the most since May 2010. They were forecast to rise 6.3
percent, according to the survey median.  The cost of imported petroleum increased 3.7 percent from
the prior month, and was up 21 percent from a year earlier, the
most since May 2010.  Prices Minus Fuels  Import prices excluding all fuels rose 3.6 percent from
February 2010, the biggest gain in more than two years, partly a
reflection of food costs.  Imported food was 0.8 percent costlier last month, and was
up 16 percent from a year earlier.  Costs of imported automobiles, parts and engines rose 0.1
percent from the prior month. Consumer goods excluding vehicles
showed a 0.2 percent gain, matching the rise in imported capital
goods.  Increases in commodity prices in recent months mainly
reflect “rising global demand for raw materials, particularly
in some fast-growing emerging market economies, coupled with
constraints on global supply in some cases,” Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on March 1. That suggests a
“temporary and relatively modest increase in U.S. consumer
price inflation,” he said.  FOMC Meeting  Fed officials at the end of their meeting today may signal
they plan to complete the second round of bond purchases that’ll
pump $600 billion into the financial system by June. Along with
the so-called quantitative easing, they will probably maintain
their policy of keeping the benchmark rate near zero.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier,
matching December’s year-over-year gain, the smallest in five
decades of record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run
overall inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Imported goods are also more expensive because of the
weakening dollar. Since reaching a one-year high on June 7 of
last year, the dollar has fallen 9 percent against a trade-
weighted basket of major currencies.  Neiman Marcus Group Inc., a luxury retailer, is among
companies seeing varied price pressures depending on where their
products are manufactured.  Europe  accounts for the majority of
the Dallas-based company’s imports, and the euro has been
relatively stable compared with the dollar, according to Chief
Executive Officer Karen Katz.  Some Inflation  “Prices are not moving more than a little bit on goods
coming out of Europe,” Katz said on a March 11 conference call.
On indirect imports from  China  and Asia, bought through vendors
who produce there, “we are seeing some price inflation in those
areas due to commodity prices as well as big labor increases,”
she said.  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from China rose 0.4
percent, while those from  Japan  climbed 0.5 percent. Goods from
Latin America jumped 1.4 percent and those from the European
Union increased 0.5 percent. Prices of Canadian imports jumped
2.3 percent, and goods from  Mexico  rose 1.1 percent.  U.S. export prices increased 1.2 percent after rising 1.3
percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices of
farm exports jumped 4.4 percent, the most in three months, while
those of non-farm goods climbed 0.9 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow and the consumer-price index on March 17. The Bloomberg
survey median for those measures indicates inflation excluding
volatile food and fuel expenses remains contained.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  