-- 
India’s Rupee Falls Most in Two Weeks as Investors Seek Safety

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-15T04:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/india-s-rupee-falls-most-in-two-weeks-as-investors-seek-safety.html
India’s rupee slid the most in more
than two weeks as  Japan ’s earthquake and nuclear accident
prompted investors to favor the relative safety of the dollar
over regional assets.  The currency weakened as the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index of local shares dropped as much as 2.8 percent,
the biggest loss since Feb. 24. The Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, climbed 0.5 percent as Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  said the risk of further radiation leaks is increasing after
a third explosion rocked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant north of  Tokyo .    Risk aversion  is the main theme today across the
financial market and needless to say it’s stemming from Japan,”
said Vikas Babu, a currency trader in Mumbai at state-owned  Andhra Bank . “The slide in stocks is indicating capital
outflows. The rupee is going to keep a weakening bias.”  The Indian currency dropped 0.4 percent to 45.31 per dollar
as of 9:55 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee may fall to 45.45 this week, Babu predicted.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares fell 6.3
percent, the biggest drop since October 2008. More than 2,000
people are confirmed dead from the earthquake and tsunami that
hit the northeastern part of Japan, Deputy Cabinet Secretary for
Public Relations Noriyuki Shikata said.  Overseas investors pulled $1.8 billion from Indian equities
this year through March 11, after pumping a record $29.3 billion
into the shares last year, according to the Securities &
Exchange Board of  India .  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 46.11 in
three months, compared with expectations of 45.85 yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Anil Varma at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  