-- 
Think for One Second Before You Buy Those Shares: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-03-15T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/think-for-one-second-before-you-buy-those-shares-matthew-lynn.html
What’s the right length of time to
own a share? Ten years, perhaps. Five? Or maybe it depends on
the company whose shares you are buying.  But seconds, or milliseconds, or even picoseconds?
New trading technologies are making it possible to buy and sell
stocks in ever tinier fractions of time.  Trading in picoseconds is madness. It makes the stock
market more volatile and less useful for companies to raise
capital or for investors to earn returns.  In the U.K. this month, the technology company  Corvil ,
which includes  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  among its customers, created a stir by predicting that
new frontiers in trading speeds were about to open up.  From trading in milliseconds, to microseconds, to
nanoseconds, speeds are getting faster all the time. “There are
no technological limits preventing firms from trading in
picoseconds,” Chief Executive Officer  Donal Byrne  said.  For those of us who get our picos mixed up with our nanos,
a picosecond is one trillionth of a second. Or, put another way,
a picosecond is to one second what one second is to 31,700
years. In less technical language, it’s a really, really brief
period of time.  It’s questionable whether it is possible for the buy and
sell instructions to move fast enough. Depending on the location
of the computers involved in a transaction, the messages may
need to travel faster than the speed of light, which is 186,000
miles per second.  Albert Einstein  would scoff at the idea.  Frantic Trading  But why would anyone want to trade that quickly even if it
can be done? And should they be allowed to?  For decades, there has been a clear trend for trading to
become more and more frantic, and for the owners of equities to
hold them for less and less time. In 1940, U.S. investors held
their stocks for about seven years, according to  Andrew Haldane ,
an executive director at the  Bank of England . That figure
changed very little until the mid-1970s. By 1987, it had dropped
to two years. By 2000, it was less than one year, and by 2007
less than seven months.  Much the same is true of Britain. In the mid-1960s, the
average share was owned for five years. It was down to two years
by the 1980s. Now it is slightly more than seven months, Haldane
 said in a speech  last year.  Seven months may soon seem like several lifetimes. The
technology is available to enable speculators to buy and sell a
share within fractions of a second. But is that really progress?  Two Functions  A stock market has two core functions. It exists for
companies to raise capital needed to invest in their business.
And it should help ordinary people to make a decent return on
their savings by investing in those enterprises.  As the length of ownership has come down, have the markets
gotten better at that? It is hard to argue that they have. If
anything, it has made the markets less stable. Many people
blamed high-frequency trading for the “flash crash” plunge in
share prices on the New York market last year.  Trading equities in fractions of a second is crazy. What
can possibly change about the prospects of Vodafone Group Plc or
Nestle SA in the space of a picosecond? Is their business really
any different at the end of any particular fraction of a second
than it was at the beginning? If you want to change your mind
about owning their shares, maybe you should take a second to
think it over. Maybe a whole minute -- or even two.  Faster and Faster  In reality, as shares have been traded more furiously, the
stock market has become more volatile, more disruptive and less
useful. Sure, it might allow one high-frequency hedge fund to
steal a march on another one. But at a certain point, you have
to step back and ask whether this is a road we really want to go
down, and whether it performs any useful function.  Whether Corvil comes up with its picosecond trading
technology doesn’t matter much. Someone probably will soon.
Information technology makes everything faster and faster all
the time. If it can be done, it will be done.  But not all science makes the world a better place -- and
trading in picoseconds certainly falls into that category.  Just because we can build nuclear weapons doesn’t make it a
good idea for every country to have a big pile of nukes. And
just because we can clone ourselves doesn’t mean the world would
be improved if we did.  The trading systems we have are fast enough for any
reasonable purposes. The  stock exchanges  should call a halt --
and tell the traders that if they only want to hold their
investments for a picosecond, they might be better off going
somewhere else. Like a racetrack.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  