-- 
Insurers Fall for Third Day on Japan Earthquake, Reactor Blast

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-03-15T14:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/insurers-fall-for-third-day-on-japan-earthquake-reactor-blast.html
European insurers and reinsurers
fell for a third day on concern they may face claims related to
the earthquake in Japan and amid fears that parts of the country
may suffer radioactive contamination.    Ageas (AGS) , the insurer formerly known as Fortis, ING Group NV
and  Hannover Re  led declines as the Stoxx Europe 600 Insurance
Index dropped 4 percent at 2:30 p.m. central European time. That
followed a 4.2 percent loss in the previous two days as the
global  insurance industry  may face claims of as much as 2.8
trillion yen ($35 billion) tied to the earthquake, according to
 AIR Worldwide .  “This comes on top of what has already been a difficult
start to the year with losses in  Australia  and  New Zealand ,”
Citigroup Global Markets analyst James Quin wrote in a research
note. “Results were already likely to have missed budget, and
company targets are now in effect meaningless for 2011.”    Munich Re  and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s biggest
reinsurers, both fell more than 4 percent, bringing their losses
since the quake to more than 10 percent. Reinsurers help protect
primary carriers such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS)  against the cost
of major claims from hurricanes and earthquakes.  Losses at the top end of AIR’s March 13 estimate would make
the disaster the second worst for insurers and reinsurers after  Hurricane Katrina  devastated  New Orleans  in 2005 and cost the
industry $62.2 billion, according to estimates from Munich Re.  Profit Target  Munich Re, based in Munich in southern  Germany , last week
said its full-year profit target of about 2.4 billion euros
($3.3 billion) “will only remain achievable, if random losses
in the further course of the year remain below expectations.”  After the earthquake and tsunami,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
is battling a potential meltdown at three reactors at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, 220 kilometers (135 miles) north of
Tokyo, heightening concern over radiation leaks. Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm as he said the danger of
further radiation leaks was rising.  “The nuclear angle should not be viewed as a major concern
for the European insurers,” Citigroup’s Quin wrote. “The
nuclear facilities are reinsured by a government-sponsored pool
and nuclear risks are excluded from commercial cover.”  Similar to  other countries , the  Japan  Atomic Energy
Insurance Pool covers risks related to nuclear accidents. Such
pools, which also help cover acts of terrorism, are mandatory in
some countries for risks not covered by private insurers.  “Generally, coverage for nuclear facilities in Japan
excludes earthquake shock, fire following earthquake and
tsunami, both in terms of physical damage and liability,”
Zurich-based Swiss Re said in a  statement  yesterday. As
“coverage for property policies excludes nuclear
contamination,” it would be “unlikely” that blasts at atomic  power plants  would “be a significant impact on the property and
casualty insurance industry,” the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  