-- 
Inter, Manchester United Reach Champions League Quarterfinals

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-15T23:34:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/inter-manchester-united-reach-champions-league-quarterfinals.html
Inter Milan scored with two minutes
to play to keep alive the defense of its Champions League soccer
title, while  Manchester United  withstood a late rally by
Marseille to advance to the quarterfinals.  Facing a 3-2 defeat to Bayern over the two-game series,
Inter advanced on the away goals rule after Goran Pandev scored
in the 88th minute at the Allianz Arena in Munich to make it 3-2
to Milan on the night and 3-3 on aggregate.  “It’s a great moment, a fantastic joy,” Inter coach
Leonardo told reporters. “It’s a sign that these players have
great faith in the team. We never give up. The European
champions are still standing.”  At Old Trafford,  Javier Hernandez  scored twice for
Manchester United, which held on to beat Marseille 2-1 after Wes Brown scored an own goal in the 83rd minute. The first game in
the tie was scoreless.  “It was nervy,” United coach  Alex Ferguson  told
reporters. “Players kept coming off with injuries. It shifted
the balance of the team.”  In a rematch of last year’s final, Inter scored in the
third minute through Samuel Eto’o. Bayern took a 2-1 halftime
lead, and 3-1 advantage on aggregate, following goals by  Mario Gomez  and Thomas Muller.    Wesley Sneijder  and Pandev then scored in the second half
as Inter became the second team to advance in the Champions
League after losing the first leg at home.  Eto’o opened the scoring when he beat the Bayern defense to
take a pass from Pandev and slide a shot under goalkeeper Thomas
Kraft.  Gomez Scores  Gomez, who scored the goal in Bayern’s opening 1-0 win,
tied the game in the 21st minute after Inter goalkeeper Julio Cesar failed to hold a long shot from  Arjen Robben . It was
Gomez’s eighth goal in the tournament this season, tying Eto’o
and Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  for the competition lead.  Muller made it 3-1 overall 10 minutes later when he
collected Robben’s deflected pass in the area and lifted a shot
over Cesar.  Inter pulled a goal back in the 63rd minute as Sneijder put
a low shot from 20 yards (18 meters) inside the far post. Eto’o
then sent a ball across the area to Pandev, who fired a shot
into the top corner to complete the comeback.  “It’s unbelievable; I don’t know how it came to this,”
Robben told reporters. “It doesn’t seem possible that we could
concede three goals against a side like that.”  Ajax is the only other team to advance in the Champions
League after losing the first game at home. The Amsterdam club
beat Panathinaikos 3-0 in  Athens  after a 1-0 home defeat to
reach the 1996 final.  Hernandez’s goals sent United into the quarterfinals for
the fifth consecutive season.  Opening Goal  The home team took the lead in the fifth minute. United
striker  Wayne Rooney  found  Ryan Giggs  on the left wing before
collecting the return pass in the area and playing a low cross
for Hernandez to tap the ball into the net at the far post.  Marseille had two chances to draw even. Andre-Pierre Gignac
sent his shot over the goal after being sent through and
Souleymane Diawara headed wide from six yards out. Benoit
Cheyrou also had a long shot that United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar palmed away.  Former United defender  Gabriel Heinze  missed another chance
to tie it for Marseille in the 60th minute when he headed wide
and Van der Sar went down to stop a shot from Cheyrou 14 minutes
later.  Second Goal  United made it 2-0 less than a minute later as Antonio Valencia sent a pass into the area for Giggs, whose low cross
found Hernandez for his second goal of the game.  Marseille closed to 2-1 as Brown headed a corner into his
own net with eight minutes remaining.  “We missed an opportunity because we had the chances,”
Marseille manager Didier Deschamps told reporters. “They were
nervous. Unfortunately we failed to score the second goal. In
such games you need to approach them quite relaxed and I felt
the players were a bit tense. We tried, but it was not to be.”  Barcelona, Schalke, Shakhtar Donetsk and Tottenham
qualified for the quarterfinals last week. The final two spots
will be determined tonight. Chelsea takes a 2-0 into its home
match with Copenhagen and Real Madrid hosts Lyon tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 