-- 
Investors Slash Equity Holdings, Raise Cash, BofA Merrill Shows

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-15T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/investors-slash-equity-holdings-raise-cash-bofa-merrill-shows.html
Money managers reduced their
holdings in global stocks and raised cash levels as crude oil
rose and optimism about emerging markets continued to
deteriorate, a BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research survey showed.  A net 45 percent of 291 respondents, who together manage
$784 billion, are “overweight” equities in March. That’s down
from 67 percent last month, which was the most bullish reading
at any time in the past decade.  “Investors are in waiting mode,” said  Gary Baker , head of
European equities strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch in a statement.
“If the oil price reverses, this change in sentiment could
prove quite fleeting.”  The survey was concluded on March 10, one day before  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record and the subsequent tsunami
that damaged three nuclear reactors and sent equity markets
reeling. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has tumbled 6.7 percent since
reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 18 as crude oil surged above
$100 a barrel amid protests in the Middle East and North Africa.  A net 14 percent of respondents are “overweight” cash in
March as the measure of risk appetite fell for the first time in
six months. That compares with a net 9 percent who were
“underweight” the asset class last month.  Hedge funds  also
reduced their net exposure to equity markets to 34 percent from
39 percent in February.  Stocks in developing markets continued to fall out of
favor, with investors now neutral on the region. That compares
with a net 5 percent who were “overweight” emerging market
stocks in February and 43 percent in January.  Money managers also reduced their holdings in U.S. equities
as growth estimates saw sharp downward revisions, the survey
showed. A net 23 percent are now “overweight” North American
stocks, down from 34 percent in February. Holdings in U.K. and
European stocks were largely unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 