-- 
Lira, Turkish Stocks Decline Most in 2 Weeks on Japan Crisis

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-03-15T16:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lira-turkish-stocks-decline-most-in-2-weeks-on-japan-crisis.html
The Turkish lira and benchmark  stock index  declined the most in two weeks after the threat of
radiation leaks at a nuclear plant in  Japan  hurt demand for
riskier emerging-market assets. Bonds rallied.  The lira dropped as much as 1.4 percent to 1.5900 per
dollar, the most in intraday trading since March 1, and was down
0.8 percent at 1.5812 per dollar at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  lost 0.5 percent to 64,213.93, snapping a
five-day increase, the longest winning streak this year. Earlier
it retreated as much as 3.1 percent, also the most since March 1
on an intraday basis. Of the 103 stocks in the gauge, 74 fell.  U.S. and European stocks plunged, following Japan’s Nikkei
225 index’s biggest two-day drop since 1987, amid concern a
nuclear accident outside of  Tokyo  may cripple the global
economy. Commodities slid and  U.S. Treasuries  surged, pushing
10-year note yields to their lowest level this year, as
investors sought security in the safest assets.    Risk aversion  dominates all markets because of the
radiation leak in Japan,” Levent Guven, head of  currency
trading  at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in comments
e-mailed to Bloomberg today.  Yields on two-year bonds dropped the most in more than two
months by 22 basis points to 8.55 percent, the biggest point
decrease since Jan. 4, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark
Bond Index.  Some investors are betting that the earthquake in Japan
will hurt global growth and prompt the central bank to delay
increasing the benchmark interest rate, Tunc Yildirim, director
at Standard Unlu Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone
interview.  Yield Differentials  Falling yields on U.S. Treasuries add to the attraction of
Turkish bonds, Yildirim said. “U.S. Treasuries’ yields have
dropped a lot because of flight to quality and this makes  Turkey ’s nearly 9 percent-yield benchmark bonds more
attractive,” he said.  Speculation that the central bank will leave interest rates
at a record low of 6.25 percent in its meeting on March 23
backed the rally in the bonds.  “There will be no change in interest rates in this climate
and the market is pricing this positively,” said Ugursel Onder,
a fixed-income analyst at Is Investment Securities AS in
Istanbul.  Foreigners increased holdings of Turkish  government bonds 
by $1.58 billion in the week ending March 4, according to
statistics released by the central bank on March 10.  The central bank will next meet to decide on the benchmark
one-week repo lending rate at 2 p.m. on March 23.  The lira was the best performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg from the start
of last week through yesterday, rising 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  