-- 
Iran Seeks to Tone Down Annual Fire Festival, Warns Opposition

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-03-15T12:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/iran-seeks-to-tone-down-annual-fire-festival-warns-opposition.html
Iranian authorities are seeking to
tone down an annual street festival tonight over concerns that
the event may provide an outlet for opposition supporters to
stage further protests.  Chaharshanbeh Souri is an ancient Persian tradition that
takes places on the eve of the last Wednesday of  Iran ’s calendar
year, which ends on March 20. During the ceremony, which is held
after nightfall, friends and relatives jump over small bonfires
in the streets. In recent years the use of firecrackers has also
become routine.  This year the nationwide festival takes place after anti-
government protests, which had been dormant for over a year,
were revived in a Feb. 14 rally in solidarity with pro-democracy
demonstrators in the Arab world. The Coordination Council of the
Green Path of Hope, a group that backs opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, has asked followers to
demonstrate today.  Tehran’s deputy police chief Mohsen Khancherli said police
forces have confiscated explosive materials and over 200 home-
made firecrackers in recent weeks,  Hamshahri  reported today.
Schools in the Iranian capital, Tehran, were also closed two
hours earlier today to limit accidents, the newspaper said.  Iran’s judiciary has warned the opposition against using
the event as a pretext to voice their discontent.  Opposition supporters “want to use young people, who are
solely seeking to have some excitement, as a cover,” the head
of the Tehran province judiciary, Alireza Avaei, was quoted as
saying March 13 by the state-run  Iranian Students News Agency .  ‘Counter-Revolutionaries’  “If young people allow counter-revolutionaries to stand
among them they will also be harmed as it will be difficult to
differentiate between them,” Avaei said, using the term Iranian
officials use for opponents of the Islamic regime, which was
formed after the 1979 revolution.  Opposition supporters, who initially rallied against
president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s disputed re-election in 2009,
have held follow-up rallies on Feb. 20, March 1 as well as March
8, on the occasion of Women’s Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  