-- 
Iran Sends Gasoline Cargo to Afghanistan, Seeks More Exports

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-03-15T13:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/iran-sends-gasoline-cargo-to-afghanistan-seeks-more-exports.html
  Iran , which said last year that it
had become self-sufficient in the production of gasoline,
exported 1,000 metric tons of the fuel to  Afghanistan , deputy
Oil Minister Alireza Zeighami said.  Iran may export two more shipments to the neighboring
country, the state-run  Fars  news agency reported today citing
Zeiqhami. The official also said that Iran was in negotiations
with several other countries in the region to sell the fuel.
Gasoline is typically shipped in sea-going tankers of 30,000-ton
capacity and trade in 1,000- to 2,000-ton barge lots in the
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-hub.  The Oil Ministry announced last month that it was planning
to export four gasoline consignments by March 20, the end of the
Iranian calendar year.  Iran is under four rounds of United Nations sanctions
because it refuses to curtail its nuclear energy program, which
the U.S. and European Union believe conceals an effort to
develop weapons. The U.S. tightened its own sanctions against
Iran on July 1 to target foreign suppliers of gasoline. Iran
responded to the restrictions through a temporary program of
producing the motor fuel from its petrochemical plants.  Oil Minister Masoud Mir-Kazemi said Jan. 16 that Iran’s
gasoline reserves had “reached a peak” and noted that demand
for the fuel had eased after the government cut fuel subsidies
in December.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Middle East
after  Saudi Arabia , previously relied on imports for as much as
40 percent of its gasoline needs because it lacked the refining
capacity to meet domestic consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  