-- 
Iraq to Raise Crude Exports to Turkey to Make Up for Sabotage

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-15T10:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/iraq-to-raise-crude-exports-to-turkey-to-make-up-for-sabotage.html
  Iraq  will pump higher levels of
crude oil to  Turkey  to compensate for the shortage inflicted by
a five-day halt following a bomb attack, said Emad al-Baqer,
 North Oil Co. ’s head of production.  The Arab nation will start exporting as much as 600,000
barrels of crude to Turkey’s Mediterranean Sea port of Ceyhan,
he said in a telephone interview from Iraq’s northern oil hub of
Kirkuk. Iraq had resumed oil exports to Turkey yesterday with
experimental pumping before raising shipments to 450,000 barrels
a day today, he said.  “We will raise the levels of exports tonight and will
maintain them for a few days to compensate for the shortage in
Ceyhan due to the forced stoppage,” al-Baqer said.  The sabotage on the 600-mile (965-kilometer) pipeline
knocked out as much as a quarter of the country’s crude exports,
or about 590,000 barrels a day. The disruption came at a time
when oil supplies into Mediterranean Sea ports were reduced by a
civil war in  Libya . The  International Energy Agency  estimated
Libyan exports have dropped by about 1.3 million barrels a day
since the unrest there began.  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves, is
struggling to lure foreign investment and expertise to help
boost energy exports and finance the rebuilding of an economy
and infrastructure shattered by years of conflict, sanctions and
sabotage. The government has signed 15 licenses for oil and gas
exploration since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that ousted former
President  Saddam Hussein .  The country’s oil exports last month rose 2 percent to 2.2
million barrels a day, the highest since the U.S.-led invasion.
The increase came after shipments from the northern Kurdish
region resumed Feb. 3 following a halt of more than a year due
to a dispute between the central government and the semi-
autonomous region.  Daily exports in February included 484,000 barrels a day
from Kirkuk, Falah al-Amri, head of the country’s  State Oil
Marketing Organization , said March 1. Iraq pumped 2.6 million
barrels a day in February, according to Bloomberg estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  