-- 
Israeli Navy Boards Ship, Finds Iranian Arms Headed for Gaza

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-15T14:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/israeli-navy-boards-ship-finds-iranian-arms-headed-for-gaza.html
  Israel ’s navy boarded a ship flying
a Liberian flag about 200 nautical miles (370 kilometers) from
its coast that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said was
carrying weapons intended for “terrorist organizations” in the  Gaza Strip .  “The source of the weapons is Iran, which is trying to arm
Gaza,” Netanyahu said today in a text message.  Army Spokesman Brigadier General Avi Benayahu said the ship
loaded cargo in the Syrian port of Latakia and was carrying
three containers of weapons to Egypt to be smuggled into Hamas-
controlled Gaza.  Israel’s naval blockade of the Palestinian territory has
come under criticism after a commando raid on an aid boat headed
for Gaza in May left nine Turkish citizens dead. Israel has said
the blockade is legal as it prevents the smuggling of weapons to  Iran ’s proxies in the region such as Hamas. The Islamic group is
designated a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  “Iran is the source of all evil in this region,” Benayahu
said on Army Radio today, noting Iranian ships had docked in  Syria  two weeks earlier. “It finances, supports, encourages and
supplies all the terrorist organizations operating here.”  The ship departed Latakia and proceeded to Mersin,  Turkey .
It was en route to Alexandria when it was intercepted and Turkey
had “no connection to this incident regarding the weaponry
uncovered on board,” the army said.  Turkey, once Israel’s closest ally in the region, withdrew
its ambassador after the May naval raid. It has demanded an
official apology and compensation for the victims as
preconditions for normalization of ties.  Egyptian Route  Benayahu said Israel’s assumption is the weapons would have
been smuggled into Gaza through tunnels on the coastal strip’s
border with  Egypt . Israel doesn’t think Egypt is involved and
has noted a “significant increase” recently in Egyptian
efforts to stop smuggling into Gaza, he said.  Netanyahu said that the ship was stopped according to
international law.  Israel last intercepted a ship carrying weapons in November
2009 when it stopped a vessel headed for Syria and seized an
unprecedented 500-ton haul of weapons from Iran intended for the
Shiite Muslim Hezbollah militia in Lebanon, the army said at the
time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg. 