-- 
Israeli Consumer Price Index Increases More Than Expected 0.3%

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-15T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/israeli-consumer-price-index-increases-more-than-expected-0-3-.html
Israeli consumer prices rose more
than expected in February as an increase in food costs was only
partially offset by a seasonal drop in clothing and shoe prices.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.3 percent from the
previous month, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said today. The median forecast of 12 economists was for a 0.1
percent increase. Annual inflation climbed to 4.2 percent from
3.6 percent in January, the bureau said.  Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the
benchmark interest rate for a second consecutive month on Feb.
21, bringing it to 2.5 percent, after inflation surged above the
government’s 3 percent ceiling for the first time since March
last year. Fischer has been gradually increasing rates since
August 2009, as growth returns.  “What is driving inflation is mostly commodity and energy
prices,” said Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank Hapoalim
Ltd.’s economics department. “Aside from those two factors,
inflationary pressures aren’t strong.”  Israel bounced back from the global recession faster than
many developed economies, with growth accelerating to 7.7
percent in the last quarter of 2010, the fastest pace in four
years. The economy may expand 4.3 percent this year, Harel
Insurance Investments and Financial Services Ltd. said March 2.  The disaster in  Japan  will defer global interest rate
increases and make it likely that Fischer will leave the
benchmark rate unchanged for the time being, Bahar said.  “Unless there is a big surprise, it’s likely that he won’t
raise rates this month,” he said.  Housing Prices  The increase in rental housing prices, which has helped
fuel inflation in the past year, is likely to slow in the coming
months, Bahar said.  “Some economists believe that rental prices will continue
to rise quickly, as they ‘catch-up’ with home sale prices,”
Bahar said. “Its hard to imagine the public paying those kind
of prices.”  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 6
percent in the past six months, led by  Makhteshim-Agan
Industries Ltd. (MAIN) , a manufacturer of agricultural chemicals. The
shekel has gained about 5 percent against the dollar in the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 