-- 
Israel Bonds Gain on Japanese Concern; Shekel Weakens

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-03-15T15:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/israel-bonds-gain-on-japanese-nuclear-concern-shekel-weakens.html
(Corrects time of release of inflation report in fifth
paragraph.)  Israeli  government bonds  advanced
and the shekel weakened for the first time in three days as
growing concern about a potential nuclear disaster in Japan
spurred demand for safer assets.  Treasuries surged and yields fell to the lowest levels this
year after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further leaks from a damaged nuclear power station is rising.
The Bank of Japan’s efforts to provide liquidity and expand an
asset-purchase program failed to stem investor panic that sent
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average down as much as 14 percent.  “Investors are looking for liquidity and are selling amid
heightened uncertainty,” Amir Haik, chief economist at Union
Bank of Israel Ltd., said by telephone. The focus is on Japan
rather than on the inflation report due today, he said.  The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond due January 2020
climbed, pushing the yield on the 5 percent bond down five basis
points to 5.17 percent at 12:31 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , the biggest
drop since Feb. 27. The yield advanced for the first time in
five days yesterday on bets the Bank of Israel will raise  interest rates  to curb inflation.  Israel consumer prices likely increased 3.9 percent in
February, according to the median estimate of 12 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  will release the figure at 6:30 p.m. Bank of Israel
Governor Stanley Fischer raised the benchmark rate for March
after annual inflation in January accelerated to 3.6 percent,
above the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  “We don’t expect to see any surprises in the inflation
report,” Haik said.  The shekel weakened 0.3 percent to 3.5616 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Jerusalem at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  