-- 
Israeli Technology Companies Turn to West Bank for Outsourcing

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-15T22:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/israeli-technology-companies-turn-to-west-bank-for-outsourcing.html
Military roadblocks, nine-meter-
high barriers and six decades of Israeli-Palestinian hostility
didn’t deter  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  from picking the  West
Bank  for a new software design center.  “Israelis and Palestinians are in the same time zone and
are pretty similar culturally,” said Eyal Waldman, chief
executive officer of the Israeli maker of chips for data-center
adapters. He chose the Palestinian city of Ramallah after
considering India and  China  because of lower costs and the
proximity to the Mellanox headquarters in Yokneam Elit.  Israeli companies are following  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , which have been outsourcing to Palestinian
companies including  Asal Technologies  and  Exalt Technologies  for
more than a decade. Mellanox is one of the few Israeli companies
willing to go public with its Palestinian investments because
others are concerned about negative reactions from the Israeli
media and public, said  Avi Nudelman , head of the Israeli-
Palestinian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  “Most of the contacts are private and both sides prefer to
keep it that way,” Nudelman said in an e-mailed statement.  Fanzilla, a social-networking  software company  that
develops corporate Facebook fan pages, recently hired two West
Bank software developers for its team. One is already a team
leader and both are developing new features.  “We definitely want to penetrate into Arab countries as
well and this will help the process,” Chief Executive Officer
 Sagi Gordon  said.  Economic Growth  About 32 percent of Palestinian technology companies are
working with Israeli partners through outsourcing and sales
agreements, according to a 2010 report by relief and development
organization  Mercy Corps .  The Palestinian technology sector has grown to 250
companies employing 5,800 people in the past five years. That
helped the West Bank economy expand about 8 percent last year,
from 7.2 percent in 2009, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Israeli and Palestinian executives say building up private
industry is critical for further economic growth and peace in
the region.  “Some people think I’m crazy,” said Waldman, 50, who
three decades ago patrolled the  West Bank  as an Israeli soldier.
“But it is important for the two countries, the two peoples to
start working together to build a future.”  The Palestinian Authority is trying to make the technology
sector “one of the pillars of the economy because it is
knowledge-based and we don’t have natural resources,”  Murad
Tahboub , Asal Technologies’ managing director, said in a joint
interview with Waldman in his glass-and-metal building in
Ramallah’s new financial center.  Matching Partners  Asal has been helping Mellanox develop chip software for
eight months. Mellanox, which plans to open a center in  Ramallah , currently employs five people there.  Some programs such as those sponsored by  Mercy Corps  and
the  Peres Center for Peace  try to match Israeli companies with
Palestinian software engineers to exploit the momentum.  Assaf Kindler , project manager at the Peres Center, said he
gets daily calls from at least one CEO and an Israeli start-up
company exploring the possibility of hiring or outsourcing to
Palestinians.  In December, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
unveiled a program to help promote the sector that included a $5
million investment by Cisco, a $2 million commitment from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and pledges from Intel, Hewlett Packard Co. and
Salesforce.com for outsourcing projects in the West Bank.  Start-Up Nation  The  Palestinian Authority  has no access to the sea or air,
making the Israeli and international ties important. Prime
Minister Salam Fayyad keeps on his desk a copy of “Start Up
Nation” that tells the story of Israel’s technology industry.
It now contributes about 50 percent of the country’s industrial
exports two decades after it started putting down roots.  The way to a Palestinian start-up nation has its
challenges, Mercy Corps said in a report, citing infrastructure
problems and the lack of a venture capital industry. Also,
Palestinian companies are small, preventing them from taking on
larger projects.  Palestinian consulting company  Massar International  said
Feb. 8 it had raised more than $60 million for what it intends
to be a $80 million private equity fund for investing in
companies in the Palestinian territories.  Huda El Jack, investment manager of the Siraj Fund, said
one of her first investment projects will be ensuring that
Rawabi will be a “wired city” with a top-notch infrastructure.  “We want to draw multinationals to have operations here,”
El Jack said in a phone interview. “The technology sector is
one of those where everyone understands the potential.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  