-- 
Japan Stock Futures Rise on Low Valuations After Selloff; Australia Climbs

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-15T23:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-low-valuations-after-selloff-australia-climbs.html
Japanese stock futures rose on
speculation yesterday’s record selloff that drove valuations to
a 28-month low was excessive. Australian shares climbed.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., the world’s
biggest camera maker, jumped 4.1 percent from the closing share
price in Tokyo. Those of Honda Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest
carmaker by sales, leapt 6 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s No. 1 mining company, rallied 1.8 percent in Sydney
today.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 8,945 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with 8,640
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,800 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. The Nikkei plunged 11 percent
yesterday with record trading volumes on the main section of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, driving the average price of shares in the
gauge to 14.7 times estimated profit, the lowest level since
November 2008. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent
today, and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.6 percent.  “Japanese stocks are at a relatively cheap level,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. “The  U.S. economy  is recovering and the
economies of  China  and other emerging countries aren’t
deteriorating.”  The Tokyo Stock Exchange will open as normal today, even
after yesterday’s slump, according to Naoya Takahashi, a
spokesman for the exchange.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.4 percent
today. The index declined 1.1 percent yesterday in  New York ,
rebounding from a 2.7 percent slump earlier, as Japanese
officials made progress in stabilizing nuclear reactors damaged
following last week’s earthquake, and after the  Federal Reserve 
said the American economy is improving.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has dropped more than 10
percent from its Jan. 19 peak, a level that some investors
consider as a correction. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are
valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 13.3 times for the S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  The yen appreciated to 80.61 against the dollar in New
York, compared with 81.68 at the close of  stock trading  in  Tokyo 
yesterday. A stronger yen reduces overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  Crude oil for April delivery tumbled 4 percent to $97.18 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the most since Oct. 19, as concern
that damage from Japan’s earthquake will curb crude demand
outweighed speculation of supply disruptions in the Middle East.
The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum slumped 1.8 percent
yesterday.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia’s biggest power generator,
said a fire broke out at the No. 4 reactor of the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant today. The fire, at the same place as a
blaze yesterday, was reported by a worker at about 5:45 a.m.
local time today, a company spokesman said on public broadcaster
NHK television. The company is gathering more information, the
spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 