-- 
Japan Electronic Component Prices to Rise on Shortages, IHS Says

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-03-15T02:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-electronic-component-prices-to-rise-on-shortages-ihs-says.html
Prices of electronics components
from memory chips to liquid-crystal displays and
microcontrollers may rise “dramatically” as  Japan ’s strongest
earthquake leads to potential shortages, a research firm said.  While only a few component makers have reported physical
damage at plants, they’re likely to face difficulties with power
shortages and transporting their products, research firm IHS
ISuppli said in a statement today.  Shortages aren’t likely to occur until the end of this
month or early April because the global supply chain has about
two weeks of excess inventory, IHS ISuppli said.  The disaster in Japan, the world’s largest supplier of
silicon used to make semiconductors, is already affecting
pricing of components such as NAND flash memory chips due to the
psychological impact, the researcher said.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the
world’s second-biggest maker of flash-memory chips, said
yesterday it halted five factories due to power outages and
closed one plant because of damage from the March 11 earthquake.  Damage was negligible at facilities of most Japanese
component makers as they were located away from the epicenter of
the quake, the researcher said. Companies are facing
difficulties in getting stable power supply, shipping components,
receiving raw materials and getting workers to facilities, it
said.    Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s delivery of panels used in Nintendo Co.’s DS
handheld video-game players and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s mobile
phones may be affected if its display factory is shut for a
month or longer, ISuppli said.  Hitachi halted six factories making products ranging from
home appliances to power-generating facilities because of damage
stemming from the earthquake, the company said yesterday.  -- Editors: Young-Sam Cho,  Garry Smith   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 