-- 
Tokyo Rice Store Asks Customers Not to Buy as Nuclear Risk Sparks Hoarding

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-03-15T15:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japanese-consumers-empty-supermarket-shelves-as-soon-as-supplies-arrive.html
Masuhiro Ogura, who runs his own
rice store in downtown  Tokyo , is telling shoppers not to buy
from him until they run out.  “If you still have some left, you should wait,” Ogura, 68,
told a regular customer yesterday, joining a government appeal
to refrain from hoarding amid fears of nuclear radiation leaks
from an earthquake-damaged facility 135 miles north of Tokyo.  Tokyo residents emptied store shelves of food, water and
batteries and filled car tanks with gasoline as workers at the
crippled Fukushima nuclear facility struggled to avert the risk
of a meltdown. Hoarders may make it more difficult to send
goods to the millions of people affected by the 7-meter (23-
foot) tsunami that engulfed Japan’s northeast coast, according
to Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano.  Seven & I Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s biggest retailer, said its
Ito-Yokado supermarkets and 7-Eleven  convenience stores  in
Tokyo are emptied of necessities as soon as fresh supplies
arrive. “Every day the stores provide a certain amount, but as
soon as a shop opens, the products disappear,” Hirotake Henmi,
a spokesman for Seven & I, said in a phone interview.  Shoppers at 7-Eleven stores are emptying them of rice
balls referred to as Onigiri, batteries and tissue paper, Henmi
said. Seven & I, which owns 7-Eleven, has 13,219 of the
convenience  stores  in Japan.  Tissue Paper  Retailers in Tokyo and its suburbs ordered about 10 times
more water than usual on March 13 and March 14, said Nobuo
Saito, a spokesman for the government’s  Consumer Affairs Agency .
Food stores sold about 9 times more chicken meat than they did
before the March 11 earthquake, Saito said.  “I want food to be delivered to people in the devastated
area,” said Kano, the Agriculture Minister, according to the
ministry’s  website . “I’d like to ask everyone for a favor to
act calmly” and not hoard necessities, he said.  In Tokyo’s Kachidoki area, more than 20 people lined up to
buy tissue and toilet paper as boxes were unpacked at one of
Matsumotokiyoshi Holdings Co.’s Papasu drug stores.  “Food, water and paper products are in high demand,” said
Tetsuya Ishigami, a 40-year-old salesman sent from company
headquarters to help. “Bottled water disappears quickly.
Customers also come to us for things the victims would need
although they can’t ship them there yet.”  Towns Engulfed  The  U.S. Geological Survey  raised its estimate of the
earthquake’s magnitude to 9 from 8.9, making it the world’s
fourth-most powerful since 1900 and Japan’s strongest on record.
Official police figures put the death toll at 2,734, with
3,743 missing at 6:30 p.m. yesterday local time.  Near the 1-million person city of Sendai, Japanese
television footage showed entire towns razed by the temblor’s
resulting tsunami, which carried cars and buildings inland.
More than 440,000 people have been evacuated to about 1,500
shelters in the northeast, according to the National Police
Agency yesterday, and almost 800,000 remain without power.  About 140,000 people within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of
the Fukushima nuclear plant were ordered to stay indoors.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm as workers at
the stricken nuclear plant pumped sea water to cool the
reactors and prevent the uncontrolled release of radioactive
material.  Safe Levels  Tokyo Electric Power Co. engineers yesterday restored
water to safe levels. Radiation readings at the front of the
facility’s gate dropped to a level that isn’t “harmful to the
human body,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Rice merchant Ogura said there was some disruption in rice
supplies because some wholesalers may have had trouble buying
fuel for their trucks. His store won’t sell more than 5
kilograms (11 pounds) of rice to customers who aren’t regulars
to help discourage hoarding, he said.  Masaru Sakamoto, a 49-year-old salesman for a food company
in Tokyo, said he couldn’t buy gasoline over the weekend.  “I went to more than 10 places on Saturday and Sunday and
they were all sold out. Monday was no good, either.” He
finally filled up his car’s tank at a Shell gas station in
central Tokyo yesterday.  Fuel Supply  Idemitsu Kosan Co., Japan’s third-biggest refiner by
market value, said some gasoline stations may be short of
supply.  Idemitsu, which also operates gasoline stations, “tries
to deliver gasoline, but whenever it arrives, consumers buy
quickly, so the stations are running out of stock,” said Maki Yasunaga, a company spokeswoman, in a phone interview. “We have
been getting more and more calls from people asking where they
can buy gasoline.” The company’s stock fell 11 percent to
7,990 yen yesterday, the biggest drop since October, 2008.  Seven & I fell 12 percent to 1,879 yen in Tokyo trading,
the most since it listed in September 2005. The broader Topix
index plunged 9.5 percent and had its worst two-day plunge
since 1987.  Ito-Yokado’s supermarket shelves are emptied of “daily
necessities, especially cup noodles, water, rice, tissue paper
and batteries soon after opening,” Seven & I’s Henmi said.
Orders for household consumer goods have “doubled or tripled
and for products like water, the orders are even higher,” he
said.  Online Shopping    Panasonic Corp. (6752)  plans to boost production of dry-cell
batteries in Japan and may start importing the product from
overseas factories.  At one of Yamada Denki Co.'s stores in  Osaka , about 250 
miles southwest from Tokyo, racks for flashlights and
batteries sat empty.  Seven & I has 170 Ito-Yokado supermarkets in Japan, with
more than 100 in the Kanto region, which encompasses Tokyo and
six prefectures, and contains about one-third of Japan’s 127
million people. It closed 350 7-Eleven stores and 82 York
Benimaru supermarkets. None of the Ito-Yokado outlets have been
closed, Henmi said.  Some Tokyo residents are resorting to Internet purchases.
Motoko Miura, who bought trash bags at the Papasu drug store,
said she ordered 100 bottles of water from an online drug store
on the day of the quake, which arrived two days later.  Butta Nosan , an online vendor, said orders have surged 10-
fold since the earthquake. “I got an e-mail from a Tokyo
resident whose family didn’t have rice for tomorrow, so I sent
them some,” said Dai Adachi, spokesman for the closely held
company.  Ogura, the rice-shop owner, said he won’t take advantage
of surging demand to make more money. “I’m not going to raise
prices,” he said. “If you do that, you will lose trust. Once
the panic settles in, supply will return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  