-- 
Japan Stock Turmoil Adds Economic Pain Amid Reactor Fires

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-16T08:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-stock-rout-threatens-deeper-economic-pain-as-pressure-rises-on-boj.html
  Japan ’s failure to contain
radiation risk from a crippled nuclear power plant, and the
resulting turmoil in stocks, threatened to worsen damage to the
economy from last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 16 percent the past two
days, the steepest tumble since 1987, before recouping some of
the loss today with a 5.7 percent advance by the close in Tokyo.
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch yesterday further cut its
forecasts for gross domestic product, which shrank last quarter,
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. may do the same.  “The earthquake’s damage on the economy’s much, much
larger than we originally thought,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
Japan economist at JPMorgan in  Tokyo . “Continued stock turmoil
and disruptions to production will drive the economy into an
extremely severe state.”  With the fiscal year-end coming March 31, the share slide
may weaken corporate and bank balance sheets, while the damage
to confidence risks an erosion in spending beyond the immediate
hit from the March 11 catastrophe. More robust asset purchases
from the central bank and a quicker effort to assemble a fiscal
stimulus package could help assuage the damage, analysts said.  ‘Unprecedented’ Action  “Given that Japan is in an unprecedented emergency
situation now, the central bank should also do something
unprecedented,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.
“There’s a chance the BOJ could call an emergency board meeting
to add more monetary stimulus” before the end of the month.  Market turmoil continued yesterday after the  Bank of Japan 
eased policy and poured a record 15 trillion yen ($184 billion)
of cash into the financial system on March 14. As he boosted the
central bank’s asset-purchase program by 5 trillion yen,
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa warned the BOJ had to avoid
underwriting government debt to maintain its credibility.  Government default risk soared to the highest on record
yesterday, according to data from CMA that goes back to 2004,
before retreating today. The yen was little changed as of 5:45
p.m. in Tokyo after climbing 2.8 percent the past three sessions
amid speculation Japanese investors would repatriate assets.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet has refrained from
indicating the scale of the supplementary budget aimed to fund
reconstruction.  Goldman Estimate  The magnitude-9 temblor and the ensuing tsunami devastated
northeastern Japan, knocking out cooling systems at a nuclear
plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts estimated the total cost of the catastrophe
is likely to reach 16 trillion yen, 1.6 times the amount of the
earthquake that hit Kobe in 1995.  Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters after markets
closed yesterday it was too early talk about the possibility of
the government buying stocks to support the market. He said
markets will eventually stabilize, and that the economy was
healthy.  Chief government spokesman Yukio Edano and Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  have both indicated they will likely use 200
billion yen in leftover funds from the current-year’s budget for
relief spending and that it would be difficult to roll out an
extra budget for the year that ends March 31. Noda isn’t
contemplating a tax increase to help pay for stimulus, ruling
party lawmaker Yoshihiro Kawakami said after meeting with him.  ‘Lasting Repurcussions’  “This is a horrible shock with lasting repercussions,”  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia
Ltd., said in an interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.” “The Japanese
economy has been a weak economy for over 20 years and it could
continue to display further if not even a more significant
deterioration in the quarters ahead.”  “You can’t look at reconstruction as a plus for any
society, you’re simply replacing something that has
unfortunately been destroyed,” Roach said.  Shares accelerated their decline after Kan said at a news
conference yesterday the danger of radiation leaks is rising at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The nuclear
facility was crippled by the tsunami and two explosions and a
fire, radiation levels jumped in cities as far away as Tokyo.  Blackout Impact  “Everything depends on how this situation with the nuclear
power plants evolves,” said Masayuki Kichikawa, chief economist
at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. Kichikawa said the effects of
the power outages implemented by  Tokyo Electric  indicate the
disaster’s aftermath will shave 0.5 percentage point off of his
2011 growth estimate, more than the 0.2 to 0.3 reduction
initially calculated. Before the earthquake, the bank saw
Japan’s GDP rising 1.7 percent this year.  “If radiation spreads and more people have to stay
secluded indoors, that delays the point of recovery for eastern
Japan that much more.”  Tokyo Electric has begun rolling blackouts that will
continue until the end of April to conserve power after the
tsunami crippled its nuclear facility 135 miles (220) kilometers
north of Tokyo. Factories have suspended or reduced operations
as a result, and reduced train service in the city kept many of
the nation’s workers from getting to work.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said it may lose
output of at least 40,000 vehicles with the electricity shortage
while the immediate natural disaster has already damaged 2,300
of Nissan Motor Co.’s new vehicles.  Hit to GDP  Analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a research note yesterday
that if the blackouts continue through the end of June, GDP will
shrink at an annual 2 percent pace in the second quarter; if
they continue through the end of December, the economy will keep
contracting for the year.  Kanno at JPMorgan said a continued drop in equities would
force him to “slash down our GDP forecasts drastically, and we
may have to predict big contractions.” Two days ago, Kanno, who
used to work at the BOJ, had cut 0.5 percentage point from his
first quarter growth forecast, bringing it to 1.7 percent, and
lowered his second-quarter projection to 0.5 percent from 2.2
percent. He anticipated an acceleration in the second half.  Kyohei Morita, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo,
said the power of monetary policy is now limited and what
investors are looking for is government action.  “It may too early for the government to know what to
include in any recovery plan, but things are unlikely to settle
down until we start to see at least more discussion of a
stimulus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  