-- 
Japanese Will Repatriate Funds After Earthquake, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-15T15:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japanese-investors-to-repatriate-funds-after-quake-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
Japanese investors will repatriate
funds as the nation seeks to recover from its strongest
earthquake on record, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “We know that inflation will spike because of shortages
and because of supply chain disruptions, and we know that the
deficit and public debt are going to increase significantly,”
El-Erian, who’s also co-chief investment officer, said in a
telephone interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Fortunately,  Japan  is a rich economy, and the private
sector has saved a lot. Japan can navigate this.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called for calm today as
the world’s most indebted developed country battled to cool
three quake-damaged nuclear reactors with seawater and Tokyo
shoppers stripped water, food and batteries from supermarket
shelves. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation
readings outside reactors rocked by explosions were falling
below levels that are harmful, while a fire at a separate unit
appeared to have been put out.  Stocks plunged and Japan’s Nikkei 225 index posted its
biggest two-day drop since 1987 after the news that a third
explosion and fire struck Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
plant, and supermarkets reported panic buying. Hundreds of
thousands of people without power faced freezing temperatures
after Japan’s strongest earthquake on record last week caused a
7-meter (23 foot) tsunami that engulfed the northeast coast.  The yen rose for the third day against all of its major
counterparts as speculation increased that demand for the
currency may increase as insurance companies and lenders use it
to rebuild.    Bank of Japan   “The critical issue is whether the private sector
repatriates its capital -- a lot of it is held abroad,” El-
Erian said. “And I suspect that it will.”  The Bank of Japan added 5 trillion yen to the financial
system in a one-day operation today. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has pledged to keep pouring cash into the economy to
stabilize markets. The bank injected 15 trillion yen ($185
billion) yesterday and doubled its asset-purchase program to 10
trillion yen, an increase that’s about one-tenth the size of the
Fed’s program of buying Treasuries.  The Topix slid 9.5 percent at the close, following a 7.5
percent drop yesterday. Japan’s currency rose 0.9 percent to
80.90 per dollar. Bonds halted a two-day rally, sending 10-year
yields 1.5 basis points higher to 1.215 percent.  Investment Options  There are investment opportunities in “solid countries”
where prices have declined, El-Erian said. He didn’t specify
what securities Pimco purchased since the disasters in Japan
prompted havoc in global financial markets.    Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer with El-Erian
and founder of Pimco, has urged investors to reduce holdings of
Treasuries and U.K. gilts and buy higher-returning securities
such as debt from emerging-market nations such as  Brazil .  Gross last month increased holdings of emerging-market debt
to 10 percent in his $237 billion Total Return Fund, the highest
level since October, from 9 percent in January.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , is the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds and oversees more than $1 trillion
in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  