-- 
Japan Sovereign Bond Risk Rises to Record After Nuclear Plant Explosions

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-03-15T05:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-sovereign-bond-risk-climbs-to-record-after-nuclear-plant-explosions.html
The cost of credit-default swaps
protecting Japanese government debt for five years soared to a
record as workers struggled to avert a meltdown at a stricken
nuclear power plant.  Five-year contracts climbed 27 basis points to 125 basis
points as of 1:17 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to UBS AG. That level
is the highest on record, according to prices from data provider
CMA that date back to 2004.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed for calm as he told
reporters the danger of radiation leaks is rising at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo. The crippled nuclear facility,
damaged by the nation’s worst earthquake on record and a
resulting tsunami, was rocked by two explosions and a fire
today, and sea water is being pumped to cool reactors and
prevent the uncontrolled release of radioactive material.  “A relatively orderly morning gave way to near panic
across local credit-default swap markets” after Kan’s press
conference, said Chris Viol, a credit analyst with UBS in
Sydney. “With the market wrong footed on the nuclear news,
credit swaps quickly gapped wider.”  About 140,000 people within a radius of 20 to 30 kilometers
from the plant were ordered to stay indoors,  Kyodo News 
reported, citing the prefectural government.  The Bank of  Japan  added 8 trillion yen ($98 billion) into
money markets, adding to yesterday’s record cash injection to
secure financial stability following the March 11 temblor --
updated to a magnitude 9 from 8.9 by the  U.S. Geological Survey .  ‘Panic Theme’  Swaps on Japan may rise as high as 200 basis points before
settling between 130 basis points and 140 basis points, said
Yusuke Ueda, head of credit research in Tokyo at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  “Nuke-related issues have become a panic theme, and hedge
fund investors started shorting Japan,” he said in a telephone
interview.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of swaps on corporate
borrowers jumped 62.5 basis points to 180 basis points as of
1:24 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc. That’s also a
record jump and the highest reading since Sept 18, 2009, CMA
prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A drop in prices signals improving perceptions
of creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 