-- 
Japan Nuclear Accident Sends ‘Shock Wave’ to Europe, Besson Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-15T07:57:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-nuclear-accident-sends-shock-wave-to-europe-besson-says.html
  Japan ’s nuclear accident will spark
questioning about the safety and future of nuclear energy in
Europe, according to French Industry Minister Eric Besson.  “The shock wave of what is happening in Japan will touch
Europe and France and there will be a debate of some kind around
our energy and nuclear production,” Besson said today in an
interview on RTL radio. Japan is “on the road” to a nuclear
catastrophe, he added.  “Those that are calling for us to stop nuclear must tell
us exactly how they plan to do it and what will be the economic,
financial and social consequences,” the French minister said.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant was today rocked by two further explosions and a
fire as workers struggled to avert the risk of a meltdown.  France  gets more than three quarters of its electricity from 58
nuclear reactors operated by state-controlled Electricite de
France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator, which has plans to
export the technology to the U.K. and  Italy .  Anti-nuclear activists have held demonstrations in French
cities since the Japanese accident, calling on the government to
hold a referendum on the nation’s dependence on the  power
source .  “A nuclear catastrophe could happen in France,” Charlotte
Mijeon, spokeswoman for the anti-nuclear organization Sortir du
Nucleaire, said by phone. “We hope the world will realize that
what is happening in Japan is a disaster and that all countries
will take steps to end their nuclear programs.”  “Systematically all risks are taken into account when we
developed our reactors,” Besson said of the French plants.
Nuclear energy “contributes to the partial energy independence
of France and allows us to have power than is 40 percent cheaper
than in the rest of  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  