-- 
Japanese Stocks Suffer Third-Worst Daily Fall on Record on Radiation Risk

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-15T11:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japanese-stocks-tumble-for-second-day-after-quake-tokyo-electric-declines.html
  Japan ’s shares tumbled, with the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average and Topix index suffering their third-
worst daily declines in history, on record trading volume as
concern grew about the safety of nuclear plants damaged by the
country’s worst earthquake.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia’s biggest power generator,
plummeted by the daily limit of 25 percent after the company
confirmed an explosion at a third reactor and a fire at a fourth
today at its nuclear plant in Fukushima, north of Tokyo. Hitachi
Ltd., which provides nuclear power generation systems, plunged
13 percent. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
bank by market value, at one point declined to the lowest since
its listing in  Tokyo .  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 11 percent to 8,605.15 at
the market close in Tokyo, the lowest since April 2009. It
earlier declined as much as 14 percent, its biggest intraday
slide since the stock market crash of October 1987.  The broader Topix index declined 9.5 percent to 766.73, the
lowest close since March 2009 and its biggest intraday decline
since October 2008.  “The decline is just like a tsunami,” said Yutaka Yoshii,
a strategist at Tokyo-based Mito Securities Co. “Production and
commercial activities should slump as there’s many manufacturing
bases of electronics parts makers in Tohoku area and because
blackouts are planned. Stocks are pricing in uncertain factors
including the nuclear accident.”  Three days of declines have wiped more than $680 billion
from the market value of stocks in the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s
first section, which makes up the Topix. The gauge earlier fell
by as much as 14 percent, taking its two-day decline to an
intraday record of 21 percent.  Record Trading Volume  Today’s losses for the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  and Topix are their third
worst after only the Black Monday stock market crash of 1987,
when they lost a record 14.9 percent and 14.6 percent
respectively, and less than a percentage point behind Oct. 18,
2008, when markets tumbled in the wake of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The total number of shares traded on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange’s first section reached a record for a second day. More
than 5 billion shares changed hands, exceeding yesterday’s 4.88
billion shares.  Implied volatility on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, a
measure derived from the cost of options prices to protect
against losses over the next three months, surged 39 percent to
40.49, the highest since July 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  The Nikkei 225 has fallen 21 percent from its high this
year on Feb. 21. A slump of 20 percent or more signifies a  bear
market  to some investors.  ‘Global Concern’  Nikkei 225 futures plunged as much as 17 percent in  Singapore  and 18 percent in  Osaka  after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risks to public health stemming from a
crippled nuclear power plant in Fukushima, northern Japan, are
increasing. The contracts fell to 8,510 in after-hours trade.
Nikkei futures traded in  New York  fell to 8,525.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled as much
as 3 percent today.  “There’s global concern about a major nuclear accident in
Japan, which could turn a very bad situation into a terrible
one,” said  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy in Sydney
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $98 billion.
“Nuclear fallout spreading across Japan with wide-scale
evacuations in Tokyo, the economic implications could be
severe.”  Arbitrage Trading Halted  The Tokyo Stock Exchange halted trading of Topix index
futures twice after prices plunged at 12:31 p.m. and at 12:50
p.m., according to Masanori Onda, an official at the bourse’s
derivatives department. The exchange halted arbitrage trading of
Topix stocks after the index fell more than 100 points. The
exchange said it would lift the halt when the gauge rose above
776.96.  Selling that had been confined to Japan spread throughout  Asia  as benchmark indexes in  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  falling more
than 3 percent, while stocks in  China  declined 1.9 percent and
Korean shares declined more than 2 percent.  Tokyo Electric Power said an explosion occurred at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant between 6 and 6:15 a.m. today.
The company is evacuating workers after the blast at the No. 2
reactor, and will continue to pump water into the unit, a
company spokesman said in a briefing broadcast on public NHK
television. The stock, which had daily limit declines of 25
percent for a second day, closed at 1,221 yen, a level not seen
since November 1984.  Utilities Lead Drops  The Tokyo Stock Exchange sets a  limit  on how much higher or
lower a stock can be traded from the last closing price.  Tokyo Electric Power started power outages in parts of the
greater Tokyo area yesterday, and it will continue rolling
blackouts today, beginning before 7 a.m. local time.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  increased its rating on the
magnitude of the March 11 earthquake that hit Japan to 9 from
8.9. The death toll from the earthquake and tsunami rose to
2,414 at 8 a.m., according to the  National Police Agency  in
Tokyo.  Other utilities companies also declined with the sharpest
slide among the 33 industry groups in the Topix. Tohoku Electric
Power Co., which provides electricity to disaster stricken areas
including Fukushima, Iwate and Miyagi prefectures, retreated by
a daily limit for a second day to 1,186 yen. Kansai Electric
Power Co. plunged 12 percent. Chubu Electric Power Co. tumbled
11 percent. Tokyo Gas Co. dropped 12 percent.  ‘Social Anxiety’  “The deterioration of the situation is accelerating
because of radiation leakage and a plant explosion,” said
Masayoshi Yano, a senior market analyst at Tokyo-based Meiwa
Securities Co. “Social anxiety is increasing.”  Nuclear power companies slumped. Toshiba Corp., a maker of
nuclear reactors, plummeted by the daily limit of 80 yen, or 19
percent. Hitachi Ltd., which provides nuclear power generation
systems, plunged 13 percent and was the most actively-traded
stock in Japan. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., a developer of
nuclear power plants, tumbled 11 percent.  “We still don’t know what the damage really is in Japan,”
said  Stephen Wood , New York-based chief market strategist for  Seattle , Washington-based Russell Investments, which has $155
billion in assets under management. “If you have stability of
forecasts and stability of data, that allows people to invest.
That’s why markets sell off when something goes from being
uncertain to being unknowable.”  Japan Steel Works Ltd., a maker of components for nuclear
pressure vessels, slumped by the daily limit of 100 yen, or 16
percent. Deutsche Bank AG. analyst Toshiharu Morota cut his
rating on the company to “hold” from “buy” and reduced the
12-month share price estimate by 40 percent to 600 yen. Morota
cited issues of credibility in Japan’s nuclear power generation.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group fell to as low as 321 yen, a
level not seen since its listing in April 2001. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest lender by market
value, dropped 7.2 percent while Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
the No. 3, lost 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 