-- 
Japan Nuclear Meltdown Risk Spurs Shortage at U.S. Radiation-Drug Makers

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z ,   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-03-15T20:58:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-nuclear-meltdown-risk-spurs-shortage-at-u-s-radiation-drug-makers.html
Mounting risk of a nuclear meltdown
in  Japan  is triggering shortages of potassium iodide, a drug to
help blunt the effect of  radiation exposure , according to three
companies approved to sell the treatment in the U.S.  Anbex  Inc., based in Williamsburg,  Virginia , sold out of
its Iostat brand of the medicine yesterday, according to the
company’s website. Jordbro, Sweden-based Recipharm AB makes its
version,  ThyroSafe , as orders come in and has no stock on hand,
spokesman Mark Quick said.  Fleming Pharmaceuticals  in Fenton,  Missouri , will run out its ThyroShield today, co-owner Deborah
Fleming Wurdack said.  It’s unclear if a widespread release of radiation will
occur in Japan, and treatment now won’t help people who
encounter a blast days later, said  Richard Zane , co-chair of
emergency medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston .
Personal stockpiles aren’t needed because emergency reserves are
held in virtually every area that has a nuclear power plant, he
said in a telephone interview.  “The issue with hoarding is you reduce availability for
the people who need it for medical reasons,” Zane said. “The
chance that you will need it is remarkably low, and the
likelihood that you will need it and won’t have it is even lower
because there are emergency stores and distribution plans in
place in most developed countries.”  Cancer Risk  The potassium iodide should be given shortly before, or
soon after, a nuclear accident to block the thyroid from
absorbing radiation and reduce the risk of cancer, particularly
in children, according to the  World Health Organization . The
danger is in direct proportion to the amount of exposure, making
it imperative that people avoid radiation by moving away from
the risk, staying indoors and washing off dust or debris that
may contain radioactive particles, Zane said.  “In no case should the tablets be taken right away,” said
Ilsa Bartenstein, chief executive officer of  Gerot Lannach , an
Austrian supplier of potassium iodide, in a telephone interview.
“They’re only meant for use when one is in contact with
radiation in an emergency.”  Side effects from potassium iodide include stomach upset,
allergic reactions and rash. In rare cases, inflammation of the
salivary glands can occur. The risks are higher in adults and
the elderly, who may develop a goiter or hypothyroidism if they
receive repeat doses, according to the  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration .  Other Treatments  The radiation drug is also given to people with lung
disorders to break up mucus and improve breathing. In addition,
potassium iodide is used to shrink the  thyroid  before surgery to
remove the gland, a treatment for certain cancers and for immune
disorders that cause overproduction of thyroid hormones.  Closely held Fleming has 50,000 bottles of medicine in
stock, only enough to meet demand through today, Wurdack said.
Orders are coming in from all over the world, including China,
Singapore, Korea and the U.S.  It could take weeks for the company to make more, Wurdack
said. While raw potassium iodide is easy to get, she doesn’t
know how quickly her supplier can produce large quantities of
eye-droppers used to administer Fleming’s liquid version of the
drug. Each 30-milliliter bottle contains 15 adult doses and
costs $13.25, she said.  ‘Absolute Insanity’  “It is absolute insanity here,” Wurdack said in a
telephone interview. “We took hundreds of calls and hundreds of
e-mails with orders and we haven’t even processed them yet. We
are so far behind.”  Anbex won’t get additional supplies of its Iostat treatment
until April 18, the closely held company said on its web site.  Recipharm sells ThyroSafe directly to consumers in the
U.S., largely to people who live near nuclear reactors, said
Quick, executive vice president of corporate development, in an
interview. Its U.S. unit was established after the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  The company stopped taking orders in the U.S. because of
high demand since the earthquake in Japan, Quick said. A
voicemail message on the U.S. hotline tells customers to call
back in 48 hours to check on product availability.  “One of the concerns is that radiation could come across
to the U.S.,” Quick said. “That’s why we’re seeing such high
demand there.”  Thyroid Absorption  Potassium iodide, which is relatively benign, is given to
people who may be exposed to a radioactive iodine, said John Boice, professor of medicine at Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine and scientific director of the International
Epidemiology Institute in Rockville,  Maryland . The thyroid
absorbs the safer potassium iodide, leaving little room for the
cancer-causing version to penetrate the gland, he said.  Thyroid damage, including cancer caused by radioactive
iodine, is one of the biggest health threats from a nuclear
meltdown, Boice said. Children are the most vulnerable because
they are still growing and the thyroid is active, he said in a
telephone interview. Treatment isn’t routinely recommended for
people over age 40, he said.  “You don’t want to panic people, but I think we should be
very watchful,” said Eula Bingham, professor of environmental
health at the  University of Cincinnati , who served on a
committee for a 2006 National Academies report on the health
risks from exposure to low levels of ionizing radiation. “I am
most concerned about the children.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  