-- 
UN Calls Emergency Meeting as Japan Nuclear Crisis Deepens

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-16T17:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japanese-nuclear-plant-radiation-recedes-as-engineers-restore-water-level.html
The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency
will call an emergency meeting to discuss the crisis in  Japan  as
a breach at the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant increased the
risk of a radioactive leak.  IAEA Chief Yukiya Amano is flying to  Tokyo  to talk with
authorities today and will return for the meeting as soon as
possible, he told reporters in Vienna yesterday. It will be the
first extraordinary meeting of the agency’s 35-member board
since his election to succeed  Mohamed ElBaradei  two years ago.  The containment vessel of Dai-Ichi’s No. 2 reactor may have
been breached yesterday, and pressure in the chamber fell
“substantially,” said Masahisa Otsuku, a Tokyo Electric Power
Co. nuclear maintenance official.  The company suspected damage following an explosion in the
reactor building March 15. About 70 percent of the fuel rods at
the plant’s No. 1 reactor and a third of the No. 2 reactor’s
fuel may have been damaged, and temperatures at spent-fuel-rod-
cooling pools were rising, Tepco said.  Clouds of steam rose from the reactor buildings following a
fire at Dai-Ichi’s No. 4 reactor yesterday morning. Radiation
levels at the No. 4 reactor hampered efforts to confirm whether
the fire had been extinguished, a day after a similar blaze at
the same structure.  “If you get enough cold water inside you may stop the
generation of steam and then life will get easier,” said Robert
Kelley, a nuclear engineer based in Vienna. “As long as there
is steam coming out it will carry radioactive particles and
gases with it.”  Spent Fuel Rods  Temperatures in the spent-fuel-rod cooling pools of the
shuttered No. 5 and No. 6 reactors were rising to as high as 63
degrees Celsius (145 degrees Fahrenheit) at 2 p.m. yesterday
from 60 degrees Celsius at 7 a.m., said Tsuyoshi Makigami, head
of nuclear maintenance at Tepco. Water levels at spent fuel
pools at the three inactive reactors, Nos. 4, 5 and 6, dropped
by about two meters, exposing the fuel rods, Amano said.  Exposed to air, the fuel bundles could chemically react
with moisture, catch fire and spread radiation into the
atmosphere, said Edwin Lyman, a physicist with the Union of
Concerned Scientists, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Contamination  “Spent fuel is pretty hot and so it is stored under water
to keep it cool,” said Kelley, who worked for 30 years at the
U.S. Energy Department. “If the water leaks or boils away, then
the fuel is exposed,” then after burning, the uranium corrodes
and releases cesium, contaminating the area, he said.  A core group of 50 workers remain at the plant to manage
the reactors, Tepco said. Those engineers were temporarily
evacuated yesterday when dangerous radiation levels were
detected, but have now returned, chief government spokesman  Yukio Edano  said.  Tepco is building a power cable to supply electricity to
the plant’s cooling systems, spokesman Daisuke Hirose said. The
systems were knocked out by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
The Yomiuri newspaper reported yesterday that if the plan
succeeds, the company may be able to stabilize its reactors.
Hirose said there is no timetable for completion.  The latest incidents follow a blast at the No. 3 reactor
March 14 after a buildup of hydrogen gas, and a similar
explosion at the No. 1 reactor on March 12.  About 140,000 people within a radius of 20 to 30 kilometers
from the plant were ordered to stay indoors. The magnitude-9
temblor and tsunami have led to what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
has called Japan’s worst crisis since World War II. More than
450 aftershocks have followed. The death toll reached 3,771 with
7,843 missing as of 2 p.m. yesterday, the  National Police Agency 
said. The number of dead and missing exceeds the more than 6,400
who died in the 1995 Kobe earthquake.  In a national address yesterday, Emperor Akihito expressed
his condolences to victims of the earthquake and tsunami, and
told the people of Japan not to give up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  