-- 
Japan Nuclear Safety Plan Foresaw Quake, Underestimated Impact of Tsunami

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-15T09:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-nuclear-safety-plan-foresaw-quake-underestimated-tsunami.html
The tsunami that followed Japan’s
strongest recorded  earthquake  exposed nuclear-safety flaws even
as an emergency response worker was killed and at least 17 were
injured trying to contain radiation from damaged reactors.  Electrical generators intended to run cooling systems in
case of an emergency failed at three reactors at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant after the
March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami. The plant has six
reactors, three of which were closed for maintenance when the
earthquake struck.  “All systems were working well after the earthquake, but
the tsunami destroyed the emergency electrical generators, and
an overheating situation has developed,” said Robert Kelley, a
Vienna-based nuclear engineer who worked in nuclear emergency
response during his 30-year career with the U.S. Department of
Energy. “It appears the redundancy wasn’t actually redundant,
and that led to the failure.”  While the reactor vessels -- the metal constructs that
house the uranium fuel -- withstood the stress of the earthquake
and subsequent explosions inside the buildings that house them,
Japanese regulators overlooked the magnitude of the tsunami that
would follow a 9.0-magnitude quake off the coast.  Tsunami Surge  Japanese authorities designed backup electrical generators
to withstand waves 6.3 meters high, below the 7-meter surge that
knocked out power at the plant, disabling vital cooling systems,
Ian Hore-Lacy, a spokesman for the London-based World Nuclear
Association, said in a telephone interview.  “Everybody learns from a tragedy like this,” Hore-Lacy
said. His association is an advocate for the nuclear  energy
industry .  Nuclear reactors have layers of safety features designed to
prevent radiation from reaching the atmosphere. Uranium fuel
rods are sealed with zirconium alloy. Steel ingots are formed to
contain the radioactive fuel inside of seam-free containment
vessels immune to rupture. A pressure-resistant, airtight
containment vessel is built around the reactor.  These “nuclear reactors have multiple safety measures,” 
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano
said late yesterday in Vienna. “The nuclear core is contained
inside the vessels that is made of solid steel and then that
reactor vessel is contained in another primary containment
vessel. These vessels withheld.”  Different From Chernobyl  Because of the reactor design, Amano dismissed the
possibility that  Japan ’s nuclear incident could lead to a
radiation release on the scale of Ukraine’s Chernobyl disaster
in 1986. The Chernobyl reactor’s heat was modified with graphite
rather than water, resulting in a high concentration of
radioactive dust when the fuel began to melt.  Radiation dose rates of 400 millisieverts per hour were
detected today at the Japanese site, the IAEA said. That
contrasts with readings of 40 microsieverts two miles from the
plant yesterday. There are 1,000 microsieverts in a
millisievert. Normal background radiation is 0.3 microsieverts
per hour.  Japan’s reactor vessel absorbed 50 percent more pressure
than it was designed to withstand, according to a Japanese
report to the IAEA in Vienna on March 11.  While most modern nuclear reactor vessels are built to
withstand the kind of strong earthquakes that occur once every
1,000 years, the infrastructure surrounding the reactor’s
radioactive core may still be susceptible to tsunamis, according
to the  World Nuclear Association .  “Even for a nuclear plant situated very close to  sea
level , the robust sealed containment structure around the
reactor itself would prevent any damage to the nuclear part from
a tsunami, though other parts of the plant might be damaged,”
the association said on its website, citing Japanese regulatory
documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  