-- 
Japan Nuclear Reactor Different to Chernobyl, Olander Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-03-15T03:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/japan-nuclear-reactor-different-to-chernobyl-olander-says.html
Don Olander, a professor at the  University of California , Berkeley’s Department of Nuclear
Engineering, said the damage to nuclear plants in  Japan  after an
earthquake is different to the disaster at Chernobyl in the
Ukraine in 1986.  He spoke on Bloomberg Television with Rishaad Salamat.  On comparison with Chernobyl  “It is very different from Chernobyl. This is a reactor
which has two containments. One is the core itself that sits
inside what’s called a reactor pressure vessel which is 6 inches
thick of steel, about three or four meters in diameter and
several more meters high, which contains the core during
operation, at high pressure. If that is intact, if the melt has
not gone through the bottom, then most of the fission products
will stay inside. Chernobyl did not have that protection.
Chernobyl was open and the entire core was destroyed.  On what a meltdown is:  ‘‘Once you lose cooling but there is still water around,
the fuel is still generating heat. Right now it is generating
about half a percent of what it was when it was turned on full
and that is due to the fission products decaying. That heat
boils the water and makes steam. The steam rises up through the
fuel rods, which are about four meters high, and they are small
tubes about one centimeter in diameter. The metal tubes are a
zirconium alloy, which is very reactive in steam. The steam will
react with the zirconium, cladding it’s called around the fuel,
and produce hydrogen and convert the metal to a ceramic,
zirconium oxide. That releases more heat.  ‘‘The combination of the decay heat and the heat coming
from the reaction itself, plus the poor removal of heat by this
upflowing steam means the temperature rises very quickly. As it
rises the rate of this steam reaction increases. If the
temperature gets up to around 2,000 degrees centigrade then the
fuel can react with the cladding, what’s left of it, and form
what’s called the melt. The thing that’s of concern is if the
melt involves a large fraction of the core which has 100 tons of
fuel, uranium dioxide, and about 25 tons of zirconium. If a
large fraction of that is reacted and forms the melt and the
melt falls to the bottom of this reactor pressure vessel then
there is the possibility of a melt through and a large release
of radioactivity.  On the worst case scenario:  ‘‘The fuel and the metal cladding react, form a melt which
falls to the bottom of the pressure vessel and melts through it,
penetrates the pressure vessel and then the melt, a large knob
of it, falls on the concrete floor beneath the reactor and then
it starts to release fission products.  ‘‘The only thing I can go by is the units 1 and 3 which
went through a similar situation, a hydrogen explosion, damage
to the fuel by the process that I just explained. If this unit 2
goes through the same process then it can recover. It depends if
they can get cooling water in. That’s the key. If they can’t get
cooling water then it is liable to go all the way through. Even
a small amount of cooling water, something like 200 liters a
minute for this entire core, if you can get that through then
you can keep that cool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  