-- 
Jones Lang's Dyer Says Japan Disaster May Curb Commercial Property Rebound

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-15T22:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/jones-lang-s-dyer-says-japan-disaster-may-curb-commercial-property-rebound.html
Colin Dyer, chief executive officer
of property broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said the crisis in  Japan  may undermine the nascent recovery in U.S. commercial real
estate markets.  “Although you can’t immediately see the link between an
earthquake, a tsunami, a nuclear meltdown, problems in  Tokyo  and
the price of real estate in  Cleveland , there’s a confidence
aspect to our business, and I just don’t know how you estimate
at this point the impact to that confidence,” Dyer said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York.  “You’ve seen what’s happened on the markets today -- there
was significant reaction,” he said. “That’s capital saying,
‘We’re a little nervous here.’”  The Topix index in Tokyo fell 9.5 percent yesterday, the
biggest drop since October 2008 and bringing the selloff to
almost 18 percent since the 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami
on March 11 killed thousands, closed factories and left damaged
nuclear reactors leaking radiation. The MSCI All-Country World
Index has lost 3 percent since the quake.  “The capital markets may just pause to take stock for a
little bit to see what the implications of all this are going to
be,” said Dyer, whose Chicago-based company is the second-
largest publicly traded real estate broker in the U.S.  Prices of commercial properties sold by institutional
investors surged 19 percent in 2010, the second-biggest gain on
record, according to an index developed by the MIT Center for
Real Estate in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Investments in office
properties, the largest part of the market, more than doubled
last year to $41.6 billion, according to New York-based Real
Capital Analytics Inc., which tracks commercial property sales
globally.  Recovery Seen  “Starting with large corporations, over the last six
months we’ve definitely seen them recover their confidence,
begin to start dusting off their investment plans and begin to
move ahead based on a general sense that markets are
recovering,” Dyer, 58, said.  Near record-low  interest rates  are luring buyers with the
prospect of cheaper financing and higher returns. Lenders are
beginning to sell distressed properties and loans as rising
earnings give them a cushion to absorb losses. Investors,
convinced the worst is over, have pushed prices on commercial
mortgage-backed bonds to the highest level in two years.  Commercial real estate transactions may climb 40 percent to
$135 billion this year, Chicago-based Jones Lang, said on Feb.
2. U.S. commercial real estate values, which fell 45 percent
from the October 2007 peak to the trough in August 2010, have
risen three consecutive months at the end of last year,
according to Moody’s Investors Service in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  