-- 
JPMorgan, Citigroup Among Lenders With Japanese Risk, KBW Says

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/jpmorgan-citigroup-among-lenders-with-japanese-risk-kbw-says.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had more
Japanese holdings than any U.S. lender and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
counted Japan’s government among its biggest debtors before last
week’s earthquake struck, according to KBW Inc.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, has
“total cross-border outstandings” of $53.9 billion and $64
billion in commitments, according to David Konrad, an analyst
for New York-based KBW, an investment bank that specializes in
financial companies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had $33.6 billion,
Morgan Stanley held $19.1 billion and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  had
$17 billion, Konrad wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Citigroup Inc. has $39.2 billion in Japanese loans,
securities and trading assets and the government is the New
York-based bank’s third-largest credit position, according to
Konrad. Japanese policy makers are struggling to contain
investor fears amid nuclear radiation leaks at  power plants 
triggered by last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  “We don’t expect a material credit event,” Konrad wrote
in the report. “However, we believe that volatility in the
markets may cause volatility in the trading results.”  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, is the only U.S.
lender with a “meaningful retail banking presence in Japan,”
Konrad said. The company’s Asian regional consumer banking unit
made a $2.17 billion profit in 2010.  Pumping Cash  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  has pledged to pump more cash into the
financial system after injecting $183 billion yesterday. The
Topix index of stocks suffered its worst two-day drop since the
1987 crash, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 23 of the biggest U.S.
lenders, dropped 1.55 percent as of 10:50 a.m. in  New York , with
New York-based JPMorgan down 2.3 percent, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America slipping 2 percent and Citigroup
off 1.8 percent. Morgan Stanley fell 2 percent and Goldman Sachs
declined 1.2 percent. Both are based in New York.  KBW’s data on cross-border positions includes loans and
derivatives and doesn’t account for hedges, the analyst wrote.
The category includes holdings such as loans to banks,
investment in local franchises and public-sector loans,
according to Citigroup’s annual report to securities regulators.  Bank of America’s holdings equal 0.75 percent of total
assets, according to Jerry Dubrowski, a spokesman at Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. lender. “So I would describe our
exposure as small relative to our total assets,” he said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, and Stephen Cohen at New York-based Goldman Sachs
didn’t immediately comment.  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup
spokeswoman, and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Mark Lake declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 