-- 
Kasich Takes to Airwaves to Pitch Ohio Budget That May Sell State Prisons

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-15T15:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kasich-takes-to-airwaves-to-pitch-ohio-budget-that-may-sell-state-prisons.html
Live from the Capitol Theatre in
downtown Columbus: It’s  Ohio  Governor  John Kasich ’s budget show.  Unlike previous governors who held press conferences about
their plans, Kasich is spending about $5,000 to rent the 900-
seat room for an “Ohio Town-Hall Meeting” tonight and
broadcasting on satellite television and the Web, Kasich’s
office said.  Kasich, who has promised not to raise taxes to fill a
projected $8 billion shortfall compared with the current $50.5
billion budget, has said he will call for spending reductions
and proposals including possibly selling prisons as part of
“one of the most reform-oriented budgets Ohio’s ever seen.”  U.S. governors are facing deficits that may reach $125
billion in the coming fiscal year, and many are making painful
cuts. Kasich is taking his case straight to his constituents.  Asked in an interview last week why he decided to televise
the presentation from a theater, Kasich replied, “I thought it
was a cool idea. We want to explain it all to people.”  Kasich, 58, who took office in January, said in his State
of the State speech last week that his plans might test
citizens.  “I’m asking you all to keep an open mind about the
possibilities of reform because you can’t keep doing the same
thing in this state and avoiding the decisions that need to be
made,” he said.  ‘Something Special’  Broadcasting the event lets Kasich soften the blow,
 Catherine L. Albers , a theater professor at  Case Western Reserve
University  in  Cleveland , said in a telephone interview.  “It’s going to be a TV show,” said Albers, who has
appeared in films including “The Jesse Owens Story” and does
radio and television voice-overs. “You tell people it’s going
to be on television, and all of sudden it’s something special.”  Kasich is presenting his budget a day after  a poll  showed
that 47 percent of Ohio adults disapprove of his performance, 40
percent approve and 13 percent neither approve nor disapprove.  The Ohio Poll, sponsored by the University of Cincinnati
and conducted March 1-9, found that 53 percent would like to see
the budget balanced through tax increases and spending
reductions combined. Thirty-five percent wanted reductions in
programs and services, 6 percent wanted tax increases and 6
percent didn’t know. The poll of 908 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.3 percent.  Lights Out  Kasich is to appear at 6 p.m. with members of his cabinet
and invited guests after an earlier briefing for reporters. The
show will be broadcast by television stations, C-SPAN and at
www.OhioChannel.org, Kasich’s office said.  The governor will take questions from the audience and via
Twitter and Facebook “for as long as I can until they start to
turn out the lights on me,” he said in the statement.  Although Kasich has declined to provide specifics until he
releases his budget, which the legislature has until June 30 to
approve, he has said it will contain cuts and projected savings
from “restructuring.”  That could include turning over the lottery and prison
operations to companies, Kasich said in an interview last month.  Hot Ohio  “Ohio is quickly working its way up to being the state of
most interest of those following public-private partnerships,”
said D.J. Gribbin, a managing director in  Washington  for
Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc. Macquarie, a division of  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, holds leases on four U.S.
toll roads, including the Chicago Skyway and Indiana Toll Road.  Kasich will propose leasing the 241-mile Ohio Turnpike and
selling five prisons, Cleveland’s Plain Dealer reported
yesterday, citing a person familiar with the plan whom the
newspaper did not identify. Kasich spokesman Rob Nichols
declined to confirm that report.  The Ohio Civil Service Employees Association, which
represents about 10,000 prison employees, opposes privately
operated prisons, said Tim Roberts, a union officer and guard at
the Ohio Reformatory for Women in Marysville. He cited concerns
about security and state control over the property.  “You might save money in the short run, but who is going
to pay the price?” Roberts asked in a telephone interview.  During his address last week, Kasich advocated changing
prison sentencing to save money by reducing the 47 percent of
prisoners locked up less than a year.  Folding It In  State Senator Bill Seitz, a Cincinnati Republican and
sponsor of  a bill  to change sentencing, said in a telephone
interview the governor’s office told him that his bill or
portions of it would be incorporated into the budget.  The bill as introduced would save about $24.9 million a
year through fiscal 2015, according to  an analysis  by the Ohio
Legislative Services Commission.  School districts expect reductions of as much as 20 percent
from the current budget, said Damon Asbury, director of
legislative services for the  Ohio School Boards Association .
Officials are anxious to hear the reasons as well as the
amounts, Asbury said in a telephone interview.  “I’ve asked for a ticket,” Asbury said of Kasich’s event.
“I hope I get one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  