-- 
Kazakhstan Near Agreement With BG, Eni Over Karachaganak Field

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-03-15T09:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kazakhstan-near-agreement-with-bg-eni-over-karachaganak-field.html
Kazakhstan is close to resolving a
dispute with BG Group Plc and  Eni SpA (ENI)  over Karachaganak, the
nation’s second-largest producing oil field, Deputy Justice
Minister Marat Beketayev said.  “As far as I am informed, we are pretty close to a
settlement,” Beketayev said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York on March 14. “It’s going to be
regarding the whole package of issues” between the government
and investors, he said.  The Central Asian republic has been seeking a stake in
Karachaganak to boost its share of revenue from production-
sharing agreements, which allow investors to recoup costs first
before the government profits. BG, the U.K.’s third-largest
natural-gas producer, and its partners have faced demands for
billions of dollars after being accused of inflating costs, as
well as for environmental damage, back taxes and fines.  Some contracts signed with investors in  Kazakhstan ’s early
days as an independent nation didn’t serve its interests,
Beketayev said. Karachaganak is the only major Kazakh project in
which the government isn’t involved.  “There was a lack of expertise on the side of the
government when those contracts were signed” following the
dissolution of the  Soviet Union , Beketayev said. “Now, we are
in a position to protect our best interests.”  Kazakhstan has so far canceled about 70 contracts with
“nonperforming investors,” Beketayev said. “That is a routine
process.”  Compromise  The Kazakh government’s strategy is to reach a compromise
without being taken to arbitration, the minister said.  “Finding a compromise is an absolutely non-discussible
principle. We are trying to build a reputation as a very
reliable partner,” he said.  The Karachaganak venture has held talks about ceding a
minority stake to the government. BG and Eni are the largest
shareholders in the venture, each with 32.5 percent, while
Chevron Corp. has 20 percent and OAO Lukoil 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  