-- 
KBC’s Sale of Private Bank to Hinduja Blocked by Regulator

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-15T16:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kbc-s-sale-of-private-bank-to-hinduja-blocked-by-regulator-1-.html
  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s sale of its  private
bank  to  India ’s Hinduja Group for 1.35 billion euros ($1.88
billion) failed to get regulatory approval, setting back the
firm’s plan to boost capital and repay bailout funds.  Luxembourg regulator  Commission de Surveillance du Secteur
Financier  yesterday said it wouldn’t authorize the takeover of
Luxembourg-based KBL European Private Bankers SA, announced in
May, after reviewing legal criteria and consultation with other
authorities, KBC said in a statement today, without providing
further details.    Belgium ’s biggest lender and insurer by market value agreed
to sell the private bank to cut weighted risks and accumulate
surplus capital. KBC, the recipient of 7 billion euros of
government funds during the financial crisis, has until the end
of 2013 of to complete a reorganization approved by the European
Commission following the bailout. The Brussels-based company
said it will now study other options for KBL.  “Clearly it would have been better if this sale had gone
ahead,”  Albert Ploegh , an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING Groep
NV, said by telephone. “They may now have to go back to other
potential buyers that expressed interest earlier and the
question is what that will do to the price.”  KBC dropped 5.9 percent to 27.61 euros in Euronext Brussels
trading, the biggest decline in two months and wiping 614
million euros from its market value. The 52-company Stoxx 600
Banks Index lost 1.7 percent, the most in 10 days.  Aid Repayment  KBC still has time left to free up the capital required to
pay back the state, Ploegh said, adding that a successful
initial public offering of a minority stake in KBC’s Czech
banking unit is more important.  Hinduja, controlled by billionaire brothers Srichand and
Gopichand Hinduja, agreed to buy KBL to expand its wealth-
management business in  Switzerland . The unit, employing 418
private bankers in 10 European countries, had 47 billion euros
of assets under management at the end of 2010. KBC took a 300
million-euro charge on the transaction in the second quarter of
last year because the takeover price fell short of the sum of
the unit’s book value and outstanding goodwill in KBC’s
accounts.  The Belgian company had expected the transaction to release
1.3 billion euros of capital. Including the divestment of the
private-banking division, KBC had amassed about 4.5 billion
euros of surplus capital it could use to reimburse the state
aid, the firm said last month.  Divestment Plan  “To our surprise and regret, the Hinduja Group was unable
to obtain approval for this deal from the regulators in the 10
European countries in which KBL EPB is active,” KBC Chief
Executive Officer Jan Vanhevel said in the statement. “However,
it does not jeopardize implementation of our strategic plan,
because the European Commission has given us enough flexibility
to enable us to carry out our divestments under the best
possible conditions.”  Jayaram Ramanathan, a Mumbai-based spokesman for the
Hinduja Group, declined to comment when reached on his mobile
phone. Patrick Hommel, a spokesman for the Luxembourg regulator
CSSF confirmed KBC’s statement while declining to give any
further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  