-- 
KEB Workers Plan Strike to Protest Hana’s Proposed Takeover

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-15T10:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/keb-workers-plan-strike-to-protest-hana-s-proposed-takeover-1-.html
Employees of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) ,
the lender set to be sold by  Lone Star  Funds to  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790) , approved a plan to go on strike to protest against
the takeover.  A decision on when 4,700 union members will stop work will
hinge on whether the South Korean regulator approves Hana’s plan
to acquire the lender, the labor group said in an e-mailed
statement today. Hana’s purchase agreement should be nullified
as Lone Star wasn’t qualified to hold the stake in Korea
Exchange Bank, the union has said.    South Korea ’s Financial Services Commission may discuss
Hana’s proposed 4.7 trillion won ($4.1 billion) takeover of
Korea Exchange Bank from Dallas-based Lone Star at a meeting
tomorrow, Yonhap News reported yesterday.  “There’s little chance the South Korean regulator will
reject the purchase plan,” Heo Pil Seok, chief executive
officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd. in  Seoul ,
said by telephone. “The regulators may lose face if they
determine that Lone Star wasn’t the legitimate owner, but that
won’t stop the deal.”  The regulator may tomorrow review whether Lone Star was
eligible to hold the controlling stake in Korea Exchange Bank
under South Korea’s banking laws, according to Korean-language
news agency Yonhap.  A decision hasn’t been made on whether Lone Star was
qualified, Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kim Jong Chang, who also attends the FSC’s regular meetings, told
reporters today.  The agenda for tomorrow’s meeting hasn’t been set, FSC
spokesman Ernst Lee said by telephone.  Hana’s Acquisition  Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu agreed in November to buy Lone
Star’s 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange Bank in what would be
its largest acquisition. The takeover would help Seoul-based
Hana narrow the gap with bigger rivals  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) 
and Woori Finance Holdings Co.  Since its 2003 purchase of the Korea Exchange Bank stake,
Lone Star has recouped 1.87 trillion won of its 2.15 trillion
won investment in the Korean lender through a block sale and
dividend payments made by Korea Exchange Bank on an after-tax
basis, according to data from the lender.  The trade union said the regulator should order Lone Star
to sell a 41 percent stake to meet local banking laws. That may
reduce the profit Lone Star makes from its investment and
prevent an “outflow of national wealth,” the union said in a
separate e-mailed statement today.  The union and minority shareholders of Korea Exchange Bank
also filed an injunction in Seoul Central District Court to
restrict the U.S. buyout fund’s voting rights to 4 percent, the
labor group said. The court’s spokesman didn’t immediately
return three calls to his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  