-- 
Kempinski Mothballs Dubai Project as It Expands in Middle East

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-03-15T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kempinski-mothballs-dubai-project-as-it-expands-in-middle-east.html
Luxury hotel operator Kempinski AG
is delaying a Dubai project by two years, even as it expands
elsewhere in the Middle East because authorities have allowed
the market to become oversupplied, according to the company’s
president for the region.  A 253-room development on Dubai’s palm tree-shaped
artificial island will remain a “shell” for the time being,
with the opening pushed back until 2013, said Ulrich Eckhardt,
the Geneva-based company’s head of the Middle East and  Africa .  “I’m concerned about what I consider poor planning from
those in a position to approve new hotels,” Eckhardt, 69, said
in an interview in Dubai. Building permission was granted
without studying “existing inventory, growth rates and future
demand,” he said.  Dubai occupancy rates and room prices probably will decline
as 30,000 additional hotel rooms are added over the next five
years to the current supply of about 50,000, Deloitte LLP
estimated in December. The number of visitors would need to rise
to about 12 million annually from 9.5 million now to fill the
hotels, the auditing company said.  Kempinski plans to open nine properties in the next three
years in Abu Dhabi, Bahrain,  Saudi Arabia , Oman, Lebanon, Syria
and Egypt. The company will open 82 luxury serviced apartments
and 10 villas on Palm Jumeirah in June.  “As we open these hotels, we have to create a customer
base,” Eckhardt said. “We knew it was impossible to create
that with all these other hotels opening at the same time. You
would be diverting business, not creating it.”  Big Builders  State-owned developer Nakheel PJSC, which built the palm
island and a world map-shaped archipelago, said it will restart
work on seven postponed projects in various stages of completion
after prices fell by more than 60 percent.  Nakheel, which along with  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  led Dubai’s
building boom, was forced to restructure $10.5 billion of loans
and outstanding bills after the  property market  crashed in 2008.
Both companies, along with most of Dubai’s major developers,
were forced to delay and cancel projects.  Even though many hotel projects are pending across Dubai,
Eckhardt says he expects growth to be better managed in the
future after developers were chastened by the crash.  “Those who have been dictating this phenomenal growth are
no longer there,” he said. “The Nakheels are gone and the real
people who actually think about where and how they spend money
won’t spend it because they have reasons to think ‘maybe
later.’”  Sheikh’s Vision  Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum’s vision
of creating a market through large-scale development was proven
right in principle, Eckhardt said. The difficulty was with the
execution by property companies.  “They failed to deliver with a coordinated, sustainable
action plan and went overboard,” he said. “It wasn’t because
Sheikh Mohammed said ‘go until you’re dead.’”  Dubai’s  Real Estate Regulatory Agency  came into existence
too late in 2007 when “most of the damage had been done,” he
said. “Can they rectify what was done wrong? I’m not sure,
because they would have to tear down a lot of stuff that was
built.”  Kempinski, which manages the $1.1 billion Emirates Palace,  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest hotel, will open another one “deep in the
desert” in two years, Eckhardt said. The company was founded in
1897 and operates more than 60 hotels in  Europe , Africa the
Middle East and  Asia , according to its website.  Abu Dhabi Plan  Abu Dhabi, which manages the development of homes, offices
and transportation links under a program called Plan 2030, will
surpass Dubai because its market has more depth and its urban
planning process is better, he said.  The sheikhdom, which is building branches of the Louvre and
Guggenheim museums, will also appeal to travelers who don’t want
“the binging that Dubai is known for,” Eckhardt said.  “You will have incredible cultural aspects one day when
everything is done,” he said. “I’m not saying that the
building of two or three museums will replace Paris or  London ,
but they will certainly surpass what Dubai has to offer.”  Kempinski, which manages 15 hotels in the Middle East and
Africa, will open a new one in Bahrain in June. Construction is
under way in Al Khobar, Jeddah and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia and
Oman’s capital, Muscat. A Cairo hotel will be opened in Giza
near the pyramids, Eckhardt said.  Kempinski will also expand in Africa, Eckhardt said. The
company will open hotels in  Ghana ,  Nigeria , Angola,  Namibia ,  Mozambique , Nairobi and Seychelles. It’s also evaluating markets
such as  Zimbabwe , Juba in southern  Sudan  and  Mauritania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 