-- 
Kobe Steel Says Ready to Offer Supplies to Domestic Mills

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-03-15T06:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kobe-steel-says-ready-to-offer-supplies-to-domestic-mills-1-.html
  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406) , Japan’s fourth-
largest steelmaker, said it’s ready to help supply domestic
mills affected by the nation’s strongest earthquake on record.  “The company itself was hit hard by the 1995 earthquake,”
Takashi Goto, senior general manager at the company’s iron and
steel division, said today in a group interview. “As a past
victim, we are all working together to see how we can make a
contribution to society.”  Kobe will offer to sell steel to domestic steelmakers such
as  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. (5405)  and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  to help
them meet contract requirements if asked, he said.  Sumitomo Metal’s Kashima plant near Tokyo sustained “big
damage” and the factory cannot be operated “for a while,”
Chairman Hiroshi Shimozuma said yesterday. Kobe Steel has yet to
determine how much domestic steel demand will weaken due to
damage and power outages stemming from last week’s earthquake,
Goto said.  Japan  is the world’s second-largest steel producer
after  China , accounting for about 8 percent of global output.  Sumitomo Metal Industries shares plunged a record 16
percent to 153 yen at the close in Tokyo. Nippon Steel fell 11
percent, the most since October, 2008, to 236 yen, while Kobe
Steel dropped 12 percent, the most in two years, to 167 yen.  Nippon Steel, Japan’s largest steelmaker, has restarted
three blast furnaces at its Kimitsu factory in Chiba, near Tokyo,
and is resuming rolling operations, the company said yesterday.
The company has stopped production at its Kamaishi plant in
northeastern Japan after some facilities were inundated by a
tsunami triggered by the temblor.  Kobe Steel’s domestic steel plants located away from the
earthquake-hit region were not damaged, Goto said today. The
steelmaker was hurt by the Kobe earthquake, which resulted in
more than 5,000 deaths.  Japanese manufacturers including Toyota Motor Corp.
suspended some production after the 9-magnitude temblor struck
on March 11, unleashing a tsunami that engulfed towns on the
northern coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Soughley at 
 asoughley@bloomberg.net  