-- 
Kravis Says Search for Yields Is Drawing Investors to Private-Equity Funds

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-03-15T20:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/kravis-says-search-for-yields-is-drawing-investors-to-private-equity-funds.html
  Henry Kravis , a co-founder of
buyout firm KKR & Co., said investors around the world are
committing new money to private-equity and hedge funds as low  interest rates  prompt them to seek higher-yielding alternatives.  “With interest rates as low as they are, more and more
institutions are moving up the risk spectrum,” Kravis said
today at a company-sponsored investor conference in New York
that was broadcast on the Internet. “There’s more money being
attracted to the alternative space.”  KKR is holding its first meeting for public shareholders
after listing its shares last year on the New York Stock
Exchange. Kravis and  George Roberts , who created the firm in
1976 with Jerome Kohlberg, are expanding into hedge funds and
mezzanine debt.  KKR and its fellow private-equity firms are still coping
with the aftermath of the record buyout boom that peaked in 2007
and collapsed in the midst of the global credit crisis. Roberts
said there were some companies for which KKR paid too much and
bought at the wrong time.  “There’s always deals you wish you hadn’t done,” he said.  Limited Partners Added  KKR has sought to reap profits from some of its biggest
deals of recent years, completing initial public offerings for
companies such as HCA Inc.,  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and Avago
Technologies Ltd., Kravis said.  The firm is pushing into new regions and said it raised $1
billion for its China Growth fund and $1.57 billion for
infrastructure deals.  Overall, KKR raised $5.4 billion in 2010, with 35 percent
coming from new investors. The firm increased the number of
limited partners -- the pensions, endowments and sovereign
wealth funds that commit money -- to more than 350 institutions
from 254 in 2005, said Scott Nuttall, KKR’s global head of
capital and asset management.  The firm plans to launch its first long/short hedge fund
later this year after hiring a team from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. The fund will be managed by KKR Asset Management LLC, which
is headed by William Sonneborn.  KKR has gained about 65 percent since shifting its public
listing to  New York  from  Europe  last July. The stock fell 24
cents to $16.59 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  