-- 
Nasdaq CEO Greifeld Prefers Cost Cuts to Size in Pursuit of Bid for NYSE

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-15T20:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nasdaq-ceo-greifeld-prefers-cost-cuts-to-size-in-pursuit-of-bid-for-nyse.html
  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , so far
absent from the wave of mergers that has swept equity exchanges
around the world, may be looking at cost cuts more than
expansion in its pursuit of NYSE Euronext.  Nasdaq OMX of  New York  is in talks with lenders to fund a
possible bid for NYSE Euronext to counter  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s
more than $8.7 billion proposal, said two people with knowledge
of the matter. The company is working with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  on a potential offer that would
dismember the owner of the New York Stock Exchange, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private.  While Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse’s agreement to
purchase the  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  reflects a reach for global scale,
Nasdaq OMX’s may cut overseas operations. Chief Executive
Officer Robert Greifeld, 53, would be able to reduce expenses by
eliminating competition in stock listings and reducing it in
equities and options trading after cutting costs to 59 percent
of revenue from 68 percent over the last five years.  “Greifeld is considered an excellent cost-cutter and an
accomplished acquirer and integrator,” New York-based  Ed Ditmire  of Macquarie Group Ltd., the top-ranked analyst on
Nasdaq OMX, NYSE Euronext and ICE based on the profitability of
his recommendations in data compiled by Bloomberg, said in an
interview yesterday. “By wanting to acquire the parts that
mirror its own business, they’ll have the maximum overlap and
maximum redundancies.”  Options, Equities  An offer from  Nasdaq  OMX and ICE may total as much as $45 a
share, 23 percent above NYSE Euronext’s close yesterday of
$36.55, Ditmire wrote today. ICE would pay $25 a share for
NYSE’s European derivatives business, while Nasdaq would offer
$20 a share for the rest, according to the note. NYSE Euronext
rallied 1.3 percent to $37.02 at 4 p.m. in New York today.  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania. NYSE Euronext’s divisions include the New
York Stock Exchange, the Euronext platform that handles shares
in the Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and France, and the
European derivatives platform known as NYSE Liffe.  To fund the offer, Nasdaq OMX would raise about $5 billion
in debt from lenders led by Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and $5 billion in asset sales, DealReporter
said yesterday, citing a person familiar with the situation.
Atlanta-based ICE would buy European assets from NYSE Euronext,
DealReporter said.  Left Out  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, NYSE Euronext’s  Ray Pellecchia , ICE’s Lee Underwood, Bank of America’s John Yiannacopoulos and Deutsche Boerse’s Naomi Kim declined to
comment yesterday.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-biggest U.S. stock exchange
operator, has been left out of merger agreements since October
that encompassed NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse,  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X) ,  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX)  and Australia’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  The announced value of those deals
totaled $21 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Greifeld joined Nasdaq OMX in May 2003 and began acquiring
companies in 2005, with the purchase of the Inet electronic
market. He cut a third of the company’s staff that year, vacated
surplus  office space  and turned to lower-cost computer systems
to handle trading. Expenses fell about 9 percentage points
relative to sales between 2006 and last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. At NYSE Euronext, costs fell from 79 percent of
net revenue to 69 percent over the same period, the data show.  Cost Cutters  “Nasdaq would handle the synergies and the potential cost-
cuts probably better, because it is primarily domestic entities
combining together,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills, New York,
which manages $2 billion. “It might make a lot of sense, but it
still leaves open the issue of the globalization of investing
and how the combined Nasdaq-NYSE is going to address that.”  Greifeld would have to convince NYSE Euronext shareholders
that his offer is superior to  Deutsche Boerse ’s bid, which was
valued at $33.97 a share as of 4 p.m. in New York today. NYSE
Euronext jumped 4.5 percent to $36.55 yesterday on speculation
of a higher offer. The NYSE Euronext combination with Deutsche
Boerse includes a 250 million euro ($350 million) fee for
terminating the deal.  Shares Quadrupled  Nasdaq OMX’s shares have more than quadrupled since
Greifeld started as CEO. They beat the Bloomberg World Exchanges
Index in 2010, rising 20 percent versus the measure’s 5.3
percent advance. The stock is up 8.8 percent in 2011, compared
with the 2.9 percent decline for the Bloomberg gauge. NYSE
Euronext has fallen 54 percent since March 8, 2006, its first
trading session as a public company. It gained 19 percent in
2010 and 23 percent in 2011.  Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext would have a monopoly on
listing stock in the U.S. Charges to companies selling stock
accounted for 17 percent of 2010 net revenue at NYSE Euronext
and 19 percent in the fourth quarter for Nasdaq OMX, according
to reports from the companies.  The new entity would have about 48 percent of U.S. equity
trading. NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX have struggled to keep
market share since Bats Global Markets in Kansas City, Missouri,
and Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC
started their own venues about five years ago. NYSE Euronext
currently handles 28 percent of equity volume and Nasdaq OMX has
20 percent, according to data from London-based Barclays Plc for
the fourth quarter.  Options Share  Market share would be higher in equity options, at 53
percent, according to 2010 data from Chicago-based Options
Clearing Corp. The largest U.S. derivatives market is the  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ’s Chicago Board Options Exchange, which had 29
percent last year.  Combined, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse would be the
world’s largest exchange operator. The company would manage
futures exchanges with volume about the same as Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the biggest venue for the contracts in the U.S.  NYSE Liffe, NYSE Liffe US, Eurex and five NYSE Euronext
markets that trade futures and options together executed about
3.1 billion contracts last year, the same as CME’s three futures
exchanges, according to data from the Futures Industry
Association, a Washington-based trade group representing Wall
Street banks. The data exclude trading in U.S. options markets,
which don’t handle futures.    Thomas Caldwell , chairman and chief executive officer of
Caldwell Securities Ltd., a C$1 billion ($1 billion) money
management firm in Toronto that owns shares of NYSE Euronext,
Nasdaq OMX, Deutsche Boerse and CBOE, said Deutsche Boerse’s
offer is more logical than a bid from Nasdaq OMX.  ‘See the Synergies’  “I can see the synergies in Deutsche Boerse and NYSE,” he
said. “This creates a significant powerhouse in Europe with
some pretty good margins. I can see a rationale there. I don’t
know that the same rationale holds for a Nasdaq and NYSE
Euronext merger. If I were Bob Greifeld, I would want to go for
a higher-margin business in America,” such as CBOE, he said.  Nasdaq OMX shares have a market value of $4.55 billion, 9th
out of 23 companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index,
where the average value is $5.3 billion. NYSE Euronext is valued
at $9.67 billion and Deutsche Boerse is worth $14.1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Nasdaq certainly brings some advantages because the two
combined would dominate all the U.S. trading,” said Dallas-
based Jeff Middleswart, who owns about 30,000 shares of Nasdaq
OMX and 18,000 of NYSE Euronext and is president of research
firm Behind the Numbers LLC. “With operations in the same area,
it’d be easier to reduce costs faster. There’s greater immediate
cost savings from a Nasdaq deal and a greater revenue synergies
with Deutsche Boerse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  