-- 
New Stream, Life Settlement Company, Under SEC Investigation, Lawyer Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-15T21:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/new-stream-life-settlement-company-under-sec-investigation-lawyer-says.html
New Stream Secured Capital Inc., a
bankrupt company that buys life insurance policies and collects
when the seller dies, is under investigation by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, an agency attorney said.  Sheldon L. Pollock, an SEC lawyer, told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Mary Walrath about the investigation today during a court
hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware . Pollock did not provide any
details about the probe during the hearing and afterward
declined to comment.  “We have an active investigation of New Stream and we are
in the process of obtaining documents,” Pollock said.  New Stream Capital is fighting with a group of its
investors who are trying to force an affiliate into bankruptcy.
New Stream, based in Ridgefield,  Connecticut , put itself into
bankruptcy after cutting a deal with its creditors to sell its
life-settlement portfolio to another group of its investors for
$127 million, David Marinoff, an investment banker hired by New
Stream, said in court.  The company has not received a formal letter from the SEC
warning that New Stream would be charged, company attorney Kurt
Gwynne said in court. He said New Stream is cooperating with
regulators.  “We don’t know what that is about,” Gwynne told Walrath.  SEC investigators initially tried to get documents from New
Stream voluntarily, Pollock said in court. When that didn’t
work, the agency sent New Stream a subpoena, he said.  “The debtors have been very slow from a discovery
perspective,” Pollock said.  “We are surprised to hear that,” Gwynne said in a phone
interview after the hearing. “We are cooperating promptly.”  April Hearing  Walrath scheduled a hearing in April for the company to
seek approval of its reorganization plan, including the proposed
sale. She agreed to allow the investors behind the involuntary
bankruptcy, including the Latta Family Trust, to seek documents
from and take depositions about two funds affiliated with New
Stream.  Walrath rejected the investors’ request to investigate New
Stream.  The company describes itself as a  fund manager  specializing
in “non-traded private debt.” It invests in the life
settlement market, where life insurance policies are purchased
for less than the death benefit from owners of policies on
individuals’ lives. The company then pays the premiums and
collects on the policy when the seller dies.  The involuntary case is In re New Stream Secured Capital
Fund (U.S.) LLC, 11-10690. The voluntary case is In re New
Stream Secured Capital Fund (U.S.) Inc., 11-10753. Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Delaware).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 