-- 
NHL to Address Concussions With Revised Plan Devised to Improve Safety

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nhl-to-address-concussions-with-revised-plan-devised-to-improve-safety.html
The  National Hockey League  will
introduce a revised plan designed to improve player safety and
address a rise in concussions, Commissioner Gary Bettman said.  Bettman announced his five-point plan, which includes more
stringent protocols for players returning from concussions,
after the first day of the NHL’s general manager meetings in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . He said the revised policy is the latest
step in the NHL’s effort to combat concussions and hits to the
head, a campaign that started in 1997.  “We are the first league that has had a protocol for the
diagnosis and return-to-play decisions,” Bettman said yesterday
during a news conference. “We are the first sports league to do
baseline testing with respect to concussions and this is just
another in a series of steps.”  Bettman’s announcement came the same day  Sidney Crosby 
returned to practice for the  Pittsburgh Penguins  after missing
29 games with a concussion.  Crosby was injured Jan. 1 when he collided with  Washington ’s David Steckel during the second period of the
Winter Classic. Crosby returned to that game without a baseline
test to determine if he suffered a concussion.  Under the new policy, players who show signs of a
concussion can’t be evaluated on the team bench by a trainer.
They have to be taken to a quiet place and evaluated by a team
physician before being cleared to play.  The NHL’s hockey operations department found that 44
percent of the almost 80 concussions suffered this season were
the result of legal hits. Twenty-six percent came from
accidental hits, including a collision with another player,
getting struck by a puck or when a player falls and strikes his
head on the ice or boards.  Illegal Hits  Illegal hits or body checks accounted for 17 percent of the
concussions, with 8 percent the result of fights. Five percent
weren’t categorized because of a lack of details.  “The statistics tell you there is no magic bullet in
dealing with this,” Bettman said. “It is an emotional, intense
subject -- especially for our fans. But dealing with this issue
is not something you can just do whimsically or emotionally. You
really have to understand what is going on.”  Bettman said the NHL would examine ways to make player
equipment safer and will replace seamless tempered glass that
surrounds six NHL rinks with Plexiglas by the start of the 2011-
12 season. In addition, former players Brendan Shanahan, Rob Blake, Joe Nieuwendyk and Steve Yzerman will be part of a
committee to study player-safety issues.  “We welcome these steps and look forward to discussing
these and other issues with the NHL to provide a safer working
environment for the players,” NHL Players Executive Director
Don Fehr said in an e-mailed statement.  Bettman said general managers will continue to address
safety concerns and recommendations for rule changes over the
next two days. Among topics being discussed is defining what
constitutes legal and illegal hits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  