-- 
Nigerian Inflation Rate Falls, Remains Above 10% Target

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-03-15T17:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nigerian-inflation-rate-falls-in-february-remains-above-bank-s-10-target.html
Nigeria’s inflation rate declined
to an annual 11.1 percent in February, remaining above the
central bank’s target rate.  Consumer-price growth compared with a 12.1 percent gain in
January, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said in a statement
released in the capital, Abuja, today.  “A stable  exchange rate  and the fact that the dollar
appreciated against other currencies are some of the reasons
behind the drop,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of
Lagos-based  fund manager , Financial Derivatives Co. Ltd., said
by phone today.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi signaled on March 4 he
may lift the benchmark interest rate for a second time this
year, as the government increases spending before next month’s
election and food and oil costs soar. Sanusi increased the rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.5 percent on Jan. 25 to
help the central bank meet its target of bringing inflation
below 10 percent.  Rising government spending and an advance in liquidity as
the central bank recapitalizes commercial banks are “reasons
for tightening” monetary policy, Sanusi said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television on March 4. Further rate increases
will depend on the March inflation data, he said.  While  Nigeria  is  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, it relies
on fuel imports for more than 70 percent of its domestic needs
because of a lack of refining capacity. The government
subsidizes domestic fuel prices, boosting its spending as oil
costs rise, increasing pressure on inflation. Crude oil reached
$106.95 a barrel on March 7, a 29-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Abuja at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 