-- 
U.S. Stocks Pare Drop After Tokyo Plunge; Oil Falls, Bonds Gain

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-15T21:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nikkei-225-set-for-worst-two-day-slump-since-2008-yen-weakens-after-quake.html
U.S. stocks escaped the brunt of a
global selloff that sent  Tokyo  shares to the worst two-day drop
since 1987, paring losses as Japanese officials made progress
stabilizing damaged nuclear reactors and the  Federal Reserve 
said the economy is improving. Commodities slid and bonds rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent while the
MSCI All-Country World Index slumped 2.3 percent at 4:32 p.m. in
New York. Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures traded at 8,970 in
Chicago, up from the close of 8,620 in Singapore, after the
index plunged 11 percent to 8,605.15 in Tokyo. Ten-year Treasury
yields lost five basis points to 3.30 percent. The yen rose 1.1
percent against the euro and dollar amid speculation investors
were repatriating foreign funds to pay for  Japan ’s recovery.  The S&P 500 trimmed a morning plunge of as much as 2.7
percent and Nikkei futures rebounded as radiation readings
retreated below harmful levels at reactors damaged in last
week’s earthquake and tsunami. U.S. stocks pared losses further
as the Fed said the economy is on “firmer footing.” Thomas Lee, equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Mary Ann Bartels of Bank of America Corp. said the recent slide in the
S&P 500 may be a buying opportunity.  “It’s unlikely that the Japanese nuclear situation is
going to spread beyond the local area, so sanity prevailed here
at the end of the day,” said New York-based John Barr of Needham
Asset Management LLC, which oversees about $900 million. “We will
have supply chain disruptions in many companies for a while from
this, but investors became more confident that the global
economy is going to work its way through this.”  Korea, Taiwan  The Nikkei 225’s one-day drop was the biggest since October
2008 and extended its two-day slide to 16 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 2.4 percent, the most in four months, while
Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  retreated 3.4 percent, the most since
February 2010.  Trading in a U.S. exchange-traded fund linked to Japanese
stocks showed investors expect shares in the world’s third-
largest economy may rebound when trading resumes in Tokyo. The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ)  tracking 323 securities fell 0.2
percent to $10.03 after earlier plunging 8.1 percent to $9.24,
its lowest level intraday since July.  Atsushi Saito, president and chief executive officer of
Tokyo Stock Exchange Inc., said investors and traders should
“respond in a calm and orderly manner” following the biggest
two-day retreat since the 1987 stock-market crash, according to
a statement on the company’s website.  ‘Thoughtful Approach’  “Saito’s call for a quiet period is a thoughtful
approach,” said Richard Torrenzano, chief executive officer of
the Torrenzano Group, who was spokesman for the  New York  Stock
Exchange in 1987. “We’ve seen stock markets in panic modes
before. You have the economy, the companies, the investors who
need to assess the market. There are a lot of very big things at
stake here.”  The Tokyo exchange will be open on March 16, said Naoya Takahashi, an exchange spokesman.  Costs to insure Japanese debt climbed to a record earlier
as Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s damaged nuclear power plant was
rocked by two explosions today as workers struggled to avert a
meltdown in the wake of last week’s earthquake. Credit-default
swaps on Japan’s government debt soared 23 basis points to 118.5
and reached a record 122.3, according to CMA, and Tokyo
Electric’s jumped 224.2 basis points to 373.5, up from 40.5 on
March 11.  Yen, El-Erian  The yen rose against all 16 major counterparts, climbing
1.1 percent to 80.74 per  U.S. dollar . Japanese investors will
repatriate funds as the nation seeks to recover from the quake,
said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  “We know that inflation will spike because of shortages
and because of supply chain disruptions, and we know that the
deficit and public debt are going to increase significantly,”
El-Erian, who’s also co-chief investment officer, said in a
telephone interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “Fortunately, Japan is a rich economy, and the private
sector has saved a lot. Japan can navigate this.”  Prime Minister Naoto Kan called for calm as the government
battled to cool three quake-damaged nuclear reactors with
seawater. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said this
afternoon radiation readings outside damaged reactors were
falling below harmful levels, while a fire at a separate unit
appeared to have been put out. Earlier today, Edano said the
steel unit containing the radioactive core of one reactor had
been damaged and warned of dangerous contamination.  Utilities, Technology  The S&P 500 declined for the fourth time in five days, with
utility, technology and financial shares leading declines in all
10 industry groups. The gauge is up 1.9 percent in 2011 and has
rallied 89 percent from its bear-market low in March 2009.  General Electric Co., which is in talks to sell reactors to
India, sank 1.6 percent. The nuclear plant in Fukushima consists
of six reactors based on GE designs, three of which were built
by the company, according to its website.  Aflac Inc. and Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. led
declines in 17 of 22 companies in the S&P 500 Insurance Index on
concern that operations and investments in Japan will be
hobbled. Aflac, which gets three-quarters of its revenue in
Japan, lost 5.6 percent and Hartford fell 4.6 percent.  Nuclear power stocks slumped for a second day on concern
the Japanese incidents will hurt the industry’s growth.  Shaw
Group Inc. (SHAW) , the U.S. engineering company that has a nuclear
power partnership with Japan’s Toshiba Corp., retreated 2.1
percent and is down 11 percent over the last two days.  Uranium
Energy Corp. (UEC)  slid 4.6 percent, paring a tumble of as much as 23
percent, and  Uranium Resources Inc. (URRE)  dropped 9.7 percent.  Solar Stocks  Solar-power stocks rallied on speculation that clean energy
will benefit.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  advanced 8.2 percent for the
biggest gain in the S&P 500.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rallied 8.8
percent and LDK Solar Co. rose 9.3 percent.  The S&P 500 has tumbled 4.6 percent from its 32-month high
on Feb. 18 amid concern uprisings in the Middle East and
northern Africa and Japan’s worst earthquake on record will hurt
global growth.  There’s a “good chance” the S&P 500 has reached its low
for 2011 after falling to as low as 1,261.12 today, according to
JPMorgan’s Lee, the bank’s chief U.S. equity strategist. The
benchmark index will climb 13 percent to 1,425 from the low,
with oil prices retreating from their highs and global growth
set to benefit from the rebuilding of Japan, according to Lee’s
year-end estimate.  Spurring Growth  “The earthquake could ultimately be stimulative to global
growth as the drop in Japan output is met by output increases
elsewhere,” Lee wrote in a note to clients. “The earthquake is
unlikely a global event to trigger slowdown” and there’s little
risk Japan falls into a recession, he wrote.  Mary Ann Bartels, Bank of America’s head of U.S. technical
analysis, said the index’s decline since Feb. 18 presents a
buying opportunity because the pullback will be “modest” and
the S&P 500 has “key” support at 1,270.  Fed policy makers said the recovery is gaining strength and
that higher energy prices will have a temporary effect on
inflation, while reaffirming plans to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the Federal Open Market Committee said today in its
statement after a two-day meeting in  Washington . The effects of
higher fuel and commodity costs on inflation will be
“transitory,” and Fed officials “will pay close attention to
the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.”  Manufacturing Grows  U.S. stock-index futures maintained losses before the open
of exchanges even as a report showed manufacturing in the New
York region accelerated in March at the fastest rate in nine
months. The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic index rose
to 17.5 from 15.4 in February. Economists forecast an increase
to 16.1, based on the median in a Bloomberg News survey.  Labor Department figures showed a 1.4 percent increase in
the import-price index, exceeding the 0.9 percent median
forecast in a survey. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.3 percent.
Food costs over the past 12 months posted the biggest gain since
records began in 1977.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 2.3 percent, its worst drop
since November, as the  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which gauges the cost of
protecting against declines in the region’s shares, surged 16
percent to the highest level since November. Volkswagen AG and
Daimler AG led automakers lower. German utilities RWE AG and
E.ON AG fell more than 2.8 percent each after Chancellor Angela Merkel put plans to extend the life of nuclear plants on hold
for three months.  Treasuries  The 30-year Treasury bond rose, sending its yield down 7
basis points to 4.45 percent, with the 10-year yield paring
declines after decreasing as much as 15 basis points to 3.20,
the lowest intraday since Dec. 10. The 10-year German bund yield
dropped 9 basis points to 3.14 percent, while the yield on the
country’s two-year note sank 11 basis points to 1.53 percent.  Belgium said it postponed a sale of six-year bonds because
of market volatility caused by the Japan nuclear crisis.  Equities also dropped as Saudi Arabian troops moved into  Bahrain  with a  regional force  in the first cross-border
intervention since uprisings swept through parts of the region.  Credit-default swaps on Bahrain jumped 35 basis points to
348.8, the highest since July 2009, according to CMA. Fitch
Ratings downgraded Bahrain’s long-term foreign currency issuer
default rating to ‘BBB’ from ‘A-’.  Persian Gulf Stocks  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf shares sank 2.5
percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  lost 3.5
percent, the biggest slide in almost two weeks.  “In addition to the tragic events in Japan, the market had
to contend with a potential escalation of the Middle East
situation,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London , wrote in a client note. “It would
not be a surprise if the significant price moves of the last
couple of days did not lead to problems elsewhere in the
financial system.”  Emerging-market stocks tumbled the most in eight months,
currencies sank and borrowing costs rose. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index declined 2.2 percent, the biggest drop on a
closing basis since June 29. The extra yield on emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped 7 basis points to 2.74
percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index showed.  Won, Rand Protection  The cost to insure against tumbles in South Korea’s won and
South Africa’s rand surged. One-month options giving investors
the right to sell the rand cost 2.41 percentage points more than
contracts to buy, compared with 2 percentage points yesterday,
the biggest increase since April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The premium to sell the won rose to 3.69 percentage
points from 2.93, the biggest surge since November.  Crude oil fell 4 percent, the most in almost five months,
to $97.18 a barrel in New York, amid concern that Japan’s
earthquake will curb demand. Brent crude for April settlement
fell $5.15 to $108.52 a barrel. U.S. gasoline futures fell 5.3
percent to $2.8029 a gallon in New York electronic trading.  Copper for delivery in May slumped 1.2 percent to $4.137 a
pound in New York and touched $4.076, the lowest since Dec. 10.
Gold for April delivery lost 2.3 percent to $1,392.80 an ounce
and silver futures retreated 4.8 percent to $34.117 an ounce,
dropping for the first time in three days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 