-- 
Yunus Open to ‘Give And Take’ to Resolve Grameen Succession

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A r i j i t   G h o s h
-- 
2011-03-29T08:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nobel-prize-winner-yunus-working-to-ensure-smooth-transition-at-grameen.html
Nobel Peace Prize winner
 Muhammad Yunus , who is fighting his dismissal as head of
Bangladesh’s  Grameen Bank , said he’s willing to “give and
take” with the government to resolve the stalemate.  Yunus, 70, appealed to Bangladesh’s top court on March 9
against a High Court decision that upheld his removal as the
managing director of the microlender. The central bank had
written to Grameen saying Yunus breached retirement rules by
staying at the helm past age 60.  Differences between Yunus and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government began in December last year when Norwegian
television reported misuse of aid to the lender. Grameen  denied 
any wrongdoing. The attempt to remove Yunus prompted the U.S. to
ask  Bangladesh  to resolve the crisis in order to avoid affecting
relations between the two nations, according to Robert Blake,
assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asian affairs,
who visited Dhaka March 22.  “There is a lot of misinformation,” Yunus, wearing his
trademark long, hand-woven, check shirt, said in an interview in
his office in Dhaka. Grameen is willing to talk to the
government “to understand, to see what is their viewpoint and
what is our viewpoint. I am trying to do the transition for a
long time. I was looking for an opportunity to get through the
process so that the whole bank does not get shaken up.”  The U.S. has provided more than $5 billion of development
assistance since 1971 to Bangladesh, according to U.S.
government data.  Recovery Rate  Bangladesh’s  government  owns 25 percent of Grameen, Yunus
said, while customers hold the balance. The bank has lent $10.3
billion since it began operations in 1976 and had a loan
recovery rate of 97 percent as of the end of February, according
to the lender’s website.  The government asked Yunus to step down from Grameen until
the investigation was over, Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith said in an interview. The offer also included Yunus’
appointment as emeritus fellow with the bank after stepping down
as its head.  “We have been publicly talking to them,” Muhith said in his
office. “We have made some offer. So there is scope for
discussion. Obviously the offer we made is not acceptable to him,
so he has to make a counter offer.”  ‘Vast Influx’  Grameen was initially helped by aid from donors including
the Ford Foundation, Japan International Cooperation Agency and
 Germany ’s state-owned development bank Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, according to the bank’s website.  Many Bangladeshis “resent the vast influx of foreign money,
which has turned Grameen and Yunus into a rival to the
democratically elected government,” Jagdish Bhagwati, professor
of economics at  Columbia University , said in an  article 
published on March 24 by Project Syndicate. It’s “a phenomenon
that no government would tolerate.”  Grameen Bank last received overseas funds in 1998 and
doesn’t plan to tap foreign donors, according to its website. It
lends to its 8.35 million clients, of which 97 percent are women
and more than 112,000 beggars, using funds from its deposits.
The bank employs 26,000 people and has 2,565 branches across the
South Asian nation where the  Asian Development Bank  estimates
almost half the population of 144 million lives on less than
$1.25 a day.  U.S. Microfinance  On March 31, movie theaters in the U.S. will screen a
documentary titled “ To Catch a Dollar: Muhammad Yunus Banks on
America ,” based on Yunus’s move to replicate his microfinance
model in the U.S.  “His eminence underscores the need for solving the
problem,” Debapriya Bhattacharya, distinguished fellow at the
Centre for Policy Dialogue in Dhaka, said in an interview
yesterday. In case the stalemate continues there’s concern
borrowers may renege on paying installments, he said.  Microlending has also come under pressure in India after
reports that rising debt payments led as many as 70 people to
commit suicide in  Andhra Pradesh . On Oct. 15, the government of
the state imposed restrictions that bar microlenders’ collection
agents from visiting borrowers and require companies to get
local authorities’ approval for new loans.  “We have been lobbying for a regulatory authority in
Bangladesh and as a result created the microcredit regulatory
authority in Bangladesh,” Yunus said. “That’s what I have been
recommending for India also.”  India’s central bank in January recommended microfinance
companies cap  interest rates  at 24 percent and limit loans to
individual borrowers in a bid to help revive lending to the
South Asian nation’s neediest people.  Some 260 microlenders had 26.7 million borrowers and 183.44
billion rupees of loans outstanding as of March, according to
the Microfinance  India  State of the Sector Report 2010.  “If you allow microcredit programs each to run their own
way, it will be counterproductive,” Yunus said. It will hurt
the poor in India, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan at   ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  