-- 
Nokia Siemens Said to Renegotiate Motorola Solutions Deal

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-15T16:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nokia-siemens-said-to-renegotiate-1-2-billion-motorola-bid-on-china-delay.html
Nokia Siemens Networks is seeking
to renegotiate its $1.2 billion purchase of wireless network
assets from Motorola Solutions Inc., according to two people
close to the situation.  The  network-equipment  joint venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  wants to exclude the Global System for Mobile
communications, or GSM, unit from the acquisition and
renegotiate the price accordingly in order to win antitrust
approval by the Chinese government, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The Espoo, Finland-based company said March 9 that the deal
won’t close in the first quarter, resulting in the second delay
in three months. Motorola Solutions said the Chinese government
extended its review period for another 60 days. The purchase,
announced in July when the two companies targeted a year-end
close, won approval of the U.S. and European Union regulators.  “When you look at what Nokia Siemens is acquiring, I don’t
think GSM was a big piece of what they were trying to get their
hands on,” said Matthew Thornton, a Boston-based analyst with
Avian Securities LLC. “I think the North American market which
is of course the CDMA assets was probably a lot more
strategically important to them.”  Ben Roome, a spokesman for Nokia Siemens Networks, declined
to comment as did Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola Solutions’
spokesman Nick Sweers.  GSM Operations  Motorola Solutions slid as much as 3.4 percent in  New York 
and traded down 1.6 percent at $40.32 as of 11:38 a.m. local
time. Siemens fell 0.3 percent to 89.60 euros in  Frankfurt ,
while Nokia slipped 2.6 percent to 5.74 euros in Helsinki.  Avian’s Thornton estimates the GSM business probably
accounted for about $900 million to $1 billion of Motorola
Solutions’ revenue in 2010, or about 25 percent of the total
networks business sales. It probably contracted from about 35
percent of revenue, or $1.4 billion, in 2009 as carriers spent
more on CDMA networks last year, he said.  Nokia Siemens was formed in 2007 from the merger of
equipment units of Nokia and Siemens, both of which promoted the
GSM standards used by most carriers outside the U.S. and east  Asia . Motorola Solutions sells GSM systems as well as gear based
on CDMA, which is used by some North American and east Asian
carriers, and so-called fourth-generation technologies LTE and
WiMAX. Nokia Siemens also has LTE contracts.  Chinese Objection  Nokia Siemens’ purchase is aimed at buttressing its
position as the world’s second-largest maker of wireless network
equipment, competing with Stockholm-based market leader Ericsson
AB, China’s Huawei Technologies Co. and Paris-based Alcatel-
Lucent SA. It would bring more than 50 accounts at existing or
new customers, significantly expanding its reach in the U.S. and  Japan , Nokia Siemens said when it announced the deal.  The Chinese antitrust review comes after Huawei,  China ’s
biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, sued Motorola and
Nokia Siemens Jan. 24 saying Motorola hadn’t provided assurances
that it would prevent disclosures about Huawei technology and
products to Nokia Siemens. Motorola has sold Huawei’s wireless-
network products under the Motorola name since 2000.  Last month, Huawei had to withdraw its purchase of  Santa
Clara , California-based 3Leaf Systems’ patents, in compliance
with a recommendation by the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the  United States  due to concerns for national security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  