-- 
Notre Dame Is Fined $77,500 in Death of Student Filming Football Practice

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-15T18:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/notre-dame-is-fined-77-500-in-death-of-student-filming-football-practice.html
The University of  Notre Dame  was
fined $77,500 by  Indiana ’s top labor office for an accident that
killed a 20-year-old student filming a football practice from a
hydraulic lift in high winds.  The state  Department of Labor  said the  South Bend , Indiana-
based school “knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe
conditions” that led to the death of Declan Sullivan, a junior
from Long Grove,  Illinois .  Sullivan died when the lift was blown over during a
practice on Oct. 27. The state agency said in a statement that
it investigated the accident and cited Notre Dame for “the most
serious safety violation allowed” under Indiana law.  “The evidence overwhelmingly demonstrated that the
university made a decision to utilize its scissor lift in known
adverse weather conditions,” Lori Torres, the Department of
Labor commissioner, said in the news release.    Notre Dame  President  John Jenkins  said in an e-mailed
release that the university made mistakes in the events
surrounding Sullivan’s death.  “We failed to keep him safe, and for that we remain
profoundly sorry,” Jenkins said.  The South Bend area was under a hazardous weather outlook
that forecast sustained winds of 25 mph to 35 mph and gusts of
45 mph on the day Sullivan died. He was working 50 feet in the
air when the lift toppled, ESPN reported at the time.  Safety Violations  Notre Dame, which was informed of the state’s actions this
morning, was also fined for five serious safety violations,
including failure to properly train student employees to use the
lift and failure to give the equipment annual, monthly or weekly
inspection for more than a year, the report said.  The school has 15 business days to either pay the fines and
correct the violations or contest the Department of Labor’s
conclusions. John Affleck-Graves, university executive vice
president and leader of Notre Dame’s investigation of the
accident, said in an e-mailed statement that the school would
meet with government officials within the appeal period and
intends to file a report of its own findings in four to six
weeks.  “We will study the details very carefully and take the
actions necessary to protect the ongoing safety of our students
and staff,” Jenkins said.  Notre Dame said last week that it would no longer use
hydraulic lifts as filming platforms. It said it had begun
building a remote video system at its practice fields, mounting
four cameras on 50-foot poles.  “Nothing can change the tragic reality of what occurred
last October, and all of us in Irish athletics continue to
grieve with the Sullivans,” Jack Swarbrick, Notre Dame’s
athletic director, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 