-- 
Nuclear Plant Funding Undeterred Amid Japan Crisis: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-16T10:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nuclear-plant-funding-undeterred-amid-japan-crisis-china-credit.html
  China  National Nuclear Corp., the
nation’s largest atomic plant operator, may issue a record
amount of bonds to finance expansion even as Japan battles to
prevent a reactor meltdown, according to its top official.  “The nuclear accident won’t have any serious impact on
China’s nuclear industry and we won’t alter our long-term
development plans,” China National President Sun Qin said in an
interview in Beijing on March 14. The company, based in China’s
capital, plans to sell more bonds to fund overseas acquisitions
and to diversify its funding sources, he said.  China National sold 4 billion yuan ($609 million) of notes
this year, matching a record it set in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The relative yield on its 4.9 percent
2019 notes rose 8 basis points to 197 basis points since a March
11 temblor damaged reactors in Japan, Chinabond prices show. The
spread on similar-maturity 4.375 percent euro-denominated bonds
sold by  Areva SA (CEI) , the largest provider of nuclear equipment and
services, widened 55 to 188, BNP Paribas SA prices show.  China is relying on alternative energy sources such as
nuclear power as it tries to sustain growth and minimize
environmental damage. The nation wants at least 15 percent of
its energy mix to come from non-fossil fuels by 2020 and is
building more atomic plants to help meet that goal. Japanese
Prime Minister Naoto Kan warned yesterday that the danger of
further radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear power station in
Fukushima prefecture is rising.  Nuclear Strategy  CNNC Nuclear Power Co., a unit of China National, sold 2
billion yuan of five-year bonds last month priced to yield 5.41
percent, according to Bloomberg data. Nuclear Power Qinshan
Joint Venture, which is managing the expansion of a similarly
named plant, plans to issue 600 million yuan of one-year notes
on March 17, according to Chinabond data.  China has about 13 operational nuclear power reactors and
is building more than 25, according to a  report  on the  World
Nuclear Association ’s website. Additional reactors are planned
to provide more than a 10-fold increase in atomic capacity by
2020, the report shows. China Nuclear Engineering Group Co. may
start building a nuclear plant in the eastern province of
Shandong, the China Business News reported today, citing General
Manager Mu Zhanying.  The world’s fastest growing major economy will need more
than 1 trillion yuan to build reactors by 2020, Time Weekly
reported in May, citing Cao Shudong, a deputy director at the
National Energy Administration.  “We’re quite comfortable that in the longer-term China
will not turn away from nuclear power stations as a source of
base power,” said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney. “It’s been a major incident, but it’s not
been a disastrous one,” he said, comparing the unfolding crisis
in Japan with the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine.  China Guangdong, Kalahari  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co., the country’s
second-biggest reactor builder, obtained a 150 billion yuan  credit line  from Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China Power
News reported on March 14. The Shenzhen-based company made a 756
million-pound ($1.2 billion) bid for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) , a
uranium miner, this month. Kalahari shares fell 11.6 percent to
2.43 pounds in  London  yesterday, the biggest drop since January
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China National, which started operations at its first
overseas uranium mine last year, may acquire more global atomic-
fuel assets to meet rising demand, Sun said.  Sovereign Risk  Economic growth that’s averaged about 10 percent over the
past five years helped drive inflation to 4.9 percent last month,
the government said on March 11. Five-year credit-default swaps
on Chinese government debt rose 10.5 basis points this year on
concern anti-inflation measures will threaten growth. The
contracts were 4 basis points higher yesterday, CMA prices in
New York show.  Credit-default swaps insure debt against non-payment, and
traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An increase
suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a
drop shows improvement. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The yield on China’s 2.68 percent government bond due in
November 2013 fell one basis point to 3.23 percent yesterday,
Chinabond prices show. The yield on  India ’s three-year bonds was
unchanged at 7.88 percent. Similar-maturity bonds yield 6.91
percent in  Russia  and 12.88 percent in  Brazil . These nations
comprise the so-called BRIC group of emerging economies.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose 7.5 basis
points to 3.27 percent as of 12:20 p.m. in  Shanghai , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yuan Expectations  The yuan was little changed at 6.5724 per dollar as of
12:22 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were also
largely unchanged at 6.4595 per dollar as of 12:26 p.m.,
reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 1.7 percent in a
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, 135
miles (220 kilometers) north of Tokyo, was damaged by  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record and a resulting tsunami. It was
rocked by explosions and a fire yesterday, and sea water is
being pumped in to cool reactors and prevent the uncontrolled
release of radioactive material amid further aftershocks.  The spread on the company’s 30 billion yen ($371 million)
in 1.377 percent bonds due October 2019 widened 12 basis points
to 29 basis points yesterday, Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices on Bloomberg show. The spread was 10 basis
points before the March 11 earthquake.  ‘Increased Scrutiny’  “China’s a centrally planned economy, but I think there
may well be increased public scrutiny and questioning of nuclear  power plants ,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong . “The build-out of nuclear
capacity at this kind of pace and scale obviously will carry
some risks.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has put plans to extend the
life of  Germany ’s reactors on hold for three months while the
implications of events at Fukushima are examined. The British
government ordered a review of nuclear safety, and Swiss policy
makers put projects to renew three of their country’s five
nuclear power stations on hold, the Environment Ministry said on
March 14 in an e-mailed statement.  India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who risked his
premiership to secure India’s access to atomic reactors and
supplies, pledged on March 14 that inspectors will review safety
at the nation’s 20 nuclear reactors, two of which are the same
design as those in Japan that are at risk of a meltdown.  China will suspend approval of new nuclear projects until 
revised safety regulations are published, the State Council said 
in a statement today. Existing facilities will be inspected and 
those under construction will be “strictly” reviewed, it said.  “Financing is not a problem for us,” said China
National’s Sun. “Any of our reactors is superior to those in
Japan in terms of technology, equipment and safety. Japanese
nuclear power plants are not comparable to ours.”  -  Henry Sanderson ,  Wang Ying  and Baizhen Chua. Editors: Hugh
Chow, Will McSheehy  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  