-- 
Nuclear Standards in Japan Should Have Been Higher, Grae Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-15T11:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nuclear-standards-in-japan-should-have-been-higher-grae-says.html
Seth Grae, chief executive officer
of Lightbridge Corp., a nuclear consulting firm, comments on
nuclear regulation after leaks from plants in  Japan  following
the nation’s biggest earthquake. He spoke in a telephone
interview today.  “There are many features that these old plants lack. One
of the problems is we’re dealing with a 1971 reactor, it’s like
in a 1971 car that doesn’t have airbags, and we’re going faster
than we anticipated.  “Even the 1970s standards were quite high. The problem is
that you’re taking a reactor system that would never have
experienced the kind of scenario anywhere else. It would work
perfectly well in, say, the middle of the desert in the U.S.
where it would never face this kind of tsunami.  “The reality is that regulatory standards should have been
higher. Reactors could be designed to be very robust and
withstand very extreme situations. I think this very tragic
situation in Japan is what can happen when the event exceeds the
design specifics. I am sure that Japan and its utilities can
build to higher standards if they are set.  “It will be difficult to get local communities to accept
new reactors. Therefore it’s critical that the nuclear
regulators and utilities look at upgrading safety systems to
withstand reasonably foreseeable circumstances beyond the
standards that have been used today. In the longer-term, once
there have been sufficient investigations, I would think that
the logical conclusion would be to build the most modern
reactors and be very careful on the sites.  “Nuclear power makes a lot sense for Japan if done right.
A country can always import hydrocarbons and there is a risk
there as well. But you need a diversified energy base and
nuclear has to be a part of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  