-- 
Aflac, IBM, Las Vegas Sands, Morton’s: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-16T12:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/nvidia-rambus-rue21-vera-bradley-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have-unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:15 a.m. in  New York .    Aflac Inc. (AFL)  : The insurance company, which gets most
of its revenue in  Japan , was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
Deutsche Bank AG.    BPZ Resources Inc. (BPZ)  : The oil and gas company with
operations in  Peru  reported sales for the fourth quarter that
beat the average analyst projection, Bloomberg data show.    International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   declined 1.1
percent to $157.31. The computer services company was cut to
“market perform” from “outperform” at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co.        Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  : The casino company was cut
to “hold” from “buy” at Argus Research Corp.    Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc. (MRT)  : The Chicago-based
steakhouse chain said it’s exploring strategic alternatives,
including a potential sale.    Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  : The maker of three dimensional
graphics processors said Chief Financial Officer David White
resigned for personal reasons.    Rambus Inc. (RMBS)   rose 7.9 percent to $20.25. The
company that sells technology used in computer memory renewed
its five-year agreement with Toshiba Corp. Rambus receives
royalty payments based on shipments in the agreement, which
covers DRAM memory controllers.    Rue21 Inc. (RUE)  : The teen retailer said first-quarter
earnings will be 27 cents to 29 cents a share, compared with the
average estimate of 29 cents, according to Bloomberg data.    Universal Display Corp. (PANL)   rallied 7.4 percent to
$41.00. The developer of technologies used in flat panels posted
fourth-quarter revenue that exceeded the average forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.        Vera Bradley Inc. (VRA)  : The maker of women’s handbags
reported fourth-quarter earnings per share that exceeded the
average analyst estimate by 43 percent, on an adjusted basis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  