-- 
Lockheed F-35 Faces ‘Significant’ Software Delays, GAO Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-15T17:48:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/lockheed-f-35-jet-faces-significant-software-delays-gao-says.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s development
of software for its F-35 fighter jet, the Pentagon’s largest
weapons program, is “significantly behind schedule as it enters
its most challenging phase,” according to congressional
auditors.  Program officials were two years late in releasing the
second of five progressively more complex software versions, the
U.S. Government Accountability Office reported at a House Armed
Services Committee  subcommittee  today.  “Each of the remaining three blocks” needed for full war-
fighting capability “are now projected to slip more than three
years” compared with the current schedule, set in 2006, Michael
Sullivan, the GAO director of acquisition management, told the
panel. The final block, originally scheduled for this year,
isn’t anticipated until 2015, he said.  “Delays have cascading effects hampering flight tests,
training” and accrediting 32 laboratories and models needed to
verify software, according to the GAO’s findings. “While
progress is being made, a substantial amount of work remains.”  Lockheed Martin spokesman  John Kent  didn’t immediately
comment in response to an e-mail about the GAO findings.  The testimony distills the watchdog agency’s annual F-35
report, due later this month. Most attention on the $382 billion
program has focused on flight-testing delays and technical
problems with the Marine Corps version -- the most complex model
of the aircraft that’s also being developed in variants for the  Air Force  and the Navy. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in
January put that version on two-year probation.  ‘On the Mark’  “Concerns about the F-35, expressed annually for several
years by GAO, have gone unheeded by the Pentagon and have
largely been right on the mark,” the subcommittee chairman,
Maryland Republican Representative Roscoe Bartlett, said in an
opening statement.  Vice Admiral David Venlet, the Pentagon’s program manager,
said while there have been “challenges” in the program’s cost
and schedule, changes this year to extend development work and
slow production have placed the project “on sound footing.”  Venlet also said Lockheed Martin for the first time in
years has been meeting its delivery schedule, being on-time for
five straight months under a new plan set last September. The
Pentagon also is seeing “progress in controlling aircraft
costs,” he said.  Chronic Delays  The GAO testimony outlines chronic delays in “one of the
largest and most complex” software development efforts in
Pentagon history. That’s as the program is anticipated to
require “unprecedented demands for funding,” Sullivan wrote.  Through 2035, the program to buy 2,457 jets, including 14
test planes, is estimated to require $11 billion annually,
according to unreleased Pentagon budget projections, GAO said.  “After more than nine years in development,” including
four years of overlapping low-rate production, “the program has
not fully demonstrated the aircraft design is stable,
manufacturing processes are mature and the system is reliable,”
said GAO.  Only 4 percent of the aircraft’s capabilities have been
completely verified by flight tests, laboratory results, or
both, GAO said. “The pace of flight testing accelerated
significantly in 2010 but overall progress is still much below
plans forecast several years ago.”  Lockheed Martin and its subcontractors are “improving
operations and implementing” recommendations from a Pentagon-
commissioned panel but haven’t yet demonstrated “a capacity to
efficiently produce at higher production rates,” said GAO.  Improvements Needed  “Substantial improvements in factory throughput and the
supply chain are needed,” GAO said. The program hasn’t yet
“stabilized aircraft design” as “engineering changes continue
at higher-than-expected rates.”  Total labor hours required to produce test aircraft have
increased instead of diminished -- an indication of “lingering
management inefficiencies,” said GAO. Hours to complete
assembly of test aircraft last year “exceeded budgeted hours by
more than 1.5 million,” for example.  The report discloses the financial stakes for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin through 2016 -- the Pentagon’s
five-year F-35 budget plan calls for requesting $50.7 billion
during that period, including $7.9 billion in 2013 and $14.3
billion for the last year. That’s up from the $6.9 billion
requested for fiscal 2012.  Continued Development  Gates this year delayed purchases of 242 F-35s over the
five-year period to slow the program and shift $4.6 billion into
continued development.  Still, “even after decreasing annual quantities,
procurement still escalates significantly,” said Sullivan.  The aircraft depends on software with millions of
additional lines of code compared with the Lockheed Martin F-22A
Raptor or  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F/A-18E/F Super Hornet for fusing data
from numerous sensors, and operating fire control, propulsion
and maintenance diagnostics systems.  “Good progress has been reported on writing code,” but
total lines of software needed continue to grow, said GAO.  “Officials underestimated the time and effort needed to
develop and integrate the software, substantially contributing
to the program’s overall cost and schedule problems, testing
delays and requiring the retention of engineers for longer
periods,” it said.  The total system-development cost since 2001, when Lockheed
Martin won the program from Chicago-based Boeing, has risen to
$56.4 billion from $34.4 billion and has extended to 2018, a
five-year slip from the current schedule that was revised in
2007.  Lockheed Martin’s cost-plus type development contract since
2001 has increased to at least $33.9 billion from $19 billion,
GAO said.  The total program, including development, production and
military construction has increased to $382 billion, up 64
percent from the October 2001 estimate of $233 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at +1-
   acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  