-- 
Vodafone, O2 Forced to Cut U.K. Termination Rates 80%

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-15T10:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ofcom-imposes-limits-on-u-k-mobile-operator-termination-rates.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Telefonica SA’s
O2 unit and other U.K. mobile-phone network operators will be
forced to cut some fees after market regulator Ofcom implemented
European Union recommendations on price reductions.  Ofcom said it will scale back mobile termination rates, the
wholesale charges that operators make to connect calls to each
others’ networks, by about 80 percent over four years. For the
three largest networks, the rates will fall to 0.69 penny per
minute by March 2015 from 4.18 pence per minute currently, the
regulator said in a statement.  The rate cut is less steep than the reduction that Ofcom
initially proposed in April 2010. The rates, which only apply to
voice calls, “are likely to become a less significant element
of mobile companies’ revenue,” Ofcom said today.  Mobile
operators (TEF)  are increasingly relying on Internet data services to
attract customers and boost sales. Ofcom’s proposals, which come
into effect on April 1, have removed charges such as the cost of
spectrum used by the networks.  “We are really disappointed that Ofcom has ignored the
evidence that termination rate cuts will mean higher costs for
pre-pay customers,” Vodafone U.K. Chief Executive Officer Guy
Laurence said in an e-mailed statement. “We are studying
Ofcom’s decision and considering all of our options.”  European Regulation  U.K. operators gained about 3.5 billion pounds ($5.6
billion) in total revenue from termination rates in 2008,
according to Ofcom research last year. The regulator is imposing
the cutbacks after the European Commission, the EU’s antitrust
overseer, said the rates should be limited to about 1.5 euro
cents (2.1 U.S. cents) to 3 euro cents across  Europe  by 2012.  BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone company,
said its customers will benefit from Ofcom’s decision and that
it will pass the new rate to customers as soon as possible. The
company aims to start a service that allows clients to call
mobile phones from their landlines at no extra cost.  Vodafone  fell  as much as 2.9 percent to 170 pence and was
down 2.2 percent as of 9:52 a.m. in  London  trading. The stock
has gained 3.2 percent this year, valuing the company at 88.5
billion pounds. Telefonica  declined  as much as 2.6 percent to
17.085 euros in  Madrid .  The Everything Everywhere joint venture of  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  is the U.K.’s biggest mobile-phone
network, followed by 02 and Vodafone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 