-- 
Oil Trades Near Two-Week Low After Falling on Outlook for Japan's Demand

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-15T22:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/oil-trades-near-two-week-low-after-falling-on-outlook-for-japan-s-demand.html
Oil traded near a two-week low in
New York as concern that damage from  Japan ’s earthquake will
curb crude demand outweighed speculation of supply disruptions
in the Middle East.  Futures tumbled the most in almost five months yesterday
after explosions and fire struck Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima nuclear plant. The March 11 temblor caused a tsunami
that disabled cooling systems at the facility. Bahrain declared
a state of emergency as a second contingent of troops from Gulf
nations poured into the kingdom, while Libyan government forces
moved against rebels.  “The unrest in Libya has been pushed to the back burner by
the tragedy in Japan,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The crisis
“at the Fukushima plant is a sign that we’re looking at a
longer-term problem, which will have a considerable impact on
the Japanese economy.”  Crude for April delivery traded at $97.30 a barrel, up 12
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 9:24 a.m. Sydney time. Yesterday, the contract dropped $4.01,
or 4 percent, to $97.18, the lowest since Feb. 28. Prices fell
the most since Oct. 19 and are up 19 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement declined $5.15, or 4.5
percent, to $108.52 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since Feb.
4, 2010. Prices fell to a three-week low.  Refinery Fire  Refinery closures in Japan have affected about 1.3 million
barrels of the country’s 4.52 million barrels a day of capacity,
based on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan. JX-Nippon
Oil & Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai and Kashima in
the northeastern Tohoku region. A fire at the Sendai plant was
extinguished at about 2:30 p.m. local time yesterday. The
Negishi plant near  Tokyo  is also shuttered.  Cosmo Oil Co. shut its 220,000-barrel-a-day Chiba refinery
following fires at liquefied petroleum gas storage tanks.
Kyokuto Petroleum Industries Ltd. has shuttered its 175,000-
barrel-a-day facility in Ichihara, near the capital.  Japan was responsible for 5.2 percent of global oil demand
in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes its BP Statistical
Review of World Energy each June. Japan is the third-biggest
crude-consuming country after the U.S. and  China .  U.S. crude oil supplies climbed 91,000 barrels last week,
according to the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute.
An Energy Department report today may show stockpiles rose 1.3
million barrels last week from 348.9 million, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Libyan Exports    Libya ’s oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and sanctions following a
rebellion against leader  Muammar Qaddafi , the International
Energy Agency said yesterday in its monthly Oil Market Report.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa of Bahrain asked the head of
the military to guarantee security across the country, state
television said. Clashes between mainly Shiite protesters and
Bahraini forces escalated on March 13, with more than 100 people
injured as demonstrators demanded democracy through elections
from their Sunni monarch.  Troops from the Gulf Cooperation Council, including  Saudi
Arabia , moved into Bahrain on March 14, the first cross-border
intervention since a wave of popular uprisings swept through
parts of the Arab world.  Iran criticized the deployment. “The presence of foreign
troops and meddling into Bahrain’s internal affairs will only
further complicate the issue,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign
Ministry spokesman, said in Tehran yesterday. Bahrain recalled
its ambassador after the statement, the island kingdom’s state
television reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  