-- 
Tokyo Stock Exchange Chief Appeals for Calm After Market’s Two-Day Plunge

-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-16T04:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/tokyo-stock-exchange-chief-appeals-for-calm-after-market-s-two-day-plunge.html
The president of the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange appealed for calm after an earthquake and nuclear
accident triggered the biggest two-day decline in Japanese
stocks since 1987.  Investors and traders should “respond in a calm and
orderly manner” exchange President  Atsushi Saito  said yesterday,
after the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average plunged 11 percent, bringing
its loss since yesterday’s open to 16 percent. The Nikkei and
broader Topix index each fell as much as 14 percent, the biggest
intraday retreats since the October 1987 stock market crash.
Shares rebounded today, with the Topix climbing 4.3 percent as
of 1:40 p.m. in Tokyo.  “The fall yesterday was less related to the potential
economic impact of the earthquake and more about panic and fear
about the nuclear situation,” said Jesse Lentchner, Asia
Pacific chief executive officer for BTIG LLC., a broker dealer,
in a phone interview. “I don’t think people have upgraded their
view on Japan overnight, they’re just back to where they were on
Monday.”  Saito made his statement a day after  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa’s pledge to secure financial stability failed
to halt the rout, spurred by concern the nuclear accident may
cripple the nation’s economy. Shares in the Europe and U.S.
pared earlier declines, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
falling 1.1 percent after sliding 2.7 percent.  Lowest Since 1983  “Saito’s call for a quiet period is a thoughtful
approach,” said Richard Torrenzano, chief executive officer of
the Torrenzano Group, who was spokesman for the New York Stock
Exchange during the 1987 crash. “We’ve seen stock markets in
panic modes before. You have the economy, the companies, the
investors who need to assess the market. There are a lot of very
big things at stake here.”  Japanese stocks are within 10 percent of erasing all the
gains from the  bull market  that began in March 2009 after the
country’s biggest earthquake on record sparked the worst two-day
plunge since 1987.  A 13 percent drop in the Topix to less than 700.93 would
leave it at the lowest level since December 1983, a year after
Sony Corp. unveiled the world’s first mass-produced  compact disc 
player. The measure of 1,666 Japanese companies came within 4
percent of wiping out the bull market advance yesterday after
nuclear power plant explosions raised concern about leaking
radiation and sent the Topix down up to 14 percent.  Japanese stocks entered a bear market yesterday -- with the
Topix extending its drop since April 15, 2010, to more than 20
percent -- after losses from the past three days erased more
than $680 billion in market value from companies in the index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge now trades at
0.91 times the value of net assets for its companies, the lowest
since March 2009.  “It’s a sanity check,” said Marc Harris, co-head of
global research at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “It’s
basically a reset button that shows this is a panic, and when
the market has a panic like this, the actual level has very
little to do with the actual earnings and economic outlook.”  Lehman Losses  The Topix dropped 9.5 percent to 766.73 yesterday, bringing
its slump since the day before the March 11 quake to 18 percent.
The last time the index’s level was this low, on March 19, 2009,
it was six months after the collapse of New York-based Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., and the global economy was contracting
for the first time since World War II.  Global stocks slumped yesterday as  Japan ’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of further radiation leaks increased
at the nuclear facility, located 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of Tokyo in Fukushima. The March 11 quake and subsequent
tsunami led to what Kan called the country’s worst crisis since
World War II.  “They may very well have to close the Tokyo Stock Exchange
for a period of time or alter it in some way,” Torrenzano said
in a telephone interview. “They may shorten the hours, do
something to address the impending disaster of the nuclear
reactor. Everyone around the world will try to be understanding
and thoughtful about that.”  Futures Halted  The Tokyo Stock Exchange halted trading of Topix index
futures twice after prices plunged at 12:31 p.m. and at 12:50
p.m., according to Masanori Onda, an official at the bourse’s
derivatives department. The exchange halted arbitrage trading of
Topix stocks after the index fell more than 100 points. The
exchange said it would lift the halt when the gauge rose above
776.96.  The total number of shares traded on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange’s first section reached a record for a second day. More
than 5.77 billion shares changed hands, exceeding yesterday’s
4.88 billion shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  