-- 
Omega's London 2012 Countdown Clock Stops Functioning 499 Days Too Early

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-15T18:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/omega-s-london-2012-olympic-countdown-clock-stops-working-499-days-early.html
A giant digital clock counting down
to the  London 2012 Olympics  built on Trafalgar Square by Swiss
luxury watch maker  Omega  has stopped working 499 days early.  The steel countdown clock had been unveiled yesterday to
mark 500 days before the opening ceremony on July 27 by London
Mayor  Boris Johnson , chairman of the London organizing committee
Sebastian Coe and four British Olympic gold medalists.  Today, the 6.5 meter (21-foot) high clock stopped working
at 500 days, 7 hours, 6 minutes, 56 seconds. Omega is the
official timekeeper of the Games.  “We are obviously disappointed that the clock has suffered
this technical issue,” Omega said in an e-mailed statement. The
clock had been “fully tested” before being installed on the
square in central London, it added.  Omega, which is owned by the world’s biggest watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , said a team from  Switzerland  is on its way to
try and fix the problem.  The clock wasn’t the only obstacle Games organizers had to
deal with on the first day of 6.6 million tickets going on sale
to the public. Sports fans with Visa credit cards that expire
before the end of August found they were unable to process their
applications for the public ballot.    Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest electronic payments network,
is a London 2012 sponsor and the only card that can be used to
buy tickets.  Inconvenience  “Visa are looking into the possibility of taking the date
forward so more people can apply,” organizing committee
spokesman Adrian Bassett said in an interview.  “We would like to apologize for any inconvenience caused
to those cardholders who are having problems applying for London
2012 tickets,” Visa said in an e-mailed statement. “While we
are aware that cards which expire before August 2011 are not
currently being accepted, as a priority we are working closely
with all relevant parties to resolve this issue as soon as
possible.”  Visa added that the tickets aren’t issued on a first-come,
first-served basis and that any registration taking place by
April 26, 2011, will have an equal chance of success in the
ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  