-- 
London Bankers Prepare for Ski Showdown on Courmayeur Slopes

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/london-bankers-prepare-for-ski-showdown-on-courmayeur-slopes.html
Teams from  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch are waxing their skis this week as
rivalries forged in London’s financial district play out on the
pistes of the Italian Alps.  About 200 competitors, a mixture of former racers and
social skiers, will take on downhill and slalom courses at the
two-day  City Ski Championships  in  Courmayeur  on March 18-19. At
stake are bragging rights when they return to London’s square
mile and new business contacts.  “There’s an added satisfaction beating your business peers
on the slopes,” said Stewart Edgington, who won the best fund
manager category three times when he was at BofA Merrill Lynch.
“The rivalry between certain firms is intense.”  The competition, which began 11 years ago, gives former ski
internationals a chance to relive their glory days, and others
the opportunity to catch up on market gossip and network with
clients in bars and restaurants at the foot of Mont Blanc,
western  Europe ’s highest mountain.  “I always get my butt kicked by some ringer,” said Tommy Moe, who won a gold medal in the 1994 downhill at the Winter
Olympics in Lillehammer,  Norway . “I’m impressed at the level of
skill for a bunch of city folks.”  This year’s celebrity guests will include ex-downhill
racers Graham Bell and  Konrad Bartelski , who became the best-
performing British skier in the Alpine Skiing  World Cup  when he
finished 0.11 seconds behind Austria’s Erwin Resch at Val
Gardena, another Italian resort, in 1981.  Damon Hill , the 1996
Formula 1 world champion, also will attend.  Fastest Banker  Financiers compete for a place on the “Roll of Honor,”
which shows  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as the most frequent winner
in the “fastest banker” category and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as the
“fastest skier in Canary Wharf.”  The men’s competition is open this year because neither
Einar Johansen, who has won seven titles for three different
banks, nor reigning champion Jan Zajackowski, a power broker at  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  and a qualified ski instructor from Combloux in
the French Alps, will be racing.  Josh Matthews, a former Citigroup banker who’s now a
London-based managing partner at  MASECO , reckons he has a
chance. “Every year I seem to be getting faster,” said the
Canadian, who grew up skiing in  Montreal .  The MASECO team, which includes an American, a Briton and a
Frenchman, has been training in Chamonix, a French resort on the
other side of Mont Blanc. The company set up offices in Geneva
and Zurich in 2009 to offer investment and tax compliance advice
to expatriate Americans.  ‘Looking for Victory’  Jonathan Davies, captain of the team sent by UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, is making his third trip to
Courmayeur, a resort that claims Europe’s highest botanical
garden and a cable car that climbs to 3,462 meters (11,359
feet), before crossing glaciers to link with the Aiguille du
Midi in  France .  “We’re going there looking for a victory, especially in
the best fund manager category,” said Davies, 47, head of
currency strategy at UBS Global Investment Solutions in  London .
“But there’s always stiff competition at City Ski.”  Felippo Guerrini-Maraldi, who captains the  Lloyd’s of
London  group drawn from six different insurers, said he started
preparing for the race in the gym two months ago. The Lloyd’s
team also has been practicing in the Swiss resorts of  St. Moritz 
and  Verbier  and at Val d’Isere and Courchevel in France.  The women’s competition, with 42 racers, includes Michelle
Muir, who works in London for Accenture as a consultant to
utilities companies.  “I’ve hired a personal trainer to try and get fitter,”
said Muir, who used to race on artificial slopes in a British
universities competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  