-- 
London Olympic Organizers Turn to $7,280 Tickets to Increase 2012 Revenue

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   P o p p y   T r o w b r i d g e
-- 
2011-03-15T14:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/london-olympic-organizers-turn-to-7-280-tickets-to-increase-2012-revenue.html
The organizers of next year’s
 London Olympics  are widening access to corporate hospitality
tickets for the first time to tap into the market for companies
and wealthy individuals.  About 8.8 million tickets go on sale today, with 75 percent
sold to the public through a six-week lottery on the  London 2012
website . The only way for individuals and non-sponsors to get
guaranteed tickets is through the official hospitality programs.
On-site hospitality had traditionally been limited to backers
and Olympics officials. The Games start July 27.  The  London  organizing committee, or Locog, is counting on
selling packages worth as much as 4,500 pounds ($7,280) a person
to companies in London’s financial district and the wealthy at
the same time the U.K. government is implementing the deepest
spending cuts since World War II. The committee is breaking with
Olympic tradition because the market for corporate hospitality
is “enormous,” Paul Deighton, chief executive officer of the
London organizing committee said in an interview.  “That’s why we decided it was better to make it an
official program,” said Deighton, a former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. banker. “It’s better than corporate hospitality cropping
up unofficially.”  Ticket sales are expected to generate 500 million pounds,
Locog spokesman Adrian Bassett said in an interview. He declined
to say how much of the proceeds would come from public sales and
how much by selling luxury hospitality packages.  Empty Seats  To be sure,  South Africa  hosted 62 World Cup soccer matches
last year, and 97 percent of tickets were sold, generating $300
million. Still, many matches were played in stadiums with empty
seats. U.K. newspapers including the  Daily Mail  have criticized
Locog for selling “the most expensive ever” tickets in sport
amid faltering economic growth.  “We’ve seen criticism in the media about sponsorship since
the financial crisis, and corporate hospitality is probably at
the cutting edge of that criticism because it can be portrayed
as a jolly,” Shaun Whatling, CEO of London-based independent
sponsorship adviser  Redmandarin Ltd. , said in an interview.  Entertaining important contacts is “absolutely” necessary
to maintain relationships with clients, said Whatling, whose
clients include  Bank of Scotland , Credit Suisse and Virgin
Media.  Hospitality packages, which are also being sold by the
U.K.’s Thomas Cook Group Plc and Far Hills, New Jersey-based Jet
Set Sports, will be sold on a “first come, first served”
basis, and account for less than 5 percent of the 8.8 million
total.  Ballot  The majority of Olympics tickets will be sold in a ballot,
giving every applicant an equal chance of attending an Olympic
event. Prices range from 20 pounds a seat for preliminary rounds
to 2,012 pounds for the opening and closing ceremonies. Both
sets go on sale today.  A ticket will be guaranteed in the luxury on-site
hospitality packages sold by  Prestige Ticketing Ltd. , which has
been allocated less than 1 percent of the seats. Its prices
range from 225 pounds for the Olympic soccer tournament at
London’s Wembley Stadium to 4,500 pounds for the opening and
closing ceremonies, athletics, track cycling or swimming.  Some 5,000 companies have already approached Prestige about
buying the top-end packages, the company said. Wealthy
individuals from the U.S. have expressed an interest in the
basketball event, while affluent Chinese have made enquiries
about the table tennis, Prestige said.  In order to ensure the London organizing committee that
there won’t be any empty seats at less-attractive sessions,
Prestige is selling its top events in combination with other
sessions. That means buyers won’t be able to cherry-pick high-
profile events, Prestige marketing director Tony Barnard said.  Package Deal  For example, anyone who wants to buy a table for a minimum
of ten people for the opening ceremony also has to purchase two
tables of ten for a cheaper category sport such as the handball,
hockey or water polo that averages at around 500 pounds. So the
total cost of entertaining 30 guests over three days would come
55,000 pounds, or 1,833 pounds a guest.  “We want to make sure we sell out the hospitality program,
we don’t want any empty seats,” Barnard said.  Yet, that’s exactly what may happen, Joe Cohen, founder and
CEO of fan-to-fan ticket exchange website  Seatwave  said in an
interview.  Cohen said there is a “a real risk” of empty stands at
some of the stadiums because holders of a ticket won’t be able
to sell any unwanted tickets on a floating-price exchange.
Instead, Locog allows ticket holders to sell back unwanted
tickets at face value.  A fixed price isn’t an “accurate reflection of the market
and therefore there will be very little liquidity and very
little trading on that exchange,” Cohen said.  “So if anyone has a 100 meter final ticket to sell, they
are going to sell it on the black market,” Cohen said. “They
are not going to sell it for 750 pounds if it’s worth 5,000
pounds. The tickets will find a buyer who is willing to pay the
market price, regardless of what Locog wishes to do.”    EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the owner of the largest e-commerce market, is
cooperating with the London organizing committee to prevent the
unauthorized resale of tickets.  “The resale of Olympic tickets is illegal and we are
working closely with the organizers of the games to ensure tough
and effective filters are in place to identify and remove such
tickets if anyone attempts to sell them,” EBay said in an e-
mailed statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ; Poppy Trowbridge in London at 
   ptrowbridge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  