-- 
Honeywell Sees U.S. as ‘Emerging’ Market for Car Turbochargers

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-15T14:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/honeywell-sees-u-s-as-emerging-market-for-car-turbochargers.html
  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
world’s largest maker of turbochargers, expects use of the
devices to double in new U.S. automobiles by 2015 as tighter
fuel economy standards foster an emerging market.  About 20 percent of engines built in the U.S.,  Canada  and
Mexico will  include turbochargers , up from an estimated 9
percent this year, the Morris Township, New Jersey-based company
said. The U.S. figure lags behind a projected 67 percent this
year in Europe, 28 percent in  India  and 13 percent in  China .  The U.S. has among the lowest turbo use in the world,
making it an “emerging region from a turbo standpoint,” Alex Ismail, head of the transportation systems division, said in an
interview yesterday in New York. “If you think about the U.S.
just mirroring what’s happening in  Europe  and/or the rest of the
world, Honeywell has a long story of growth ahead of us.”  Honeywell’s turbochargers work with gas- or diesel-burning
engines in vehicles from Tata Motors Ltd.’s Nano, with its 0.8-
liter engine, to a Caterpillar Inc. mining truck with a 100-
liter engine.  Honeywell’s projection for the portion of new U.S.
automobiles with turbochargers is predicated on continued
acceptance of gas and diesel turbos as well as sales growth in
the  auto industry , Deane Dray, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in New
York, said in an interview.  “We think it’s a very realistic goal,” said Dray, who has
a “hold” rating on the shares.  Turbos are more popular in Europe because of higher  oil
prices  and stricter carbon-emission standards, Ismail said. In
the U.S., automakers are promoting turbochargers as they work to
meet a government mandate that manufacturers’ automobile fleets
run an average 35.5 miles per gallon of gasoline by 2016 from 25
miles per gallon now.  Cruze, EcoBoost  General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet Cruze Eco uses a 1.4-liter
turbocharged engine that provides power comparable to a 1.8-
liter engine, only with better fuel economy. The Cruze Eco gets
as much as 42 miles per gallon on the highway.    Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to
equip 90 percent of its North American models with turbocharged
EcoBoost engines by 2013, the company has said. The automaker
has said in two years it plans to have annual production of 1 .5
million  of the engines, which use turbochargers to add power
while feeding precise amounts of fuel to the cylinders to
improve efficiency. Ford has said the engine can improve fuel
economy as much as 20 percent.  Honeywell sells turbochargers through its transportation
systems division, which posted $4.21 billion in revenue last
year, or about 13 percent of company sales.  The turbocharger operations represent about 60 percent of
the transportation unit’s revenue. The company doesn’t provide
financial data for businesses within the transportation unit,
said Joe Toubes, a Honeywell spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in  New York  at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  