-- 
Ping An Sells $2.5 Billion of Shares to Billionaire to Boost Its Solvency

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-15T08:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/hong-kong-s-fourth-richest-billionaire-buys-ping-an-stake-for-2-5-billion.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
raised HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion) selling shares to a  Hong
Kong  billionaire to help China’s second-largest insurance
company boost capital. Shares fell the most in almost two years.  Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd., controlled by the family of the
Hong Kong tycoon  Cheng Yu-tung , bought 272 million shares at
HK$71.50 each, according to a Hong Kong exchange filing late
yesterday. The new stock represents 3.44 percent of expanded
share capital, and Ping An will use the money to increase its
solvency ratio and “broaden the capital scale,” it said.  Chairman Peter Ma is raising funds after saying in
September Ping An will pay 29.1 billion yuan ($4.4 billion) for
control of  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  to enhance banking
operations. The share sale will lift Shenzhen-based Ping An’s
solvency margin, which measures its ability to solve claims, to
248 percent from 218 percent as of June 30, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., preparing the insurer for further
expansion in the world’s second-biggest economy.  “Our conservative estimate is this covers any capital
shortage through 2012,” Guosen Securities Co. analyst Tong Chengdun said in an e-mailed note today.  Ping An shares fell as much as 7.6 percent and closed down
6.1 percent at HK$76.70 on the Hong Kong stock exchange, the
biggest drop since April 28, 2009. The stock was suspended
yesterday pending the announcement.  ‘Less Justified’  Deutsche Bank AG questioned the strategic value in
introducing Chow Tai Fook and said Ping An’s choice of a private
placement is “less justified” than a full rights offer from
the viewpoint of existing shareholders.  “We are not of the view that Ping An group needs further
capital in the next two years to finance its growth or capital
commitment for acquiring 51 percent of Shenzhen Development
Bank,” analyst Bob Leung said in a report dated yesterday.
“Stock weakness is expected in the short term.”  The solvency ratio of Ping An’s property and casualty unit
dropped 7.4 percentage points in the first half of 2010 to 136.2
percent, as premiums surged by 61 percent, and the gauge for its
life insurance arm fell 20 percentage points to 206.3 percent,
according to company filings. Insurers are required to hold more
capital as they collect more premiums because that signals
higher repayment risks over potential claims.  ‘Remains Odd’  “It remains odd to us that other institutional investors
would not have aggressively pursued this deal given the large
discount and short lock-up period,” Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Investment Co., wrote today. “Given
management’s reluctance to verbally commit to refrain from
further fund-raising in the coming years, it is possible that
there may be more equity-capital raising in the future.”  Chow Tai Fook’s short position of 196 million Ping An H-
shares also “fueled speculation that the placement may be used
to cover CTF’s short position in Ping An’s stock,” Sheng wrote
in an e-mailed report after a conference call with the insurer’s
management earlier today.  “Perhaps we will see someone issuing derivative warrants
on the back of this,”  David Webb , a shareholder activist and
publisher of Webb-site.com, wrote today on his website,
referring to the short position. “Ping An and its advisers
should come clean and tell the market what the arrangement is,
whether they are involved, and who else is.”  Webb also questioned why Ping An chose to place the shares
with a particular investor and not through a rights offer to
existing shareholders.  Underwriting Profitability  Ping An will pay 2.69 billion yuan in cash and inject its
banking unit into the Shenzhen Development Bank in return for a
22.4 percent stake, raising its holdings to 52.39 percent. It
raised its stake in the bank to 29.99 percent in June by buying
a stake from Newbridge Capital LLC and new shares.  Ping An Insurance achieved “much better” underwriting
profitability for non-life business last year than in 2009 as
expenses dropped, Shi Liangxun, vice president of Ping An
Property & Casualty Insurance Co., said on March 1.  It will be “very difficult” to lower the unit’s combined
ratio, which measures expenses and claims as a percentage of
premiums earned, further this year, Shi said. The unit will find
it hard to exceed an estimated 20 percent average premium growth
for  China ’s non-life insurance industry this year, Shi said.  Solvency Rules  The insurer’s Shanghai shares dropped 4 percent on Jan. 6
after a Citic Securities Co. report saying Ping An may need to
raise up to 40 billion yuan.  Chinese insurers may be subject to dividend payout
restrictions when their solvency ratios drop below 150 percent,
according to government rules. They may also be ordered to
submit plans to prevent the gauge from falling below 100 percent,
when the regulator can freeze approvals for new branches, curb
management pay and restrict the scope of investment.  Chinese banks raised about $72 billion from sales of stock
and convertible bonds last year, after a record expansion of
credit brought down their capital adequacy levels and as the
banking regulator considers higher requirements to prevent risks.  Cheng controls property company New World Development Co.
and was ranked by Forbes Magazine as Hong Kong’s fourth-richest
person. Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , last year invested
in a rights offer by London-based Prudential Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  