-- 
Topix Is Within 14% of Losing Bull Market Gains After Worst Drop Since '87

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-16T04:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/topix-is-within-10-of-losing-bull-market-gains-after-worst-drop-since-87.html
Japanese stocks are within 14
percent of erasing all the gains from the  bull market  that began
in March 2009 after the country’s biggest earthquake on record
sparked the worst two-day plunge since 1987.  A 13 percent drop in the Topix to less than 700.93 would
leave it at the lowest level since December 1983, a year after
Sony Corp. unveiled the world’s first mass-produced  compact disc 
player. The measure of 1,666 Japanese companies came within 4
percent of wiping out the bull-market advance yesterday after
nuclear-power-plant explosions raised concern about leaking
radiation and sent the Topix down by as much as 14 percent.  Japanese stocks entered a bear market yesterday -- with the
Topix extending its drop since April 15, 2010, to more than 20
percent -- after losses from the past three days erased more
than $680 billion in market value from companies in the index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge now trades at
0.91 times the value of net assets for its companies, the lowest
since March 2009.  “It’s a sanity check,” said Marc Harris, co-head of
global research at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “It’s
basically a reset button that shows this is a panic, and when
the market has a panic like this, the actual level has very
little to do with the actual earnings and economic outlook.”  Lehman Lows  The Topix dropped 9.5 percent to 766.73 yesterday, bringing
its slump since the day before the March 11 quake to 18 percent.
The last time the index’s level was this low, on March 19, 2009,
it was six months after the collapse of New York-based Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., and the global economy was contracting
for the first time since World War II.  Japanese stocks rose for the first time in five days,
gaining 5.1 percent to 805.9 percent as of the 11 a.m. trading
break in  Tokyo , amid speculation that the selloff that drove
valuations to a 28-month low was excessive.  Last week’s magnitude 9 earthquake has closed factories at
Tokyo-based Sony and Toyota Motor Corp., sent more than 300,000
people to emergency shelters and may have killed 10,000 in
Miyagi prefecture north of Tokyo, according to company
statements and police estimates.  “They were in an ugly situation before this, and they’re
certainly not better off now,” said Jason Brady, a managing
director at Thornburg Investment Management, which manages $77
billion in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “No one knows exactly what’s
going on, and the market is trying to find the right price.”  Trading in an exchange-traded fund linked to Japanese
stocks shows investors expected shares in the world’s third-
largest economy to rebound when trading resumed.  Lowest Since July  The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ)  tracking 323 securities
fell 0.2 percent to $10.03 yesterday after earlier reaching
$9.24, its lowest intraday level since July. That compares with
the 9.1 percent plunge in the MSCI Japan Index earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s trading with a lot of premium,” said Scott Burns,
director of ETF analysis at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “That
happens with mistimed ETFs when the underlying market is closed.
Typically, the market price is a leading indicator for what
would happen tomorrow when the market opens there, and it’s
especially true when we see more severe dislocations.”  In the U.S. options market, call trades on the ETF jumped
to a record. An investor bought 102,500 April $11 calls while
selling the same number of April $8 puts to sell the ETF at
about 11 a.m. New York time yesterday, according to Pipeline
Trading Systems LLC.  “It’s somebody picking a spot in the sand here, drawing
the line and saying, ‘At these levels, I definitely want to be
long,’” said Etai Friedman, head derivatives trader at MKM
Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .    Japan  Lagged Behind  Even at the height of the Topix rally in April 2010, when
the index was up 43 percent from the low, the advance still
trailed all of the world’s major developed markets amid concern
that economic growth was slowing in Japan.  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent
rate in the three months ended Dec. 31, more than the 1.1
percent contraction previously reported, the Cabinet Office said
last week. In October, the Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund  said Japan may expand 1.5 percent in 2011, the
fifth-worst rate among the world’s 24 developed nations. The
country’s real GDP grew at an average 0.8 percent pace in the
past 10 years, compared with 1.7 percent in the U.S.  The losses this week have pared the Topix’s advance since
March 9, 2009, when global markets bottomed, to 13 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has soared almost 90 percent since
then, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index is up 69 percent.  Volatility Index  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a measure of
Japanese option prices, has surged 229 percent to a two-year
high of 69.88 in the past three days. The gauge, similar to the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index for U.S. equity
derivatives, closed at this year’s low of 16.12 on Feb. 8 and
implies a 20 percent swing in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in
the next 30 days.  “It takes a very brave guy to put his toe in the water
when we can’t fully comprehend how disruptive the nuclear events
are going to be on economic growth,” said Henry Herrmann,  Overland Park , Kansas-based president of Waddell & Reed
Financial Inc., which manages $90 billion. “If everything were
normal, I would say Japanese stocks are cheap, but things aren’t
normal.”  The Bank of Japan’s step to provide short-term liquidity
and expand an asset-purchase program failed to contain investor
panic yesterday. The central bank unleashed a record 15 trillion
yen ($183 billion) in one-day operations and doubled its asset-
purchase program to 10 trillion yen.  Insurance Claims  Insurers may face claims of as much as $34 billion tied to
the earthquake, which would make the disaster the second
costliest ever, according to risk-modeling consultants AIR
Worldwide.  Atsushi Saito, president and chief executive officer of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, asked investors to adopt “a calm and
orderly manner” following third-worst decline in history
yesterday for the Topix, according to a  statement  released by
the exchange.  The Topix has fallen 72 percent from its all-time high of
2,884.80 in Dec. 18, 1989, the height of the country’s real-
estate bubble. The MSCI All-World Index of stocks in 45 nations
has jumped more than 135 percent since then.  “The selloff in their stock market, part of it is real
because it reflects the damage to the economy, but part of it is
psychological,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
oversee $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “You see your portfolio declining that much, you move
out of stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  