-- 
Outgoing FHA Commissioner Will Head Mortgage Bankers Group

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-15T21:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/outgoing-fha-commissioner-will-head-mortgage-bankers-group-1-.html
Federal Housing Administration
Commissioner David H. Stevens will become head of the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  after he leaves his government post this
month, the trade group said.  Stevens last week announced his intention to resign from
the housing agency. He will join the Washington-based bankers
group in May.  Michael D. Berman, chairman of the bankers group, called
Stevens “uniquely qualified” for the job.  “He has had a tremendous impact at FHA,” Berman said in a
statement today.  Stevens, 54, has been working with other federal officials
to craft a settlement over widespread errors in foreclosure
procedures with mortgage servicers, including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
Bank of America Corp. and PNC Financial Service Group -- all of
which are members of the trade group.  The mortgage bankers group represents more than 2,400
companies including lenders, brokers, commercial banks, thrifts
and life insurers, according to its website.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development, led by
Secretary Shaun Donovan, said in a statement that Stevens has
been working with the agency’s general counsel to ensure that no
ethics rules are violated during the transition.  Recusal  “He will have no further contact with the MBA or any of
its member organizations with respect to any matter pending
before HUD,” agency spokesman Neill Coleman said. “This
recusal goes beyond what is legally required but both Secretary
Donovan and Commissioner Stevens believe it is important to
ensure there is not even an appearance of a conflict of
interest.”  Under federal law, Stevens can’t lobby the agency for two
years after he leaves office.  “It’s the way of  Washington . Time and again people who
serve in important government capacities cash in that experience
and go work for the private sector,” said Dave Levinthal,
spokesman for the Center for Responsive Politics, a non-profit
group that monitors lobbying. “We see hundreds of examples of
people spinning through the revolving door.”  Stevens worked for more than two decades in the financial-
services industry before joining the FHA, including as president
of Long and Foster Cos., a privately held real estate firm. He
was instrumental in the government efforts to steady the housing
system after its collapse in 2008.  He will replace John A. Courson, who joined the MBA in
August 2008 and became chief executive officer in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 