-- 
Toyota Will Open Parts Factories Tomorrow After Quake Halt; Shares Rebound

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-16T10:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/toyota-to-decide-tomorrow-about-resuming-japan-production.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  gained the most
in more than two years in Tokyo trading as carmakers and
suppliers began to reopen factories closed after Japan’s
strongest earthquake on record.  The world’s biggest carmaker rose 9.1 percent to 3,345 yen,
the biggest daily gain since December 2008, after plunging 15
percent over the two previous days. Nissan Motor Co. recovered
6.2 percent and Honda Motor Co. regained 3.9 percent.  Toyota, which halted all plants in Japan after the March 11
quake through today and canceled overtime at U.S. factories,
will reopen seven plants in Aichi prefecture tomorrow morning,
said Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman in Tokyo.  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. (7211)  and tiremaker  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  reopened plants today that
were shut after the magnitude-9.0 quake off the coast of
northern  Japan , which may have killed as many as 10,000 people.  Japan’s “automotive industry is facing acute and
unprecedented problems relating to component and power-supply
shortages,”  Paul Newton , a London-based auto analyst for IHS
Automotive, said in an e-mail message.  Toyota will keep 21 plants shut until March 22,  Paul
Nolasco , a spokesman for the carmaker, said by phone today. The
company may lose 95,000 units of production, said  Shiori
Hashimoto , a spokeswoman.  Toyota’s profit may be cut by 6.5 billion yen ($80 million)
for each day of lost output, said analyst Koji Endo at Advanced
Research Japan in Tokyo.  Completing Assessment  The absence of component supplies and adequate power will
make it difficult even for the least-affected automakers to
resume production this week, IHS’s Newton said.  Honda and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  have said all their plants in
Japan will be closed until March 20. Suzuki Motor Corp. planned
to keep all factories in the nation shut until March 21. Nissan,
Japan’s second-biggest carmaker, said the company and an
affiliate would reopen one plant tomorrow and another on March
18. Two factories will remain closed until March 20 while
another will operate partially. No decision has been made on
reopening a sixth plant.  Mitsubishi, Bridgestone  Mitsubishi resumed production at its three plants in
central and western Japan, Yuki Murata, a spokesman for the
Tokyo-based carmaker, said today. The factories will continue
running tomorrow, though no decision has been made about
continuing output after that, the company said.  Bridgestone, the world’s biggest tiremaker, reopened three
plants in Tochigi prefecture, two of which will begin deliveries
of tires for cars, trucks and motorcycles from March 18,
according to a faxed statement.  Mitsubishi rose 6.8 percent in  Tokyo  and closed at 94 yen,
after plunging 20 percent over the previous two days.
Bridgestone surged 7 percent, rebounding from a 10 percent two-
day slump.  None of Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota’s factories in the
northern Tohoku region hit by the tsunami sustained serious
damage, the company said. Toyota sent 60 employees to Tohoku to
assist workers and their families and assess factory damage,
Nolasco said.    North America   The  Primearth EV Energy Co.  plant, a Toyota subsidiary that
makes batteries in Miyagi prefecture for hybrid autos such as
the Prius, suffered minor damage to production lines, Nolasco
said.  In North America, Toyota slowed production by canceling
overtime shifts to conserve parts until conditions in Japan are
better understood, said Mike Goss, a U.S.-based spokesman.  “We’re waiting for TMC to complete an assessment of
suppliers in Japan and our suppliers’ suppliers,” said Goss,
who’s based in Erlanger,  Kentucky .  Some of the parts from the seven plants that reopen
tomorrow morning in Japan will be for export to factories
outside Japan, spokesman Kirimoto said today.  Toyota’s main port facility in Tahara, Japan, for vehicle
shipments to the U.S. wasn’t damaged by the quake and tsunami,
the company said.  While Toyota produces about 70 percent of the vehicles it
sells in the U.S. at local plants and sites in Canada and  Mexico , it relies on Japan for most of its Lexus luxury models,
Scion vehicles and the Prius hybrid.  Honda’s U.S. Operations  Honda hasn’t altered its U.S. assembly schedule, said Ron Lietzke, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based company’s manufacturing
unit in Marysville,  Ohio .  Nissan hasn’t adjusted assembly operations at its plants in
the U.S. and Mexico, said Paula Angelo, a Nissan spokeswoman.  Honda and Nissan are each likely losing about 1.7 billion
yen per day for each day their factories in Japan remain closed,
said Endo, who is based in Tokyo.  Japan’s  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  is extending a
production halt at five factories in Gunma prefecture until
March 20, spokesman Kenta Matsumoto said yesterday. The maker of
Subaru cars, partly owned by Toyota, also will postpone the
announcement of its mid-term business plan that had been
scheduled for March 24, Matsumoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  