-- 
Toyota, Plaintiffs’ Lawyers Close to Agreement on Evidence

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-03-16T01:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/toyota-plaintiffs-lawyers-close-to-agreement-on-evidence.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lawyers and
attorneys for plaintiffs suing the automaker over claims of
unintended sudden acceleration told a judge today they are close
to resolving a major hurdle in pre-trial evidence-gathering.  Company attorneys said they have come up with a new concept
for providing the plaintiffs’ attorneys access to Toyota’s
secret source codes for the electronic throttle-control system,
which the plaintiffs have said in court papers is critical to
determining whether the system played a part in sudden
acceleration.  The concept was described during the hearing by the lawyers
as a technological procedure in which the plaintiffs’ experts
will be able to analyze the source code while Toyota monitors
the procedure in a way that satisfies the company’s security
concerns. Both sides told the judge they were optimistic this
would resolve a dispute that has lasted more than 2 1/2 months.  “This seems to be an infinitely better idea from a lot of
aspects,” U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
California, said at a hearing today. Selna, who has been pushing
to have the first cases go to trial in early 2013, scheduled a
March 22 hearing to approve the final form of the proposal and
iron out any disagreements.  Hundreds of Cases  Selna is overseeing hundreds of cases coordinated in
multidistrict litigation. The federal lawsuits against Toyota
alleging economic loss, wrongful death or personal injury from
sudden unintended acceleration were consolidated before him in
April.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles last year and in 2009, most for defects related to
unintended acceleration. It paid a record $48.8 million in fines
for how some of the recalls were conducted. The carmaker, based
in Toyota City,  Japan , said last month that it’s recalling
another 2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-
mat flaws that could jam gas pedals.  Toyota has disputed any flaws in its electronic throttle
control system. Last month,  NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said their probe
of possible electronics defects found no causes for unintended
acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals and floor
mats that jammed the pedals. Those were the causes Toyota had
identified.  Access to the source code, which is the programming for the
throttle system, has been described by the judge as one of the
key issues to be resolved in order to bring the first cases to
trial on schedule. The judge has ruled that the plaintiffs’
lawyers have a right to review the code to allow their experts
to determine whether the system caused the acceleration
problems.  Sufficient Safeguards  Toyota lawyers have said they want sufficient safeguards to
prevent the codes, which are trade secrets, from becoming public
and available to their competitors.  “The source code is probably the most important part of
the science aspect of this case,”  Mark Robinson , one of the
lead plaintiffs’ attorneys told the judge today. Robinson
described the new proposal as a “brilliant idea.”  “We apologize to the court for the time it has taken but
we’ve been working very hard and there’s been no foot-
dragging,” Joel Smith, a Toyota attorney, told the judge.  “We want to get these cases to trial,” said Smith, who
described the technical problems of providing access to the
source code as “a huge hurdle.” Smith told the judge the
concept still needs to be approved by Toyota officials. “This
has to be taken up a higher chain,” he said.  Crown Jewel  “Toyota’s source code is the crown jewel of the company’s
intellectual property and deserves the highest levels of
protection and oversight during discovery,”  Celeste Migliore , a
Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
plaintiffs’ convenience should not outweigh Toyota’s ability to
rigorously guard the confidentiality of this code.”  “Toyota, in good faith, has continued to work with
plaintiffs’ attorneys to address their concerns while
maintaining necessary security for the source code and ensuring
these cases can get to trial,” she said.  Selna has at several previous hearings pushed both sides to
reach agreements over this matter.  “We’ve got to come to a resolution,” he said today.
“This has to happen so we can move on. I take Toyota at its
word that it wants to get these cases to trial and I know the
plaintiffs want to do so, also.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:  Bill Callahan  in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 