-- 
HP’s CEO Expands Move Into Cloud Computing, Lifts Dividend

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-03-15T20:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/hp-s-apotheker-swells-move-into-cloud-computing-lifts-dividend.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker , announcing his strategy for the first
time since taking the helm, plans a deeper push into software
and the expanding market for computing delivered via the Web.  The company is starting a cloud-computing service that will
let developers create applications for consumers and businesses
using HP tools and that run on HP servers, Apotheker said at an
event yesterday in San Francisco. HP also plans to put its WebOS
mobile software onto a broader range of products, ramping up
output to more than 100 million devices a year, he said. The
company also announced a 50 percent increase in its dividend.  “Everything that we do in the future will be delivered as
a service,” Apotheker said. “It’s the first time HP is trying
to put all of the elements of what it’s doing together.”  Apotheker aims to get more HP products working in tandem,
and expand in software markets dominated by rivals  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  The approach may make
its machines more attractive to corporate customers, said  Tim Bajarin , an analyst at consulting firm Creative Strategies.
Still, the CEO must guard against overspending on the cloud,
which requires much computing power to deliver software broadly,
said Jayson Noland, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.  “To really take that market on, you need to make a big
capex investment,” San Francisco-based Noland, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares, said in an interview. “It’s
an asset-heavy approach.”  Break From the Past  From a competitive perspective, HP should be able to trade
on its respected brand name, Noland said. Apotheker is breaking
from his predecessor  Mark Hurd  by concentrating on revenue
growth instead of cost-cutting, Noland said.  Hewlett-Packard shares have declined 12 percent since Hurd
resigned in August, and sales growth will be slower this year
and next, compared with the average 8 percent growth under Hurd,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  In a move that may assuage disgruntled investors, HP raised
its quarterly dividend for the first time in 13 years,
increasing it to 12 cents a share from 8 cents, Chief Financial
Officer  Cathie Lesjak  said at yesterday’s event. She also said
the company will remain an “active acquirer” and focus software
growth on cloud products.  HP, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , fell 56 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $40.93 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have lost 2.8 percent this year.  Online App Store  HP will both build and acquire the software it needs to
help companies write and run applications via Hewlett-Packard’s
cloud service, Apotheker said. The company will take a
“disciplined” approach to takeovers, he said.  The company will offer applications for corporations and
consumers via an online store.  “Any developer can deliver his or her innovation to either
the consumer, the enterprise or the small and midsize business,”
Apotheker said during a question-and-answer session with
reporters. “HP has the ambition of being in all layers of the
cloud.”  Hewlett-Packard may let other companies distribute their
software through its cloud service, Apotheker said. In a veiled
reference to his former employer SAP AG, he singled out
applications providers, “some of whom are in  Germany .”  Apotheker plans to make better use of the WebOS software
that HP gained in last year’s $1.2 billion purchase of
smartphone maker Palm, installing it on every PC shipped by HP
next year. The PCs will also be able to run Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows.  ‘Big Play’  The company has an advantage when it comes to the corporate
market, said Creative Strategies’ Bajarin.  “That 100 million devices number is the most important
thing I heard,” Bajarin said. “It could be a big play for HP” in
terms of enterprise customers, he said. “No one else is driving
that route.”  HP also said it would begin shipping a new computer
tailored for data analysis soon after it closes the acquisition
of software company Vertica in the second quarter, which ends in
April.  Hewlett-Packard’s ability to sell to consumers and
businesses alike will serve it well, since computer users
increasingly rely on the same devices for both personal and
business-related tasks, said Joshua Greenbaum, a software-
industry analyst at Enterprise Applications Consulting. HP
competes for developers’ attention with Microsoft, Amazon.com
Inc. and Google Inc.  “This convergence of the consumer and the enterprise is a
huge issue, and one that HP can really leverage,” Greenbaum said
in an interview. “All software is moving to the cloud.”  R&D Spending Lag  Hewlett-Packard’s sales may rise 3.7 percent in fiscal 2011
and 4.4 percent in 2012, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict.
HP forecast quarterly and annual sales on Feb. 22 that missed
analysts’ projections amid lackluster consumer demand and
sinking services revenue.  Apotheker said HP could earn $7 a share by fiscal 2014,
compared with the average $5.24 estimate for 2011 of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Analysts estimate HP will earn $1.21 in the second quarter,
which ends in April, and $1.24 in the third quarter, which ends
in July.  In an interview last month, Apotheker said he would
overhaul the $41 billion personal-computer division and increase
research and development spending to help HP deliver innovative
products to the market faster.  Hurd, who was HP’s CEO for more than five years, boosted
sales and shareholder returns through more than $24.3 billion in
acquisitions and cost-cutting that included plans to eliminate
at least 48,000 jobs. Research and development spending declined
from 4 percent of sales at the end of 2005 when Hurd took over,
to 2.3 percent of sales by the end of 2010.  Hurd departed Aug. 6 after HP said he had violated its
standards of business conduct.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  