-- 
Pandit Picks Emerging Markets as Citigroup Future in New Risk

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-15T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/pandit-picks-slumping-emerging-markets-as-future-for-citigroup-in-new-risk.html
Vikram Pandit, who steered  Citigroup Inc. (C)  through a $45 billion government bailout, has
staked his bank’s future on emerging markets -- just as
investors are pulling back.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender by assets, now
earns more than half its profit from developing countries, Chief
Executive Officer Pandit said at a March 9 conference in New
York. The bank increased assets in Latin America and Asia by 16
percent to more than $470 billion last year, adding customers in
countries such as Brazil,  Mexico  and  India .  Pandit, 54, predicted in June 2009 that Citigroup would
become the “largest emerging-markets financial-services
company,” a long-term bet that could pay off if growth rates
keep soaring. The expansion, which coincides with two regulatory
reports questioning the firm’s ability to manage risk, could
also make it more vulnerable than other U.S. lenders.  “If it grows like a weed, maybe it is a weed,” said Mike Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole SA in  New York  who
recommends investors sell Citigroup shares. “They’ve had risk-
management mishaps. We’re not convinced the culture has changed
enough to prevent similar mishaps from occurring.”  As rising inflation threatens growth in developing
countries, investors have withdrawn more than $21 billion from
emerging-market equity funds this year, about 22 percent of what
flowed in last year, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based financial-research firm. The MSCI EM Index,
which tracks shares of 812 companies in countries including
Brazil and India, has fallen 2.9 percent in 2011 after more than
doubling during the two previous years.  ‘Risks of Overheating’  Citigroup, which previously has stumbled in  Japan  and Latin
America, costing the bank at least $4 billion in writedowns,
operates in more than 100 countries. It has more than 50,000
employees in  Asia  and 28 million customers in Latin America,
according to the New York-based  company’s website .  Pandit, who declined to be interviewed for this story,
acknowledged in a speech in New York last month that many
emerging economies are “operating at or near capacity, and
there are risks of overheating.”  Still, he has framed his strategy in emerging markets as
one that aims to capitalize over the long run on the rise of a
new middle class. Consumers in developing Asia may spend $32
trillion in 2030, compared with $4.3 trillion at the end of
2008, according to an  August 2010 report  by the Asian
Development Bank.  “The underlying secular story is really strong in a lot of
these markets,” Pandit said at the March 9 conference.  ‘Potential Slowdown’  The bank’s shares have fallen 12 percent since touching a
16-month high on Jan. 14, in part because of the “potential
slowdown in emerging economies,”  Richard Bove , a Lutz, Florida-
based analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC, wrote in a March 2
note. Bove recommends investors buy Citigroup shares.    Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , one of Pandit’s rivals for banking
dominance in emerging markets, fell 6.8 percent during the same
period, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  declined 8.4 percent.  Both London-based banks rely on Asia for more than half of
their income and avoided bailouts during the financial crisis.
HSBC posted annual profits throughout the period, while Standard
Chartered reported its seventh successive record annual profit
this month. Standard Chartered shares trade for 1.58 times net
assets, a measure of investors’ expectations, almost double the
ratio of Citigroup, whose shares trade for 0.8 times net assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Profit  Citigroup reported net income of $10.6 billion in 2010, the
bank’s first profitable year since Pandit became CEO in December
2007. The results were boosted by consumer-banking units in Asia
and Latin America, where net income more than doubled to $4.1
billion on increased lending, compared with a 17 percent drop at
the U.S. business.  In Asia, regional co-CEOs  Stephen Bird  and Shirish Apte
added almost $10 billion of loans, about half linked to real
estate, as loan volume grew 19 percent to $61.2 billion at the
end of 2010. Bird said in August that he wants to triple staff
in  China  to 12,000 in three years.  Citigroup has a bigger loan book in India than Standard
Chartered with a branch network half the size, according to
Mayo. The bank had what it calls a “cross-border exposure” of
$28.3 billion in India at the end of 2010, compared with $24.9
billion the previous year, according to a company filing. The
figure is the difference between Citigroup’s liabilities and
claims in the country and includes loans to banks as well as
investments in local franchises.  India’s economy will probably expand 8.6 percent in the
year ending March 31 from a year earlier, the most in three
years, the government said last month.  ‘Red Flag’  In Latin America, under Americas consumer-banking chief
Manuel Medina-Mora, Citigroup increased real estate and
commercial lending in 2010 by 31 percent, to $16 billion, over
the previous year. That was more than double the rate at which
Medina-Mora increased deposits from customers.  Medina-Mora, 60, was previously CEO of Citigroup’s Banamex
subsidiary in Mexico, one of the bank’s largest overseas
operations with 1,700 branches, according to a regulatory
filing. The unit made a profit of 22.2 billion pesos ($1.9
billion) in 2010, an 18 percent increase over the previous year.
As credit quality among Mexican customers improved last year,
Medina-Mora increased Citigroup’s cross-border exposure to the
country by 38 percent to $17.6 billion.  “Whenever I see growth rates that substantially exceed the
average, it’s a red flag,” said David Knutson, a Chicago-based
senior analyst at Legal & General Investment Management America,
which oversees $18.5 billion, including $85.3 million of
Citigroup bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “It’s
a sign that you need to examine how you’re achieving that
growth. It doesn’t matter if it’s a car-loan portfolio or if
it’s commercial or real estate lending in the Third World.”  Prince, Weill  Pandit’s lending in emerging markets helped him increase
assets in Citicorp, the division containing the bank’s core
businesses, by 15 percent in 2010. Pandit predecessor Charles “Chuck” Prince, 61, increased assets annually by an average of
13.8 percent between 2005 and 2007. Prince resigned in November
2007 as the bank faced billions of dollars in losses linked to
subprime mortgages and related securities.  Prince’s predecessor, Sanford Weill, 77, sought to expand
the bank’s presence in Japan through the $31 billion purchase in
2000 of Associates First Capital Corp., the biggest U.S.
consumer-finance company, which had a Japanese subsidiary.
Citigroup executives misjudged borrowing habits in Japan, and a
2006 change in laws capping  interest rates  further damaged the
business, Mayo wrote in a November report on the bank’s risk
control. Citigroup has disclosed losses of about $1 billion
linked to the Japanese unit, which was closed in 2008.  Debt Crisis  “Aggressive growth in other regions in Asia or elsewhere,
especially if they are driven by asset growth expectations,
could lead to similar adverse problems,” Mayo wrote. “Citi’s
loan portfolio is larger and more aggressive than its peers in
general, and consequently it tends to be more severely impacted
during credit cycles, such as the most recent one.”  Under former CEO John Reed, 72, the bank was also one of
the biggest U.S. lenders to Latin America in the years before
the region’s 1982 debt crisis. Reed added $3.3 billion to loan-
loss provisions in 1987 after government defaults, according to
a report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The bank also
took more than $2 billion in pretax credit losses and related
charges after Argentina devalued the peso in 2001, according to
company filings.  MOU ‘Stomachache’  Pandit’s expansion of Citigroup’s emerging-market loan book
is taking place while the bank is subject to a memorandum of
understanding with one of its regulators, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. An MOU is an enforcement action in
which a bank commits to remedy what has displeased a regulator.  The MOU has been in place since June 2008 and relates to
“risk management weaknesses,” according to a Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission report released in January.  “Any MOU gives me a stomachache,” Legal & General’s
Knutson said. “It’s compounded in the case of Citibank when you
have an institution that stretches not from Maine to Alaska, but
when you have something that goes globally.”  In January 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
assigned Citigroup a supervisory grade of 4 on a scale of 1 to 5
-- 5 is the worst -- citing “material weaknesses in the firm’s
ability and its systems to monitor key vulnerabilities,”
according to a document released by the FCIC.  Pandit’s Progress  Pandit  told  CNBC on Feb. 9 that the bank is growing with
“no impediments” from regulators. Robert Garsson, a spokesman
for the OCC, declined to comment, as did New York Fed spokesman  Jack Gutt .  “Since Vikram Pandit became CEO, Citi has added
significant resources and talent to the risk-management team and
has revamped its risk structure and processes,” Shannon Bell, a
spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “As a
result, we believe we have the right risk-management processes,
procedures and culture in place to manage growth plans around
the world.”  Bell declined to comment about the MOU.  Born in Nagpur, India, Pandit moved to New York at the age
of 16 to attend Columbia University. In 1986, in pursuit of a
doctorate in finance at Columbia, he submitted a thesis that
examined “the properties of asset prices in a multi-consumer,
dynamic economy under uncertainty.”  He joined New York-based Morgan Stanley in 1983 and became
the firm’s head of sales, trading and investment banking 20
years later. He quit in 2005 after a dispute with then-CEO
Philip Purcell and founded a hedge fund called Old Lane Partners
LP with  John Havens , another former Morgan Stanley executive.  Losing Wachovia  Citigroup, then headed by Prince, bought the multi-strategy
fund in March 2007, paying Pandit $165.2 million and putting him
in charge of the bank’s alternative-investments division,
overseeing its  hedge funds . When Prince was ousted in November
2007, Pandit took the top job. Citigroup lost $27.7 billion as a
result of subprime mortgages and related securities and took $45
billion in bailouts during Pandit’s first year in charge.  In September 2008, Pandit failed to land the faltering
Wachovia Corp.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , based in San Francisco, bought
it instead, adding $450 billion of deposits and an East Coast
branch network.  Citigroup shares plummeted and customers began withdrawing
deposits in the weeks after the deal. The government, which had
already provided Citigroup with $25 billion, arranged another
$20 billion bailout in November.  Split in Two  With the bank reporting its worst annual results, Pandit
announced in January 2009 that he was splitting Citigroup into
two divisions. One would be used to offload more than $600
billion of troubled assets and the other, Citicorp, would focus
on core operations such as consumer banking, trading and
investment banking -- areas where the company has a strong
presence outside the U.S.  “They left the idea of being the next JPMorgan or Wells
Fargo with the Wachovia situation,” said Knutson. “They were
relying on their preeminence in Latin America, Asia and the
Middle East.”  Investors flocking to emerging economies aided Pandit’s
strategy by pouring $178.9 billion into emerging-market equity
funds in 2009 and 2010 while taking $139 billion out of
developed markets, according to data collected by EPFR Global.  ‘Beat the Expectations’  Citigroup’s earnings rebounded in 2010, and shares rose 43
percent. The U.S. Treasury Department, which had owned 27
percent of the bank as a result of the bailout, largely exited
in December, making a profit for taxpayers of about $12 billion.
The firm is expected to earn $29.9 billion over the next two
years, according to a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts.  “He handily beat the expectations that people set at the
start of the year,” said Pri de Silva, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York. “Talking to him you get the
feeling that he is focused on correcting the ship and getting it
on the right path.”  Pandit shows no signs of changing course. In a March 10
 letter to shareholders , he wrote that capturing a greater share
of emerging-market business is a “key execution priority” for
this year.  “Nearly half of our 2010 consumer-banking revenues were
generated in emerging markets, where margins are higher and
growth prospects brighter,” Pandit wrote. “According to one
estimate, by 2020, three-quarters of incremental  consumer
spending  will come from emerging markets. If that estimate is
correct, then by that same year, consumer spending in Asia will
overtake North America to become the world’s largest consumer
bloc.”  Emerging-Market Bonds  Citigroup also earned 47 percent of its trading and
investment-banking income, or $3.07 billion, from continuing
operations in developing economies in 2010,  Pandit said  March 9.  While the bank slipped to third place from second among
underwriters of emerging-market bonds last year, behind HSBC and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, overall debt issuance has more
than doubled to $709.6 billion since 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank jumped to second place last year from ninth among
underwriters of Latin American equities, trailing Spain’s Banco
Santander SA, and fell to seventh place from first in 2008 among
underwriters of shares in Asia, excluding Japan, according to
Bloomberg data.  Brazilian Credit Cards  A test of Pandit’s strategy may come in  Brazil , Latin
America’s largest economy, which expanded 7.5 percent last year
and where policy makers recently moved to avert a credit bubble.
The bank increased its cross-border exposure there by 64 percent
to $16.9 billion last year, according to a regulatory filing.  Citigroup’s Brazilian unit is run by Gustavo Marin, who
reports to Medina-Mora. It employs more than 6,000 people,
according to the bank’s website. Through its CrediCard SA
subsidiary, Citigroup now controls between “7 percent or 8
percent” of the credit-card market, Medina-Mora said in a
December interview in New York.  “We see the Brazilian financial system as very solid, very
healthy, very well-supervised,” Medina-Mora said in December.
“Our operation there is doing very well -- expanding, growing
as the country is growing.”  That same month, facing its highest levels of inflation in
five years, the Brazilian central bank took measures to slow
consumer lending. Consumer-loan delinquencies of less than 90
days rose to 5.9 percent in January from 5.3 percent in
December, the central bank said. Average home prices in Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro have jumped 81 percent and 99 percent,
respectively, over the past three years, according to Brazil’s
Institute of Economic Research.  ‘Riskier Than Peers’  Citigroup’s loan book in Brazil is “riskier than peers”
because 70 percent of its retail loans are linked to the credit-
card business, according to a report yesterday by ratings
company  Standard & Poor’s , affirming the bank’s stable outlook.  “Although the bank follows strong guidelines and committee
policies, its overall nonperforming asset levels have been
historically above the industry average, as have credit
losses,” credit analyst Vitor Garcia wrote.  Money earned from Brazilian bank customers should make up
for rising defaults, said Simon Nocera, a former economist with
the  International Monetary Fund  and a founder of San Francisco-
based hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC, which does not own any
Citigroup shares. With local interest rates of more than 11
percent, a Brazilian bank can make a return on its assets of
about 2.5 percent, he said. That is five times what Citigroup’s
retail bank in North America made in 2010.  A country rich in commodities like Brazil will continue to
thrive if prices for iron, steel and oil continue to rally on
demand from China, Nocera said.  “What I’m confident of is that commodities prices are
going to continue to rise for the next couple of years,” said
Bove, the Rochdale Securities analyst. “If you tell me that
there’s going to be a crack in commodities prices, I’d get
really worried about Brazil, about Latin America and about
Citigroup’s position in those regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 