-- 
Paris Home Prices Surge as City Shrugs off Financial Crisis

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-03-15T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/paris-home-prices-jump-at-fastest-pace-since-1991-as-investors-shun-stocks.html
Paris property broker Kerstin
Bachmann warned clients two years ago that the global financial
crisis would trigger a slump in  home prices . Last year, they
rose at the fastest pace since at least 1991.  Residential values increased by almost 18 percent in 2010
after a 4 percent decline a year earlier, according to  Paris
Chamber of Notaries  data based on prices per square meter. By
the same measure, London had a 1 percent increase.  “All that happened was a small dip” after the financial
crisis hit, said Bachmann, a partner at  Paris Property Group ,
which handled 25 deals last year worth 40 million euros ($55
million). “Paris proved itself even more as a safe and
sustainable investment option.”  French investors are putting more money into Paris real
estate, shunning stock and bond markets, at a time when fewer
owners are selling properties and insufficient homes are being
built to meet demand. Transactions last year were 9 percent
below the average for the past decade,  Chamber of Notaries 
research shows. Prices in the city are rising at their fastest
rate relative to disposable incomes since World War I, according
to data compiled by government economist  Jacques Friggit .  Real estate values in Paris,  France ’s administrative,
financial and political center, have become disconnected from
the rest of France. That mirrors London’s premium over the rest
of the U.K. and  New York ’s stronger performance than the U.S. as
a whole.  Paris property prices have risen 40 percent since 2005,
while values across France are little changed in the same
period, according to the national residential real estate
brokers’ lobby,  FNAIM.   ‘World of Difference’  “There’s a world of difference between Paris and the rest
of France,” said Roger Abecassis, president of the  Consultants
Immobilier Group , a chain of 10 brokerages covering the more
affluent western half of Paris. “It’s a myth that overseas
buyers are driving the market. It’s a French market.”  Construction companies broke ground on just 2,785 new homes
in Paris’s 20 districts, or arrondissements, last year and new-
home sales totaled only 510 in a city with a population of 2.23
million. That contrasts with the 39,255 of housing starts in the
surrounding  Ile-de-France region  with 11.7 million people.  Transactions fell more sharply in Paris’s most expensive
neighborhoods, where wealthy foreigners compete for space in a
market dominated by French buyers. The number of properties for
sale at Consultants Immobilier fell to 320 from about 700 two
years ago, according to Abecassis.  “I’m working with half the inventory, but my revenue has
doubled,” he said in an interview at his office in Passy, a
neighborhood in the 16th arrondissement.  Trading Up  Most purchases are by existing owners looking to trade up
or investors purchasing a rental property, said  Sebastien
Kuperfis , a director of his family’s  Junot Investissements 
brokerage chain.  “We have lots of investors buying at ridiculously low
income yields, but people want security,” he said. “We have
reached prices that are so high that there are no first-time
buyers.”  The biggest gains were in the “Triangle d’Or”
neighborhood in the 8th arrondissement, which lies south of
Avenue des Champs-Elysees. Prices advanced 38 percent and have
doubled in five years, according to the notaries’ chamber.  The most expensive arrondissement is the 6th on the Left
Bank of the River Seine, where the average is 14,105 euros a
square meter ($1,829 a square foot), according to  Databiens ,
which compiles its estimates from sales reported by brokers.  Top End  Homes in the district, which incorporates the Luxembourg
Gardens, cost more than twice as much as in the 19th
arrondissement in the northeast corner of the city, it said.  “The better the location, the less stock there is,” said
Laurent Lakatos, the head of Databiens.  The most expensive Paris properties fetch 30,000 euros a
square meter, according to  Philippe Menager , co-founder of the
luxury property brokerage of the same name. He and his associate
Nicolas Hug sold two apartments overlooking the River Seine near
the Musee d’Orsay for 50,000 euros a square meter and another
near the Bois de Boulogne for a similar price, he said.  French “myopia” in choosing property over stocks and
bonds is behind the increase, according to government economist
Friggit.  “What sticks in their minds is the poor performance of the
stock markets over the past 10 years, when there were two
crashes, and they expect it to happen again,” Friggit said.  Record-low  interest rates  and the increased willingness of
banks to grant longer-term loans have made purchasing a home
more affordable, contributing to the price increases, he said.  Retreat Predicted  Friggit said home prices across the country  will likely
decline  in the next five to eight years as they return to their
values relative to incomes. In Paris, that happened in the 1990s
after prices surged in the late 1980s, he said.  Paris Chamber of Notaries data show it took almost 11 years
for average prices to return to the levels reached in the first
quarter of 1991.  A lack of public information on prices is also driving the
surge in values, according to Lakatos at Databiens.  Property title deeds  aren’t public documents and data
compiled by notaries, who handle the legal paperwork in all real
estate transactions in France, are as much as six months out of
date and distorted by small probate sales of undesirable
properties, he said.  France lacks a multiple listing service to provide an
accurate view of the market, said Bachmann at Paris Property
Group.  Avoiding Brokers  More owners advertise properties themselves to avoid paying
brokers the average 5 percent sales commission and profit more
from the surge in prices. About half of sales don’t involve a
broker, compared with about 30 percent two years ago, she said.  This results in price swings, a significant number of sales
falling through and sometimes litigation, she said, because
individual owners lack the overview of the market and aren’t
bound by the legal constraints that apply to brokers.  “It’s the Wild West, where there are no rules,” she said,
referring to sales that don’t involve a broker with a
professional licence.  The high prices and limited supply are forcing less
affluent buyers to look for properties in lower-cost
neighborhoods in the northeast of the city or the inner suburbs,
pushing up average values across the city, according to the
Chamber of Paris Notaries.  “I like to think that Paris’s uniqueness and the fact that
the French have healthy finances will support the market,” said
Kuperfis at Junot Investissements. “Naturally I’m getting a bit
worried,” about the price increases “because trees can’t keep
growing to the sky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  