-- 
Petraeus Tells Congress Afghanistan Gains Are Fragile

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-15T19:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/petraeus-tells-congress-afghanistan-gains-are-fragile-1-.html
Allied gains in  Afghanistan  are
“fragile and reversible” and may be in jeopardy if Congress
doesn’t provide enough civilian aid, U.S. Army General David Petraeus, the top U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, said.  “The momentum achieved by the Taliban in Afghanistan since
2005 has been arrested in much of the country and reversed in a
number of important areas,” Petraeus told the Senate Armed
Services Committee today. “However, while the security progress
achieved over the past year is significant, it is also fragile
and reversible.”  Petraeus said there has been progress toward the goal of
having Afghan forces in charge of security throughout the
country by the end of 2014. A long-term commitment by the world
to aid Afghanistan would show insurgents that “reconciliation,
rather than continued fighting, should be their goal.”  In a typical 90-day period, he said, U.S. forces and their
Afghan partners kill or capture 360 targeted insurgent leaders,
he said. The number of weapons and explosives caches reported by
Afghans has increased four-fold in recent months, indicating
growing support from the populace, he said.    Pakistan , Afghanistan and the coalition also have achieved
“unprecedented” coordination to stem the flow of fighters and
weapons across the border,  Petraeus said. Al-Qaeda also is
under increasing pressure in the North Waziristan area of
Pakistan, where it has hidden in recent years.  ‘Poisonous Snakes’  “There is, I think, the growing recognition that you
cannot allow poisonous snakes to have a nest in your backyard,
even if they bite the neighbor’s kids,” Petraeus said.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
panel, echoed military leaders’ recent cautions that the U.S.
needs to be prepared for increased fighting, and for more
casualties, as the Taliban tries to regroup after the winter.  He appealed again for President  Barack Obama  to reconsider
plans to begin withdrawing troops in July. The “wisest
course,” McCain said, may be to move forces no longer needed in
some locations to places where they may be pivotal.  “We should not rush to failure and we should cultivate
strategic patience,” he said. “Our country, and especially
this Congress, must remain committed to this fight.”  Conditions on Ground  Michele Flournoy, the undersecretary of Defense for policy,
said the U.S. and its partners will reduce some of their forces
and shift others only based on conditions on the ground.  “We have no intention of declaring premature transitions”
that would force the coalition to return to those areas in the
future, she said.  Petraeus said he supports the July drawdown target, which
Obama announced in a December 2009 speech at the U.S. Military
Academy at  West Point , New York, along with the decision to add
30,000 American troops to the fight last year.  The deadline sends a “message of urgency” to the Afghans
that they must improve their government and security forces
before foreign troops leave, he said.  Petraeus said he hasn’t determined how many U.S. forces can
be withdrawn this year. He and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
met with Obama at the White House yesterday.  The remarks came during Petraeus’s first congressional
testimony since taking over as commander in Afghanistan in July.
Obama selected Petraeus to take over there after Army General
Stanley McChrystal resigned in June over remarks disparaging
administration officials.  Obama is counting on progress against the Taliban and an
increase in trained Afghan forces to keep his pledge of starting
an American troop drawdown in July. The timeline was a condition
for authorizing the addition of 30,000 U.S. troops last year to
the war, in which at least 1,156 American personnel have been
killed and more than 10,500 wounded.  $336 Billion Spent  The U.S. has spent more than $336 billion for the war in
Afghanistan and associated counterterrorism operations,
according to the  Congressional Research Service . Political
pressure is growing to scale back U.S. involvement amid record
budget deficits and waning public interest.  Almost two-thirds of Americans say the war is no longer
worth fighting, according to a poll conducted by the Washington
Post and ABC News. Almost 75 percent said Obama should withdraw
“substantial” U.S. forces from the conflict this year,
according to the results reported in the Washington Post today.  Bracing for Resurgence  The 48-nation  coalition , led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, is bracing for a resurgence of fighting with the
spring thaw.  The renewed fighting will test the coalition’s ability to
hold on to gains made possible by the increase in troops last
year. In addition to the U.S. increase, other nations added
about 8,000 troops, bringing the total to 100,000 American
forces and almost 50,000 from other nations.  Gates appealed to partner nations at NATO headquarters in
Brussels last week to talk more about winning in Afghanistan
than rushing to withdraw.  Asked to define winning in Afghanistan, Petraeus said
Afghanistan should no longer be a potential haven for al-Qaeda.
The terrorist group’s presence in the country prompted the
invasion after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on  New York  and the
Pentagon.  Afghanistan must provide its own security and governance to
ensure that the Taliban could no longer take over and harbor al-
Qaeda, Petraeus said. The coalition’s killing of al-Qaeda’s
third-ranking leader in Afghanistan in recent months was an
indication that the group continues to seek a haven there, he
said.  Officials have said they probably will attain their goal of
305,000 Afghans trained and in the field with security forces
before October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  