-- 
Ping An Gets $2.5 Billion Selling Shares to Boost Solvency Ratio

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-15T02:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ping-an-raises-2-5-billion-selling-shares-to-hong-kong-billionaire-cheng.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
raised HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion) selling shares to a  Hong
Kong  billionaire to help China’s second-largest insurance
company bolster capital. Shares declined the most in 10 months.  Chow Tai Fook Nominee Ltd., controlled by the family of the
Hong Kong tycoon  Cheng Yu-tung , bought 272 million shares at
HK$71.50 each, according to a Hong Kong exchange filing late
yesterday. The new stock represents 3.44 percent of expanded
share capital, and Ping An will use the money to increase its
solvency ratio and “broaden the capital scale,” it said.  Chairman Peter Ma is raising funds after saying in
September Ping An will pay 29.1 billion yuan ($4.4 billion) for
control of  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  to enhance banking
operations. The share sale will lift Shenzhen-based Ping An’s
solvency margin, which measures its ability to solve claims, to
248 percent from 218 percent as of June 30, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., preparing the insurer for further
expansion in the world’s second-biggest economy.  “Our conservative estimate is this covers any capital
shortage through 2012,” Guosen Securities Co. analyst Tong Chengdun said in an e-mailed note today.  Ping An shares fell as much as 5.3 percent to HK$77.35, and
lost 5 percent HK$77.65 as of 9:57 a.m. on the Hong Kong stock
exchange, set for the biggest drop since May 25. The stock was
suspended yesterday pending the announcement.  ‘Less Justified’  Deutsche Bank AG questioned the strategic value in
introducing Chow Tai Fook, and said Ping An’s choice of a
private placement is “less justified” than a full rights offer
from the viewpoint of existing shareholders.  “We are not of the view that Ping An group needs further
capital in the next two years to finance its growth or capital
commitment for acquiring 51 percent of Shenzhen Development
Bank,” analyst Bob Leung said in a report dated yesterday.
“Stock weakness is expected in the short term.”  The solvency ratio of Ping An’s property and casualty unit
dropped 7.4 percentage points in the first half of 2010 to 136.2
percent as of June 30, as premiums surged by 61 percent, and the
gauge for its life insurance arm fell 20 percentage points to
206.3 percent, according to company filings.  Solvency Ratio  Chinese insurers may be subject to dividend payout
restrictions when their solvency ratios drop below 150 percent,
according to government rules. They may also be ordered to
submit plans to prevent the gauge from falling below 100
percent, when the regulator can freeze approvals for new
branches, curb management pay and restrict the scope of
investment.  Ping An will pay 2.69 billion yuan in cash and inject its
banking unit into the Shenzhen-based lender in return for a 
22.4 percent stake, raising its holdings to 52.39 percent. It 
raised its stake in the Shenzhen bank to 29.99 percent in June
by buying a stake from Newbridge Capital LLC and new shares.  Upon completion of the acquisition, the insurer’s solvency
ratio will drop to below 170 percent without yesterday’s share
placement, according to Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Investment Co.  Underwriting Profitability  Ping An Insurance achieved “much better” underwriting
profitability for non-life business last year than in 2009 as
expenses dropped, Shi Liangxun, vice president of Ping An
Property & Casualty Insurance Co., said on March 1.  It will be “very difficult” to lower the unit’s combined
ratio, which measures expenses and claims as a percentage of
premiums earned, further this year, Shi said. The unit will also
find it hard to exceed an estimated 20 percent average in
premium growth for  China ’s non-life insurance industry this
year, Shi said.  The insurer’s Shanghai shares dropped 4 percent on Jan. 6
after a Citic Securities Co. report saying it may need to raise
up to 40 billion yuan.  Cheng controls property company New World Development Co.
and was ranked by Forbes Magazine as Hong Kong’s fourth-richest
person. Hong Kong’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , last year invested
in a rights offer by London-based Prudential Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  