-- 
Platinum, Palladium Slump on Concern Demand Will Wane on Japan Earthquake

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-15T12:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/platinum-palladium-slump-on-concern-demand-will-wane-in-japan.html
Platinum and palladium slid to the
lowest levels in at least two months in London on concern that
demand will wane after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record
forced carmakers to close plants. Silver also declined.    Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, said it
closed its plants in Japan through tomorrow, while companies
including Honda Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor Co. also halted
operations. Platinum and palladium are used to make pollution-
control devices in automobiles. Commodities and global equities
fell on concern a nuclear disaster is unfolding in Japan.  “Precious metals investors are selling risky metals with
high industrial exposure,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst at
LGT Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . Plant
closings by carmakers have “a negative impact on metal
consumption. Uncertainty about the outcome in Japan is still
high and the market prices in short-term demand destruction.”  Palladium for immediate delivery slumped as much as $30, or
4 percent, to $716.75 an ounce, the lowest price since Dec. 8,
and was at $717.75 at 11:53 a.m. in  London . Platinum was down
2.4 percent at $1,711.35 an ounce after falling to $1,710.88,
the lowest level since Jan. 7.  Most commodities dropped as factories and power plants
remained shut in the world’s third-largest economy following the
quake and tsunami last week. European and Asian equities plunged
as Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said his government is doing
its utmost to contain the radioactive leak at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. He said the danger of
further radiation leaks from the crippled station is increasing.  ‘Got Hammered’  Palladium is down for a fifth day, the longest losing
streak in two months, taking its loss this year to 10 percent.
Prices almost doubled last year. Platinum has declined 3.3
percent this year.  “Platinum-group metals got hammered on the news of power
cuts” and disruption in car manufacturing,  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said today in a report.
“Most investors will remain positive on platinum-group metals
given the bullish underlying fundamentals unless power cuts in
Japan are prolonged.”  Silver dropped as low as $34.305 an ounce and was last down
4.5 percent at $34.325. A close at that price would be the
biggest retreat in three months. Silver climbed to $36.7525 on
March 7, the highest level since February 1980, the year in
which the metal reached a record $50.35 in  New York .  Platinum-group metals and silver are used more in industry
than gold. Bullion for immediate delivery fell as much as 2.1
percent today as some investors sold the metal to raise cash as
other assets declined. It traded at $1,397.48 an ounce in London
after reaching a record $1,444.95 on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 