-- 
Poland’s Below-Forecast Inflation May Let Central Bank Delay Rate Increase

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-15T16:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/poland-s-below-forecast-inflation-in-february-may-not-stop-rate-increase.html
  Poland ’s slower-than-expected
increase in February consumer prices may give the central bank
pause about raising interest rates next month, even with
inflation growing the fastest in 18 months.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.6 percent, matching the
January’s figure, which was revised downward from a preliminary
3.8 percent, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office  said
today. The result, the highest annual rate since August 2009,
was below the 3.9 percent median estimate of 24 economists
polled by Bloomberg. Prices increased 0.2 percent on the month.  “Such a low inflation reading means there’s a big risk
that the Monetary Policy Council will keep rates on hold until
May,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at  Societe Generale  in
Warsaw, said by phone. “Still, inflation expectations are high
and rose again this month, and that requires a reaction from
policy makers. A rate increase is really needed.”  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  left borrowing costs unchanged
this month after a quarter-point increase in January, citing
lagging investment growth and high unemployment. Governor  Marek Belka  said that more rate increases should be expected as
stronger economic growth boosts wage and price pressures, which
may keep inflation expectations at “elevated” levels.  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of the rate-setting panel,
told PAP newswire after today’s consumer price data that
borrowing costs may remain unchanged in April.  Forwards, Zloty  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs fell
by 3 basis points after the consumer price release as investors
reduced their bets for rate increase next month. That indicated
the benchmark seven-day rate may remain unchanged in April,
based on 11 basis-point difference between the three-month FRA
and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate which it is settled
against. The Polish zloty today reached its weakest intraday
level since November at 4.0718 against the euro.  At 5:06 p.m., the zloty had rebounded to 4.0485 per euro,
strengthened from 4.06 before the consumer-price figures were
published. The currency’s 1.1 percent fall since March 11, when
an earthquake and tsunami devastated  Japan , is the sixth-biggest
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There’ll be no shortage of inflation drivers in the
coming months, so the central bank needs to react adequately to
keep inflation expectations from sliding out of control,” said
Janecki.“It’s also important that the zloty is undervalued, so
even though the last rate increase was two months ago, it’s
difficult to justify keeping rates at their current levels.”  ‘Vigorous Response’  Twenty-five of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted the central bank will decide to raise rates at least
once in the second quarter; eight said it will do so twice.  Andrzej Bratkowski, a member of the rate-setting panel,
said above-target inflation requires a “vigorous response”
from the central bank, whose 2011 policy guidelines call for
keeping annual price changes as close as possible to the 2.5
percent target. Bratkowski said  interest rates  should rise 50
basis points, or half a percentage point, by the end of June.  “The fact that Polish companies have felt free to pass
along this year’s value-added-tax increase to consumers is yet
another signal of growing demand pressure that is likely to
strengthen in coming quarters,” said  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup’s Bank Handlowy SA unit in Warsaw.  January’s inflation rate was revised due to the statistical
office’s annual changes to its consumer-price basket of goods
and services.  Food prices still account for the biggest share of the
basket at 24 percent, down from 24.1 percent last year. Clothing
and footwear prices had their weighting increased to 5.2 percent
from 5.1 percent, while housing costs, including utilities and
upkeep, were lifted to 20.7 percent from 20.1 percent. Transport
prices, including fuel, were trimmed to 9.1 percent from a 9.2
percent weighting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  