-- 
Portugal Debt Grade Cut Two Steps by Moody’s as ECB Risks Deepening Pain

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-16T02:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/portugal-s-long-term-bond-ratings-cut-two-levels-to-a3-from-a1-by-moody-s.html
  Portugal ’s debt rating was cut
by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a weaker outlook
for economic growth, risks to the government’s deficit-
reduction plans and a possible need to recapitalize banks.  The rating was downgraded to A3, four steps from so-called
junk status, according to an e-mailed statement from Moody’s
yesterday, with the outlook on the grade “negative.” The euro
slipped after the announcement, to $1.3982 per euro at 10:54 a.m.
in  Tokyo  from $1.3998 yesterday.  Higher  interest rates  set by the  European Central Bank  may
exacerbate the challenge for Portugal, Moody's said, as it tries 
to rein in the euro region’s fourth-biggest budget gap and avoid
the bailout fate of  Greece  and Ireland needed. The government is
raising taxes and carrying out the deepest spending cuts in more 
than three decades in its battle to restore investor confidence.   “The government faces significant challenges, not least a
less supportive economic environment,” Moody’s said in its
statement. Gross domestic product is expected to “decline this
year and experience a weak recovery at best in 2012,” it said.  Moody’s said its rating takes into account measures
announced by Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s government last week
and is driven by “ambitious” fiscal goals and “subdued”
growth prospects. It also said higher interest rates from the
European Central Bank may compound the nation’s fiscal problem.  Higher Rates  “Rising inflationary pressures could lead to an increase
in the ECB’s policy rate, which could aggravate the Portuguese
government’s funding costs and put additional pressure on
private-sector borrowing costs,” Moody’s said. “Should  oil
prices  rise further and remain high for over a long period,
external imbalances would worsen, given Portugal’s dependence on
imported energy.”  Portugal today plans to sell as much as 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) of 12-month bills. The country’s borrowing costs
increased at a March 9 auction of 1 billion euros of bonds due
in 2013. The securities due September 2013 were issued at an
average yield of 5.993 percent, compared with an average yield
of 4.086 percent at a previous auction of the same-maturity debt
on Sept. 8. The auction attracted bids for 1.6 times the amount
offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.9 in September.  The spread between Portuguese and German 10-year bond
yields was at 427 basis points yesterday after reaching a euro-
era record of 484 on Nov. 11. Ireland in November became the
second euro country after Greece to seek a bailout and the first
to request aid from the European Financial Stability Facility.  Record Yield  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield climbed to a euro-era record
of 7.70 percent on March 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The negative outlook is justified and further cuts appear
likely,” said  Win Thin , senior currency strategists with
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, in a research note after
the Moody’s downgrade. “Portugal clearly will remain in the
market spotlight as its 10-year yield remained above 7 percent
for the 28th straight day on Tuesday.”  Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of
bonds this year to finance its budget and cover the cost of
maturing debt. Portugal doesn’t face any debt redemptions until
April, with repayments that month and in June worth about 9
billion euros. It faces bill maturities in March, July, August,
September, October and November.  GDP to Fall  The Bank of Portugal on Jan. 11 said GDP will shrink 1.3
percent in 2011 as consumer demand drops and the government cuts
spending. GDP contracted 0.3 percent in the final three months
of 2010, the first quarterly contraction in a year. Portugal’s
unemployment rose to 11.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the
highest since at least 1998.  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to support economic expansion this year. The
budget forecasts GDP growth of 0.2 percent in 2011, slower than
last year’s 1.4 percent pace. Portugal’s economic growth has
averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past decade, one of  Europe ’s weakest growth rates.  The government is trimming the wage bill by 5 percent for
public-sector workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month,
freezing hiring and raising value-added  sales tax  by 2
percentage points to 23 percent to help narrow a deficit that
amounted to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2009,
biggest in the euro region after Ireland, Greece and  Spain .  Portugal will report a 2010 budget deficit equivalent to 7
percent of GDP or less than 7 percent, narrower than the 7.3
percent gap the government had forecast, Socrates said on Jan.
28. The government has set a target for a budget deficit of 4.6
percent of GDP in 2011, and aims to reach the European Union
limit of 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net .
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 