-- 
Pound Depreciates as Japan Nuclear Fallout Concern Spurs Search for Safety

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T16:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/pound-weakens-before-housing-report-on-japan-nuclear-concern-gilts-rise.html
U.K. bonds rose and the pound
weakened as Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further radiation leaks from a crippled nuclear plant is
increasing, driving demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year gilt yields reached the lowest in more than two
months as stocks sank in  Asia  and  Europe . Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s stricken facility was today rocked by two explosions and a
fire as workers struggled to avert a meltdown, heightening
concern about radiation leaks. The Japanese government said it’s
doing its utmost to contain the leak following the earthquake
and tsunami on March 11.  “Bonds are being bid as equities fall off,” said  David Page , a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets
in London. “Ongoing uncertainty over the nuclear reactor and
the general economic situation has transmitted across the
globe.”  Yields on 10-year gilts dropped four basis points to 3.53
percent at 4:07 p.m. in  London . Earlier they fell to 3.45
percent, the lowest since Jan. 5, according to Bloomberg generic
data. The 4.75 percent security due March 2020 rose 0.31, or 3.1
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,605) face amount, to 101.75. Two-year
note yields fell three basis points to 1.20 percent, after
reaching 1.13 percent, the lowest since Jan. 5.  The pound sank 0.6 percent to $1.6073 after sliding as much
as 1.2 percent. Against the euro, sterling was 0.5 percent lower
at 86.92 pence, the weakest since Nov. 5.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of equities dropped 5 percent
and the FTSE 100 fell 1.3 percent.  Rate Outlook  The pound’s decline against the dollar, which rose against
most major currencies today, trimmed its yearly gain to 2.9
percent. Sterling strengthened in January and February as
investors bet the Bank of England would raise  interest rates  to
counteract quickening consumer-price inflation.  The central bank left its key rate unchanged at a record
low of 0.5 percent on March 10, even as the inflation rate
accelerated to a 26-month high of 4 percent in January.  “It’s general  risk aversion  that’s hurting the pound,”
said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in London.
“Wider dollar strengthening on the back of what’s happening in  Japan  has compounded what was already an overvalued currency
because of rate expectations, and that provides an environment
in which the pound will fall.”  Walker said UBS forecasts the Bank of England will raise
its benchmark rate by 25 basis points in May. The median
estimate of a Bloomberg survey of economists predicts the rate
will rise to 0.75 percent in the third quarter of this year.  Short-Sterling Futures  December short-sterling futures climbed for a fourth day,
the longest rising streak since the four trading days ending
Dec. 31. The increase pushed the implied yield on the December
contract down six basis points to 1.35 percent, indicating that
investors are pushing back bets on the timing of rate increases.  U.K. borrowing costs will rise by 25 basis points in August
to 0.75 percent and to 1 percent in February 2012, forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia,
show. Yesterday the same data showed bets for 25 basis-point
increases in August of this year and January 2012.  The  Bank of England  should consider a more “flexible”
inflation target that takes into account potential for stronger
global price pressures and wouldn’t force it to raise rates too
quickly,  Barclays Capital  said today.  Inflation Target  “If high global inflation persists, attempting to stick to
the fixed consumer price index target could be damaging both to
the real economy and to the credibility of the inflation-
targeting policy,” London-based economist  Simon Hayes  wrote in
a note to clients. The inflation target should exclude “direct
effects of import prices” or the goal should be varied over
time, Hayes said.  The pound stayed lower as data showed U.K. house prices
rose less than forecast in January.  Home prices  increased 0.5
percent in January from a year earlier, the Department for
Communities and Local Government said today, trailing the 2.3
percent increase predicted in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices
dropped 1.4 percent from December, the report showed.  A separate report by the Financial Services Authority in
London showed mortgage lending fell 10 percent in the fourth
quarter to 37 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 