-- 
Power Utility Eskom Sees Nuclear as Key Source Amid Japanese Leak Concerns

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/power-utility-eskom-sees-nuclear-as-key-source-amid-japanese-leak-concerns.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state-owned power utility, still sees nuclear energy playing a
role in meeting the country’s future energy needs after an
earthquake damaged reactors in  Japan .  “What has happened in Japan is of interest to the nuclear
industry globally,” Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  said at
a conference in Cape Town today. “From a South African
perspective, our geological conditions are distinctly
different.”  Japan, reeling from its strongest earthquake on record,
faces an increasing risk of further radiation leaks at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear facility north of  Tokyo , Prime
Minister Naoto Kan said.  South Africa, the world’s biggest platinum producer, plans
to build six nuclear  power plants  by 2023 to deal with an energy
shortage in  Africa ’s biggest economy, the Department of Energy
said in a draft energy plan released in October last year.  Nuclear plants take as long as seven years to construct,
and design would have to begin now if they are to be operational
by 2023, Eskom Finance Director Paul O’Flaherty told reporters
in Cape Town today.  Different Design  Koeberg, South Africa’s only nuclear plant, started
operating in 1984 and is located 30 kilometers (19 miles) north
of Cape Town in the Western Cape Province. Its two generators
can produce 1,800 megawatts of electricity. Koeberg has a
different design from Fukushima’s and could operate without
power until a controlled shutdown was executed, South African
Energy Minister Dipuo Peters told lawmakers in  Cape Town  today.  “Given the location of the diesel fuel and diesel intakes
at Koeberg, it is considered that even a 10-meter-high water
level would not cause the emergency diesel generators to fail,
which was the case at Fukushima,” she said.  Earlier today, Peters told a conference in Cape Town that
coal and nuclear will play an important role in meeting South
Africa’s future base-load power needs.  “The effect of the tsunami on the Fukushima nuclear power
plant has a bearing on the way nuclear plants are designed in
the future,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  