-- 
Qaddafi Bombs Benghazi as Son Says ‘Too Late’ for No-Fly Zone Over Libya

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-16T20:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/qaddafi-forces-near-benghazi-as-rebel-says-world-failed-us-.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
brought the war for the first time to the rebel capital, with
three of his warplanes bombing Benghazi airport before being
chased off by anti-aircraft fire.  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, scoffed at today’s UN
Security Council discussions about authorizing a no-fly zone.
“It’s too late,” he said in an  interview  with EuroNews
television, according to a transcript on its website. “In 48
hours, we will have finished our military operation. We are at
the gates of Benghazi.”  His timetable may be optimistic, since his forces were
still facing rebel resistance 100 miles away.  Libya ’s state-run
television appealed to residents of Benghazi to support
government troops. The army “is coming to secure you and to
lift the injustice and horror off you and to protect your pure
souls and precious blood,” said the broadcast, which has been
airing since yesterday.  There have been few signs of rebels making defensive
preparations on the city’s outskirts, the  Associated Press 
reported. The International Committee of the Red Cross today
pulled its staff from the coastal city, relocating to Tobruk,
close to the Egyptian border, according to a  news release  on its
website.  “We are extremely concerned about what will happen to
civilians, the sick and wounded, detainees and others who are
entitled to protection in times of conflict,” Simon Brooks,
head of the ICRC mission in Libya, said in the release.  Rebel Holdouts  On the ground, government forces continued to fight pockets
of rebel resistance Ajdabiya, a city 100 miles (160 kilometers)
from Benghazi, and attacked the blockaded city of Misrata, the
last rebel holdout near Tripoli.  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday. Crude oil for April
delivery rose 80 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at $97.98 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil is 20 percent
higher than a year ago.  The UN Security Council was meeting through the afternoon
on Libya, with Russia proposing the body issue a formal call for
a cease-fire. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  sent a letter to
the other leaders of Council nations saying it is “high time”
to respond to the Libya situation with a no-fly zone.  “Together, we can save the martyred people of Libya,” he
said, according to an e-mail from the French Embassy in  Washington . “It is now a matter of days, if not hours.”  Airstikes  The death toll from the fighting may reach 15,000, Mustafa
Gheriani, a media coordinator for the rebels, said today by
telephone from the rebel capital.  In Benghazi, three fighter jets from Qaddafi’s fleet
carried out air strikes on the airport that is currently being
used by the rebels as an airbase, breaking off their attack amid
anti-aircraft fire, Ahmed Omar, a military spokesman for the
opposition, said today by telephone. Rebel aircraft bombed
government forces near Ajdabiya today, Al Jazeera television
said. Misrata was shelled by government tanks from three
directions early today, Reda Almountasser, a resident, said by
phone.  In his EuroNews interview, Qaddafi said rebels should flee
to  Egypt  while they can. “We have no intention of killing them
or taking revenge on these traitors who have betrayed our
people,” he said. “We say to them that they can run into Egypt
quite safely because Libya no longer belongs to them. A lot of
them have already left for Egypt.”  Tanker Seized  Libyan rebels yesterday seized a ship carrying 25,000
metric tons of fuel that was heading to Tripoli, Gheriani said.
The fuel will be used in  power plants  and other facilities in
rebel-held areas, he said.  The Anwaar Afriqya, with a crew of 22, was hijacked and
diverted to the port of Tobruk near the border with Egypt, where
it is now docked, GNMTC, a Libyan-owned shipping line, said
today in an e-mailed statement. The ship holds 23,800 metric
tons of gasoline loaded in  Greece , it said. It was not
immediately clear if GNMTC was referring to the same vessel.  Foreign Ministers from the Group of Eight nations failed to
agree yesterday on imposing a no-fly zone. In Paris, Foreign
Minister Alain Juppe of  France , which along with the U.K. has
pressed for aggressive action against Qaddafi, said he couldn’t
persuade  Russia  to agree to a no-fly zone as other allies,
including  Germany , raised objections to military intervention.
Juppe hosted a meeting of his G-8 counterparts yesterday in
Paris.  ‘Terrible Message’  “We do not want to get sucked into a war in North
Africa,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told
reporters at the meeting. Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini proposed the convening of a European, Arab and African
summit to discuss the almost monthlong fighting in Libya, Al-
Jazeera reported today.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said leaving Qaddafi in
power would send a “terrible message” not only to the Libyan
people but also to those in the region who desire democracy and
stability.  Pushing a no-fly resolution through the UN Security Council
will not be “simple,” Cameron told lawmakers in Parliament in  London  today. “I am not arguing a no-fly zone is a simple
solution to the problem, of course it’s not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  