-- 
Qaddafi’s Forces Hit 100 Miles from Rebel Capital as Clinton Meets Leaders

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-15T12:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/qaddafi-s-forces-hit-100-miles-from-rebel-capital-as-clinton-meets-leaders.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s warplanes carried
out air strikes against rebels in the town of Ajdabiya for a
second day, as the Libyan leader’s offensive sparked
disagreements among Western nations over how to respond.  Air force jets pounded Ajdabiya and the road linking it to
the oil port of Brega, where rebels and government troops have
been fighting for control, said Mohamed El Megaryef, a resident.
Helicopters dropped leaflets promising amnesty for people who
backed Qaddafi, he said. Government forces recaptured Zwara, the
last rebel-held town west of the capital, Tripoli, after an
artillery bombardment today, the  Associated Press  reported.  Momentum in the monthlong conflict has swung toward
Qaddafi, whose troops have recaptured the oil port of Ras Lanuf,
the nearby town of Bin Jawad, and the western city of Zawiyah.
Control of Brega has been contested between the sides after
three days of fighting, with rebels saying they are able to re-
enter by night. Qaddafi’s tanks and aircraft have driven back
many of the comparatively lightly armed insurgents, who are
calling for Western support to end his four-decade rule.  In the rebel base of Benghazi, about 100 miles (160
kilometers) from Ajdabiya, spokesman Mustafa Gheriani said
dozens were killed and hundreds wounded in air strikes on Zwara,
though he added that Qaddafi’s bombardment of such towns doesn’t
necessarily mean that government ground forces are able to
control them.  “This is a war crime, and the whole world is watching, I’m
not sure exactly what they are waiting for,” Gheriani said.  Misrata Surrounded  Misrata, the largest city in western  Libya  still held by
the rebels, is surrounded by Qaddafi’s forces and expecting an
attack, said Salim, a resident of the city, who spoke by phone
today and declined to give his surname on concern he would face
reprisals.  Crude, which rose to a 2 1/2-year high on the fighting in
Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, has pared gains
this week on traders’ anticipation the earthquake in  Japan  will
reduce demand. Oil for April delivery dropped 3.7 percent to
$97.50 at 8:15 a.m. in  New York .  Libya’s oil production and exports may remain off the
market for many months due to damage to oil facilities and
international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said
today. Output had slumped to a “trickle” by last week, from
1.58 million barrels a day in January, the IEA said.  In Paris, Group of Eight foreign ministers failed to agree
on measures such as a no-fly zone over Libya that have been
sought by the rebels to help them defeat Qaddafi. French Foreign
Minister Alain Juppe said he couldn’t persuade  Russia  to sign on
to an aerial blockade as other allies, including  Germany ,
opposed military intervention.  Bombing Airfields  Mahmood Jibril, foreign affairs representative of the
Libyan opposition council, met Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Paris late yesterday and urged the bombing of three
airfields, a U.S. official told reporters after the meeting.
The U.S. and allies are still reviewing possible actions,
including imposition of a no-fly zone, White House press sectary  Jay Carney  said yesterday in  Washington .  The  Arab League  also backed a no-fly zone, and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, which would be responsible for
implementing it, said such action requires United Nations
authorization. The UN Security Council met yesterday to discuss
options for a possible resolution later in the week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  