-- 
Qaddafi’s Troops Take Back Rebel Cities as Indecision Grips Western Allies

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/qaddafi-s-troops-take-back-rebel-cities-as-indecision-grips-western-allies.html
Western allies planning for a
possible no-fly zone over Libya may find their deliberations
overtaken by events, as Muammar Qaddafi’s forces close in on the
opposition’s stronghold of Benghazi with tanks, infantry and air
support.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Feb. 28 that the
U.S. and NATO allies were considering a no-fly zone. Since then,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United Nations
Security Council have failed to decide on taking any kind of
military action. And the Arab League didn’t give its support
until March 12, by which time the rebels were losing ground.  Qaddafi has taken advantage of that indecision, starting an
offensive that has pushed the rebels back from town after town.  “The sad truth is that Qaddafi accurately read the
unwillingness of other countries to get involved,” said Kori
Schake, an associate professor of international affairs at the
U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy have been the most forceful advocates for a no-
fly zone as a way to limit Qaddafi’s forces and protect
civilians. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has been wary of the
commitment, as has the Obama administration.  The Sooner, the Better  “A no-fly zone may not make a decisive military
difference, but could make a difference,” Cameron said in  London  yesterday. “The sooner it is done, the better, because
the effect it will have will be so much the greater.”  Violence in Libya, holder of  Africa 's largest oil reserves, 
pushed the price of crude to a 2 1/2 year high this month on 
concern the turmoil sweeping the Middle East will disrupt the 
flow of crude. Oil has since pared gains on traders’ 
anticipation the earthquake in  Japan  will reduce demand.                            Elliott Abrams , a fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in  Washington , says the moment when a no-fly zone
would have been most effective may have passed.  “Qaddafi was losing and all the momentum was with the
opposition, and that momentum was lost when the  United States 
and others, like Merkel, refused to act,” Abrams said. “I
recognize that it may be too late, and if it is, the
administration will have to live with their inaction here.”  The no-fly zone the U.S. and its allies enforced over  Iraq 
in the 1990s failed to stop  Saddam Hussein  from killing Iraqi
Shiites, said Oliver Miles, a former U.K. ambassador to  Libya .  Realistic Outcome?  “There is the option of doing nothing, which people are
uncomfortable with, but that doesn’t mean it’s wrong,” Miles
said. “It makes one feel bad to feel one has to let people go
on killing each other, but sometimes it’s realistic because
anything you do could make things worse.''  A senior Libyan opposition figure, Mahmood Jibril, met with
Clinton in Paris yesterday and extended rebel requests beyond a
no-fly zone to include air strikes to disable three Qaddafi-
controlled airfields, supplies of combat material, and other
measures, according to a U.S. official who briefed reporters on
the condition his name not be used.  The U.S. official said afterward that the administration is
trying to determine what actions Arab nations may take to
support the rebels.  Russian Resistance  While the  Arab League  has called for a no-fly zone to be
imposed over Libya, a move seen as crucial to winning UN
endorsement, Arab countries have made it clear that they don’t
intend to take part and may not contribute significantly to
paying its costs. It would be “carried out by the international
community and by those countries who are able to impose it, like
the NATO countries, for instance,” the Arab League’s ambassador
to the U.S., Hussein Hassouna, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television March 8.  Before the Security Council acts on a no-fly zone, the air
forces involved and the strategy for enforcing the zone must
clearly defined, Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said
yesterday.  “To say we need to act quickly, as fast as possible, but
not to provide answers to those fundamental questions is not
really helping, it is just beating the air,” Churkin told
reporters after a three-hour closed-door  Security Council 
meeting in New York.  U.S. Senators  John McCain , an Arizona Republican who was
his party’s 2008 presidential nominee, and  Joe Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent, introduced a  resolution  yesterday
calling for Obama to grant official recognition to the rebels
and take “immediate steps to implement a no-fly zone.”  ‘Broader Commitment’  “A no-fly zone was never going to be the decisive action
that tipped the balance against Qaddafi, even when Senator
Lieberman and I called for it almost three weeks ago,” McCain
said in a speech on the Senate floor. “A no-fly zone would take
one of Qaddafi’s most lethal tools off the table, and thereby
boost the confidence of Libya’s opposition.”  The Libyan rebels need various forms of help, said Schake,
who is also a research fellow at the Hoover Institution at  Stanford University  in  Palo Alto , Calif. “To be effective, a
no-fly zone would have to be one part of a broader commitment to
assist the rebels to overcome the military forces remaining
loyal to Qaddafi,” he said. “But that was true two weeks ago,
also.”  Qaddafi may have a limited number of men or tanks, which
makes an air interdiction campaign more likely to succeed, said
 Jeffrey White , a defense fellow at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy and a former analyst with the U.S. Defense
Intelligence Agency.  ‘No-Drive Zone’  Press reports and television images suggest that Qaddafi’s
forces number about 1,200 to 1,500 soldiers in about three
battalions, White said, with Soviet-designed armored personnel
carriers that are vulnerable to hand-held anti-tank rockets.
They may also lose momentum as their supply lines stretch
farther from Qaddafi’s stronghold in Tripoli.  A no-fly zone would need to be followed with a “no-drive”
zone, preventing Qaddafi’s tanks and armored vehicles from
following after the rebels, White said.  “These guys are out in the open -- a few raids would
probably have a pretty good effect. The problem is that it’s a
real step up in terms of levels of intervention,” White said.  NATO allies are unlikely to support a no-fly zone, said
Charles Kupchan, a fellow at the Council of Foreign Relations in
Washington and an expert on NATO affairs.  “The factors keeping NATO out are similar to the ones
keeping the Obama administration from sticking its toe in the
water -- the financial crisis, lots of troops in  Afghanistan ,
pressure to get those troops home,” Kupchan said in an
interview. And, he asked, “does Merkel, who’s really been on a
tightrope vis-à-vis Afghanistan, really want to send troops to
Libya?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  