-- 
Quake May Mean Heating Oil Price Tops Gasoline: Energy Markets

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/quake-may-mean-heating-oil-price-tops-gasoline-energy-markets.html
Heating oil may be more expensive
than gasoline in the U.S. this summer for only the second time
in a decade as  Japan ’s earthquake and the war in  Libya  drive up
demand for American exports of distillates.  The fuel’s premium over gasoline has increased almost
sixfold to 15.1 cents a gallon from 2.53 cents since March 10,
the day before the 9.0-magnitude temblor struck Japan. The
spread has also widened as Libya’s political uprising reduced
its crude exports to European refiners. Heating oil futures have
averaged 7.7 cents less than gasoline from April through July in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan,  Asia ’s second-biggest energy consumer, may look to
import distillates after five refineries and 11 nuclear plants
were shut by the quake, the country’s worst on record. At the
same time, fighting in Libya, Africa’s third-largest oil
producer, is forcing European marketers to turn to diesel
produced in the U.S. by companies such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   “These events open up the possibility for heating oil
futures to stay above gasoline this summer,” said Andrew Reed,
a principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts , which provides market analysis and forecasting
for  oil companies  and refiners globally. “This is an export
opportunity for the U.S.”  Heating oil for April delivery fell 11 cents, or 3.6
percent, to $2.9538 a gallon yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . April-delivery gasoline sank 15.74 cents,
or 5.3 percent, to $2.8029.  Japanese Refineries  About 1.2 million barrels a day of refining was offline
yesterday in Japan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
loss of more than a quarter of the country’s capacity will
reduce distillate exports, analysts at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch led by New York-based Francisco Blanch said in a report.  Libya’s crude exports, more than 85 percent of which go to
Europe, may be halted for “many months,” the  International
Energy Agency  said yesterday. The IEA estimated the output loss
at about 1.3 million barrels a day of mostly light, low-sulfur
crude, which produces more diesel. The lack of supply prompted
Tamoil Italia SpA to shut its 95,000-barrel-a-day plant at
Cremona, Italy’s 10th-largest.  Pump Prices  Historically high pump prices may reduce demand for
gasoline this summer, keeping futures at a discount to heating
oil, which is traded as a substitute for diesel.  Regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.556 a gallon March
14, The American Automobile Association said on its  website , the
most since Oct. 3, 2008. That compares with an average of $2.347
in 2009 and $2.779 in 2010.  “With the high gasoline price in the U.S., that could take
a big bite out of discretional driving this summer,” Reed said.
“So on top of distillate strength, you have potential gasoline
weakness.”  The lowest price for ethanol relative to gasoline in eight
months may also weigh on the motor fuel. Ethanol is mixed with
gasoline in the U.S. to meet federal mandates and make supplies
go further.  “Look how cheap ethanol is to gasoline and that will
trigger some more discretionary blending,” said  Tom Knight ,
vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana, Texas, which supplies about 80 million gallons of
gasoline and diesel a month to customers that include retailers,
trucking companies and municipalities.  Ethanol Discount  Ethanol traded on the Chicago Board of Trade was 45.8 cents
a gallon cheaper than gasoline yesterday, encouraging refiners
and blenders to use more of the biofuel. Production of
conventional gasoline blended with ethanol has risen 7.3 percent
to 4.87 million barrels a day this year, according to Energy
Department data.  The premium for  diesel fuel  may disappear if higher  interest rates  curtail economic growth in  Europe  and reduce fuel
consumption for transportation and industries.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
surprised investors March 3 by saying that the central bank may
tighten policy for the first time in almost three years to
control inflation.  “The ECB said they may raise interest rates as early as
April in Europe and that may slow demand,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute
in New York. “And there’s plenty of diesel. There’s no
shortage.”  Distillate Supplies  U.S. inventories of distillates, including diesel and
heating oil, were 3.7 percent above a year earlier in the week
ended March 4, according to Energy Department data.  San Antonio-based Valero is spending $2.9 billion to add
hydrocrackers at refineries in St. Charles,  Louisiana , and  Port
Arthur ,  Texas , to increase distillate output,  Bill Day , a
spokesman for Valero, said in an interview.  “We should be making all the diesel we can,” Bill Klesse,
chief executive officer of Valero, said during a March 11
conference call. Valero has 14 North American plants.  Because of the opportunities for diesel exports, investors
are hesitant to make the seasonal play of selling heating oil
and buying gasoline in the spring ahead of driving season. July-
delivery gasoline sank to an 18.9-cent discount to July heating
oil yesterday, from 0.4 cent Jan. 7.  “Look at the back months, and the market was already
anticipating that diesel was going to be stronger,” said Andrew Lebow, senior vice president for energy at MF Global Inc. in  New
York . “I’m not seeing a lot of interest on buying gas, selling
heat. People are reluctant. If you’re wrong, you could be wrong
in a big way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  