-- 
Reactors in U.S. Quake Zones May Be Key to Future Nuclear Plans

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-03-15T18:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/quake-prone-pacific-rim-atomic-plants-may-hold-keys-to-u-s-nuclear-plans.html
The future of President Barack Obama’s plans to redesign the U.S. energy system with low-
emission nuclear plants may hinge on reactors across the Pacific
Ocean as Japan’s nuclear disaster renews a debate about the
safety of plants.  Engineers are battling to prevent a meltdown at the
Fukushima Daiichi power station crippled last week by a tsunami
and the 9.0 magnitude temblor off Japan’s coast. U.S. regulators
may first closely scrutinize San Francisco-based  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s
Diablo Canyon seaside nuclear plant in earthquake-prone
California, Hugh Wynne, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co.
wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “Nuclear, long term, will be decided over the next couple
of weeks,” said Abel Mojica, who manages energy-related limited
partnerships at  Tortoise Capital Advisors  in Leawood, Kansas.
“If there are decisions after the post mortem, that there are
additional safety features required, that could add to costs.”  Obama’s energy plan relies heavily on nuclear power to
reduce carbon-dioxide emissions harmful to the climate as well
as to reduce dependence on imported oil. The president proposed
tripling federal loan guarantees to $54.5 billion to help build
new reactors in the 2012 budget plan he sent to Congress.  ‘Lot of Chaos’  As the 1979 Three Mile Island accident near Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, brought investment in nuclear power to a
standstill for three decades, the disaster in  Japan  probably
will have a similar effect as safety-related costs rise, said
Marin Katusa, chief energy investment strategist at Casey
Research in Phoenix. The company oversees about $100 million in
energy-related assets.  “There is going to be a lot of chaos,” Katusa said.
“Nuclear is going nowhere. A lot of these plants are over 40
years old and should be replaced. But the costs are going to be
high.”  Around the globe, governments are probing the safety of
operating reactors and delaying steps to keep them going. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel today halted the country’s seven oldest
nuclear plants, some of which were already offline, as part of a
nationwide review to run through June. Switzerland yesterday
suspended efforts to renew three of the country’s five power
stations, while  China ,  India  and Britain also paused new plant
development pending a review of Japan’s events.  Regulator’s Comments  In  Washington , officials indicated no change in
energy policy has been made because of the crisis in Japan.  Nuclear power “remains a part of the president’s overall
energy plan,”  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, told
reporters yesterday at a briefing.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission remains confident that
plants operating in the U.S. are safe, Gregory Jaczko, the NRC
chairman, said at the same briefing. The agency sets safety
rules for the industry and must approve new-plant construction.  “If we do get information that will cause us to take
action, we will take action,” Jaczko said. “All our plants are
designed to withstand significant natural phenomena, like
earthquakes, tornadoes and tsunamis.”  Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts , the top
Democrat on the Natural Resources Committee of the U.S. House of
Representatives, called for a moratorium on permits for reactors
in seismically active areas. “This is going to cause real
tremors in the nuclear investment area,” Markey told Peter Cook
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  Necessary Features  Markey requested today more information on the seismic
safety features of U.S. reactors near earthquake-prone zones in
a  letter  sent to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  “We are concerned that these reactors may not have the
features necessary to withstand the sort of catastrophic
earthquake and tsunami that has crippled several reactors in
Japan,” wrote Markey and Representative Lois Capps of  California , a Democrat.  Regulators in the U.S. have been asked to extend the
operating  licenses  of 13 plants with 20 reactors, according to
government figures. Companies run 104 nuclear power stations to
supply about 20 percent of U.S. electricity.  The most active earthquake zones in the U.S. include
California’s San Andreas fault and the New Madrid seismic zone
in  Arkansas , Missouri and Tennessee, according to the U.S.
Geological Survey. There is a “continuing concern for a major
destructive earthquake” along the New Madrid fault, while
California registered the greatest number of temblors in the
country during the past week, the agency said.  ‘Robust Enough’  “Nuclear  power plants  should not be built in seismically
active areas,” said Liz Apfelberg, a spokeswoman for Mothers
for Peace. The San Luis Obispo, California-based group opposes
extending PG&E’s license to run the nearby Diablo Canyon plant
about 185 miles (298 kilometers) northwest of  Los Angeles .  “No nuclear plant can be built robust enough in an
earthquake zone,” Apfelberg said, citing the events in Japan.  Her group is challenging PG&E’s application for a 20-year
license extension, based on seismic issues. In 2008, U.S.
scientists discovered a new fault line near the plant that
raised additional safety concerns, the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said.  ‘Unique Concerns’  In February, a group of California lawmakers cited the
seismic threats to Diablo Canyon in a letter to a federal
commission examining the issue of handling nuclear waste.  “We believe the seismicity, and remaining uncertainty, of
California creates unique concerns which deserve to be more
closely examined,” said the lawmakers, including Senator Sam Blakeslee, a Republican whose district includes San Luis Obispo.  “New evidence has emerged about previously undiscovered
faults that may exist near or even beneath” the Diablo Canyon
plant, said Blakeslee, a geophysicist who has studied
earthquakes, in a separate statement. “The devastating events
in Japan underscore the importance of addressing the seismic
uncertainty surrounding California’s nuclear power plants.”  Diablo Canyon has been built to withstand “all
environmental hazards in the region,” including a tsunami and
an earthquake with a magnitude of as much as 7.5 on the Richter
scale, Kory Raftery, a PG&E spokesman, said by telephone.  Buildings Reinforced  All of the plant’s equipment and buildings have been
reinforced and tested to ensure it can withstand “far above the
largest credible  earthquake  that could happen in our area,”
Raftery said. U.S. scientists and regulators have determined
that to be 6.0 to 6.5 in Richter magnitude, he said.  The California power station is one of a handful across the
U.S. that may pose seismic safety risks. Plants in the Northeast
and South are also within known fault zones.  In Arkansas, two pressurized-water reactors at the
Russellville Nuclear One plant supply 30 percent of the state’s
power, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show. The
plant is about 180 miles from the New Madrid fault line.  The power station employs about 950 people in the area and
holds a significant place in the community, according to state
Representative Andrea Lea, a Republican whose district includes
the Russellville plant and whose husband works there.  “You’ll never see a Kiwanis, Rotary or Lion’s club without
an employee of Arkansas Nuclear One involved,” Lea said by
telephone.  Less Powerful  The damage resulting from the Japanese temblor and tsunami
isn’t likely to be repeated in the area, said Haydar Al-Shukri,
the director of the state earthquake center at the University of
Arkansas at Little Rock. The most severe quake generated by the
New Madrid fault would be no more than a magnitude of 8 on the
Richter scale, about one tenth as powerful as the one that
caused the disaster in Japan, he said.  In  New York ,  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s two Indian Point reactors,
about 24 miles north of New York City, are near the intersection
of two seismic zones, identified in 2008 by scientists at
Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. A
magnitude 7 earthquake in the region is possible, based on
features of the faults, according to the scientists.  The reactors, which supply 25 percent of the power used by
New York City and suburban Westchester County, are designed to
withstand at least a magnitude 6 temblor, said Jerry Nappi, a
plant spokesman. Entergy and the NRC determined that the power
station “is still safe under the worst-postulated earthquake”
after the seismic study, he said.  Years of Inquiry  More inquiries by nuclear regulators in other countries are
likely to follow the Japanese accident and will take years, said
James Acton, an associate in the Nuclear Policy Program at the
Carnegie Endowment in Washington.  “It’s necessary to have a sober and careful reassessment
of the seismology,” he said in an interview. “There are valid
safety concerns and it will be hard for the industry to rebut
those arguments. But if additional safety costs become an
economic issue, investors may not be willing to cough up the
extra money.”  Design similarities with the Daiichi reactors and the
nature of the disaster that caused the problems there may
ratchet up risks for U.S. reactor operators, according to Hugh Wynne of Bernstein Research in New York.  ‘Potential Hazard’  “Regulators, politicians and activist groups are likely to
view power plants of any design faced with similar risks to
constitute a potential hazard,” Wynne said yesterday in a
report. PG&E’s Diablo Canyon and the San Onofre plant operated
by Southern California Edison, a unit of Rosemead, California-
based  Edison International (EIX) , are “particularly at risk” because
of their seaside locations, Wynne said.  The San Onofre plant is designed to withstand a 7.0
magnitude earthquake, greater than the maximum “credible
threat” for the region as determined by federal regulators and
scientists, said Gil Alexander, a spokesman for Southern
California Edison. The power station north of San Diego is
protected by a seawall to deal with tsunamis as high as 30 feet,
he said.    Cameco Corp. (CCO) ,  Canada ’s largest uranium producer, and power-
plant builder  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  yesterday fell the most in more
than a year, after paring drops of 28 percent each. Shaw has a
20 percent stake in Westinghouse Electric Co., a nuclear-power
technology provider controlled by Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   Uranium Drops  Uranium for immediate delivery fell $7.49, or 11 percent,
to $60.75 a pound, according to MF Global data, the biggest one-
day drop since at least July 2007. Cameco executives said
uranium prices may fall further.  Many U.S. plants rely on batteries to maintain reactor
cooling systems in the event of a blackout, David Lochbaum, of
the Union of Concerned Scientists, said today on a conference
call with reporters. The back-up power supplies are less capable
than those at the Daiichi plant, he said.  “We’re more vulnerable” said Lochbaum, who has worked in
U.S. nuclear power stations for 17 years. “Many of our reactors
are also vulnerable to hurricanes or ice storms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  