-- 
Aflac Policies, Coach Handbags Risk Decline in Japan Sales

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-15T21:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rambus-chips-coach-bags-risk-japan-sales-drop-as-quake-disrupts-business.html
  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  insurance,  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) 
memory-chip interfaces and  Coach Inc. (COH)  leather handbags are among
the products from U.S. companies at risk for lost sales in Japan
after the country’s worst earthquake ever.  Japan generated about 75 percent of Aflac’s 2010 sales, the
most among U.S.-based companies with a market value of at least
$100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least
35 companies including Rambus, Coach and jewelry-maker  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF)  had 15 percent or more of sales from Japan, the data show.  Quake disruptions range from “substantial” damage to a  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  plant in Miho, Japan, that will hurt
sales in two quarters to possible shifts in consumer behavior as
the world’s third-wealthiest nation rebuilds. Coach and Tiffany
said they both had shut some stores in Japan.  “Even for consumers who have the means, they may not be in
the mood to open up their wallets and spend conspicuously,”
said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager
at  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , which oversees about $360 billion.  U.S. manufacturers whose Japanese corporate customers are
idled by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in the northern
part of the country are among those that may feel the pinch most
quickly. Concern that a damaged nuclear plant may experience a
meltdown is weighing on investors and consumers.  Rambus in Japan  Rambus’s biggest sources of Japanese sales include  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  and  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , both of which have had some plant
shutdowns, and  Sony Corp. (6758) , said Jeff Schreiner, a Capstone
Investments Inc. analyst in  San Diego . In 2010, 36 percent of
Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus’s sales came from Japan. A
spokeswoman, Linda Ashmore, declined to comment.  Aflac, the supplemental health-insurance company, has been
in Japan since the 1970s, according to its website. The
Columbus, Georgia-based company said in a statement yesterday it
was keeping its forecast for 2011 operating earnings unchanged
“at the low end” of an 8 percent to 12 percent increase.  “We expect Aflac Japan sales will only be minimally
impacted by these events,” Aflac said, hours before firing
comedian Gilbert Gottfried, the voice of its duck mascot in the
U.S., after comments he made about tsunami victims.  Aflac fell $3.01, or 5.6 percent, to $50.89 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading for the second-worst
drop in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index. Rambus slid 41 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to $18.77 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Worse Than Kobe  The temblor’s drag on the economy may be greater than that
of the Kobe earthquake in 1995, Shun Maruyama, a Credit Suisse
AG equity strategist in Tokyo, said yesterday in a report.  “We also expect consumers to curb consumption for a long
period across a wide swath of the country, including the Tokyo
metropolitan area,” Maruyama said.  Golf may be among the industries at risk in a nation whose
$38,177 in unadjusted per-capita gross domestic product in 2009
trailed only Luxembourg and Norway. After the U.S., Japan was
the second-largest market for Carlsbad, California-based  Callaway Golf Co. (ELY)  in 2010, accounting for $164.8 million in
sales, or 17 percent of revenue.  “In a niche that has frozen up, a consumer discretionary
product isn’t going to do anything,” said Casey Alexander, an
analyst for Gilford Securities in New York who cut his rating
today to “sell” from “hold.”  Japan has the second-most active golfers after the U.S.,
with about 9 million, according to KPMG Advisory Ltd.  Japan Consumers  Coach shut 20 of its 165 stores in Japan and cut staff and
shortened hours at others, said Andrea Resnick, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based company. Tiffany, also based in New York,
has 230 stores worldwide and closed some of its 55 outlets in
Japan, said Mark Aaron, a spokesman, who declined to elaborate.  “The situation is fluid,” Aaron said. Tiffany had 19
percent of sales in Japan and Coach had 20 percent, according to
the Bloomberg data for their most-recent fiscal years.  Coach dropped $1.09, or 2.1 percent, to $52.02 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York trading. Tiffany slid 3.6 percent to $57.68.  Japanese consumer sentiment may drop as much as 20 percent,
about the same as in the U.S. following Hurricane Katrina in
2005, David Schick, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, wrote in a note yesterday. That sentiment likely will
recover in three months, just as it did with Katrina, he said.  The effect on U.S. trade overall will be small, said Andrew Rose, associate dean of the Haas School of Business at the
University of California, Berkeley. Some companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  may gain by selling equipment to help Japan
rebuild, he said. Other U.S. companies that compete with the
Japanese may benefit, he said.  Not Huge  “In terms of American commercial interests, this is not a
particularly huge deal,” he said. In 2010, Japan bought $60.5
billion of U.S. goods, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department, and sold $120.3 billion to the U.S.  Some quake disruptions for U.S. companies will involve
those with their own operations in Japan, such as Dallas-based
Texas Instruments.  The damaged plant located about 40 miles (64 kilometers)
northwest of Tokyo produced 10 percent of Texas Instruments’
output by revenue and won’t be back to full shipments until
September, according to TI, reported getting 9.8 percent of 2010
revenue from Japan.  Japan provides about 40 percent of technology components
worldwide, and plants had been at almost full capacity before
the quake, said Paul Martyn, vice president of marketing in
Chicago of BravoSolution, a Milan, Italy-based supply management
firm.  Air Travel  “Prices are going to go up and lead times are likely going
to increase,” Martin said in a telephone interview. “It’s
going to be a double whammy for U.S. companies that depend on
those Japanese components.”    Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  doesn’t expect a
significant impact to sales of copper concentrates to Japan’s
Pan Pacific Copper Co.,  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711)  and other
copper-smelting companies, said Eric Kinneberg, a spokesman. The
Phoenix-based company got 18 percent of 2010 revenue from Japan.  While the quake-ravaged areas in northern Japan aren’t
significant destinations for business or leisure travel, U.S.
airlines face risks in the Japan disaster, according to Philip Baggaley, a Standard & Poor’s credit analyst in New York.  “The current uncertainty and fears related to a possible
meltdown and other problems at stricken nuclear power plants
could deter travelers,” he said.  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , the parent of United and Continental airlines, is the
biggest U.S. carrier across the Pacific, based on passenger
traffic, followed by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American Airlines.  “Outbound Japanese travel is, we believe, also likely to
be significantly affected, as citizens focus their attention on
events in their home country,” Baggaley wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  