-- 
Rand, Won Insurance Costs Soar as Japan Radiation Risk Threatens Expansion

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-03-15T18:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rand-won-insurance-costs-soar-as-japan-radiation-risk-threatens-expansion.html
The cost to insure against declines
in  South Korea ’s won and  South Africa ’s rand surged as concern
mounts that a nuclear disaster in  Japan  and conflict in the
Middle East will derail the global economic expansion.  One-month options giving investors the right to sell the
rand cost 2.41 percentage points more than contracts to buy the
currency, compared with 2 percentage points yesterday, the
biggest increase since April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The premium to sell the won rose to 3.69 percentage
points from 2.93, the biggest surge since November.  Emerging-market currencies plunged today, led by a 2.5
percent drop in the rand, as Saudi Arabian troops arrived in
Bahrain and Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further radiation leaks was rising at a crippled nuclear
facility 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of  Tokyo . Implied
volatility on currency options in developing nations jumped the
most since May, according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  “You have a lot of cross winds and cross currents,” said
Amit Tanna, who oversees about $8 billion in London at JPMorgan
Asset Management. “Quite a lot of things are coming to hit the
market. Why not buy some insurance?”  Tanna said he bought option contracts to protect against
the drop in currencies including the Mexican and Chilean pesos.  Mexico’s peso slid 1.1 percent, the most since January, to
12.0307 per dollar at 1:36 p.m. New York time, after reaching
the strongest level since October 2008 yesterday. The Chilean
currency lost 0.5 percent versus the dollar, while  Russia ’s
ruble dropped 0.9 percent, the most since November.  11-Month Low  JPMorgan’s Emerging Market Volatility Index, which reflects
investor expectations of currency swings in the future, jumped
to 10.6 percent from 10.1 percent, the most since November.
Traders use implied volatility to set option prices. In option
contracts, investors pay a premium in exchange for the right to
buy or sell a currency at pre-agreed prices. The lower the
volatility, the lower the premium.  Before the selloff this week, swings in emerging-market
currencies were declining as the global economy recovered from
the 2008 financial crisis. JPMorgan’s volatility index declined
to 9.89 percent on March 10, the lowest level in 11 months.  The last time implied volatility dropped below 10 percent,
in April 2010, emerging-market currencies tumbled 4.4 percent in
the following month. A previous dip during 2006 and 2007
foreshadowed the global financial crisis in 2008.  Japanese Shares  The Japanese shares sank 10.6 percent today, capping the
biggest two-day drop since 1987, while bonds jumped globally, on
concern two explosions that damaged Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
nuclear power plant will cause more radiation leaks in the wake
of last week’s earthquake. In the Middle East, Saudi Arabian
troops moved into Bahrain with a regional force in the first
cross-border military intervention since the uprisings across
the region toppled Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  last month.    Brazil ’s real is among the most “vulnerable” currencies
as Japanese investors may repatriate funds to rebuild the
country, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. Japanese mutual funds
held 2.8 trillion yen ($34.6 billion) of Brazilian stocks and
bonds as of the end of last month, the fourth most foreign-
currency assets after the U.S., Australia and  Europe , according
to data from  Japan’s Investment Trust Association .  UBS AG has advised its clients since February to buy
options to protect against declines in the won and the Indian
rupee as a surge in  oil prices  this year weakens the economies
of the Asian energy-importing nations.  Global Growth  “It’s cheap to buy emerging-market protection,” said  Manik Narain , an emerging-market currency strategist for UBS in  London . “There’re more signs now that global growth momentum”
may be slowing, he said.  It costs about $26,700 to buy $1 million worth of three-
month put options for the won with a strike price at the forward
rate, 12 percent cheaper than at the end of 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Put contracts give investors the
rights to sell the currency. Similar put options for the rupee
cost $20,700, a 12 percent reduction from Dec. 31.  State Street Global Advisors has reduced its exposure to
emerging market currencies and remains “cautious” toward
countries with large current account deficits, including  Turkey ,
said Collin Crownover, the Boston-based head of currency
management at the company, which oversees $95 billion in assets.
The Turkish lira has lost 9 percent versus the euro in the past
three months, the worst performer among  developing countries , as
the political turmoil in the Middle East spreads and the oil
spike widens Turkey’s record current account deficit.  ‘Buy Protection’  “It’s a reasonable time to buy protection,” said
Crownover. “I would expect currency volatility will catch up.”  The lira, rand, Brazil’s real and the Polish zloty will
“underperform” because the currencies are either overvalued or
rely too much on foreign funding, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. The New York-based bank is recommending its clients
bet the lira will fall against the euro, “targeting” a further
fall of 5.7 percent to 2.35 per euro.  Maxime Tessier, a portfolio manager in  Montreal  at Caisse
de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , said emerging-market currencies
in Latin America and  Asia  will rally as the economies are strong
enough to overcome higher oil prices and central banks are able
to defeat inflation.  “Investors are cautiously optimistic,” said Tessier. His
company,  Canada ’s biggest pension fund manager, oversees C$152
billion ($154.8 billion) in assets.  Record Low  JPMorgan’s volatility index fell to a record low of 5.8
percent in July 2007 as investors gained confidence in
developing nations after  Mexico ’s debt default in 1982 and the
Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998. Policy makers’ efforts
to reduce debt and curb inflation have made their interest-rate
and currency moves more predictable.  The index began rising when credit markets froze late in
2007, and hit a record 35.8 percent in October 2008, one month
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. It has since
dropped by two-thirds as the global recovery takes hold.  “There’s plenty of risk out there,” said  Paul Mackel , a
currency strategist at HSBC Holdings in London, who co-wrote a
research note titled “FX Markets: Calm now, storm later” on
Feb. 21. “Investors should be considering buying some potential
insurance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  