-- 
South African Rand Slumps on Japan Risk, Equities Slide to Four-Month Low

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-15T15:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rand-depreciates-most-in-three-weeks-as-commodities-fall-on-economic-fears.html
The rand slumped the most in 10
months and stocks fell in Johannesburg as a selloff sparked by  Japan ’s crisis caused a drop in gold and platinum, which make up
about fifth of South African export earnings.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated as
much as 2.8 percent to 7.0311 per dollar, the biggest intraday
decline since May 19 and traded 1.9 percent down at 6.9678 at
5:03 p.m. in Johannesburg, making it the worst performer among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index 2.2 percent to close at
30,193.95 at 5.p.m., a four-month low.  Emerging-market stocks and currencies fell today on concern
that Japan’s crisis may lead to lower global demand for
commodities. Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant was today rocked by two more explosions and a
fire, heightening radiation risks in the aftermath of an
earthquake which has left about 1.4 million Japanese households
with no running water, according to a government report.  “There is quite a bit of fear out there,” Nema Ramkhelawan, a Johannesburg-based currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank, said today by phone. “The impact of the disaster
is not completely known, and as long as the uncertainty remains,
the rand will be volatile.”  Gold fell as much as 3.1 percent, while platinum declined
as much as 3.2 percent.  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , part-owner of the
world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers, and BHP Billiton
Plc, the world’s biggest mining company, led the drop in South
Africa’s equity market as commodities prices retreated for a
fourth day.  Uridashi Selloff  The rand’s weakening “is only the start of an unwind of
positions that could last over the next few days or weeks,”
Societe Generale SA said in an e-mailed note today.  The currency should be sold against the dollar as it will
probably depreciate on  risk aversion  as Japanese households sell
rand-denominated uridashi bonds, or debt issued in the
euromarket and sold mainly to Japanese individual investors, to
hold cash for coping with the aftermath of the March 11 quake,
Investors should sell the rand at 6.8750 per dollar and buy the
U.S. currency on speculation the rand will weaken to 7.3500, the
French bank said.  The earthquake “will take its toll not just on Japan but
for all of us,”  Gill Marcus ,  South Africa ’s central bank
governor, said today. The world is out of economic recession but
not out of crisis, she said.  Japan accounts for about 8 percent of South Africa’s
exports, a larger proportion than for  Russia  or the eurozone,
Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based emerging-markets economist
at Nomura International, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  Japan Export Dependence  “South Africa stands out in particular for its very strong
dependence on Japan as an export market,” Montalto wrote.
“Whilst such exposure may look bad actually considering that
semi-processed metals are the key export to Japan, then
increased demand in those items as reconstruction in Japan
recommences may well actually be a boost for South Africa.”  The rand could slump to as weak as 7.05 per dollar in
coming days, and would likely trade between that level and 6.85
per dollar, Ramkhelawan said.  “It is going to take something quite meaningful for it to
push” weaker than 7.05 per dollar, she said. “Global growth
still remains quite robust, although the impact of the disaster
on global growth remains to be seen.”  Anglo, Billiton, Richemont  Anglo American sank 1.5 percent to 337.50 rand, the weakest
since Dec. 20.  BHP Billiton  retreated 1 percent to 250.60 rand,
the lowest in almost five months.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry
maker, dropped 2.7 percent to 36.73 rand, a four-month low. Some
of the company’s units, including the Chloe fashion label, count
Japan as their largest market. Japan is the world’s second-
largest market for  luxury goods  after the U.S., accounting for
11 percent of total sales, according to Bain & Co.  Bonds gained for a second day, with the 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 adding 18 cents to 121.284 rand,
reducing the yield by 5 basis points to 7.793 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 