-- 
Rate Swaps Fall Most in Two Years With Wen Cutting Loans 25%: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-15T06:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rate-swaps-fall-most-in-two-years-with-wen-cutting-loans-25-china-credit.html
The cost of locking in  China ’s
money-market rates is sliding at the fastest pace in two years
on speculation slowing credit growth will ease the need for more
monetary tightening this month to combat inflation.  The 12-month swap contract, which exchanges fixed payments
for the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped 19 basis
points this week to a two-month low of 3.22 percent as damage
caused by an earthquake in  Japan  fanned concern the global
economic recovery will cool. The rate slumped 34 points last
week, the most since November 2008, as the government reported
slowdowns in exports and retail sales.  New loans declined 25 percent from a year earlier to 1.58
trillion yuan ($240 billion) in the January-February period,
while  money supply  expanded last month at the slowest pace in
two years, the central bank reported yesterday. China’s one-year
swap rate is the lowest among the so-called BRIC nations and
Morgan Stanley predicts it will fall further as policy makers
seek to sustain expansion in an economy that’s averaged 10
percent growth for the last five years.  “The slowdown in loan growth points to maybe a less
aggressive stance from the central bank,” said Delphine Arrighi,
a strategist at  Standard Chartered  Plc in Hong Kong. “Interest-
rate swaps were close to all-time highs three weeks ago and
might have appeared a bit overpriced considering the underlying
economic conditions.”  Rate Increases  China’s one-year swap rate reached 3.99 percent on Feb. 21
in Shanghai, the highest level in Bloomberg data going back to
May 2006, as borrowing costs climbed. The equivalent rate in  Brazil  is 12.46 percent,  Russia ’s is 5.01 percent and  India ’s is
7.39 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark one-year
deposit rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent on
Feb. 9, the third increase in four months, and boosted major
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios for the fifth time since the
start of November on Feb. 24. Brazil’s Selic rate is 11.75
percent, Russia’s refinancing rate is 8 percent and the  Reserve
Bank  of India’s repurchase rate is 6.5 percent.  China’s repo rate, a gauge of liquidity in the financial
system, slipped 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage points, to a
four-month low of 2.00 percent. The Politburo, China’s top
decision-making body, said last month it wants to avoid large
fluctuations in economic growth while targeting “basic
stability” in prices.  ‘Reflationary Bias’  “There is a clear reflationary bias expressed by the
Politburo and bank lending data in the first two months has been
sluggish,” said Pieter Van Der Schaft, head of Asian rates
research at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . “Liquidity will remain
flush in the very near term.”  The analyst cut his projection for the 12-month non-
deliverable swap contract yesterday to 2.75 percent, from a
range of 3 percent to 3.25 percent, saying the central bank is
unlikely to tighten monetary policy aggressively before April.
The contract, which is traded offshore and settled in dollars,
has declined 21 basis points this week to a two-month low of
3.23 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The government is “confident” of managing inflation
expectations and will “mop up” excess cash to stem price gains,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday at the end of an annual 10-day
meeting of China’s parliament. The central bank sold 32 billion
yuan of three-month bills at a weekly auction on March 10, the
most in almost five months.  Draining Cash  The sale helped drain 10 billion yuan from the financial
system last week, after so-called open-market operations
injected 1.16 trillion yuan in the previous 16 weeks. The
central bank sold 10 billion yuan of one-year bills today, the
most since Nov. 16.  The inflation rate was 4.9 percent in January and February,
compared with the two-year high of 5.1 percent reported for
November and in excess of the government’s 4 percent target for
2011, official figures show. Citigroup Inc. recommends investors
opt to pay China’s one-year swap rate, predicting it will climb
to 3.75 percent by the end of June as the central bank boosts  interest rates  and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios.  “Inflation as a whole is under upward pressure,” said
Patrick Perret-Green, head of Asian currency and rates strategy
at the U.S. lender in  Singapore . “There may be one or two more
reserve-requirement-ratio hikes and three more deposit-rate
hikes of 25 basis points, with one due very soon and the second
towards the end of the second quarter.”  Pay Swaps  HSBC Holdings Plc also recommends paying one-year swaps,
saying the non-deliverable contract should be about 4 percent by
the end of June as reserve-requirement ratios are boosted by a
percentage point and interest rates by 25 basis points.  “It seems to be the prevailing view that in the very, very
short term there will be a greater emphasis on open-market
operations than any form of rate hike,” said  Andre de Silva ,
the head of Asia-Pacific rates research at HSBC in Hong Kong.
“We are not near the end of the cycle yet and it would be
premature to think this will be a sustained move in terms of
lower Chinese interest-rate swaps.”  The yuan traded at 6.5707 per dollar as of 2:35 p.m. in  Shanghai , from 6.5698 yesterday, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency touched a 17-year high of
6.5628 on March 7 on speculation the government will tolerate
appreciation to help contain inflation by limiting the cost of
imports.  Yuan Forwards  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slid 0.3 percent to
6.4565, reflecting bets the yuan will gain 1.8 percent. Five-
year credit-default swaps on China’s dollar bonds rose to 74.9
basis points yesterday from 74.4 on March 11, CMA prices show.
The contracts insure debt against default and traders use them
to speculate on  credit quality .  Standard Chartered’s Arrighi predicts rates will be
increased twice by the end of June and said lenders may be
ordered to set aside more funds as reserves within the next 10
days. The one-year deposit rate has been raised 75 basis points
since the start of October and the reserve-requirement ratio for
major lenders was lifted to 19.5 percent from 17 percent in that
time.  The one-year interest-rate swap averaged 3.59 percent this
quarter, up from 2.72 percent in the final three months of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Citic Bank Co.
predicts a mean level for the coming quarter of 3.5 percent to 4
percent.  “The one-year swap is declining because liquidity is so
ample in the banking system,” said Guan Jiaying, a Beijing-
based analyst at the unit of China’s biggest state investment
company. “But the rate will rise in the second quarter because
the People’s Bank of China will still use the reserve-
requirement ratio to help drain liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  