-- 
RBA Saw Rates Appropriate as Slower Consumer Borrowing Offsets Mining Boom

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-15T01:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rba-saw-rates-appropriate-as-slower-consumer-borrowing-offsets-mining-boom.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
viewed slower borrowing by households and businesses offsetting
a mining investment boom when deciding to keep  interest rates 
unchanged two weeks ago, minutes of its March 1 meeting showed.  Policy makers saw the borrowing restraint “as a welcome
development, particularly as  household debt  remained at a
historically high level and debt-servicing requirements had
recently increased with the rise in interest rates,” according
to  minutes  released today in Sydney. A “mildly restrictive
stance of policy continued to be appropriate,” the minutes said.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has paused for three straight
meetings at 4.75 percent after seven increases in the overnight
cash rate target from October 2009 to November last year to
contain inflation. Economic growth accelerated in the final
three months of last year, the eighth straight quarterly
expansion before floods and cyclones ravaged the northeast.  “The RBA right now is ahead of the inflation curve and
feels pretty comfortable with its slightly restrictive monetary
policy given where the economy is at,” said  Joshua Williamson ,
a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, who expects the
next rate increase late in the third quarter.  Dollar Falls  The Australian dollar declined after the release of the
minutes, falling to $1.0059 as of 12:31 p.m. in Sydney from
$1.0097 yesterday in  New York . The so-called Aussie is about 10
percent stronger than a year ago, the fourth-biggest gainer
among the G-10 currencies.  Problems draining flooded coal mines in Queensland state
meant “the downside risks for the March quarter appeared larger
than at the time of the February meeting,” the minutes showed.  The central bank’s staff estimated the floods lowered
growth in the December quarter by 0.5 percentage point and would
have the same effect this quarter. Torrential rains in
Queensland in December and January affected about 30,000
properties, shut mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.  “Members confirmed that the board’s approach would be to
look through temporary effects caused by extreme weather events
and to continue to set monetary policy based on the medium-term
outlook for growth and inflation,” the minutes showed. “The
economy appeared to be growing at close to its trend rate and
the outlook for inflation over the year ahead was consistent
with the target.”  The RBA aims to keep consumer prices in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  ‘Unprecedented’ Investment  Australia is undergoing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India . That’s helped bolster demand for Australia’s dollar,
the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which touched a record
$1.0256 on Dec. 31.  Policy makers expect annual growth will be boosted by
projects such as BG Group Plc’s $15 billion liquefied natural
gas venture in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs.
BG,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are
among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in proposed
LNG projects in Australia.  “Members observed that the forecast growth in the
resources sector, especially for LNG, would take investment in
that sector to a level that was unprecedented as a share in
GDP,” the minutes showed.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent from the third
quarter, when it rose a revised 0.1 percent, according to a
March 2 government report. That matched the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.  Labor Market  Australia’s labor market, which had record job creation
last year, has gone through its worst three-month period since
mid-2009. The economy has lost a net 2,300 jobs from December
through February after gaining 362,800 during the first 11
months of 2010, according to statistics bureau figures.  “Forward-looking indicators of employment from surveys and
liaison pointed to solid employment growth over the coming
year,” policy makers said in today’s minutes. “Wage growth had
picked up over the second half of 2010, with the quarterly
outcomes for the wage price index back at around their average
rate for the 2005-2007 period.”  The RBA last month raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, saying
flood rebuilding will accelerate in the second half.  Commodity Prices  Commodity exports from  Australia , the largest shipper of
coal, iron ore and wool, may gain 14 percent to a record next
financial year, driven by rising prices, the federal
government’s forecaster said this month.  Sales may expand to A$251.3 billion in the 12 months to
June 30, 2012, the Canberra-based Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences said March 1 in a
report.  Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of income from
exports, advanced for a fifth straight quarter, gaining 1.1
percent, a government report showed earlier this month.  In the minutes, RBA members observed that rising prices of
raw materials “had resulted in a renewed focus on inflation
risks globally.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  