-- 
Treasuries Rise as Japan's Nuclear Reactor Risk Encourages Refuge Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-15T16:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/treasuries-extend-gain-as-kan-says-danger-from-radiation-leak-is-rising.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 10-year
note yields to their lowest level this year, as  Japan ’s Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  asked for calm as engineers worked to cool
nuclear reactors damaged by last week’s earthquake.  Yields on 10-year notes fell the most in almost three
months as the Bank of Japan’s efforts to provide liquidity and
expand an asset-purchase program failed to stem an equity
selloff, which sent the Nikkei 225 Stock Average down as much as
14 percent and sapped U.S. stocks. Two-year note yields slumped
as Federal Reserve policy met.  “It’s a panic trade,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury
trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “The
main concern was a nuclear disaster. A lot of uncertainty puts a
bid in Treasuries and takes it out of risk assets.”  Yields on 10-year notes decreased seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.29 percent at 12:50 p.m. in  New
York , according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent note due in February 2021 rose 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 27/32.  Benchmark 10-year yields touched 3.20 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 10, falling as much as 15 basis points in the
biggest intraday drop since Dec. 29. Two-year note yields slid
as much as nine basis points to 0.50 percent, the lowest level
since Dec. 7. Yields on 30-year bonds decreased as much as 12
basis points to 4.41 percent, the lowest since Jan. 5.  Geithner on Japan  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he doesn’t
think Japan will have to sell Treasuries to raise cash as the
government in  Tokyo  battles to cool three earthquake-damaged
nuclear reactors.  Japan has “a very high savings rate,” Geithner told the
Senate Banking Committee today. “It has the capacity to help
deal with not just the humanitarian challenge but the
reconstruction challenge they face ahead.”  The Fed will delay any upgrading of its economic outlook
today as its policy committee weighs the economic impact of the
earthquake in Japan and rising oil prices, according to former
Richmond Fed President Alfred Broaddus.  “With all that has happened -- the tragedy in Japan, the
recent run-up in energy prices -- all of that takes the
likelihood of any significant change at all, even any small
change, pretty much off the table,” Broaddus said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “What they are going to want to signal is continuity and
steadiness for now.”  Fed Debt Buying  Policy makers were almost certain to fulfill their plan to
buy $600 billion in Treasuries, a survey of economists showed.
How they finish the purchases and what they do next is a matter
of disagreement.  Of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week, 49
said the Fed will buy the full amount of bonds in a bid to boost
the economy. Thirty-one said the central bank won’t adjust the
pace or duration of the purchases, as it did in the first round
of quantitative easing in 2009-10.  All 101 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expected the
Fed today to hold its target rate for overnight lending at zero
to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008. The
central bank’s statement is due at 2:15 p.m. Washington time.  The difference between the upper end of the Fed’s target
and 10-year note yields fell to 3.04 percentage points, the
narrowest in almost two months.  Japanese investors will repatriate funds as the nation
seeks to recover from its strongest earthquake on record,
according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  Pimco’s View  While inflation and the deficit will rise, Japan will be
able to navigate the economic shock, El-Erian, who’s also co-
chief investment officer, said via telephone in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  Japan’s holdings of Treasuries rose for an eighth straight
month to $885.9 billion in January, the longest period of
increases since a 22-month span ended in August 2004, the
Treasury Department reported today.  Short-term Treasury  bills  accounted for $62.5 billion, or
7.1 percent of Japan holdings, according to Treasury Department
figures. Japan is the second-largest foreign lender to the U.S.
after  China , whose holdings fell for a third straight month to
$1.15 trillion.  Even as Japanese investors typically repatriate assets in
March for the country’s fiscal year-end, their holdings of
Treasuries rose 2 percent in March 2010 and haven’t decreased in
March since 2007.  BOJ Infusion  The  Bank of Japan  added 8 trillion yen ($98 billion) to the
banking system today after BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
pledged yesterday at a news conference in Tokyo to keep pumping
cash as needed following the addition of a record 15 trillion
yen to the economy.  The central bank doubled its asset-purchase program
yesterday to 10 trillion yen, an increase that’s about one-tenth
the size of the Fed’s program of buying Treasuries.  Japan’s Prime Minister Kan called for calm as the
government battled to cool three quake-damaged nuclear reactors
with seawater and Tokyo shoppers stripped water, food and
batteries from supermarket shelves.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation readings
outside reactors rocked by explosions were falling below levels
that are harmful, while a fire at a separate unit appeared to
have been put out. Earlier, Edano had said the steel unit
containing the radioactive core of one reactor had been damaged
and warned of dangerous contamination.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average had its biggest two-day
decrease since 1987, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbled 1.8 percent and the MSCI World Index of developed
nations fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  