-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Erase Gains as Fed Cites U.S. Recovery’s Momentum

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-15T21:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/treasuries-advance-as-japan-s-nuclear-reactor-concern-spurs-refuge-demand.html
Treasury two-year notes erased
gains, pushing yields up from this year’s low, as the  Federal
Reserve  said the recovery is gaining strength and “conditions
in the labor market appear to be improving gradually.”  Benchmark 10-year notes and 30-year bonds remained higher
as investors sought refuge amid concern a nuclear accident
outside Tokyo may cripple the global economy and the Fed said in
its statement higher energy prices will have a temporary effect
on inflation. The Fed reaffirmed its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June.  “There’s a definite feeling at the Fed that the economy
has created a better foundation,” said  John Spinello , chief
technical strategist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of
20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “That offsets the
flight to quality we saw in the front end due to the
geopolitical events and the disaster in  Japan .”  Yields on two-year notes increased almost one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.61 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.625
percent note maturing in February 2013 dropped less than 1/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/32.  Two-year note yields earlier fell nine basis points to 0.50
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 7. Yields on 10-year notes
dropped five basis points to 3.30 percent after declining 15
basis points, the most on an intraday basis since Dec. 29.
Thirty-year bond yields slid eight basis points to 4.45 percent.  Fed’s Economic Outlook  In an upgrade of the central bank’s economic outlook, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues removed language
that the recovery is “disappointingly slow” and that “tight
credit” is holding back  consumer spending .  “The statement moved a little in the direction of a more
positive economic outlook as some of the negative language was
dropped,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of
bonds at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Milwaukee . “We are getting closer
all the time to a policy change.”  The central bank held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all 101
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The rate has been at that
level since December 2008.    U.S. debt  rallied earlier as Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked for calm as engineers worked to cool nuclear reactors
damaged by last week’s earthquake. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he doesn’t think Japan will have to sell U.S. debt
to raise cash.  Nikkei’s Plunge  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average’s one-day drop of 10.6 percent
was the biggest since October 2008 and extended its two-day
slide to 16 percent, the largest since 1987. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent after decreasing 2.7 percent.  Investors in Japan will repatriate funds as the nation
seeks to recover from its strongest earthquake on record,
according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  While inflation and the deficit will rise, Japan will be
able to navigate the economic shock, El-Erian, who’s also co-
chief investment officer, said via telephone today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Japan has “a very high savings rate,” Geithner told the
Senate Banking Committee. “It has the capacity to help deal
with not just the humanitarian challenge but the reconstruction
challenge they face ahead.”  Asked by Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, if
Japan will have to sell Treasuries and whether there would be a
impact on Treasury prices and U.S. interest rates, Geithner
said, “I do not.”  Japan’s Holdings  Japan’s holdings of Treasuries rose for an eighth straight
month to $885.9 billion in January, the longest period of
increases since a 22-month span ended in August 2004, the
Treasury Department reported today.  Treasury  bills  accounted for $62.5 billion, or 7.1 percent
of Japan holdings, according to Treasury Department figures.
Japan is the second-largest foreign lender to the U.S. after  China , whose holdings fell for a third month to $1.15 trillion.  Even as Japanese investors typically repatriate assets in
March for the country’s fiscal year-end, their holdings of
Treasuries rose 2 percent in March 2010 and haven’t decreased in
March since 2007.  The Bank of Japan added 8 trillion yen ($98 billion) to the
banking system today after BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
pledged yesterday at a news conference in  Tokyo  to keep pumping
cash as needed following the addition of a record 15 trillion
yen to the economy.  BOJ Asset Buying  The central bank doubled its asset-purchase program
yesterday to 10 trillion yen, an increase that’s about one-tenth
the size of the Fed’s program of buying Treasuries.  Engineers in Japan battled to cool three quake-damaged
nuclear reactors with seawater, and Tokyo shoppers stripped
water, food and batteries from supermarket shelves. A temblor
struck southwest of Tokyo.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said radiation readings
outside reactors rocked by explosions were falling below levels
that are harmful, while a fire at a separate unit appeared to
have been put out. Earlier, Edano had said the steel unit
containing the radioactive core of one reactor had been damaged
and warned of dangerous contamination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  