-- 
Refiners Beat Bond Market as Japan Earthquake Cuts Oil Costs: India Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-03-16T07:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/refiners-beat-bond-market-as-quake-cuts-oil-costs-india-credit.html
Indian refinery bonds rallied the
most in at least five months after an earthquake in Japan cut
crude oil prices, easing a squeeze on the industry’s profit
margins from making fuels.  The yield on the 4.75 percent dollar note due January 2015
in Indian Oil Corp. has decreased 23 basis points this month to
3.47 percent, according to data provided by Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. The decline is more than the 14 basis-point drop
in the average yield on Indian corporate dollar debt to 5.19
percent, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Global refiners also
benefited with the yield on February 2015 debt in  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO) , the largest U.S. refiner, dropping 2 basis points to 2.73
percent on March 14.  Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum
Corp., the three biggest state refiners, are winning some relief
after their earnings were eroded by a 30 percent jump in oil
costs in six months and state controls on diesel and kerosene
prices. Benchmark government bond yields held near this year’s
lowest level yesterday as the decline in crude eased concern
that inflation will accelerate in Asia’s third-biggest economy.  “The immediate effect is lower oil gives some relief to
Indian Oil, helping reduce costs and cap borrowings,” K.
Ravichandran, co-head of corporate ratings at ICRA Ltd., the
local affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service, said by telephone
from  Chennai  yesterday.   Japan  will probably need to import
more oil products and that would drive up refining margins,
which will also help refiners.”  Japan Capacity  The yield on  India ’s 7.8 percent government debt maturing
in May 2020 rose 1 basis point today to 7.97 percent, near the
lowest since Dec. 31, as destruction caused by the magnitude 9
earthquake on March 11 and subsequent tsunami rocked equity
markets and threatened to slow global economic growth.  Japan shut about 29 percent of its refining capacity after
the disaster, according to Bloomberg data based on Petroleum
Association of Japan figures. The closures may boost profits for
India’s state-run refiners and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
operator of the world’s biggest refining complex, said
Ravichandran.  The yield on Reliance’s 6.21 percent dollar bond due in
March 2017 has dropped 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage
point, this month to 4.72 percent, the lowest level since Feb.
11. The rate on  Bharat Petroleum ’s 7.73 percent rupee debt due
in October 2012 lost 5 basis points to 9.60 percent. Yields on
Hindustan Petroleum’s 7.7 percent local-currency debt due in
April 2012 fell 4 basis points to 9.54 percent.  Refining Margins  Margins for turning Brent crude oil into products at a
complex Singapore refinery have climbed to a profit of $15.22 a
barrel yesterday from a loss of $4.15 a barrel on March 1.
Diesel’s spread over Dubai crude increased to $24.64 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Refiner bonds can sustain these gains because oil isn’t
going to see a surge soon, probably not for the next few
months,” Jani Kurppa, a bond investor in Helsinki at EQ Asset
Management Ltd., which manages $1.5 billion, said by telephone
yesterday. “They have scope to extend the rally and I don’t
think the situation is going to reverse for them anytime soon.”  Oil rose to a 29-month high of $106.95 in  New York  on March
7 as escalating violence in  Libya  bolstered concern that supply
disruptions may spread through the Middle East. Crude dropped to
$96.22 today, the lowest intraday level since March 2. India
imports more than 75 percent of its crude oil requirement.  “Positive demand and price momentum in this highly
competitive and cyclical industry leads to higher cash flows,
which are credit positives,” said Rene Hermann, a Zurich-based
analyst at Independent Credit View AG. “Refiners’ bond risk
premiums are now lower and hence it is more attractive to tap
the credit market to refinance existing bank debt.”  Price Controls  India’s government allowed state refiners to set gasoline
prices in June, while continuing to control diesel, kerosene and
cooking rates to help curb inflation. Indian Oil hasn’t
increased gasoline prices since Jan. 16, although crude has
gained 7 percent. Lower crude cuts revenue losses for the
refiners and subsidy payments for the federal government, which
partly compensates them for selling fuels below cost.  “We have to see how  oil prices  are over a longer period of
time,” Serangulam V. Narasimhan, finance director at Indian
Oil, said yesterday. “The unfortunate incident in Japan means
oil prices haven’t increased like they were doing. It is too
early to comment on the impact.”  Rising Debt  Indian Oil had borrowings of 550 billion rupees ($12.2
billion) and debt was rising at 25 billion rupees a month
because of higher oil prices and controlled fuel rates in India,
Narasimhan said Feb. 10. The New Delhi-based refiner’s
borrowings were 507.2 billion rupees as of Dec. 31, Narasimhan
said the same day. He didn’t say how much the company’s current
borrowings are.  The refiner’s $327 million of debt is due this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said March 2
higher oil costs are a concern, underscoring the risk fuel
subsidies will undermine efforts to curb the  budget deficit .
India may “struggle” to meet its goals for the next financial
year because of the price-control system,  Standard & Poor’s  said
in a March 1 statement.  The rupee has slid 1.2 percent this year against the
dollar, the second-worst performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee rose 0.1 percent to 45.185 per dollar
today.  Bond Sales  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has dropped 5 basis points to 182.9 this month,
according to CMA prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Relative yields on Indian Oil’s debt have fallen as debt
sales by local companies other than banks dried up, bolstering
demand for existing securities, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. The difference between the yield on the 4.75 percent note
and similar-maturity U.S. swap rate has narrowed to 176 basis
points from a four-month high of 226 reached in December, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sales of dollar-denominated bonds issued from India this
year were $2.9 billion, all of which were by lenders, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from $6.7 billion in
the fourth quarter when  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  and Reliance
sold debt.  Almost 50 percent of the $5 billion of debt issued from  South Korea  this year was from non-bank borrowers. The last time
an Indian refiner borrowed dollars was in October, when Reliance
Industries raised $1.5 billion, Bloomberg data show.  “Non-bank corporate dollar debt supply from India has been
quite thin and that’s mainly why spreads have narrowed,”
Pradeep Mohinani, Hong Kong-based managing director at Nomura,
said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  