-- 
Regent Pacific Terminates BC Iron Offer After Opposition

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-03-15T05:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/regent-pacific-terminates-bc-iron-offer-after-opposition-1-.html
  Regent Pacific Group Ltd. (575) , a Hong
Kong-based investment holding company, abandoned its A$267
million offer to buy the shares it didn’t own in  BC Iron Ltd. (BCI) 
after the ore producer’s biggest stakeholder opposed the deal.  Consolidated Minerals Ltd., which holds 21 percent of
Perth-based BC Iron, “flatly opposed” Regent’s January-
announced deal to buy BC Iron shares at A$3.30 apiece, Regent
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. BC
Iron is “perplexed” by Regent’s decision, it said separately.  Regent, aiming to become a mid-tier mining house producing
bulk commodities, base metals and gold in the Asia-Pacific
region, was seeking to add iron-ore production to its portfolio.
Steel consumption is predicted to jump 5.3 percent to a record
this year, according to forecasts from the World Steel
Association.  BC Iron completed its first shipment of  iron ore  from  Western Australia ’s Pilbara region in January and expects to
export 1 million metric tons by mid-year, it said on Jan. 11.
The Perth-based company, with a market value of A$266 million,
went into a trading halt before today’s announcement at $2.82 a
share, down 15 percent from Regent’s offer price.  ‘Unusual’ Request  “Regent Pacific’s request is particularly unusual as
Consolidated Minerals has yet to have the benefit of reviewing
an independent expert’s report as to whether, in the opinion of
the expert, the scheme is in the best interests of
shareholders,” BC Iron said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange today.  Regent shares fell 9.3 percent to 39 Hong Kong cents by
12.52 p.m. in local trading, giving it a market value of HK$1.53
billion ($196 million).  Consolidated Minerals, owned by Ukrainian billionaire
Gennadiy Bogolyubov, had indicated that it opposed Regent’s
purchase of BC Iron, today’s statement from Regent said.  “The company has therefore accepted Consolidated Minerals’
publicly stated position and, as a consequence, the board is
firmly of the view, formed in good faith, that Consolidated
Minerals will vote against the scheme,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  