-- 
Reinsurers May Halt Stock Buybacks After Japan’s Quake, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-15T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/reinsurers-may-halt-stock-buybacks-after-japan-s-quake-deutsche-bank-says.html
Stock repurchases by most
reinsurers may be halted because of last week’s earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan , and that may push down share prices this year,
a Deutsche Bank AG analyst said.  Reinsurers in the U.S. and  Bermuda  are already facing
almost a full year’s worth of losses in the first quarter, said
Joshua Shanker, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, in
a March 14 note. With a seasonal decline in share buybacks
during the June-to-October North Atlantic hurricane season,
losses from the Japanese disaster will cause a “near-term
moratorium” on some repurchase programs.  Insurers and reinsurers have been returning capital to
shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases as the
prices businesses pay for coverage decline. Japan’s quake, which
may have killed more than 10,000 people, could cost the global  insurance industry  as much as 2.8 trillion yen ($35 billion) in
claims, according to AIR Worldwide.  “Meaningful share repurchase efforts have been supporting
the share prices of a number of underwriters,” Shanker said. A
halt to buybacks may “be a negative catalyst on future
trading.”  Reinsurers help protect primary carriers against the cost
of major claims from disasters like hurricanes and earthquakes.
U.S. commercial insurance rates fell 5.4 percent in the last
three months of 2010 and have dropped every quarter since 2004,
according to the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers.    Reinsurance Group of America Inc. (RGA)  repurchased 2.5 million
shares from Barclays Bank Plc for $149.4 million, according to a
March 7 statement. Bermuda-based  RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. (RNR) 
raised its quarterly dividend a penny a share to 26 cents and
boosted its stock-repurchase program to $500 million, the
company said in a Feb. 23 statement.  Reinsurance Group of America, based in Chesterfield,
Missouri, declined 93 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $59.16 in
regular trading yesterday on the  New York  Stock Exchange.
Bermuda-based RenaissanceRe advanced 20 cents to $65.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 