-- 
Rice May Extend Decline, Limiting Food Costs, UN's Calpe Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-15T08:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rice-may-extend-decline-limiting-food-costs-un-s-calpe-says.html
Rice, the staple for half the world,
will probably drop on increased supplies, trailing other grains 
and curbing record food costs, the  United Nations  said.  Global stockpiles will increase 4.6 percent to 137 million
metric tons by the end of this season, the highest level since
2002,  Concepcion Calpe , senior economist at the UN Food &
Agriculture Organization, said in an interview. Rice may drop
9.3 percent to $12 per 100 pounds in two months, said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Sydney-based Commodity Broking
Services Pty, who correctly predicted last year’s advance to $15.  Rice declined 1.1 percent to $13.23 per 100 pounds today as
grains tumbled amid a rout in global markets after Japan’s Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risk of further radiation leaks was
rising at a nuclear power station north of  Tokyo . Climbing grain,
dairy and cooking oil prices pushed global food costs to a
record in February, the UN has said, fueling conflict in Libya
and helping to oust leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.  “The price will weaken because supply is ample and can
easily meet import demand,” Calpe said from Rome. “There is no
scarcity of rice in the market.”  Rice fell to a five-month low in  Chicago  on March 11 after
the U.S. raised its estimate of world inventories. The grain
advanced about 4.9 percent in the past year, lagging behind a 49
percent increase for wheat and an 82 percent surge for corn.  Global stockpiles may increase to an eight-year high of
98.8 million tons, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said March
10. The department raised its inventory estimate from 93.85
million tons in January.  Rising Supplies  While the USDA  lowered  its estimate for the global harvest,
it also pared its outlook for demand and raised the forecast for
inventories in China and  India , the top producers. Year-ending
stockpiles in  Thailand  may be 5.2 million tons in 2011, equal to
about 17 percent of world import demand, according to FAO  data .  The 9-magnitude earthquake in  Japan  on Friday, the
strongest on record, and the seven-meter tsunami may not have a
major impact on the global rice market, Calpe said.  “The country is sitting on huge stocks to cover the needs
and no supply shortage is anticipated,” she said. “This event
shouldn’t change the fundamentals.”  The harvest of the second crop in Thailand, the biggest
exporter, may total about 9 million tons, Pramote Vanichanont,
honorary president of Thai Rice Mills Association, said in an
interview March 8. That compares with 8.86 million tons the
previous year, according to the Office of Agricultural Economics.
The second crop represents about 30 percent of output.  “Abundant supplies of rice in inventories and upcoming
crops are putting pressure” on prices, said Pramote, a member
of the National Rice Policy Committee.  Thai prices, the benchmark for  Asia , declined to a four-
month low last week as orders subsided and supply increased, the
Thai Rice Exporters Association said March 9. The price of 100
percent grade-B white rice dropped to $528 a ton, the lowest
level since Nov. 3, said Pisanu Sangyoo, an association official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  