-- 
Rogers Investment Expects ‘Short-Term Dislocations’ in Yen

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 
2011-03-15T02:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rogers-investment-expects-short-term-dislocations-in-yen.html
  Ed Rogers , chief executive officer
at Rogers Investment Advisors K.K., a Tokyo-based fund-of-hedge-
funds adviser, comments on the outlook for investments in Japan
following an earthquake on March 11.  Rogers made the comments in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Hong Kong  today. He estimates rebuilding following
the temblor and tsunami will amount to more than $200 billion.  On a strengthening yen as the nation taps its reserves to
rebuild:  “The short-term dislocations are going to be acute. We’re
seeing the Nikkei down 11, 12 percent in the last two days.
We’re probably not at the bottom. Will I view this as a buying
opportunity, yes I would. Let’s look at corporate  Japan , what
numbers are going to be reported for the full year, look at the
coffers, they’re filled. Corporate Japan has cash on their
balance sheets.  “This is the sort of situation where the repatriation of
the yen is almost unavoidable in the short term, and the foreign
exchange dislocations will be acute, but in the long term, this
will lead to a stronger, better rebuilt Japan, and that
situation will normalize.”  On investments in Japan:  “The economic engine of Japan is primarily unscathed in
this. So you just get ‘long’ Japan. Call options on the Nikkei
would be one way of doing so.”  The affected area “is less than 10 percent of Japan’s
total industrial capacity. There are no major ports affected.
The nuts and bolts of industrial Japan Inc. are by and large
going to be unaffected by this. There will be short-term
dislocations to be sure, but the medium- and long-term outlook
is pretty much unaffected.”  On the outlook for  government bonds :  “In the short term, there will be a flight to quality if
you will. People unwinding equity positions, people trying to
figure out exactly how bad it is. You’re still trying to get
your arms around the key question of how bad could this nuclear
reactor problem get and what would be the effects. Most of the
commentary implies that even the worst case scenario is not
going to end Japan Inc. or Japan as a country and we ought to
keep that in mind as we get through this.  “There’s no silver lining for an event like this. But some
of the positive outcomes may be if the Japanese government, if
they handle this well, this could be their Katrina moment. Great
disasters, great challenges, if they’re met with a great
response, will lead to a very, very positive outcome for Japan
in the medium and long term.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  