-- 
Romanian Premier Seen Surviving Parliamentary No-Confidence Vote

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-03-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/romanian-premier-seen-surviving-parliamentary-no-confidence-vote.html
Romanian Premier Emil Boc will
probably survive the opposition’s latest attempt to oust him in
a no-confidence vote as the government pushes through  labor laws 
to meet the terms of its international bailout loan.  Boc’s coalition, which holds a majority in the 470-seat
Parliament, will help him stay in power in today’s vote by
refraining from casting ballots. Such an outcome would
automatically approve a labor bill that introduces contracts for
temporary workers and increases sanctions for black market
labor.  “Mathematically speaking, the no-confidence has very low
chances of passing especially if the members of the ruling
coalition don’t vote,” said Cristian Parvulescu, a political
analyst at the Bucharest-based group  Asociatia Pro Democratia .    Romania , whose economy went through the worst recession on
record over the past two years, passed the 2011 budget, a
revised pension law and a law setting 2011 wages to curb public
spending, narrow the  budget deficit  and satisfy the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund , from which it secured
a 20 billion-euro bailout ($28 billion) in 2009 to stay afloat.  Boc asked lawmakers to pass the labor law in three days
without debates, in a fast-track process. This enabled the
opposition, which failed in four similar votes last year over
public wage cuts and tax increases, to file the no-confidence
motion.  Fast Track  The government wants fast-track approval of changes to the
labor law to make the legislation more flexible. The law, agreed
with the IMF and the  World Bank , would also insure higher social
protection for employees.  The ruling coalition, facing elections next year, has lost
public support over the measures taken to qualify for the
bailout and President Traian Basescu said on Feb. 15 that Boc’s
Cabinet needs “another governing style” to “boost the
economy, not just get it out of the crisis.”  Media including news service Mediafax, newspaper Gandul and
private television stations Realitatea TV and Antena3, have
cited unidentified people as saying that Boc may resign to pave
the way for a new government backed by the same ruling
coalition.  “The internal struggle in the ruling party is really
intense and all the eyes are focused on that right now, after
the president launched the debate about replacing Boc,”
Parvulescu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  