-- 
Rubber in Tokyo Falls to Four-Month Low as Japan Quake May Derail Demand

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-15T08:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rubber-in-tokyo-falls-to-four-month-low-as-japan-quake-may-derail-demand.html
Rubber futures declined for a third
day, tumbling to the lowest level in more than four months,
after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake damaged car plants and caused
electricity shortages, threatening the economic recovery.  August-delivery futures plunged as much as 13 percent to
335 yen a kilogram ($4,097 a metric ton), the lowest intraday
price on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange since Nov. 4, before
settling at 353 yen.  “Selling continues as investors want to reduce risk amid
concern that demand may slow after the earthquake,” Gu Jiong,
an analyst at commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co., said from
Tokyo. “Demand from China and the U.S. is still not clear and
investors are wary of taking long positions,” he said.  Rubber has plunged 33 percent from a record 528.4 yen
reached Feb. 17 as worsening Middle East tensions and slowing
car sales in  China , the largest buyer, raised concerns demand
may decline. Losses intensified after the earthquake in Japan
caused power disruptions, forcing carmakers to halt production.  Tocom expanded the trading limit for rubber contracts for a
second time yesterday to 50 yen from the previous settlement
price, the exchange said yesterday on its  website .  Asian stocks slumped, dragging the benchmark index down by
more than 10 percent from its January peak, on concern a nuclear
accident and power shortage caused by the earthquake will
cripple the Japanese economy.  Japan’s Prime Minister said the danger of further radiation
leaks from a crippled nuclear power station is rising after
three explosions and a fire at the site 135 miles north of  Tokyo .  Output Loss  “Demand for rubber could be hit in the near term due to
the physical lack of access and potential disruption to tire and
car-manufacturing plants in Japan, especially near the
earthquake,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank, said
in a report today. “Also, potential buyers could stay on the
sidelines, hoping to snap up these commodities at lower prices
due to short-term uncertainty in the market.”    Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, may lose
output of at least 40,000 vehicles,  Shiori Hashimoto , a
spokeswoman for the company, said by phone yesterday. The
manufacturer’s profit will be cut by 6 billion yen ($72 million)
for each day of lost operations in Japan, while Nissan Motor Co.
and Honda Motor Co. may each lose 2 billion yen a day, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimated.  Thai Shipments  Some investors are concerned  Thailand , the top rubber
supplier, may halt exports, said Navarat Kaewpratarn, a senior
marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co.  Thailand’s Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban asked
exporters to suspend shipments to stem a plunge in prices and
will ask banks to offer low-interest loans to help shippers
stockpile the commodity.  The Thai government will negotiate with commercial banks to
extend low-interest loans to exporters for them to buy unsmoked
sheets from farmers at a minimum price of 120 baht a kilogram,
said Suthep, who chairs the rubber policy committee. The
government will also encourage farmers not to sell sheet below
the minimum level, he said.  The auctioned price of ribbed smoked sheet at a rubber
trading center in the southern province in Songkhla gained 1
percent to 106 baht a kilogram, boosted by the government’s
attempt to tackle price declines, the Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand said on its website. The price tumbled 19 percent
yesterday.  The free-on-board price, or cost without freight and
insurance, for Thailand’s benchmark ribbed smoked sheet plunged
today for a ninth day, tumbling 10 percent to 135.25 baht
($4.94) a kilogram on demand concerns, the institute said. The
price reached a record 198.30 baht on Feb. 21.  May-delivery rubber in  Shanghai  declined as much as 2.2
percent to 32,750 yuan ($4,986) a metric ton, the lowest
intraday level since Dec. 10, before closing at 33,155 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  