-- 
Rupiah Drops as Japan’s Nuclear Accident Deters Risk-Taking

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-15T09:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rupiah-drops-as-japan-s-nuclear-accident-deters-risk-taking.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah retreated from
its strongest level in almost four years as a record earthquake
in Japan and consequent damage to a nuclear power plant curbed
risk-taking, sapping demand for emerging-market assets.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of
further radiation leaks from the crippled plant is rising after
three explosions and a fire at the site 135 miles north of  Tokyo .
Japan was the second-largest buyer of Indonesian exports,
excluding oil and gas, in January, official figures show. The
U.S. was the No. 1 destination for shipments.  “Worries that radiation leaks will occur are affecting
investor sentiment in the region, including Indonesia,” said
Mika Martumpal, a senior market analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth
in Jakarta. “They are worried that what’s happening in  Japan 
will affect the economy.”  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 8,783 per dollar as of 3:53
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency earlier reached 8,745, the strongest level since May
2007.  The official death toll from Japan’s 9-magnitude earthquake
and ensuing tsunami has surpassed 2,000 and thousands more are
still missing. Tokyo Electric Power Co. confirmed the third
explosion today at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant after
cooling systems were damaged and said a fire had broken out at a
building housing one of its reactors.  Indonesia’s nickel exports to Japan may slump more than 30
percent this year as the March 11 earthquake and tsunami will
reduce nickel consumption in the country, Witoro S. Soelarno,
expert staff for Energy Minister Darwin Saleh, said in Jakarta
today.  Ten-year  government bonds  fell. The yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 climbed one basis point to 8.41
percent, according to midday prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  