-- 
Ruth Madoff Account Got $14 Million From Fraud

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-16T14:24:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ruth-madoff-has-14-million-from-fraud-scheme-in-bny-account-trustee-says.html
(Corrects verb tense in headline in story published
yesterday.)  Ruth Madoff’s account at  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  received “fraudulent” transfers of at
least $14 million, said the trustee liquidating her husband  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, who wants to “recapture” $44.8 million.    Irving Picard , the trustee, said last week that he had
asked the bank for the couple’s monthly bank statements,
canceled checks and other records from January 2002 through
December 2008. Bank of New York had no objection to providing
them, he said in the March 10 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Money going into Ruth Madoff’s personal bank account came
from the imprisoned fraudster’s companies, which received
nothing in return, Picard said in previous filings. When Bernard
Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  collapsed in 2008, the funds became the
property of his customers, Picard said in his 2009 lawsuit
against  Ruth Madoff .  She is due to respond to the suit by March 31. She
forfeited houses, jewels and bank accounts to the U.S.
government in June 2009, according to a list attached to the
forfeiture order.  In the Bank of New York account, some transfers masqueraded
as interest payments on loans made by Madoff companies, which
should have gone to the businesses and not to the owner’s wife,
Picard said. A $2.3 million deposit originating in the Madoff
brokerage was used “for the purchase of a yacht for the
personal enjoyment of Mrs. Madoff and her family,” Picard said.  Fraud Profit  Picard said in the 2009 suit he wanted to reclaim for
investors Ruth Madoff’s $44.8 million profit from the fraud. In
February, she was named in Picard’s $1 billion suit against the
Mets baseball team owners. Ruth and her family invested $12
million of “other people’s money” in Sterling Equities Inc.
entities, which Picard said he wants back.  The Madoffs, who often invited the families of Saul Katz
and  Fred Wilpon , partners in Sterling Equities, to family
celebrations, cocktail parties and dinners, used funds from the
Madoff brokerage for their own benefit in making investments in
Sterling entities, Picard said in the Feb. 4 lawsuit.  Ruth Madoff’s lawyer, Peter Chavkin, declined to comment.  Diamond Earrings  U.S. marshals seized the $7 million Manhattan home Ruth
Madoff shared with her husband in the year after the fraud was
exposed in 2008. Marshals sold the Madoffs’ Montauk, New York,
home for $9.4 million. Ruth’s 14-carat diamond earrings sold for
$70,000 in a Manhattan auction, and her 1999 Mercedes Benz went
for $30,000.  “Any and all accounts at financial institutions” in her
or her husband’s name also were claimed by the U.S. in 2009,
according to court filings.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the case.  The  New York  Post reported last year that Ruth Madoff was
living in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , and delivering meals to the
homebound in a 1996 Infiniti.  Picard has sought a total of $198.7 million from  Peter Madoff , Ruth’s sons Mark, who committed suicide in December, and
Andrew, and Bernard Madoff’s niece Shana Madoff Swanson, who all
had jobs at the defunct firm.  In all, Picard has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits seeking
$100 billion from 4,000 defendants, partly to compensate
investors in the Ponzi scheme who lost $20 billion in principal.
The trustee will use any extra money he gets to pay creditors
who provided services to Madoff’s firm, and to give investors
some of the fake profit they thought they had earned in the
scheme, he said in a statement yesterday.  The case is Picard v. Madoff, 1:09-ap-1391,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 