-- 
RWE Seeks EU Coordination on Future, Safety of Nuclear Energy

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-15T16:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/rwe-seeks-eu-coordination-on-future-safety-of-nuclear-energy.html
European countries and utilities
should coordinate efforts to determine the future and safety of
nuclear power following the accident in  Tokyo , said Juergen Grossmann, chief executive officer of German power company RWE.  “We should still clearly note that this is not a German
issue, nuclear power is definitely a European issue, and that’s
why we’re here in Brussels today, and it is also a global
issue,” Grossmann told reporters today. “So we should
coordinate, we should develop Euratom -- the institution we
created -- to see that we take comparable political decisions,
although national sovereignty will not be questioned.”  European nations are split in their responses to explosions
that rocked a nuclear power plant north of Tokyo following last
week’s earthquake.  Germany  is halting plants for safety checks
and  Switzerland  put expansion plans on hold while Italy doesn’t
want to change its stance on developing nuclear power and  France 
still sees its  energy supply  wedded to reactors.  The future of nuclear power in Germany “depends on what
lessons we take from the Japanese incidents, which are terrible
and should not be belittled, they are very grave,” Grossmann
said in Brussels. “The world is not the same as it was a week
ago.”  Germany will halt nuclear reactors accounting for 25
percent of its atomic energy capacity as part of a safety
review. The country will keep its seven oldest nuclear reactors,
including two RWE plants, offline as part of a nationwide safety
review to run through June,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
reporters in Berlin today.  Technical Precautions  “I am a German citizen, I respect the decision of our
government and we will professionally and constructively help
with all analyses and making technical precautions in the period
of the moratorium to answer all questions,” Grossmann said.
“We should be given that time and then discuss again.”  RWE, which is based in the western German city of Essen, is
the country’s second largest utility. Turning off the nation’s
reactors for good won’t necessarily mean Germany will wean
itself off nuclear power.  “It doesn’t help us if we are nuclear-free and then have
to import a high percentage of our electricity and then by doing
so support those nuclear  power plants ,” the CEO said.  The European Atomic Energy Community, or Euratom, helps
pool knowledge, infrastructure, safety standards and funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  