-- 
Safaricom Heads for 3-Week High on Possible Regulatory Changes

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-15T10:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/safaricom-heads-for-3-week-high-on-possible-regulatory-changes.html
  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  Kenya ’s biggest
mobile-network operator, headed for the biggest gain in 13
months after Business Daily reported the contract of the head of
nation’s telecommunications regulator may not be renewed.  The stock of Kenya’s biggest company by market value
climbed 20 cents, or 5.1 percent, to 4.15 shillings by 1:15 p.m.
in Nairobi. A close at this level would be the highest since
Feb. 24.  The Communications Commission of Kenya’s board recommended
against renewing Director-General Charles Njoroge’s contract,
the Nairobi-based newspaper said today, citing people it didn’t
identify. Njoroge had requested in December that his contract be
renewed for three years, the Nairobi-based newspaper said. He
didn’t answer his mobile phone when called this morning by
Bloomberg News for comment.  “If you look at some of the challenges the sector has
faced it is partly because of the regulator,” Eric Musau, an
analyst at Nairobi-based African Alliance Securities Kenya Ltd.,
said in a phone interview today.  The commission cut the rate mobile-phone operators charge
each other to transmit calls across networks by half, it said
Aug. 19. The lowering prompted a reduction in calling rates that
could cost the four mobile phone companies as much as 26 billion
shillings ($300.6 million) in lost revenue this year, Safaricom
Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore said Jan. 20  In January, the regulator cut the fee companies charge each
other to carry their  text messages  to 0.6 shilling from 2
shillings, it said.  Safaricom is also expected to benefit from management
restructuring that will reduce duplication of roles among the
company’s 13 senior most managers, Musau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  