-- 
Samsung, Ford, Boeing Produce While Awaiting Word From Japanese Suppliers

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-15T03:57:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/samsung-ford-produce-while-awaiting-word-from-japanese-suppliers.html
Samsung Electronics Co.,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are maintaining global production while
waiting for partners in quake-rattled  Japan  to increase one key
export: information.  The companies are among manufacturers worldwide that depend
on Japan for everything from memory chips to batteries for
hybrid cars. The goal is to avoid parts shortages while Japanese
suppliers such as Sanyo Electric Co. and Toshiba Corp. make sure
they have access to power, water, transportation and materials.  “We’re OK for a few weeks, and I can’t tell you beyond
that,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said
in an interview in Scottsdale,  Arizona . Japanese companies
designed and supply 35 percent of the structure of Boeing’s new
787 Dreamliner, which is three years behind schedule.  Four days after the magnitude 9.0 earthquake,  Germany ’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , truckmaker Volvo AB of  Sweden  and
Phoenix-based  ON Semiconductor Corp. (ONNN)  all say it’s too early to
know how they’ll be affected by their Japanese vendors or
customers. One reason is the lack of information flowing from
suppliers, and from the suppliers’ suppliers.  Companies such as  South Korea ’s Samsung and Taiwanese
smartphone maker  HTC Corp. (2498) , taking no chances, are seeking other
sources to avoid shortages that might shut production.  “The reality is the companies don’t know the full extent
of what’s happened,” said economist Kim Hill at the Center for
Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . “You can’t build a
car with 97 percent of the parts -- you pretty much need all of
them.”  Power Supply  Japan, a top global supplier to the electronics and auto
industries, may need weeks to recover lost output from the Asian
country’s strongest earthquake on record, according to  Barclays
Capital .  The earthquake and ensuing tsunami may have killed more
than 10,000 people and the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has tumbled
18 percent since yesterday. Electricity shortages caused by a
shutdown of nuclear  power plants  in northern Japan is limiting
the ability of suppliers to return to production.  “Sanyo supplies our hybrid batteries from Japan,” said
Todd Nissen, a spokesman for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, the
second-largest U.S. automaker by unit sales. “We have not had
any supply disruptions at this point but, like the rest of the
supply base, Sanyo is continuing to assess the situation.”  Sanyo, which is 80 percent owned by  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
supplies the nickel-metal battery packs for Ford’s Fusion hybrid
sedan that’s assembled in  Mexico .  Electronics Suppliers  Two U.S. chipmakers who supply the  auto industry  reported
disrupted production at their plants in Japan.  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN) , the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, said its sales will be
hurt in the first and second quarters, while Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. of Austin,  Texas , said its plant in hard-hit
Sendai has ceased operations.  Japanese companies including Shin-Etsu Chemical Co.,
silicon-wafer manufacturer  Sumco Corp. (3436)  and automotive supplier  Denso Corp. (6902)  temporarily halted production. Even when suppliers
are able to keep producing, concern about potential shortages is
driving up costs. Prices of semiconductors used in personal
computers and mobile phones jumped.  “Our biggest concern is component availability or higher
component prices,” said Kirk Yang, Barclay Capital’s managing
director and head of technology-hardware research for  Asia 
excluding Japan.  Japanese companies including Toshiba,  Sony Corp. (6758) , Panasonic
and  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  supply 20 percent of the world’s
technology products, including 44 percent of audio-visual
equipment, 40 percent of electronic components and 19 percent of
semiconductors, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets estimates.  Flash-Memory Prices  The price of the benchmark DDR3 1-gigabit dynamic random-
access memory chip climbed 7 percent to $1.11, the largest gain
since Jan. 27, according to Taipei-based DRAMeXchange. Spot
prices of the 4-gigabit NAND flash-memory chip rose 17 percent.  Toshiba, which makes 35 percent of the NAND flash that
stores information in phones, tablets like Apple Inc.’s iPad 2,
and digital cameras, shut its factories after Tokyo Electric
Power Co. requested companies cut electricity consumption, the
Tokyo-based company said in a  statement  yesterday.    Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , the Sunnyvale, California-based designer and
licenser of technology to connect memory chips to other
semiconductors, got about 36 percent of its revenue from Japan
last year. Most came from Toshiba, Elpida Memory Inc. and Sony,
which uses Rambus technology in the Playstation 3, said Jeff Schreiner, an analyst with Capstone Investments Inc.  Auto-Plant Closures  Japan is a major source of electronic components for autos
and is the primary supplier of batteries and parts for hybrid
vehicles, said Hill, the automotive research group economist.  The U.S. relies on Japan for about 14 percent of parts for
auto production, Hill said, predicting that Toyota Motor Corp.,
Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. will see the biggest impact
to their U.S. operations.  While Ford hasn’t experienced any parts disruptions so far,
“We are still working with our Tier 1 suppliers, who are in
turn assessing the Tier 2 supply base,” spokesman Nissen said.  Toyota, Honda and Nissan all suspended domestic auto
production until at least March 16, and until March 20 in
Honda’s case. Toyota may lose as much as $72 million for each
day of lost production, according to a Goldman Sachs estimate.  Global Production  “Suppliers’ production stoppages could easily affect
global production for these automakers, given that several of
the affected component plants supply the (carmakers’) facilities
around the world with systems and components that may not easily
be shifted to other manufacturing locations,” IHS Automotive
said in a report. “Disruption to production of parts that are
unique and cannot be easily shifted has the potential to hit
output badly at several automakers in the near term.”  Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker owned by  China ’s Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co., buys about 10 percent of its components
from Japan, spokesman Per-Ake Froberg said. “Our production
won’t be affected this week, but then we’ll see,” he said.  Supply of batteries, Blu-ray compact discs, and magnetic
heads used in hard disk drives may also be affected by the quake
and power shortage, Taipei-based research company Trendforce Inc.
wrote in a report yesterday.  Notebook computer and tablet battery output for products
including Apple’s iPad may be affected if Seiko Holdings Corp.’s
shutdown persists because the Tokyo-based company supplies a
chip crucial to regulating power in electronics products,
Trendforce wrote. Murata Manufacturing Co., which supplies
specialized communications components for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad 2,
said  yesterday  it shut down its factory in Sendai, Miyagi
Prefecture, because of a lack of gas, power and water.  Silicon Wafers  Taiwanese and Korean chipmakers may also be forced to cut
output if shutdowns in Japan persist because the country
supplies more than 80 percent of the world’s silicon wafer
supply, said Joyce Yang, an analyst at DRAMeXchange in Taipei.
Wafers are thin round slices of silicon that are the key
material used in the production of chips.  Samsung and  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346) , the largest Korean
and Taiwanese memory-chip makers, both stopped offering DRAM
chips in the  spot market  after concern their own production may
be affected by a shortage in supply of wafers.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and  United
Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , the world’s largest contract
manufacturers of chips, may miss second-quarter and third-
quarter revenue estimates because of disruptions to the supply
of silicon wafers, Goldman, Sachs & Co. Beijing-based analysts
Donald Lu, Evan Xu and Hu Lingling wrote in a report yesterday.  The prospect of shortages prompted Taoyuan, Taiwan-based
HTC to activate a “secondary supply chain,” it said in a March
13 e-mail. Samsung, which makes phones and televisions as well
as components, is preparing for possible shortages of materials,
spokesman  James Chung  said.  As for Boeing, its main Japanese suppliers came through
“in pretty good shape” and have recalibrated tools already,
Albaugh said. “The question we can’t answer yet is will they
limit power to some of these facilities? And what does the
transportation infrastructure look like? Can the employees get
to work?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  