-- 
Scene Last Night: John Vogelstein, Jamie Dinan, Marissa Mayer

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/scene-last-night-john-vogelstein-jamie-dinan-marissa-mayer.html
“The boys go for free,” said
Elizabeth Miller, a trustee of the School of American Ballet, at
the school’s winter ball last night.  “It’s like junior-high dances,” added Miller’s husband,
Jamie Dinan, founder and chief executive of York Capital
Management LP.  The couple was referring to the school’s policy for male
students in the children’s division.  There was no free ride for the men attending the gala, such
as John Vogelstein, chairman of  New York City Ballet  and of New
Providence Asset Management, and hedge-fund manager Joseph DiMenna of Zweig-DiMenna Associates LLC, who was with his wife,
Diana. Their daughter Tess is a student at the School of
American Ballet.  Earlier, school supporters were invited to shop at the
Fifth Avenue store of Van Cleef & Arpels, the gala’s sponsor,
which would donate 10 percent of sales.  “I bought my wife the Cosmos earrings for Hanukkah,”
Dinan said. “They remind me of Audrey Hepburn.”  Miller, wearing a set of jewels loaned by Van Cleef &
Arpels and a plum Oscar de la Renta gown, said she loved the
earrings. She then explained why she and her husband are
involved in nonprofits.  “It’s important for us, for our children,” Miller said.
“It’s a way to set an example.”  She noted that her teenage son, who hasn’t studied ballet,
delivers groceries to an elderly woman through the Carter Burden
Center for the Aging.  Other guests included Chelsea Clinton and Marissa Mayer,
vice president for search products at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Waiters passed
strips of bacon.  ‘Radiolab’  After a live performance of their show “ Radiolab ,” Jad
Abumrad and Robert Krulwich unwound at the restaurant Otto in  Greenwich Village .  With wine and tapas at hand, Krulwich quickly dived into a
conversation with a physicist, a biologist and one of the show’s
funders. Abumrad, still a bit dazed from his turn on the stage
at the nearby  Skirball Center  for the Performing Arts of  New
York University , reflected on the larger enterprise of bringing
his show to the stage.  “The entire reason for our being is to make a different
sound and we did that,” said Abumrad. “Now we feel we have to
try something new. To do this live, we have to invent again, and
that’s exciting.”  Cello Music  The stage version of the show sounds a lot like the radio
(or podcast) version, offering a folksy blend of science, humor
and cello music. Now there are also visuals and an audience to
laugh at the jokes.  One big difference from the radio version: Members of the
audience paid to listen and watch -- $45 a ticket. And
afterward, dozens bought T-shirts.  “We are trying to come up with ways to support the show
ourselves,” Krulwich said after posing for a photograph with
Abumrad and the show’s cellist, Zoe Keating. “Radiolab” has a
second show in New York tonight, and then goes on the road, with
two shows in  Los Angeles  and one in  Seattle .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 