-- 
Schaeuble Sees No ‘Significant’ EFSF Paid-In Capital Raise

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-15T15:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/schaeuble-sees-no-significant-efsf-paid-in-capital-raise-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he doesn’t see the need to raise the effective
lending capacity of the current bailout mechanism, the European
Financial Stability Facility, through a “significant” increase
in paid-in capital.  Euro-area finance ministers have yet to determine the
financing details of the European Stability Mechanism backstop
for over-indebted countries that is scheduled to go into effect
in 2013, Schaeuble also said. Euro countries will use a mix of
paid-in capital, callable capital and guarantees “during a
transition period” to enable the ESM to pay out as much as 500
billion euros ($696 billion), Schaeuble said.  “These are details that still have to be discussed with
rating agencies so that the AAA rating” is assured, Schaeuble
told reporters in Brussels after a two-day meeting with his
European Union counterparts.    Europe  faces an end-of-month deadline to work out the fine
print after political leaders vowed on March 12 to finalize the
details of the ESM and reinforce the existing EFSF rescue fund,
which will both be enabled to buy bonds directly at issuance
from debt-swamped governments.  While there will be “serious discussions” with German
lawmakers about the commitments Europe’s biggest economy is to
assume, Schaeuble said he’s only heard criticism from “three or
four” of the over 600 representatives in the Bundestag, the
lower house of parliament.  ‘Facing Difficulties’  “To deduct from this that we’re already facing
difficulties in the Bundestag in general is a somewhat premature
view,” Schaeuble told reporters. “Don’t worry too much.”  Most of the burden of boosting the current rescue fund will
fall on the euro region’s six AAA-rated countries.  Germany , the
biggest contributor to the rescues of Greece and Ireland, may
have to lift its guarantee by as much as 84 billion euros from
119 billion euros, said  Jacques Cailloux , an economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  German lawmakers must have the power to block bailouts for
euro countries under the ESM “if we are of the opinion that the
German state, the German taxpayer, is being overburdened,”  Michael Fuchs , deputy floor leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic Union, said March 11 on Deutschlandfunk
 radio .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  