-- 
Schapiro Tells House Appropriators SEC Needs $1.4 Billion Budget

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/schapiro-tells-house-appropriators-sec-needs-1-4-billion-budget.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told House lawmakers that her
agency needs all of its proposed $1.4 billion budget for 2012 to
hire 780 new employees to meet its “core capabilities” as well
as implement tougher new securities rules.  “Not only does the Dodd-Frank Act create significant
additional work for the SEC, both in the short and long term,
but the agency must also continue to carry out its longstanding
core responsibilities,” Schapiro said in remarks prepared for a
hearing today of the House Appropriations Committee’s financial
services subcommittee.  Schapiro and other agency leaders told House and Senate
lawmakers in hearings last week that without an increase in
funds, the agency won’t be able to handle its current duties as
well as new responsibilities mandated by last year’s Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul. The SEC, like other federal agencies, has
been held to 2010 budget levels since Oct. 1 while lawmakers
debate federal spending.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July, authorized a $1.5
billion 2012 budget for the regulator -- higher than its current
level of $1.1 billion. President  Barack Obama  proposed boosting
the agency’s budget to $1.4 billion to hire more staff to
implement the tougher oversight of financial markets required by
Dodd-Frank.  Schapiro’s argument was reinforced last week by the release
of an independent study by the  Boston Consulting Group ,
conducted at the request of Congress, which found the agency
currently understaffed by about 400 people.  “Despite the growth of our responsibilities and market
complexities, the SEC’s resources have not kept pace,” Schapiro
said in a statement last week in response to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 