-- 
Schibsted Widens Net for Online Revenue With Tabloid IPad App

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-03-15T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/schibsted-widens-net-for-online-revenue-with-tabloid-ipad-app.html
  Schibsted ASA (SCH) ,  Norway ’s largest
media company, plans to put more online content behind paywalls
as its readers increasingly get their information on the Web.  The publisher of Norway’s Aftenposten and free papers 20
Minutes in  Spain  and  France  will charge 50 kroner ($8.84) to 100
kroner a month for the Apple Inc. iPad version of the tabloid
 Verdens Gang , Chief Executive Officer Rolv Erik Ryssdal said.  “I’m a careful optimist when it comes to user payment
online, but we will certainly start experimenting with it,”
Ryssdal said in an interview in Oslo. “The big challenge for
all our media houses is to increase digital revenues. Good
quality content should be charged for.”  Schibsted, which plans iPad versions for all its
newspapers, is mirroring moves by newspapers such as the Wall
Street Journal, owned by Rupert Murdoch-controlled  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
and the Financial Times, in charging for online content as
circulation and ad sales from their print versions slide.  The Norwegian company’s  Aftonbladet  in  Sweden  already
charges for some Web content, while VG Online has a forum for
paying members focusing on nutrition and dieting.  “The consumer has become very accustomed to not paying for
online content on news sites and it is hard to change consumer
behavior,” said Christer Roth, an analyst at DnB NOR in Oslo.  Schibsted shares have fallen 7.6 percent this year, after
adding 32 percent in 2010 and almost doubling in 2009. Of the 16
analysts tracking the stock, 12 recommend buying it, three rate
it “hold” and one “sell,” Bloomberg data shows.  Curbing Costs  Because the paywalls will take time to have a
“significant” impact on profit, the company will work on
stabilizing circulation while managing costs, the CEO said.
Schibsted also publishes Sweden’s Dagbladet, Norway’s Stavanger
Aftenblad and Bergens Tidende as well as the free Russian paper
Moi Rayon.  The company’s financial targets were set in a
“conservative manner” in September, the CEO said, adding that
he will seek to increase dividends in the years to come.
Schibsted predicts a margin for earnings before interest, tax
and amortization of 10 percent to 12 percent for the coming
three to five years, and expects growth in operating revenue of
about 5 percent.  Schibsted, Europe’s second-largest publisher of online
classifieds after  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , will expand sites in Europe,
roll out new sites this year and consider acquisitions, said
Ryssdal, who became CEO in 2009.  War Chest  Publishers are buying online classified-ad sites, mostly
for real estate, jobs and cars, to regain ground in a market
they once dominated and that has been taken over by websites
where posts can be placed for free.  While the company has the ability to spend $200 million to
$300 million or more on acquisitions, it has so far seen the
highest returns from organic investments, the CEO said.  “We would certainly have the war chest to do an
acquisition like that, but we have not put a limit on it,”
Ryssdal said. “If there’s something that is real attractive
then we have high capacity.”  Schibsted will look at potential bolt-on and acquisitions
smaller than  Germany ’s Axel Springer AG’s 634 million-euro ($887
million) purchase of French property site Seloger.com, the CEO
said. Its 140 million-euro investment in French site
 leboncoin.fr , an online marketplace for cars, apartments and
other sales, was “more attractive,” he said.  The lion’s share of Schibsted’s growth will come from
existing sites in Norway, Sweden, Spain and France, while its
Austrian and Italian sites will also become “important growth
drivers,” he said.  The Italian, Austrian and Malaysian sites are set to break
even during the fourth quarter this year or first quarter of
2012, he said. The company, whose main focus will remain Europe,
has no imminent plans to enter the U.K. or Germany, the biggest
markets in  Europe . It has a joint venture with Singapore Press
Holdings, while its Spanish unit is eyeing Latin America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  