-- 
Search for China Proxy Drives Best Corporate Bond Gains: Australia Credit

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-16T06:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/search-for-china-proxy-drives-best-corporate-bond-gains-australia-credit.html
Australian corporate bonds, the
developed world’s best performers this year, are attracting
investors in pursuit of gains from China without the risk of
higher inflation rates in the fastest-growing major economy.  Company debt returned 2.9 percent this year, beating the
U.S., U.K.,  Canada ,  Europe  and Japan, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Australian dollar notes yield an average
1.54 percentage points more than debt sold in Shanghai and more
than five times yuan bonds sold in Hong Kong, according to
Merrill Lynch data and Treasury Market Association prices.  Australian corporate bonds are climbing for an eighth
quarter after the currency rose 50 percent in two years and the
central bank estimated Chinese demand for the nation’s iron ore
and coal will spur the fastest economic growth since 1999. China
is clamping down on lending after consumer prices rose at an
annual 4.9 percent last month, while swaps show the  Reserve Bank 
of  Australia  will keep  interest rates  unchanged for a year with
inflation having slowed last quarter to 2.7 percent.  “We think the Australian dollar is a great proxy for yuan
appreciation,” said Yu-Ming Wang, Hong Kong-based head of  Asia 
fixed income at Manulife Asset Management, which manages $28
billion. “If you believe in the appreciation story then the
best way to play it is not through the yuan  bond market , where
you give up a lot of yield.”  Relative yields on Australian company bonds are the lowest
in three years as overseas investors including Loomis Sayles &
Co., Pacific Investment Management Co. and Franklin Templeton
Investments increased purchases of the country’s assets.  Outpacing Peers  Australian corporate debt outpaced the 0.9 percent gain for
an index of global company bonds, according to Merrill indexes.
U.K. corporate debt climbed 1.6 percent to be the second-biggest
gainer, while Japanese notes fell 0.2 percent as the only
decliners, the data show.    China ’s inflationary pressures will continue to build and
“worsen” in the second quarter with consumer-price growth
peaking at 6 percent in June-July and producer-price increases
possibly rising to 10 percent in the second quarter, according
to a BNP Paribas SA report published March 11.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier in China, matching January’s gain and near the two-year
high of 5.1 percent reported for November.  The extra yield over government debt investors demand to
hold bonds sold by Australian issuers dropped 34 basis points
this year to 163 basis points, Merrill Lynch indexes shows. The
spread for U.S. corporate bonds narrowed 11 basis points to 155.  Yield Advantage  Australian corporate yields averaged 6.6 percent on March
14, compared with 5.05 percent for corporate bonds sold in  Shanghai , and 1.26 percent for yuan bonds in Hong Kong, Merrill
Lynch indexes and TMA data show.  There’s a large China proxy trade and Australia is part of
it, said  David Rolley , who helps manage $152 billion as a
Boston-based portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles.  “People want to own the renminbi but can’t, so they own
everything that’s China-correlated,” he said, referring to the
yuan by its alternative name.  China surpassed the U.S. and Japan to become Australia’s
largest economic partner as bilateral trade quadrupled over the
past seven years to total A$97.6 billion in 2010, government
data show.  Yuan Bulls  China’s yuan may rise the most this year among the
currencies of the so-called BRIC group of emerging economies,
with a median forecast for a 4 percent gain against the dollar
according to the median estimate of 24 strategists and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with a 3 percent
advance for  India ’s rupee, a 0.6 percent gain for  Brazil ’s real,
and a 1.7 percent decline for  Russia ’s ruble, separate estimates
show.  The yuan touched a 17-year high of 6.5628 on March 7 on
speculation the government will tolerate appreciation to help
contain inflation by limiting the cost of imports. It’s gained
3.9 percent since a two-year peg was relaxed in June.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  forecasts economic growth
will quicken to 4.25 percent this year. Australia will earn a
record A$220.6 billion ($221.7 billion) from shipments of raw
materials in the 12 months ending June 30, the government
estimated March 1.  RBA Rates  The so-called Aussie was the biggest gainer among the 16
most-traded currencies over the past two years, as the central
bank raised interest rates by 1.75 percentage points from
October 2009 to November 2010 to rein in consumer price
appreciation.  The Australian dollar traded at 99.39 U.S. cents as of 4:55
p.m. in Sydney after falling to a two-month low of 98.16 cents
yesterday as concern about the nuclear disaster in  Japan  spurred
investors to dump higher-yielding assets. The currency touched a
record $1.0256 on Dec. 31. The RBA left rates unchanged this
month at 4.75 percent, the highest in the developed world, for a
third straight meeting.  Ten-year government bond yields fell nine basis points this
week to 5.40 percent, paring their advance over the past six
months to 28 basis points in the past six months. The spread to
similar-dated Treasuries narrowed 20 basis points in the same
period to 208 basis points, or 2.08 percentage points.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.87 percent for the next five years. While
that’s the fastest among eight developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg, such a rate would be within the RBA’s target for
inflation to average between 2 and 3 percent.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index, which tracks the cost of
insuring 25 companies with credit-default swaps, fell 2.5 basis
points to 113.25 in Sydney today, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. Credit swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting bonds
against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality , and a drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness.  Aussie Longs  Speculators increased bets the Australian dollar will gain
against the  U.S. dollar  to an 11-month high, data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Net
longs -- the difference in the number of wagers on an advance in
the Aussie compared with those on a drop -- rose to 73,695 on
March 8, the most since April 20, 2010.  Some investors are buying Australia’s dollar on
expectations its economy will go on expanding with China’s, said  Tim Condon , the Singapore-based head of Asia research at ING
Groep NV.  “That’s a trade on Australia becoming the 23rd province of
China,” he said “As the two economies become increasingly
integrated their currencies begin to move together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shelley Smith in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  