-- 
Shiller Says Fannie, Freddie Phase-Out by U.S. Threatens Housing Market

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   M a r k   C r u m p t o n
-- 
2011-03-15T20:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/shiller-says-fannie-freddie-phase-out-by-u-s-threatens-housing-market.html
U.S. government plans to wind down  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the world’s largest mortgage
financiers, threaten to worsen a weak housing market, said  Robert Shiller , a Yale University economics professor.  “The news doesn’t look so encouraging right now with us
talking about phasing out Fannie and Freddie, which are the main
supports of the housing market,” Shiller said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with Mark Crumpton. The economist created the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price
index with  Karl Case , a retired Wellesley College professor.  The Obama administration has proposed phasing out the two
mortgage companies, a move supported by House Speaker  John Boehner . Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and Freddie Mac of
McLean, Virginia, have required a combined $154 billion in
Treasury funds since they were placed under U.S. conservatorship
more than two years ago. The companies own or guarantee more
than half of U.S. mortgages.  The median U.S. home price fell to $158,800 in January, the
lowest level since 2002, as measured by the National Association
of Realtors. The median price has fallen 13 percent since June
in the third price dip in three years, according to data from
the Chicago-based trade group that measures national sales of
condominium and single-family properties.  Foreclosures may cause home values to decline further and
scare off potential buyers. The foreclosure inventory rose to a
record 2.2 million in January,  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) ,
based in Jacksonville,  Florida , said in a report on its website.  ‘Perilous’ Guarantees  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner today
reiterated the Obama administration’s position that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac should be wound down “at a careful and
deliberate pace.”  Government guarantees, such as those insuring mortgage
debt, “are perilous,” he told the Senate Banking Committee at
a hearing. “Governments are not very good at doing them, not
very good at pricing them.”  Federal Reserve policy makers cited elevated levels of
joblessness and lower housing wealth in their decision today to
leave the U.S. benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  “The housing sector continues to be depressed,” the Fed
governors said in a statement at the end of a meeting in  Washington .  The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 8.9 percent in February,
the lowest since April 2009, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said
March 4. Even as it declined below 9 percent for the first time
in almost two years, it remained about double the 4.5 percent
rate of the same month in 2007, according to bureau data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net  and
Mark Crumpton in  New York  at 
 mcrumpton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 