-- 
Shipping Poised to Drop After Two-Week Rally: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-15T14:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/shipping-rates-poised-to-decline-34-after-two-week-rally-freight-markets.html
The rebound that more than doubled
commodity freight costs in two weeks is peaking as idled ships
haul anchor and compete for cargoes of  iron ore  and coal.  There were 282 capesizes anchored worldwide March 14, down
from 300 Feb. 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The glut will
mean second-quarter costs of $10,000 a day, 27 percent less than
prices in the forwards market, said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, the
analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S who correctly predicted the
industry’s crash in 2008. Forward freight agreements, traded by
brokers and used to hedge or bet on future shipping rates, were
at $13,675 by 1:16 p.m. in London today.  The 142 percent advance in the nine days ended March 11 was
less about economic growth and more about a temporary lack of
ships after owners increased by 127 percent the number at anchor
in three months, creating a pool of idled vessels that stretched
50 miles end-to-end. Last week’s earthquake in  Japan  also will
likely drive costs lower because it’s disrupting demand,
Svenning said. Capesize rates have risen or fallen 10 percent or
more in all except two of the last 30 months.  “The moment the market comes up to a certain level, you
have this huge natural lid,” said Philippe van den Abeele, the
managing director of Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd., the
London-based sub-adviser to a hedge fund trading shipping
derivatives. “They’re sitting there at anchor with crew on
board and when it gets to a certain level they’re going to come
out again,” said Van den Abeele, who correctly predicted last
month that rates were bottoming.  Freight Forwards  Second-quarter freight forwards rose as much as 18 percent
this month, according to data from Clarkson Securities Ltd., a
broker of the contracts. Rates in the spot, or single-voyage,
market more than doubled to $11,038 by March 11, after reaching
a two-year low of $4,567 on Feb. 28, according to the London-
based  Baltic Exchange , which publishes assessments for more than
50 maritime routes. Returns fell 4.2 percent to $10,386 today,
their second straight decline.  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Owners need $8,248 to cover the daily running costs on a
capesize, excluding interest payments on loans taken to buy
vessels, according to Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. Returns
on the ships, each three times the length of a football field,
had been below that level since Jan. 25, spurring increasing
numbers of owners to idle vessels.  Demand may also decline after the 9-magnitude earthquake in
Japan on March 11 shut down factories and  power plants . The
country is the second-biggest importer of iron ore used in
steelmaking and its purchases may weaken in the “short term”
because of port disruptions, said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an
analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo. Japan is also the
biggest importer of thermal coal, burned in power plants.  Baltic Dry  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, declined for almost three consecutive weeks after an
earthquake in Kobe, Japan, in January 1995, before rallying 20
percent in the next three months, Baltic Exchange data show.  “After an initial drop-off (corresponding to low initial
power demand following the tragedy) a larger-than-normal
increase in thermal coal imports could be experienced,”
Soozhana Choi, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  Singapore ,
wrote in a report. “We expect that steel production is likely
to fall sharply near-term with a considerable recovery
thereafter as Japan rebuilds.”  The 12-member Bloomberg Dry Ships Index, in which STX Pan
Ocean Co. and Cie. Maritime Belge SA have the biggest weighting,
fell 10.6 percent since the start of January. A measure of
combined earnings per share across the index is forecast to drop
23 percent this year, compared with anticipated growth of more
than 14 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg using analysts’ forecasts.  Baltic Exchange  The market got so bad that the Baltic Exchange reported its
first-ever negative rate for dry bulk freight on Jan. 13 and
costs on the C11 route for shipments to  Europe  from  Asia  have
remained negative since then. While that means owners
effectively pay customers to hire their vessels, clients still
pay most of the fuel costs. For a shipping line wanting to
relocate a vessel to a region where there are more cargoes,
that’s still cheaper than sailing the craft empty.  Supertanker owners have seen daily returns on the benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route averaging $20,022 this year,
according to Baltic Exchange data. Frontline Ltd., the world’s
largest operator of the vessels, says it needs $30,100 to break
even.  The rebound in capesize rates is also being threatened by
more vessels leaving shipyards, mostly in  China , Japan and  South
Korea , according to data from Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay, which compiles data on ships and ports. There are 312
capesizes on order, equal to 43 percent of the existing fleet of
1,077 by capacity, the data show.  Leaving Shipyards  The vessels leaving shipyards now were ordered in 2007 and
2008 when daily income for capesizes averaged about $111,000.
Rates reached $233,988 in June 2008 before plunging 99 percent
over the next six months to $2,316, Baltic Exchange data show.  Owners also are trying to cope with the global glut of
vessels by sailing ships more slowly. The average capesize moved
at 9.91 knots last month, the lowest since Bloomberg started
collecting the data in 2008. Speeds averaged as much as 10.92
knots in November.  The strategy has also helped boost rates for  container
ships , as well as cutting fuel costs for owners. An index for
six types of container vessels gained 23 percent this year,
according to the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association. The gauge is
133 percent higher than a year ago.  Australian Cargoes  Capesizes also rallied on expectations that more cargoes
will emerge from  Australia  and  South Africa . The state of
Queensland, which accounts for about 50 percent of the global
seaborne supply of coal used in steelmaking, had its worst
floods in a half century while rain in South Africa derailed
trains, also curbing coal exports.  Three out of four coal mines are still removing water from
their operations,  Michael Roche , chief executive officer of the
Queensland Resources Council, said March 3. The situation hasn’t
changed since then,  Jim Devine , a spokesman for the council,
said by phone yesterday.  This month’s rally in capesize rates isn’t being reflected
in the value of ships. The cost of a five-year-old secondhand
capesize dropped to $47.5 million this month, from as much as
$61.4 million in June, Baltic Exchange data show. Analysts use
ship prices to assess company valuations and they can also be
part of conditions attached to loans.  Record Demand  That’s more pain for an industry already missing out on the
surge in commodities, with Clarkson predicting record demand for
iron ore and coal. Shipments of iron ore will jump 8 percent to
1.06 billion metric tons this year, while coal will advance 7
percent to 974 million tons, the London-based broker estimates.
The capesize fleet expanded at an annualized pace of 19 percent
in the first 10 weeks of the year, IHS Fairplay data show.  Those ships are joining a fleet where almost one in every
four vessels is already anchored.  “It definitely keeps a lid on rates,” said Sverre Bjorn
Svenning, the analyst at Fearnley Consultants in Oslo. “I can’t
see any upside potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  