-- 
Siemens, Alstom Gain Little From Nuclear-Gas Swap, SocGen Says

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-03-15T15:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/siemens-alstom-gain-little-from-nuclear-gas-swap-socgen-says.html
  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , the No. 2
and No. 3 makers of power equipment, would benefit little if
explosions and radiation leaks at Japanese nuclear plants boost
demand for gas-fired facilities,  Societe Generale  said.  If 80 percent of the 50 gigawatts of additional nuclear
power projected by the International Energy Agency to be built
by 2020 outside  China  is replaced by new gas-fired plants and
the rest by renewable energies, revenue at Siemens and Alstom
may be lifted by 0.7 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively, Gael de-Bray and other Societe Generale analysts wrote today.  “We estimate the net impact to be a small positive for both
Alstom and Siemens,” the analysts wrote a research note.  Government officials in countries such as China,  India ,
Germany, Britain and Switzerland have said they will review
energy policy after an 9.0-magnitude temblor and subsequent
tsunami on March 11 led to the worst nuclear accident since the
1986 Chernobyl disaster in Ukraine.  Munich-based Siemens, Germany’s largest engineering
company, holds about 30 percent of the global market for gas
turbines, compared with 10 percent for Alstom, which is based
near Paris, and 45 percent for  General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
biggest power-equipment maker, according to Societe Generale.  “Gas is probably the only credible alternative for
baseload  energy supply  to utilities since the outlook for coal-
fired power plants in developed countries is clouded by
environmental issues,” the analysts wrote in the research note.
The revenue estimates for Siemens and Alstom take into account
lost revenue from nuclear plants, they added.  Alstom and Siemens make steam turbines used in the non-
nuclear part of atomic plants. This part accounts for about 25
percent of the cost of a nuclear power station, the Paris-based
bank said.  Shares Fall  Siemens shares slid as much as 5.9 percent and were down
2 percent at 4:08 p.m. in Frankfurt. Alstom declined 2.1 percent
in Paris after falling as much as 5.1 percent. The declines
mirrored European stocks, which dropped on concern that
radiation leaks in  Japan  will worsen. Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , the
biggest builder of nuclear reactors, fell as much as 11 percent
today, after dropping 9.6 percent yesterday.  About 80 percent of Areva’s revenue is recurrent, ranging
from maintenance services to the installed base of nuclear
plants to long-term contracts for nuclear fuel supply and
recycling, Ari Agopyan, a Paris-based analyst at CM-CIC, wrote
in a research note today. The “shortfall that would result from
new orders drying up completely would come in at around 3
billion euros in terms of enterprise value,” or around 6 euros
($8.37) per share, he said.  France, which has 58 nuclear reactors and is building
another one, will continue to rely on nuclear power, Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said yesterday.  Turkey  can’t
afford to abandon its nuclear energy plans because it needs the
electricity to meet demand from its growing economy, Energy
Ministry Undersecretary Metin Kilci said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  