-- 
Siemens Nuclear Venture’s Value One-Fifth Lower Than Expected

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-15T11:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/siemens-nuclear-venture-s-value-one-fifth-lower-than-expected.html
  Siemens AG (SIE)  said its stake in a 
nuclear venture with  Areva SA (CEI)  was found to be worth a fifth 
less than it estimated in 2009, highlighting concern that reactor 
explosions in  Japan  this week will crimp atomic-power demand.  Siemens’s 34 percent share in the Areva NP SAS partnership
may be worth 1.62 billion euros ($2.26 billion), an independent
expert appointed by the Munich-based company and Areva found,
the companies said today. Siemens estimated the value at more
than 2 billion euros in September 2009. Areva valued the stake,
which it is buying, at 2.05 billion euros in its accounts, said
Pauline Briand, a spokeswoman for the Paris-based manufacturer.  Siemens,  Germany ’s largest engineering company, made the
announcement as Japan faces the threat of nuclear catastrophe
after an earthquake last week damaged  power plants . The
political reaction to the crisis risks cutting output from
European reactors over the next decade after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  put plans to extend the life of Germany’s reactors
on hold for three months.  “It’s not a coincidence that Siemens released the
valuation today,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch
GmbH who has a “reduce” recommendation on the stock. “They
wanted to prevent speculation after Japan and sent it out
quickly.”  Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Siemens, declined to
comment on the timing of the release.  Areva plans to buy the Siemens stake “as soon as
possible” and will see its net debt fall by about 400 million
euros as a result of the valuation, Briand said.  Share Reaction  Siemens slid as much as 5.9 percent to 84.53 euros in
Frankfurt trading and was down 3 percent at 12:09 p.m. Areva
stock plunged as much as 11 percent in Paris and was down
6.8 percent at 29.36 euros. The declines mirrored European
stocks, which dropped for a fifth day on concern about Japan.  Siemens, which predicted a “significant positive
contribution” to quarterly profit from the sale, has a  put
option  to sell the stake to Areva by the end of January 2012 at
the latest, according to the company.  The price may increase or decline by up to 40 percent
depending on the results of an ongoing arbitration, Siemens
said. A decision is expected in spring 2011 and could have a
“material impact” on profit, the German company said.  While Siemens announced an end to its participation in the
Areva venture in 2009, the company is pursuing a strategic
partnership with Rosatom Corp., it said last year. The Russian
nuclear-power company and Siemens are “fully resolute” to
partner in building nuclear plants and are waiting for Siemens’
court action with Areva to resolve, Russian Energy Minister
Sergei Shmatko said in July last year.  Open  Russia   “A cooperation with Russia is not necessarily the same in
terms of safety standards,” Fairesearch’s Steffen said. “But
you don’t have as much resistance to nuclear power.”  Siemens has been setting targets for revenue from
environmental products since 2008 in an effort to highlight its
sustainability profile. The company is targeting 40 billion
euros in sales from products that save energy and cut pollution
in 2014. The move followed larger competitor  General Electric
Co. (GE) , which sets similar targets.  The French joint venture, called Framatome at the time, is
the world’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors and was formed in
2001 when Areva and Siemens merged their nuclear reactor
businesses in  France , Germany and the U.S.  Areva is the world’s biggest builder of nuclear power
stations. The company has reactors under construction in  Finland ,  China  and its home country of France, which boasts the
largest number of nuclear stations outside the U.S. France gets
more than 75 percent of its power from nuclear energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  