-- 
Silvia, Hoffman Say Fed’s Statement Suggests No Need for QE3

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-15T20:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/silvia-hoffman-say-fed-s-statement-suggests-no-need-for-qe3.html
  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , and  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist
at PNC Financial Services Group Inc., said the  Federal Reserve ’s
statement today indicates that there will be no third round of
quantitative easing by the central bank.  They spoke after Fed officials met in  Washington  today and
said in the statement that the recovery is gaining strength.    Paul Ballew , a former Fed economist and a senior vice
president at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.,  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Mesirow Financial Inc., and  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc., also commented.  Silvia:  “This statement takes QE3 off the table as they are taking
off the downside risk in deflation and saying the economy is on
track.”  “They are coming to the view that the economy has improved
over time. They are going to finish QE2. There is no need for
more stimulus at this point.”  “They are putting a positive spin on the whole commodity
issue. They are getting slightly higher inflation numbers, which
is pretty much what they want. They are giving a message that
while inflation is rising, it is within their plan so it is
ok.”  Hoffman:  “I would call it one of the more positive statements
they’ve made on the economy since the recovery began.”  “But it hasn’t reached a point yet that it would call for
any near-term change in the Fed funds rate or the completion of
QE2.”  “The FOMC statement or outlook was pitch black, then it
was dark grey and maybe this is a lighter grey, but it’s not
green yet.”  “Their assessment of the economy or at least recent
economic conditions seems to be a little bit of an upgrade, with
words like ‘firmer footing’ and even referring to the labor
markets as gradually improving.”  “My base case is they finish QE2, they’re done and there’s
no QE3 and maybe a year from now they’ll start to raise the Fed
funds rate. Between now and then, they’ll give the markets a
heads up by removing the ‘extended period’ phrase.”  “They finish QE2, they go dormant and they’re dormant in
the second half of this year and then start dropping signals at
year end that the day of reversal of policy is coming.”  Ballew:  “The Fed said what many private forecasters have been
saying for quite a period of time: that the economy is on firmer
footing.”  “They were a little more dismissive on commodity prices
and inflation pressures than I would have expected, but that’s
not a surprise: that’s been their position.”  “The Fed, from a PR standpoint, got up today and played it
straight down the middle because there is enough information
affecting the markets and the Fed had no desire to contribute to
all the noise out there.”  “They certainly understand what the risks are out there
and the risks are greater than they were 60 days ago: from the
Middle East and  oil prices  to  Japan  and how that could affect
financial markets and regional growth. It’s not a surprise
they’re going to keep their powder dry and see how things play
out.”  “Their biggest challenge is global events outside of their
control: oil prices and the Middle East and Japan and asset
bubbles in  Asia . The Fed is trying to deal with all those global
factors while also dealing with what is still a fragile
economy” in the U.S.  Swonk:  “My guess is that the nod to the stronger economy was
enough for the hawks.”  “All of the uncertainty out there was enough to keep the
hawks on the sidelines and not get those dissenting votes that
you very much could have gotten at this particular meeting.”  The next issue for the Fed “is whether or not they
continue to backstop the size of their balance sheet by
replacing maturing mortgage-backed securities with Treasury
bonds.”  “That will be the next decision. I think that will be very
difficult for the Fed to do that at this stage of the game. I
think they will let their balance sheet run off as long as the
economy is stabilizing, even though they’d still be out of their
dual mandate.”  O’Sullivan:  “Certainly, this the most optimistic Fed officials have
sounded since asset purchases began in November and, at a
minimum, that’s consistent with the expectation there will be no
third round of purchases.”  “But there’s not enough sustained strength in growth
numbers yet for them to start talking about reversing stimulus.
The turmoil in markets in recent days adds a new element of
uncertainty, but coming into the turmoil, the momentum in growth
numbers was looking increasingly impressive, including in labor
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  