-- 
Singapore Retail Sales Climb as Expansion in Jobs, Tourism Spur Spending

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-03-15T05:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/singapore-retail-sales-climb-as-expansion-in-jobs-tourism-spur-spending.html
Singapore’s retail sales rose in
January as a growing jobs market and rising tourist arrivals
spurred  consumer spending .  The index measuring purchases excluding automobiles rose
15.6 percent from a year earlier after gaining a revised 8.9
percent in December, the Statistics Department said in a
statement today. Including vehicles, which are sold subject to
government caps, total retail sales grew 2.9 percent, compared
with the median forecast for a 1 percent increase in a Bloomberg
News survey of six economists.  Singapore’s record expansion last year has boosted wages
and increased asset prices, bolstering purchasing power in the
island of 5 million people. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has
pledged to ensure poor families aren’t left out of the growth
amid quickening inflation, by supplementing salaries for lower-
income earners and distributing cash and rebates.  “We believe the labor market will remain fairly tight in
2011,”  Alvin Liew , a Singapore-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said before the report. “With income levels
remaining fairly robust in  Asia , this will continue to fuel  travel demand .”  The Singapore economy grew 14.5 percent in 2010, spurring
spending at shopping malls such as those managed by  CapitaLand
Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer. Employers added 33,900
jobs in the three months ended December, rounding off a year
where about 115,900 positions were created, the Ministry of
Manpower said today.  Adjusted for seasonal factors, overall retail sales fell
2.9 percent in January from December, when it dropped a revised
0.6 percent, today’s report showed.  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling limited permits for each automobile category, and the
quotas may distort sales figures because motor vehicles are the
biggest component of the retail index, accounting for about a
quarter of the gauge.  The Statistics Department this month changed the base year
for the index to 2010 from 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  