-- 
Slovenian Banks Want Higher Price for Stake in Mercator Chain

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-03-15T08:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/slovenian-banks-want-higher-price-for-stake-in-mercator-chain.html
A group of Slovenian banks,
including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s local unit, wants to set up a group to
attract a higher price for their holdings in  Mercator Poslovni
Sistem (MELR)  d.d., the biggest supermarket chain in the Balkans.  The sale of the banks’ 16 percent holding is being managed
by Arkas d.o.o., Uros Marter of the Ljubljana-based consulting
firm said in a phone interview. The group includes Hypo Alpe-
Adria Bank d.d., Gorenjska Banka d.d. and Banka Koper d.d.  “We have invited other owners of Mercator, including
Pivovarna Lasko and Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., to form a group
that would offer a much larger stake in the Slovenian retailer
and be more interesting for potential buyers,” Marter said.
“We would definitely get a better price for the larger stake.”  Agrokor and Mercator are embroiled in a battle for control
of the retail market in the Balkans as new players including  Belgium ’s Delhaize Group SA enter the region, where the economy
and  consumer confidence  are improving.  Agrokor d.d., Croatia’s largest privately held company, and
private equity groups Mid Europa Partners Ltd. and  Warburg
Pincus  LLC. on March 10 submitted bids for a 23.3 stake in
Ljubljana, Slovenia-based Mercator offered by  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR) 
Group d.d.  Pivovarna Lasko spokesman Jure Struc declined to comment on
the banks’ proposal when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Mercator yesterday erased last week’s gains after offers
from Agrokor, Mid Europa and Warburg Pincus were announced. The
shares fell 5.8 percent to 162 euros, giving the company a
market value of 610 million euros ($849 million).  Agrokor offered as much as 210 euros per share for the
stake in Mercator, valuing the 23.3 percent holding at 184
million euros, according to analyst Radivoj Pregelj at Abanka
Vipa d.d.  -- Editors: James Kraus, Tim Farrand  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  