-- 
SNB May Keep Benchmark Rate on Hold as Japan Aftermath Adds Franc Pressure

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-03-16T12:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/snb-may-keep-rate-on-hold-as-japan-aftermath-adds-franc-pressure.html
The Swiss central bank may keep
borrowing costs near zero to prevent the franc from appreciating
further after  Japan ’s earthquake pushed the currency to a
record, clouding export prospects.  The  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, may
keep its benchmark interest rate at 0.25 percent, according to
all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Zurich-based
central bank will publish its decision at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Policy makers won’t hold a briefing.  The franc is appreciating as Japan’s quake adds to investor
concern that the global economic recovery may fade in the wake
of Middle East unrest and  Europe ’s fiscal crisis. While SNB Vice
President Thomas Jordan said on March 3 the currency’s strength
is posing “a lot of problems,” it is also helping counter
inflation pressures by making imports cheaper and giving policy
makers room to keep  interest rates  on hold.  “Unlike other countries, Switzerland is facing a very
subdued inflation picture,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist
at UniCredit Group in Munich. “If the SNB went out on a limb
and sounded too hawkish, it would risk sparking a rally in the
franc, given global uncertainties.”  Franc Strength  The Swiss currency, which is considered a haven in times of
turmoil, has appreciated more than 13 percent against the euro
over the past year as European leaders struggled to contain the
region’s debt crisis. It strengthened to an all-time high of
91.41 centimes against the dollar yesterday on concern a nuclear
disaster is unfolding in Japan following the March 11 temblor.  The franc traded at 1.2801 against the euro at 1:29 p.m. in
Zurich, up from 1.2830 yesterday. It was at 91.69 centimes
versus the dollar.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s pledge to secure financial stability
and prevent investors from becoming more risk averse has failed
to stem a plunge in global stocks. In  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, investor confidence unexpectedly dropped in March. The
benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  has shed 6.3 percent over the past
week, bringing losses to 5.6 percent this year.  “Any threatening news in the aftermath of the earthquake
in Japan or related to problems with the country’s atomic plants
will immediately cause the franc to appreciate,” said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “Given these
circumstances, it’s very, very unlikely, that they raise rates
tomorrow.”  Global Outlook  Worsening global growth prospects and retreating  oil prices 
may prompt central banks to keep borrowing costs on hold for
longer. European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said
on March 14 that policy makers are monitoring developments
“very closely.” President  Jean-Claude Trichet  had signaled
earlier this month that the bank may raise the benchmark rate as
soon as April to fight inflation pressures.  Inflation in the euro area accelerated to 2.4 percent in
February, the fastest in more than two years, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. In  Switzerland , inflation may average 0.4 percent this year and 1
percent in 2012, the SNB forecast in December. Annual gains in
consumer prices may only exceed the central bank’s 2 percent
limit in the third quarter of 2013,  according to quarterly
projections . The SNB will publish latest forecasts tomorrow.  Jordan said on March 3 while there’s a need to fight
inflation risks over the medium to longer term, increasing the
benchmark rate “is not a question for today or tomorrow.”  ‘Wary’  Eoin O’Callaghan, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London ,
said the SNB may be cautious about raising its inflation
forecast too much.  “In this environment, when the precise implications of the
Japanese crisis are yet to emerge, and the currency is now just
3 percent off its record highs, we think the SNB will wary of
sending too hawkish a message to the markets in its statement
and inflation forecast,” he wrote in an e-mailed note today.  So far, the economy is weathering the franc’s surge.
Investors grew more optimistic this month, leading economic
indicators rose in February, manufacturing growth accelerated
and unemployment declined. BAK Basel Economics said on March 10
the economy will grow 2.4 percent this year instead of a
previously projected 1.7 percent. In 2010, gross domestic
product rose 2.6 percent.  Near-zero borrowing costs and a strengthening economy have
also fueled property prices in cities including Geneva and
Zurich, home to some of the country’s largest companies
including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG. (ZURN)  The SNB has
said the real-estate market requires its “full attention.”  “The domestic economic situation clearly argues for a
tightening in monetary policy,”  Dirk Schumacher , an economist
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note.
Still, “recent geopolitical tensions have increased the risk of
safe haven capital flows into the franc -- we continue to expect
the SNB’s first hike in September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  