-- 
South African Reserve Bank’s Governor Says Inflation Upside Risk Increases

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-15T10:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/south-africa-s-marcus-says-inflation-risk-has-increased-1-.html
South Africa, which will decide
whether to change  interest rates  next week, faces “upside
risks” to inflation,  Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said.  While the central bank’s latest inflation forecast in
January suggested the country will remain in the target 3
percent to 6 percent range, “the upside risks have certainly
increased and this will be under consideration next week,”
Marcus said in a speech in Johannesburg today. “We remain
concerned that the rise in oil and food prices, as well as
administered prices, will impact going forward.”  The Reserve Bank left its key rate unchanged at a 30-year
low of 5.5 percent in January, after paring it three times in
2010, as price pressures picked up and the economic recovery
strengthened. The inflation rate climbed to a six-month high of
3.7 percent in January.  Oil has gained 12 percent to $99.17 a barrel since the last
Monetary Policy Committee meeting on Jan. 20.    South Africa  must “do things differently” to break out of
its current average economic growth rate of about 3.5 percent
and reach its goal of 7 percent, Marcus said, adding last year’s
growth rate isn’t sufficient to stimulate job growth. South
Africa needs “new and bolder ways” of boosting economic growth
and jobs to meet the 7 percent goal, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said last week.  Job Creation  South Africa is aiming to create 5 million jobs in the next
decade to slash the  unemployment rate  to 15 percent from 24
percent now. The government forecasts growth to reach 3.4
percent this year and 4.1 percent in 2012.  “Part of South Africa’s challenge is that real fixed-  capital spending  is very slow, but positive,” Marcus said.
“This needs to increase significantly by government, state-
owned enterprises and the private sector to sustain growth.”  South Africa’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product may
“peak” at 43 percent, she said, without elaborating.  Marcus also said “questions” must be asked about the
safety of nuclear energy in the wake of  Japan ’s post-earthquake
crisis. While there are no firm plans, South Africa’s government
has said it plans to expand nuclear-power generation capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 