-- 
South Korea’s Unemployment Rate Unexpectedly Increased to 4% in February

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-03-15T23:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/south-korean-unemployment-advanced-to-4-in-february-higher-than-forecast.html
South  Korea ’s unemployment rate
rose to a one-year high in February as jobs in farms, hotels,
restaurants, and the retail and wholesale sectors declined.  The jobless rate rose to 4.0 percent from 3.6 percent in
January, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today, citing
seasonally adjusted figures. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of eight economists was for a rate of 3.6 percent.  A further climb may ease pressure on the central bank to
extend interest-rate increases if it helps tame the fastest
inflation in more than two years by curbing demand. Officials
are also weighing the impact of the earthquake in  Japan , saying
they will help exporters if trade flows are disrupted.  “The jobless rate probably rose last month due to the
impact of foot-mouth-disease and the Lunar New Year holidays,”
Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co.
in  Seoul , said before the release. “The rise will be temporary
as the economy is still on a recovery track, but the outlook is
uncertain due to higher  oil prices  and Japan’s earthquake.”  The won yesterday fell to its weakest level this year and  government bonds  rose on concern about radiation leaking from
nuclear reactors in Japan following the magnitude-9 temblor and
ensuing tsunami on March 11.  Market Declines  The won slid 0.5 percent to 1,134.80 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul after reaching 1,137.95, its weakest level
in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
Kospi stock index dropped 2.4 percent.    South Korea ’s exports and factory output will probably be
hurt if the earthquake disrupts supplies from Japan for an
extended period, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said this
week.  The  Bank of Korea  on March 10 raised its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter of a percentage point for the second time this
year, to 3 percent. Inflation has breached the bank’s 4 percent
ceiling for two straight months and climbed to 4.5 percent in
February from a year earlier.  The central bank forecasts economic growth of 4.5 percent
in 2011, slowing from a 6.1 percent pace in 2010, and predicts
inflation will accelerate to 3.5 percent from 2.9 percent.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was 4.5 percent in
February, compared with 3.8 percent in January, today’s report
showed. The number of employed people increased 469,000 to 23.34
million last month from a year earlier.  Employment in manufacturing rose 6.7 percent from a year
earlier and jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry
industries declined 4.2 percent, today’s report showed. Jobs in
restaurants, hotels and the retail and wholesale sectors dropped
1.4 percent while construction jobs advanced 1.7 percent and the
number of people employed in the private and public service
sectors gained 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  