-- 
Southern Sudan Party Says Documents Show North Gives Arms to Rebel Militia

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-15T13:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/southern-sudan-party-says-documents-show-north-gives-arms-to-rebel-militia.html
Southern Sudan ’s ruling party said
it has documents to prove Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s
government supplied weapons to militias in the region, which is
due to become independent in July.  The  Southern Sudan  Liberation Movement sent an e-mail
yesterday with alleged copies of internal messages confirming
the delivery of weapons and ammunition to “friendly forces” in
the south, including Lam Akol and George Athor, who lead two
SPLM splinter groups.  Fighting in Southern Sudan has intensified with “at least
16 incidents of violence” since almost 99 percent of Southern
Sudanese voters chose in a Jan. 9 referendum to secede from the
rest of Sudan, Mohamed Chande Othman, the  United Nations ’  Human
Rights Council  independent expert on Sudan, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  Southern Sudan is due to gain independence on July 9 and
assume control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of
proven oil reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S.
Energy Information Administration .  The Sudanese government denied the accusation that it
supplied arms to groups in the south.  “These aren’t documents, these are just forged papers,”
Rabie Abel Ati, a senior member of al-Bashir’s  National Congress
Party , said by phone today from Khartoum, the Sudanese capital.
“Tribal tensions exist in the south, and it is up to them to
solve their own problems.”  Jonglei Clashes  In Jonglei state alone, Othman said, clashes between
Southern Sudan’s army and Athor’s militia over the past two
months killed more than 200 people and displaced as many as
20,000 more.  One document dated August 2009 and signed by Defense
Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein said that because of leakage
of the north’s alleged involvement with the militias, “the
armament operations to be stopped for the time being, for the
armament to resume later through intelligence.”  In response to that message, the head of the military
intelligence sent a document to a military leader in Kosti
asking for weapons and ammunition to be handed to friendly
forces “in a secretive and obscure manner” in Heglig in Southern
Kordofan state and Daeen in South Darfur state.  Cease-Fire Collapse  The fighting in Jonglei started following the collapse of a
Jan. 5 cease-fire agreement signed between the authorities in
Juba, the regional capital, and Athor, a former chief of staff
of Southern  Sudan ’s army. Athor first took up arms against the
government after he lost a state election in April.  These documents allegedly show the Sudanese government
started arming Athor in May 2010, a month after he lost the
state election.  “Regarding Athor’s agent, the aforementioned was handed the
second shipment of weapons and ammunition,” reads another
document dated May 2010, from the military in Kosti, the capital
of White Nile, a northern state bordering the south.  Following attacks on March 12 by another rebel militia in
Upper Nile state, the SPLM announced it was suspending talks
with the government in Khartoum over issues such as oil-revenue
sharing, citizenship and border demarcation.  The independence referendum was the centerpiece of a 2005
 peace agreement  that ended a civil war that raged for all but
11 years since Sudan’s independence from the U.K. in 1956,
between Sudan’s mostly Muslim north and the south, where
Christianity and traditional religions dominate.  “We signed the peace agreement and we are sticking to it,”
Abdel Ati said. “We will be the first to recognize an
independent south after July 9. Any instability in the south
will be reflected on the north, and that is not in our
interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 