-- 
South Africa’s Eskom to Set Savings Targets for Top Users

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-15T12:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/south-african-utility-eskom-plans-energy-savings-targets-for-biggest-users.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd.,  South Africa ’s
state-owned power company, will set electricity savings targets
for its biggest 500 customers, Kannan Lakmeeharan, the utility’s
head of planning, said.  The plan aims to ensure supplies for the next seven years
for those users, which consume about 60 percent of Eskom’s
capacity, Lakmeeharan told lawmakers in Cape Town today. The
company will start by setting baselines to monitor consumption
and implement mandatory savings when needed, he said.  Eskom is seeking to save at least 1,000 megawatts for the
next three years by managing demand and another 1,000 megawatts
through efficiencies at its existing plants to counter an
expected shortfall next year, Lakmeeharan said.  Eskom is trying to avoid a repetition of power blackouts
that hit mines, factories and cities in 2008. The Johannesburg-
based company supplies 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity,
providing power to Xstrata Plc’s ferrochrome furnaces,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s gold mines and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s aluminum
smelters in the country.  Eskom intends spending 550 billion rand ($78.9 billion) on
new generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure in
the seven years though March 2017, Eskom Finance Director Paul O’Flaherty told reporters in Cape Town. The utility will sell
about 90 billion rand’s worth of bonds to help fund the
expansion program, about 25 billion rand of which has already
been raised.  Bond Opportunities  “We secure annually in local bonds about 12 or 13
billion” rand, O’Flaherty said. “We will continue to do that.
We will continue over the next five to six years to look for
opportunities in the international market.”  New infrastructure will also be financed through increased
tariffs. Regulators granted Eskom permission to raise its prices
by 25 percent annually in the three years through March 2012.  “To be cost-reflective, we need further 25 percent
increases” in 2013 and 2014, O’Flaherty said. “After that we
will be at a cost-reflective tariff from an Eskom perspective
and the increases we will get thereafter will be inflationary.”  Eskom has “healthy” coal stockpiles of more than 40 days
at its plants, Lakmeeharan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in Johannesburg at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 