-- 
Spain’s Trade Minister to Speak at Bloomberg Conference

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-15T15:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/spain-s-trade-minister-to-speak-at-bloomberg-conference.html

Press Release  Miguel Sebastián to Discuss  Spain ’s Economic Competitiveness
and Growth Opportunities  NEW YORK -- Investor confidence is growing as Spain emerges from
recession and Spanish companies are tapping the capital markets
at the fastest pace in four years. Miguel Sebastián, Minister
for Industry, Tourism and Trade, Kingdom of Spain, and leaders
of top U.S. companies will assess the outlook for Europe’s
fourth largest economy at the Bloomberg Spain Investment
Strategies conference.  At the event, to be held on Wednesday, March 23, 2011 at the
Bloomberg L.P. headquarters in  New York City , Minister Sebastián
will address the impact of the global economic recovery and the
European debt crisis on trade and commerce in Spain, the effects
of the country’s austerity measures, as well as the economic
reforms put in place by the government and whether these are
enough to win back investors.  Additionally, a roundtable of CEOs will discuss their outlook
for Spain’s growth and competitiveness, as well as opportunities
for investments in key sectors of the economy. Speakers include:  - Daniele Antonucci, Senior European Economist, Morgan Stanley  - Martin Franklin, Chairman and CEO of Jarden Corporation  - Robert Hugin, President and CEO of Celgene Corporation  - Antonio Perez, Chairman and CEO of Eastman Kodak Company  - Alberto Verme, Co-CEO,  Europe , Middle East, and Africa (EMEA),
Citigroup  “With such a diversified industry and well-educated work force,
as well as wealth and reserves, Spain’s economy remains
competitive,” said Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg LINK.
“Participants at the Conference will get an inside look at the
areas that are ripe for investing.”  The conference is being sponsored by the Ministry for Industry,
Tourism and Trade, Kingdom of Spain.  The Trade Commission of
Spain in  New York , a part of the Embassy of Spain in the U.S.
and a branch of ICEX, the Spanish Institute of  Foreign Trade ,
assists Spanish companies in their strategies in the U.S market,
and American firms interested in investing in Spain.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.BloombergLINK.com/spain . Follow us on  Facebook ,
 LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag for this event is
#BBGSpain.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, +1 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
