-- 
Splendid House, Mr. Ambani! What About the Neighborhood, Though?

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 
2011-03-15T20:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/splendid-house-mr-ambani-what-about-the-slumdog-neighborhood-though-.html
Dear Mr.  Mukesh Ambani :  I drove by your new, 27-story home on Altamount Road during
my recent visit to Mumbai, the city of my birth.  With its massive gates, its funky Lego-like construction,
helipads, a cinema, a swimming pool, a panoramic view of the  Arabian Sea  and a reported price tag of $1 billion, it looked
worthy of the richest man in India, not to mention the chairman
of its largest company,  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)   Really, though, Mr. Ambani, have you looked at your
neighborhood recently?  Bombay, as it was called when I was growing up, was always
a crowded, congested and filthy city. We still put up with it
because of its buzz, freedom, esprit, its westward orientation
and New York-style promise that said if you can make it there,
you can make it anywhere.  The city’s misery and defecating multitudes -- made famous
by Slumdog Millionaire -- were always there, a source of shame
and sorrow.  Yet the dirt and grime never bothered me as much as it did
during my last visit. That’s not because I’ve been spoiled by
Paris, the city where I now reside and which epitomizes
beautiful living. No, it’s because I find it hard to reconcile
the ambitions of  India ’s financial capital with its realities.  This month Mumbai was named among the world’s top 10
billionaire cities by Forbes magazine, boasting 20 people with a
net worth of at least $1 billion each, led by you with $27
billion. The city alone accounts for 6 percent of India’s $1.3
trillion economy and about 40 percent of its tax collections.  Falling Apart  It houses the  Tata Group , your own Reliance Industries, the  Aditya Birla Group , Hindustan Petroleum Corp., Bharat Petroleum
Corp. -- with just those five generating revenue of more than
$150 billion annually. It is also the city that most of
Bollywood’s stars call home.  For all that, much of  Mumbai  is disintegrating, nay
decaying. Even your own Altamount Road looks shabby. Bollywood
superstar Shah Rukh Khan, or King Khan as he is known, has a
garbage-strewn seafront across from his beautiful bungalow
called “Mannat” in the suburb of Bandra.  Half the city looks as though it will crumble if someone
huffed and puffed really hard on it. Another third looks as if
it should be torn down immediately for the safety of its
inhabitants.  The decay has been setting in for years, of course. What
ails the city seems to be a complete lack of municipal zoning
and patchy garbage collection. Add to that a severely twisted
rent-control system that leaves landlords with no incentive to
take care of their buildings.  Jade Jagger  Those same property laws also cap construction and push
rents and real estate prices to laughably high levels --
especially given how run down residential and commercial blocks
are and the piles of rubble and garbage not far from even the
most exclusive properties.  It’s no wonder that more than half the city’s 20 million
people live in slums and shanty towns, mostly illegally with no
access to the bare minimum required for a life of dignity --
hence the open-air toilets.  My Mumbai friends tell me things are changing. Yes, I see
fancy new buildings sprouting haphazardly like weeds in various
parts of the city and its suburbs. There are gleaming new glass
and chrome malls selling every international brand, from Gucci
to Mango.  Yes, I’ve read Jade Jagger, the daughter of Rolling Stones
rocker Mick Jagger, is set to design homes for a Mumbai luxury
residential project. I’ve also followed U.S. billionaire real-
estate developer  Donald Trump ’s plans for entering the Indian
property market with a luxury residential tower in Mumbai.  Yes, You Can  None of these plans does much to better the city itself or
the lives of most of its residents. Like you, Mr. Ambani, the
people in these fancy towers will have to block out the city’s
filth and misery.  Your multi-story home for your family of five causes little
envy in this city -- which is astonishing considering the
squalor in much of Mumbai. Wearing a khaki uniform several sizes
too large for him, the scrawny driver of my hired car pointed
your house out with a great deal of pride. He probably lives in
a slum.  You can’t squander such big-heartedness.  Of course, the city’s problems are complex and politically
difficult to fix. Yet it seems to me you and your fellow
billionaires have an obligation -- or to put it in very Indian
terms, a duty -- to make the city a better place. If anyone can
make a difference to Project Mumbai, you can.  Think of it in business terms: You’ll be boosting the value
of your new house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 