-- 
Ssangyong, Rodovid Bank, Pfleiderer, Powerfuel: European, Asia Bankruptcy

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-03-15T10:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ssangyong-rodovid-bank-pfleiderer-powerfuel-european-asia-bankruptcy.html
  Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620)  plans to spend
more than 240 billion won ($211 million) on product development
and brand building this year after  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) ,
India’s biggest sport-utility-vehicle maker, took control.  Mahindra will work with Ssangyong to help the South Korean
automaker raise the funds,  Pawan Goenka , president of the
Mumbai-based company’s automotive division, told reporters in
Seoul. Mahindra, which purchased a 70 percent stake in the
carmaker, took formal control after a Seoul court yesterday
allowed Ssangyong to exit the court’s receivership.  Mahindra may consider setting up operations of its finance
unit in  South Korea  to offer loans to purchase Ssangyong
vehicles, the company said in a statement. The automaker is also
planning to introduce two Ssangyong models in  India  to fend off
rising competition from global automakers.  Mahindra appointed Lee Yoo Il, former court-appointed
manager for Ssangyong, as the company’s president and chief
executive officer. Dilip Sundaram from Mahindra will be the new
chief financial officer.  Ukraine’s Central Bank Extends Administration of Rodovid Bank  Ukraine’s central bank said it extended administration of
PAT Rodovid Bank for the sixth time since 2009 because the
lender’s business needs to meet the requirements of Ukrainian
banking laws.  The administration is extended from tomorrow through Sept.
15 at the latest, the Kiev-based Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Yuriy Raytburg will remain
as an administrator in Rodovid, according to the statement.  Pfleiderer May Reach Deal With Creditors by End of Next Week    Pfleiderer AG (PFD4)  may reach a deal with all its creditors on
key points of its restructuring by the end of next week, the
company said in a statement on its website on March 11.  Pfleiderer returned to a profit in  Germany  since the
beginning of the year after reducing capacities as well as
raising prices and is ahead of its own expectations, according
to the statement.  Deutsche Bank Sells $100 Million in Claims Against Lehman Estate    Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sold $100 million in claims against
bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  to Dolostone LLC of  New
York , according to a bankruptcy court filing.  The two claims on Lehman and its commercial paper unit were
part of an original $325 million claim, according to the filing
yesterday in Manhattan.    Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  sold a $325 million claim on Lehman and its
commercial paper unit to Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank last
week, according to court records.  Claims against Lehman, which unsuccessfully sued  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  for $11 billion to try to raise its payout to creditors,
trade frequently between banks and investors or speculators. The
face value of Lehman claims traded in the firm’s second year of
bankruptcy totaled $28.8 billion, four times the total for 2009,
according to data from SecondMarket Holdings Inc., which tracks
illiquid markets.  TPG-Backed Company Preferred Bidder for Powerfuel Carbon Project  2Co Energy Ltd. , a British carbon capture and storage
company owned by private equity group TPG Capital, emerged as
the preferred bidder for Powerfuel Power Ltd., whose parent
company is in administration.  2Co Energy plans to complete the transaction in the next
few weeks and is carrying out further review on Doncaster-based
Powerfuel Power, Jane Paxman, director of policy and
communications at 2Co Energy, said yesterday by phone.  “We’re as confident as we can be at this stage that we’ll
be able to do that hopefully by the end of the month,” she
said. She declined to give price details.  Powerfuel Power’s plans to develop a carbon capture and
storage plant in northern  England  are some of the most advanced
in the U.K., Paxman said. It already won 180 million euros ($250
million) of European Commission funding to demonstrate the
emission-cutting technology at the site near the Hatfield
coalfield.  Its parent company Powerfuel Plc went into administration
in December. It was 653 million pounds ($1 billion) short of the
investment needed to develop the CCS project, according to its
administrators, KPMG International. 2Co Energy was appointed
preferred bidder by KPMG last week, a statement from the
accounting firm said.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , will provide the funds to
buy Powerfuel Power, Paxman said.  Wockhardt Creditors Can Seek Provisional Liquidator, Lawyer Says    Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL)  creditors can apply to the Bombay High Court
to appoint a provisional liquidator after the court admitted a
winding-up petition against the drugmaker, the senior counsel
for the creditors said yesterday.  A group of three bondholders, including U.S. hedge fund QVT
Financial LP, filed the petition, seeking to recover their
investments of 6.34 billion rupees ($140 million) through the
sale of the company’s assets, lawyer Janak Dwarkadas said in a
telephone interview.  Wockhardt can appeal the court’s decision to accept the
petition, Dwarkadas said. Wockhardt spokesman Daryl Suchitha
didn’t respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 