-- 
House Passes Stopgap U.S. Budget Bill Amid Republican Complaints

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-15T23:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/stopgap-u-s-budget-wins-house-passage-271-158-amid-republican-complaints.html
The U.S. House approved legislation
to fund the government until April 8 over the opposition of more
than 50 Republicans, many of whom expressed frustration with
Congress’s ongoing budget battles.  Lawmakers  voted  271-158 to send the  measure  to the Senate,
where leaders of the Democratic majority said it soon will be
forwarded to President  Barack Obama .  House Republican leaders had to rely on Democrats in
today’s vote to help produce a majority after many of their own
rank-and-file said the bill only postponed debate over spending
cuts and efforts to block the Obama administration’s
health-care overhaul, environmental policies and other
initiatives.  “These are things I think we were sent here to fight
for,” said Representative Joe Walsh, a freshman Republican from  Illinois  who voted against the bill. “The American people sent
us here to be bold and I don’t think this is a bold step.”  The bill was opposed by 54 Republican, nine times the
number who  voted  against a similar measure approved two weeks
ago that’s currently funding federal agencies. Also voting
against the new stopgap spending measure today were 104
Democrats. Republicans control the House with 241 votes.  The current spending authority expires March 18, and
without a new agreement by then agencies would have to halt non-
essential operations. Today’s legislation would give lawmakers
more time to work out a deal on spending for the rest of the
fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  $6 Billion Cut  The measure would cut spending by $6 billion, in part by
ending or reducing funds for 25 programs. Most of those changes
have been endorsed by Obama or Senate Democrats. About $2.6
billion of the reduction would be made by rescinding unspent
funds for lawmakers’ pet projects.  The spending reductions would keep Republicans on pace with
their push to reduce the budget by $61 billion this year.  The measure now funding federal agencies included a $4
billion spending reduction.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in a statement the
new legislation will provide some “breathing room” to work out
an agreement on funding through Sept. 30.  He urged lawmakers to work quickly. “The president has
been clear: with the wide range of issues facing our nation, we
cannot keep funding the government in two- or three-week
increments,” Carney said.  “It is time for us to come
together, find common ground and resolve this issue.”  Bipartisan Plan  Democrats said Republicans’ inability to produce a majority
on their own showed that any agreement on funding levels for the
rest of this year will have to be bipartisan.  “Speaker Boehner wouldn’t have been able to pass this
short-term measure without Democratic votes, and he won’t be
able to pass a long-term one without Democratic votes either,”
said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat. “It’s time
for him to abandon the Tea Party and forge a bipartisan
compromise.”  Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, called
the vote a “watershed moment,” saying, “this is the day the
majority became ungovernable.”  Among those opposing the measure was Arizona Republican
Jeff Flake, who said the bill plays into Democrats’ hands
because postponing a decision on the entire 2011 budget makes it
likely the fight will merge with an upcoming battle over
increasing the federal debt limit. He said that debate should
focus on bigger changes to  government spending , such as cuts in
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  ‘Small Ball’  “The longer we kick this can down the road, the more
difficult it is to get to the big stuff,” said Flake. “This is
small ball.”  The Treasury Department estimates the government will reach
the current limit on  government borrowing  between April 15 and
May 31.  Some of the Republican defectors said they had strengthened
their party’s position in the talks.  “I think we gain leverage, because now the leader and the
speaker can say, ‘We’ve taken this thing as far as we can go,
and we can’t do anything more unless you give us something,’”
said Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican pressing to
kill any spending measure that doesn’t defund the health-care
law.  Other Republicans, including some freshmen, expressed
satisfaction with the cuts approved today. “We’ve been in
office for just over 65 days and we’ve actually cut back roughly
$10 billion,” said Representative Robert Dold, an Illinois
Republican.  The bill would be the sixth stopgap measure approved this
fiscal year.  “This is a lousy way to run a railroad,” said
Representative Steny Hoyer, the second-ranking House Democrat.
“We are trying to run the largest enterprise in the world in
two-week segments.” He said, “This ought to be the last of
this type -- we need to reach agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  