-- 
Stopgap U.S. Budget Is Set to Win House Passage Amid Republican Complaints

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-15T16:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/stopgap-u-s-budget-is-set-to-win-house-passage-amid-republican-complaints.html
A stopgap budget measure funding
the government until April 8 is set to clear the House over the
opposition of some Republicans expressing frustration with
Congress’s spending fight.  House Speaker  John Boehner  predicted today the  legislation 
would pass, though more than a dozen of his colleagues have
announced their opposition. Some members want to make more
spending cuts in the measure, and some want to add policy
restrictions such as a ban on funding the new health-care law,
he said.  “But what is in this bill to disagree with?” Boehner of  Ohio  told reporters after a meeting of  House Republicans .
“Nothing, nothing.”  “I am confident that this bill will pass” even with the
complaints from some members of his caucus, the speaker said.  Current spending authority expires March 18, and without a
new agreement by then the government would be forced to shut
down non-essential operations. The legislation is designed to
buy lawmakers time to work out a deal on spending for the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30.  Arizona Republican Jeff Flake said today’s bill plays into
the hands of Democrats because postponing a resolution of the
debate over funding for the rest of this year increases the odds
the fight will merge with a looming battle over the federal debt
limit. He said that debate should be focused on bigger changes
to the budget such as cuts in entitlement programs.  “The longer we kick this can down the road, the more
difficult is it to get to the big stuff,” said Flake. “This is
small ball.”  The measure to be voted on later today would cut $6 billion
in spending, keeping Republicans on track with their campaign
promise to cut $61 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  