-- 
Sugar Leads Commodity Slump; Cocoa, Coffee, Cotton, Orange Juice Decline

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-03-15T19:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/sugar-leads-commodity-slump-cocoa-coffee-cotton-orange-juice-decline.html
Raw sugar slumped to three-month
low, leading a decline in commodities, on speculation that
demand will slow as  Japan  tries to recover from its worst-ever
earthquake. Cocoa, coffee, cotton and orange juice also fell.  A move by Japan’s central bank to provide short-term
liquidity failed to contain investor panic as the risk of
radiation leaks from a damaged nuclear plant escalated. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said the country faced its worst crisis since
World War II. The DJ UBS Softs Index, comprising sugar, cotton
and coffee, declined as much as 5.2 percent.  “This is panic-selling,” said  Michael Smith , the
president of T&K Futures & Options Inc. in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida . “People want to move out of riskier assets.”  Raw sugar for May dropped 2.14 cents, or 7.7 percent, to
settle at 25.65 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , after touching 25.47 cents, the lowest since Nov. 23.
The sweetener posted the biggest drop among 26 commodities in
the UBS Bloomberg Constant Maturity Commodity Index.  In London, refined-sugar futures for May delivery fell
$39.70, or 5.6 percent, to $667.10 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe,
the biggest drop since Dec. 30.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot index of 24 commodities
dropped as much as 3.9 percent. In Japan, the Topix index of
stocks had its biggest two-day decline since the 1987 crash.  “The soft-commodity markets continue a downward trend
today as investors take risk off the table and pull money out of
markets,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank International in  London , said today in an e-mail.  Export Ban  Cocoa slumped as Japan’s crisis overshadowed an extension
of a ban on exports in  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
producer.  Cocoa futures for May delivery slumped $134, or 4 percent,
to $3,255 a ton on ICE, the biggest drop since Dec. 10. In
London, cocoa futures for May delivery fell 63 pounds, or 2.9
percent, to 2,121 pounds ($3,413) a ton.    Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of
a Nov. 28 presidential election, extended his call for a ban on
cocoa shipments until March 31, an adviser said yesterday. Major
producers have heeded the ban, designed to deny funds to
incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo , who refuses to step down.  Clashes between an armed group backing Ouattara and
security forces loyal to Gbagbo spread today in the commercial
capital, Abidjan, residents said. Gbagbo last week announced he
had taken control of cocoa purchases and exports.  “Prices were likely down on the back of a retrenchment of
risk appetite following fears of nuclear contamination in
Japan,” said Cedric Chehab, the head of commodities research at
London-based Business Monitor International. The drop in equity
markets “has dragged commodities lower,” he said in an e-mail.  Cotton Tumbles  Cotton tumbled by the 7-cent exchange limit for a second
straight day on ICE. Futures for May delivery fell by 3.5
percent to $1.9094 a pound.  The fiber, which dropped 3.6 percent last week, still has
more than doubled in the past year as demand outstripped global
supplies.  “The fundamentals have not changed overnight, so we may
see some buyers return to the market in a couple of days,”
Smith of T&K Futures said.  Robusta-coffee futures for May delivery dropped $15, or 0.6
percent, to $2,375 a ton on NYSE Liffe. In New York, arabica-
coffee futures for May delivery fell 10.35 cents, or 3.8
percent, to $2.6295 a pound.  Orange-juice futures for May delivery retreated 1.75 cents,
or 1 percent, to $1.672 a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  