-- 
Swiss Franc Sets Record Versus Dollar; Japan Disaster Sparks Haven Demand

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-15T17:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/swiss-franc-sets-record-versus-dollar-japan-disaster-sparks-haven-demand.html
The Swiss franc surged to a record
versus the dollar amid concern that a nuclear disaster is
unfolding in  Japan , prompting investors to seek havens.  Switzerland’s currency also jumped the most since September
against the euro as stocks plunged in  Asia  and  Europe  and swaps
to insure Japanese debt climbed to a record. Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s stricken Fukushima nuclear power plant was rocked by
three explosions today as workers struggled to avert a meltdown
in the wake of the March 11 earthquake.  “Given the domestic risk in Japan, which is leaving the
yen’s safe-haven status more questionable, the Swiss franc is
the clear alternative and is benefiting,” said  Adam Cole , head
of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London.
“Markets will stay very nervous, at least for the next couple
of days. That probably will continue to support the franc.”  The franc strengthened 0.7 percent to 91.76 centimes per
dollar as of 4:25 p.m. in  London , and reached 91.64 centimes
earlier, the strongest since Bloomberg records begin in 1971.
The Swiss currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 1.2823 per euro
after earlier jumping by as much as 1.5 percent to 1.2737 per
euro.  Japan’s Topix equity index posted its worst two-day plunge
since 1987. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for a fifth straight
day, slumping as much as 3.8 percent, the most since May.  A report this week is forecast to show Swiss industrial
production growth quickened in the fourth quarter. Evidence of a
stronger domestic economy may reduce pressure on the Swiss
central bank to limit currency gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  