-- 
U.K. Antitrust Agency Plan to Raise Costs, Lawyers Say

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T16:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-k-plan-to-merger-antitrust-agencies-will-raise-deal-costs-lawyers-say.html
(Corrects to remove LLP from law firm name in fifth
paragraph.)  The U.K. government’s plan to
combine the country’s two antitrust regulators will likely
result in a less-efficient merger-approval process and raise
costs for businesses, lawyers say.  The proposal, the details of which are scheduled to be
published tomorrow, is expected to replace Britain’s current
voluntary system for merger reporting with a mandatory system,
even in cases where companies can determine a deal won’t harm
competition, said  Robert Bell , chairman of the  City of London
Law Society’s Competition Committee .  “Mandatory merger control would create an extra
bureaucracy needing much more resources,” Bell, a lawyer with
Speechly Bircham in London, said in an interview. “It would end
up catching a lot of non-problematic mergers and create needless
red tape for business at a time when we need to encourage
enterprise and economic recovery.”  In its biggest shakeup of competition law since 1973, the
U.K. in October said it would merge the  Office of Fair Trading 
and the  Competition Commission  to create the Competition and
Markets Authority. Before making a final plan, Britain’s
 Department for Business, Innovation and Skills  will seek
comments on tomorrow’s consultation paper outlining the
combination of the agencies.  ‘Self-Policing’  “I struggle to see how the system would be made more
efficient if they made merger notification mandatory,” said
Frances Murphy, who leads the competition practice at  Jones Day 
in London. “The market is, to some extent, self-policing and
people will notify if they think there is an issue.”  Rory Taylor, a spokesman for the  Competition Commission ,
said it is “perfectly sensible” for the government to at least
consider a mandatory system because it could end up leading to
greater certainty for companies planning to merge.  “Examining and, if necessary, unwinding completed mergers
can also be time-consuming and expensive for parties,” Taylor
said, “and sensible design of a mandatory system could avoid it
being over burdensome.”  While a move to mandatory notification would bring the U.K.
in line with most other countries, it would require more
regulatory employees and result in higher costs for companies,
said  Marjorie Holmes , a competition lawyer at  Reed Smith LLP  in
London.  “It just increases the cost of the merger,” Holmes said,
“I don’t think there’s any need for it.”  Higher Threshold  One way to reduce the number of unnecessary notifications
would be to double the threshold for mandatory reporting to 140
million pounds ($225 million) in revenue at the business being
acquired, Holmes said. The threshold for market share at the
target company should also be at least 25 percent, she said.  Such a revenue “threshold test could catch the
notification of a lot of transactions that don’t need to be
reviewed,” said Murphy, of Jones Day. Otherwise, “they’ll be
performing a lot of rubber-stamping exercises.”  The planned merger is part of a restructuring of hundreds
of quasi-autonomous organizations in a bid to save money and
tighten government control. Kasia Reardon, a spokeswoman for the
OFT, declined to comment. BIS didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 