-- 
U.K. Coal Plant Profits Increase as Natural Gas May Go to Japan

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-15T14:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-k-coal-plant-profits-soar-as-natural-gas-is-diverted-to-japan.html
Profits from using coal to generate
U.K electricity for next winter soared to the highest level in
17 months, on speculation natural gas will be diverted to  Japan 
amid the Asian country’s deepening nuclear crisis.  Profit from using coal to generate power in the U.K. for
next winter, the six months from October, rose 7 percent to
14.67 pounds ($23.56) a megawatt-hour in London. That’s the
highest level since at least October 2009, when Bloomberg
started compiling the data.  The profit, known as a clean dark spread, soared as
electricity tracked natural gas, making  it more favorable to
burn coal in power stations. Gas rose on speculation it would be
used to replace nuclear generation.  Germany  said it would close
seven of its oldest reactors while it reviewed safety after an
earthquake hit Japan, shutting down the country’s nuclear
stations and causing explosions at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.  Britain gets about 80 percent of its power from a mixture
of coal and gas plants, switching between the fuels depending on
prices. The nation also has 10 atomic stations, mostly owned by
Electricite de France SA. Mike Weightman, Britain’s chief
nuclear inspector was asked by  Chris Huhne , energy minister, to
report on the implications of Japan’s nuclear situation,
according to a  statement  on the Department of energy and climate
change’s website.  Baseload power for next month rose 2.29 pounds, or 4.3
percent, to 56.09 pounds a megawatt-hour as of 1:30 p.m. London
time, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s its
highest since January 2009. Power for next winter advanced 3.5
percent to 61.45 pounds a megawatt-hour.  Coal was being used to generate about 44 percent of
Britain’s electricity, with natural gas providing about 34
percent of supplies as of 1:30 p.m. That’s the highest coal
proportion since January when cold weather spurred energy demand
for heating.  The clean dark spread is a theoretical calculation using
broker data on Bloomberg that includes the price of electricity,
and costs for coal and emissions allowances. It doesn’t include
a fee to transport the fuel from the port to the station.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  