-- 
Top Companies Should Disclose Gap Between CEO and Average Pay, Hutton Says

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-15T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-k-s-biggest-companies-should-disclose-pay-multiples-hutton-recommends.html
Britain’s biggest companies should
be required to disclose how the pay of their top executives
compares with that of their average employee, a report on pay
commissioned by the government recommended.  Public-sector organizations should start the practice in
the fiscal year that begins in April and listed companies should
follow suit next year, Will Hutton, the former editor of the
Observer newspaper, recommended in his Fair Pay Review published
in  London  today.  “Citizens are rightly concerned about wider inequalities
in society and question whether the pay of the highest earners
is deserved,” Hutton said in a statement. “Discussing top pay
in the language of due desert and by reference to the pay of
ordinary employees should be the norm across the whole
economy.”  The recommendations come amid continuing controversy over
government efforts to curb bankers’ bonuses and as the Treasury
drives through the biggest budget squeeze since World War II.
Hutton said public-sector executives should also have pay linked
to performance so that part of their remuneration would be at
risk if they fail to deliver.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which received the
biggest banking bailout in the world in 2008, awarded Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Hester and eight top executives about
28 million pounds ($45 million) in shares this month, while
Barclays Plc gave CEO  Robert Diamond  as much as 10.1 million
pounds in salary, bonuses and stock.  Annual Reports  Hutton said the government should aim to improve corporate
reporting by demanding that they disclose “top to median pay
multiples” in annual reports from January next year. Hutton is
vice-chairman of the  Work Foundation , a London-based research
group, and author of “Them and Us: Changing Britain -- Why We
Need a Fair Society.”  Unison , Britain’s biggest trade union, said Hutton’s report
was a “missed opportunity” because he failed to push for
higher wages for the poorest workers. It said private buyout
firms who own large companies should have also been included in
the pay disclosure plans.  “Income inequality is rife in the U.K. and places a huge
burden on our economy and society,”  Dave Prentis , the union’s
general secretary, said in an e-mailed statement.  The report -- commissioned by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in May -- also proposed varying the pay of
public-sector executives down as well as up depending on
performance.  ‘Seen to Be Fair’  “Public trust in public services can only be maintained if
senior public servants’ pay is fair and seen to be fair,”
Hutton said. He said the government should not impose a fixed
limit on pay multiple, such as 20 to 1.  The report is also part of an effort to find savings in
public spending as the government attempts to narrow the
deficit. State workers face a two-year pay freeze and the loss
of more than 300,000 jobs under existing government plans.  Today’s report was issued a week after the publication of a
study by John Hutton, a minister in  Tony Blair ’s Labour
government, proposing less generous pension entitlements for
public-sector workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  