-- 
U.S. `Firmly Opposed' to Deferral of Kenyan ICC Process, Ambassador Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-15T14:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-s-firmly-opposed-to-deferral-of-kenyan-icc-process-ambassador-says.html
The U.S. government is “firmly
opposed” to the deferral of cases involving six Kenyans accused
of post-election violence in 2008 by the  International Criminal
Court , Ambassador Michael Ranneberger said.  The Hague-based ICC’s involvement in the probe in the East
African country is “critical to counter impunity in  Kenya ,”
Ranneberger told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  The cases are related to violence sparked by allegations of
vote-rigging in a disputed December 2007 presidential election
that killed 1,500 people and displaced another 300,000. Two
months of unrest abated when President Mwai Kibaki formed a
power-sharing government with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , who was installed as prime minister.  ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo initiated an
investigation into the fighting after Kenyan lawmakers blocked
several attempts to create a local tribunal to handle the cases.  Kibaki is spearheading a campaign to ask the  United Nations
Security Council  to approve a one-year deferral of the cases so
they can be tried locally. A constitution enacted in August
promised changes to the legal system, such as allowing lawmakers
to scrutinize judges, and the creation of a  Supreme Court .  The  Orange Democratic Movement , led by Odinga, asked the  Security Council  in a letter to reject the proposal for
postponement, the Nairobi-based  Daily Nation  newspaper reported
yesterday, citing party Secretary-General Anyang Nyong’o.  Security Council Debate  The U.S. is one of five permanent members on the Security
Council that can veto resolutions. A debate by the council
tomorrow on Kenya’s deferral proposal will be “informal” and
not end with a vote, Ranneberger said.  Ranneberger made the comments at a press conference today
in which civil society organizations and the state-funded  Kenya
National Commission on Human Rights  appealed to Western
diplomats to reject Kenya’s attempt to suspend the ICC cases.
They said they have collected 1.4 million signatures in support
of their position.  The officials called to appear before the ICC on April 7
are Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , who is also deputy prime
minister; Francis Muthaura, head of Kenya’s public service;
Henry Kosgey, who resigned as industrialization minister in
January; and suspended Higher Education Minister William Ruto.  The others are former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali,
now postmaster general, and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter.
All six men deny the accusations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 