-- 
Gasoline Drops on Concern Japanese Earthquake May Hurt Demand

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-15T16:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-s-gasoline-leads-energy-losses-falling-most-in-18-months.html
Gasoline fell amid concern that the
strongest earthquake in  Japan ’s history would reduce demand for
motor fuel and hinder economic growth.  Gasoline sank as much as 6.2 percent, dropping along with
crude oil and equities as a third explosion and fire struck
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant early today. Japanese
use of naphtha to make plastics may be diminished with
petrochemical plants shut or operating at reduced rates,
increasing supply of the gasoline-making component.  “The activities being disrupted range from industrial
production, freight, road and rail travel, which consume mostly
light products,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-
markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “We expect that
closures that affect the heavier end of the barrel --  fuel oil 
for ships and electricity generation -- will be less
prolonged.”  U.S. gasoline futures for April delivery fell 12.08 cents,
or 4.1 percent, at $2.8395 at 12:17 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  About 29 percent of refining capacity in Japan, the third-
largest crude user, has been shut as a result of the earthquake,
based on data from the Petroleum Association of Japan. BNP’s
Tchilinguirian said the plunge in consumption may leave a
surplus of naphtha, normally used to make plastics, that may be
converted into gasoline.  “You have people selling commodities across the board in
anticipation of a potential economic slowdown,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Stocks Decline  Stocks sank, with the Nikkei 225 index posting its biggest
two-day drop since 1987, on concern economic growth will slow as
Japan struggles to recover from its largest earthquake. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.5 percent to 1,277.31 at
12:19 p.m. in New York.  “We seem to be trading on news out of Japan,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Equity markets are tumbling. And the
speculative length in the oil market was extremely high and the
market was vulnerable to this.”  The U.S. Energy Department is scheduled to release its
weekly report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will report its own
data at 4:30 p.m. today.  Gasoline inventories dropped 1.5 million barrels from 229.2
million a week earlier, according to the median estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, likely slipped
1.5 million barrels from 155.2 million the previous week.  Heating oil for April delivery sank 7.11 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $2.9927 a gallon on the exchange. Futures touched
$2.916, the lowest intraday price since Feb. 28.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
0.2 cent to $3.556 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Aaron Clark  in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  