-- 
U.S. Wins Delay in Deadlines for Quick Drill Permit Action

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-03-15T21:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-s-wins-delay-in-deadline-for-quick-drill-permit-action.html
U.S. offshore regulators aren’t
required to act this month on certain Gulf of Mexico drilling
permits delayed by the Obama Administration’s ban, a federal
appeals court said.  A three-judge panel today granted the government’s request
for a reprieve from a court-ordered deadline without comment.  U.S. regulators threatened to deny the seven Gulf drilling
permits that U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in  New Orleans 
singled out for quick action if they were forced to act by his
deadlines. Feldman ordered government action by March 19 on five
permits and by March 31 on two additional permits.  The Interior Department had asked Feldman to delay his
order so that the U.S. Court of Appeals would have time to
review it. When Feldman didn’t respond quickly, the U.S. turned
to the appellate court.  Regulators claim the permitting process is a cooperative
dialogue between the agency and operators, which can take days
or months to complete. These seven permit applications are
incomplete and “cannot be approved in their current state,”
according to a March 9 filing by the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management , Regulation and Enforcement.  Regulators also complained that Feldman’s reprioritization
of agency resources to focus on the seven selected permits isn’t
fair to other operators also awaiting permit decisions.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said
government lawyers would have no immediate comment on the
appellate court ruling.  As of Feb. 25, the agency had 270 shallow-water permits and
52 deep-water permits awaiting regulatory approval, and just six
drilling engineers to process all permit applications pending in
the Gulf, the government lawyers said. The bureau on Feb. 28
approved the first of two deep-water drilling permits granted
since the Deepwater Horizon disaster last year.  Worst Spill  The Obama Administration suspended all drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet in May in response to the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. More than 4.1 million barrels of
crude leaked into the Gulf after the Deepwater Horizon exploded
and sank while drilling a subsea well for  BP Plc (BP/)  off the  Louisiana  coast in April.  After offshore companies and regional business and
political leaders sued in June, Feldman threw out the
government’s moratorium as overly broad and punitive to the Gulf
Coast economy.  Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar immediately announced he
would find a new way to block offshore drilling and, in July,
imposed an almost identical ban. When that ban was also
challenged in court, Salazar withdrew it in October before
Feldman could rule on its validity.  Ensco Offshore Co.  When  oil companies  and offshore drillers -- led by Ensco
Offshore Co. -- complained that regulators were continuing a de
facto drill ban by refusing to process new permits, Feldman gave
the agency 30 days to act on seven stalled permits tied to
companies challenging the ban in court. Some of these permits
had been pending for as much as nine months. Prior to the BP
spill, regulators took, on average, two weeks to approve
drilling applications.  Regulators defended the delays as necessary and prudent
until the oil industry improves offshore drilling safety and oil
spill cleanup capabilities. Feldman, in his Feb. 17 order to
jump-start the permitting process, said while some delay was
reasonable, “not acting at all is not a lawful option.”  The case is Ensco Offshore Services Inc. v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 11-30225,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 