-- 
Military Rescuers Brace for Japan Radiation in U.S. Aid Flights

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-16T00:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-s-navy-air-crew-get-iodide-pills-for-radiation-after-japanese-mission.html
Low levels of radiation exposure
probably will become “a fact of life” for U.S. military forces
flying relief and rescue missions to aid victims of  Japan ’s
earthquake as they near areas affected by leaks from a damaged
nuclear plant, according to a U.S. Navy spokesman.  “Having crews return with detectable levels of radiation
is going to be a fact of life with this mission for the
foreseeable future,” said Lieutenant Anthony Falvo, a spokesman
for the  Seventh Fleet  in Japan. “As long as we take every
precaution to ensure that the risk is contained and mitigated,
these folks will be just fine.”  The Navy treated two Seventh Fleet air crew members with
potassium iodide pills as a precaution this week after they
became contaminated with radiation emitted from the damaged
nuclear plant at Fukushima.  Of the 17 air crew members who the Navy said three days ago
showed “low levels of radioactivity,” all but one were
contaminated only on their outer clothing, Falvo said.  One crew member had radiation on his skin, and “that was
easily remedied with soap and water,” Falvo said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “The levels of radiation that our crew
members have received are very, very low.”  Military’s Actions  The treatment with potassium iodide, which blunts the
effects of  radiation exposure , is among the precautions the U.S.
military is taking as it powers its disaster assistance with
vessels that include an aircraft carrier, the USS Ronald Reagan,
and four guided-missile destroyers. The ships and their aircraft
were moved out of the downwind direction from the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant two days ago from their original position 100
miles northeast of the facility.  The maximum potential radiation dose received by any of the
affected crew members was less than the typical amount from
about a month of exposure to natural background radiation from
sources such as rocks, soil and the sun, the Seventh Fleet said
in a March 14  statement .  “Low levels of radioactivity” from the Fukushima plant
detected yesterday morning by the USS George Washington  aircraft
carrier , docked at the U.S. Navy base in Yokosuka about 200
miles, or 321 kilometers, south of the reactors, prompted
cautionary advice from the U.S. commander in Japan, Falvo said.  The commander recommended that military personnel and their
families at the base limit outdoor activities and secure
external ventilation systems “as much as practical,” Falvo
said.  ‘Strictly Precautionary’  “These measures are strictly precautionary in nature,” he
said. “We do not expect that any United States federal
radiation exposure limits will be exceeded, even if no
precautionary measures are taken.”  Japan is struggling to provide humanitarian relief and
search-and-rescue missions for hundreds of thousands of people
stranded after the country’s worst earthquake on record, even
while battling to cool three nuclear reactors damaged by the
quake.  The  Ronald Reagan  Carrier Strike Group flew 29 sorties
yesterday to deliver 17 tons of supplies, including food, water
and blankets, Falvo said. That brings the total provided so far
to 25 tons for about 2,000 people.  Military aircraft with the mission also flew three coastal
search-and-rescue sorties yesterday. The ships are positioned
about 180 nautical miles away from the Fukushima nuclear plant.  Japanese authorities on March 14 recommended evacuation of
homes within 20 kilometers, or 12.4 miles, around the affected
reactors and told residents who live up to 30 kilometers, or
18.6 miles, away to stay inside.  The USS Essex and two other vessels also are on their way
to the area with the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.  Because of radiological and navigation hazards on the
eastern coast of Honshu, Japan’s biggest island, the ships will
take up positions in the  Sea of Japan  on the west coast to
launch disaster relief missions, Falvo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  