-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Drop After Japan's Prime Minister Cites Radiation Risks

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-15T03:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/u-s-stock-futures-drop-after-japan-says-risk-from-radiation-is-increasing.html
U.S. stock futures fell after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the risks of further
radiation leaks are increasing after an explosion at a nuclear
power plant in Fukushima.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index contracts expiring in June fell
2.2 percent to 1,262.10 at 12:47 p.m. Tokyo time. Japan’s Topix
plunged 13 percent, extending its two-day slump to a record 19.7
percent.  Citizens living within a 30-kilometer (19 miles) radius of
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Daiichi plant should stay indoors,
Kan said during a nationally televised press conference.  “In case of a serious disaster, all bets are off,” said  Barry James , who oversees $2.5 billion as president of James
Investment Research Inc. in Xenia, Ohio.  U.S. stocks fell yesterday, sending the  S&P 500  lower for a
third time in four days, as investors struggled to assess how
much damage Japan’s worst earthquake on record will do to the
global economy.    General Electric Co. (GE)  fell 2.2 percent yesterday as Japan
tried to contain radiation at a damaged plant, compelling other
nations to review atomic energy plans. Coach Inc. and Tiffany &
Co. sank at least 5.2 percent on concern Japan sales will
suffer.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino company with most of
its business in Asia, lost 3.6 percent as Jefferies & Co. cut
its rating on the stock.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  surged
11 percent on bets demand for alternative energy will grow.  Japan ETF  The S&P 500 slid 0.6 percent to 1,296.39 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  yesterday, paring an earlier drop of as much as 1.4 percent
as oil settled little changed at $101.19 a barrel. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  sank 51.24 points, or 0.4 percent, to
11,993.16. The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , a U.S. exchange-
traded fund, tumbled 7 percent, the most since 2008.  “The market is pricing in a better understanding of the
enormity and complexity of the natural disasters that struck
Japan,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co. “The immediate impact will be felt through lower global
aggregate demand, disrupted supply chains, and funds flows into
Japan.”  U.S. stocks fell last week, sending the S&P 500 down 1.3
percent, after American and Chinese reports damped optimism
about the global economy. The benchmark gauge of U.S. stocks is
down 3.5 percent from its 32-month high in February, while still
more than 90 percent above its bear-market low in 2009.  Bank of  Japan   The Bank of Japan poured a record amount of cash into the
financial system and doubled the size of its asset-purchase
plan. The central bank pumped 15 trillion yen ($183 billion)
into money markets yesterday. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
board enlarged a program buying assets from government bonds to
exchange-traded funds by 5 trillion yen, about one-tenth the
size of the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing.  “The Japanese earthquake has the potential to prompt
further weakness in stock prices,” said David Sowerby, a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based money manager at Loomis Sayles
& Co., which oversees $150 billion. “While you’ll see the Bank
of Japan provide intense liquidity and economic activity
increase due to rebuilding, there’s a lot of uncertainty. Still,
if we have a 3 percent to 5 percent correction in stocks, we’d
likely look at what’s attractively priced.”  General Electric declined 2.2 percent, the most in the Dow
average, to $19.92.    China ’s Plans  The potential meltdown at a nuclear plant struck by Japan’s
record temblor may be “a big dampener” on India’s program,
Shreyans Kumar Jain, chairman of the Nuclear Power Corp. of
India, said in Mumbai. The accident may become a factor in the
drafting of China’s energy plans,  Xie Zhenhua , vice chairman of
the National Development and Reform Commission, said in Beijing.
Germany will suspend a planned extension of the lifespan of
nuclear plants pending the outcome of an inquiry into their
safety,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  GE, which is in talks to sell reactors to India, won’t
change its plans for the country after the Japan accident, Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said yesterday. Immelt expects
the company’s Indian operations to grow 30 percent this year.  Uranium stocks slumped on concern demand will slow after
the Japan accidents. U.S. shares of Canada’s Denison Mines Corp.
plunged 22 percent to $2.55.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  declined 4.9 percent
to $70.09. The operator of nuclear power plants was cut to
“market perform” from “outperform” by BMO Capital Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  