-- 
UBS’s Global Head of Securities Neal Shear Quits After One Year

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-03-16T00:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ubs-s-global-head-of-securities-neal-shear-quits-the-bank-1-.html
  Neal Shear ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s head of global
securities for about a year, is leaving  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank as it seeks to earn more from trading and close a gap with
Wall Street rivals.  Shear’s decision to leave was announced yesterday by
Carsten Kengeter, head of UBS’s investment bank, in an internal
memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Dominik von Arx, a company
spokesman, confirmed its contents. UBS promoted Aryeh Bourkoff,
38, to head  investment banking  for the Americas, succeeding
Kevin Cox, according to a separate memo.  UBS last month named co-heads of equities and debt-trading
units to jointly run the securities business, which Shear, 56,
headed since January 2010. The Zurich-based bank, which had the
least revenue from trading last year compared with its eight
biggest rivals, needs to almost triple earnings at the
investment bank by 2014 to meet targets set by Chief Executive
Officer  Oswald Gruebel .  UBS said yesterday it cut Kengeter’s total compensation for
2010 by 29 percent after Gruebel, 67, described the investment
bank’s performance as “not yet satisfactory.”  When reached for comment on his mobile phone, Shear said,
“I’m playing golf right now. I’ll have to call you back” and
hung up.  UBS’s securities unit more than doubled its share of about
$142 billion in global sales and trading revenue in 2010 from a
year earlier as its fixed-income division stopped losing money.
The share of 6.8 percent was the lowest compared with  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of
America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche
Bank AG and Barclays Plc, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Sensible Opportunities’  The investment bank tries to increase risk-taking to boost
profit “only when sensible opportunities arise,” which hasn’t
been the case over the past few months, Gruebel told the Swiss
magazine Bilanz last week.  He said that he underestimated how long it would take to
rebuild the business, which was mostly responsible for more than
$57 billion in writedowns and losses during the credit crisis,
and how “shattered” UBS’s fixed-income unit was.  Before UBS hired Shear, he had worked at private-equity
firm Apollo Management LP for about 17 months. Prior to Apollo,
Shear spent about 25 years at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , where he rose to a
role overseeing sales and trading and was once the bank’s
second-highest-paid executive.  Yassine Bouhara and Francois Gouws, co-heads of equities,
will be responsible for the securities business with Roberto Hoornweg and Rajeev Misra, who run fixed-income, currencies and
commodities trading, UBS said in a Feb. 24 memo.  Bankers Depart  UBS promoted Bourkoff in recent years as other bankers
left. He was appointed co-head of media and communications
investment banking with Mark Lewisohn in 2009, replacing Jeff Sine. Last year, Bourkoff and Lewisohn also took over the
technology group after Brian Webber left the position and joined
Moelis & Co., the New York-based investment bank founded by
former UBS executive Kenneth Moelis.  Bourkoff, the joint global head of technology, media and
telecommunications banking, started at UBS in 1999. He initially
worked in the fixed income clearing group and later as an equity
research analyst.  The technology, media and telecommunications team at UBS is
advising British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc on its takeover by
News Corp. Last year, it advised International Business Machines
Corp. on its $1.7 billion acquisition of data-warehousing
company Netezza Corp. and Dell Inc. on its $940 million purchase
of data-storage company Compellent Technologies Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  