-- 
U.S. Probing UBS Over Possible Libor Rate Manipulation, Bank Report Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-03-15T15:34:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/ubs-says-u-s-is-investigating-possible-libor-rate-manipulation.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said it received subpoenas from U.S. authorities investigating
possible attempts to manipulate the setting of the London
interbank offered rate.  The company received subpoenas from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the  U.S. Department of Justice , Zurich-based UBS
said in its 2010  annual report  published today. The bank also
received an order to provide information to the Japan Financial
Supervisory Agency concerning “similar matters,” it said.  “UBS understands that the investigations focus on whether
there were improper attempts by UBS, either acting on its own or
together with others, to manipulate Libor rates at certain
times,” the bank said. “UBS is conducting an internal review
and is cooperating with the investigations.”  Libor rates are set daily by the  British Bankers’
Association , based on data it gets from a panel of banks on what
it would cost them to borrow funds for various periods of time
and in different currencies. The validity of Libor, a benchmark
for more than $350 trillion of derivatives and corporate bonds,
was questioned during the credit crisis as banks became wary of
lending to each other because of mounting losses.  UBS didn’t say what time period the Libor investigation is
focused on. Serge Steiner, a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment beyond the statement in the report.  Funding Difficulties  Bank for International Settlements officials said in 2008
after a report on the Libor-setting process that they couldn’t
rule out that rates may have been manipulated. The March report
said if there were attempts to manipulate rates, the procedure
whereby the highest and lowest estimates are stripped out
probably “minimized their impact.”  The London-based BBA said three months later that it would
increase the number of banks setting Libor and consider adding a
second daily survey to reflect U.S. trading.  “We are committed to retaining the reputation and
integrity of BBA Libor,” the BBA said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We observe rigorous standards in our scrutiny and
governance of the Libor mechanism, and work with the industry to
ensure their continued full confidence in one of its most
accurate and reliable benchmarks.”  UBS, whose default-insurance costs rose 919 percent between
July 2, 2007 and April 15, 2008 as it racked up $38 billion of
writedowns and losses, quoted dollar-borrowing costs that were
lower than its rivals on 85 percent of the days during that
period, Bloomberg data shows.  Banks routinely misstated borrowing costs to the BBA to
avoid the perception they faced difficulty raising funds as
credit markets seized up, turning Libor into “a lie,” Tim
Bond, head of  asset allocation  at  Barclays Capital , a unit of
Barclays Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in May
2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  