-- 
Eni, Gazprom in Talks on Ceska Rafinerska, Unipetrol Says

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-03-15T15:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/unipetrol-spokesman-says-eni-talking-with-gazprom-on-exit.html
  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil
company, is in talks to sell its 32.5 percent stake in Ceska
Rafinerska AS to Russia’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP) , according to  Unipetrol
AS (UNIP) , the Czech refinery’s majority shareholder.  Unipetrol, which owns 51 percent of Ceska Rafinerska, was
informed of the negotiations by Eni, spokesman Martin Pavlicek
said by phone, confirming an earlier report by news website
Ceska Pozice that cited three people familiar with the talks.  “This is a matter of our national energy security,” Czech
Industry and Trade Minister Martin Kocourek said today in an
interview at the ministry. “We plan to discuss it with the
interested parties.”  Buying the stake would strengthen Russia’s position in the
Czech energy market, providing the missing link between the
supply of crude oil via the Druzba pipeline and the sale of
gasoline through Lukoil gas stations.  State-controlled Gazprom hasn’t made any decision, an
official with its press service said by e-mail today, declining
to be identified. Gazprom and Eni have a strategic partnership
agreement, signed in 2006, under which Gazprom considers offers
of assets by Eni, the official said.  The talks on the sale of Ceska Rafinerska follow a Feb. 16
agreement between Eni and Gazprom that allows the Russian gas
monopoly to take a stake in Eni’s Elephant oil project in Libya.
The two companies are also linked by a natural-gas supply
venture set up with the help of Italy’s Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Russia’s Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  An Eni spokesperson declined to comment on Ceska
Rafinerska, citing company policy.  Shell Overseas Investments BV, which has a 16.4 percent
stake in Ceska Rafinerska, has completed the sale of its major
refineries and may proceed with disposals of some smaller assets
including the stake in Ceska Rafinerska, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  told journalists today in  London .  “We don’t have a big program to be announced, but
portfolio issues will still be worked,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  