-- 
Global Stock Volatility Surges as Traders Seek Hedges on Japan

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-16T06:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/vstoxx-rises-most-since-may-on-radiation-fear-vix-etn-climbs.html
Options prices and bets on higher
equity volatility jumped from  Tokyo  to Frankfurt and  Chicago  as
investors sought protection against stock-market losses amid
concern that the risk from radiation leakage at a power plant in
Japan is increasing.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX,
climbed 15 percent to 24.32 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York, the
highest close Aug. 31. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures options
on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, rose 16 percent to a three-month
high of 31.01. Swap contracts that gain with higher volatility
rose the most since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and Deutsche Bank AG.  Demand for protection surged after falling to the lowest
level in more than three years in December, when the global
rally in stocks was approaching a two-year anniversary. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 90 percent since March 9,
2009, as central banks around the world kept  interest rates  at
record lows and companies beat earnings estimates.  “Welcome back to equity risk,” said John Farrall, who
helps oversee $106 billion as director of derivatives strategy
at PNC Wealth Management in  Cleveland . “A lot of the better
strategists were frustrated that they were selling umbrellas in
summer a few weeks ago when no one wanted protection.”  Biggest Drop  Stocks sank today, with the Nikkei 225 index posting its
biggest two-day drop since 1987, after Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the danger of further radiation leaks increased
at a Tokyo Electric Power Co. located 135 miles (217 kilometers)
north of Tokyo. The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45
nations tumbled 2.2 percent to 326.83, and the S&P 500 retreated
1 percent after losing as much as 2.7 percent.  Equities rebounded when Asian markets opened for March 16
trading, pushing the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to its first
advance in five days. The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark
gauge for Hong Kong stock options, tumbled 9.2 percent to 25.26
as of 2:43 p.m. local time, the biggest drop since Feb. 25.  The Bank of  Japan ’s actions to provide short-term liquidity
and expand an asset-purchase program failed to contain investor
panic following a 9-magnitude earthquake that was the nation’s
strongest on record. The March 11 quake and ensuing tsunami sent
more than 300,000 people to emergency shelters and may have
killed 10,000 in Miyagi prefecture north of Tokyo, according to
company statements and police estimates.  “The situation in Japan is progressively getting worse,”
said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital
in London. “Historically, when there is a sudden increase in
volatility, it takes a fair amount of time until markets return
to ‘normal’ again. Measures of volatility still have loads of
room to the upside.”  Nikkei Volatility  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a measure of
Japanese option prices, has surged 229 percent to a two-year
high of 69.88 in the past three days. The gauge closed at this
year’s low of 16.12 on Feb. 8 and implies a 20 percent swing in
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in the next 30 days.  “Nikkei volatility exploded because the uncertainty is so
high,” said Philippe Trouve, the VIX options trader and
director for equity derivatives at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York . “If things really get worse in Japan, then we could see
VIX and other volatility measures go higher.”  The earthquake is becoming the biggest threat to investors’
risk appetite following violence in  Libya , slowing Chinese
exports and concern some European nations may have to
restructure their debt.  “There was reasonably aggressive buying of volatility,
while previous to this with the recent crisis in the Middle East
and North Africa, we hadn’t seen such a strong reaction,” said
Bhavin Patel, equity derivatives strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London.  The VIX, as the CBOE Volatility Index is known, traded at
21.98 on average in the year through March 11. VIX call options,
used to bet that the index will rise, represented more than two-
thirds of the total volume of options traded today.  Volatility Futures  April VIX futures rose 4.9 percent to 23.40, the lowest
reading among all contracts on the index. June futures increased
2.6 percent to 24.15. The VIX has averaged 20.37 over its two-
decade history.  “The back months are all up almost 3 percent, which is a
pretty serious move, but it makes sense given what we’re seeing
here,” said Dominic Salvino, a specialist at Group One Trading,
the primary market maker for VIX options. “Higher oil alone had
the back months coming off their lows and Japan isn’t helping.
We don’t expect them to come in any time soon.”  Crude oil futures jumped 28 percent to $106.95 a barrel in
New York between its intraday low on Feb. 15 and the peak on
March 7, driving the  S&P 500  down 1.4 percent.  Calls give holders the right to buy an underlying security
at a given price and by a set date. Puts give the right to sell.  At Least May  Instruments to speculate on volatility in the Euro Stoxx 50
known as variance swaps that expire in June 2011 were indicated
at 30.5 percent, from 27.5 percent yesterday, according to
Deutsche Bank in London. The contracts were poised for the
biggest daily increase for similar-maturity products since at
least May, said Pam Finelli, equity derivatives strategist for
the Frankfurt-based bank.  December variance swaps on the Nikkei today climbed to 37
percent, from 22 percent before the quake struck, according to
RBS. A variance swap is a privately traded contract that allows
traders to bet on the volatility, or magnitude of price swings,
in an underlying security.  Finelli at Deutsche Bank said today’s reaction follows
historically low levels for measures such as the VIX.  “We are certainly seeing de-risking, but I wouldn’t say
there is necessarily panic in derivatives flows,” she said in
an interview. “A lot of the flows we’ve seen have been a bit of
a two-way stream. We are seeing people rolling out protection to
longer maturities, but we are also seeing profit-taking on
existing hedges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  