-- 
Wall Street Woman Recalls Dancing in Office, Going Home Alone

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/wall-street-woman-recalls-dancing-in-office-going-home-alone.html
The life of a new Wall Street
analyst is one of extremes: You’re either working long hours as
a slave to your tyrannical bosses or mingling with the elite of
New York society at expensive restaurants and charity events.  In “ Suits: A Woman on Wall Street ,” Nina Godiwalla offers
an inside look at the finance industry with an outsider’s
perspective. Born in  Texas  to a Persian-Indian immigrant family,
Godiwalla is well-positioned to see the humor and chaos of  investment banking .  Godiwalla ’s book tells two stories. There’s the tale of her
struggle to make it professionally, first as an intern at
JPMorgan and then as an intern and analyst at  Morgan Stanley. (MS) 
But it’s also unexpectedly heavy on the battle to win acceptance
from her father back in Houston, a strict and stubborn patriarch
who always wanted sons but ended up with four daughters instead.  There are snippets of Godiwalla’s life as an analyst, from
dancing in the office at 2 a.m. with a club-hopping coworker to
brushes with callous bosses.  “This was one of his greatest tricks, which seemed to work
effectively when someone challenged him,” she writes of one
senior officer. “Make the other person feel stupid so he or she
would give up and leave you alone. It seemed to work beautifully
on this high-achieving crowd.”  The job itself comes across as occasionally glamorous but
mostly dreary.  Proofreading Challenge  “The night before I was here until four in the morning,”
one co-worker sobs in the middle of a breakdown. He’d been
proofreading a 522-page document. “That is my challenge -- to
find where EBITDA may be written EBIT or where a bar may be in
the wrong column!”  The loneliness caused by long hours is a constant theme.  “Even when I met people I wanted to get to know better,
like Priya, by the time I was free, she was already staffed on a
new deal and was working most nights and weekends,” Godiwalla
writes. “‘Friends’ were people I spoke to about once a month.”  Godiwalla is at her most compelling when describing her raw
emotions. She recalls a blind date when, desperate for intimacy,
she awkwardly propositioned the guy for sex.  “I feel like I hardly know you,” the poor man stammered
before making a hasty retreat.  The book has a readable style, but it sometimes loses
focus. The back-and-forth between  New York  and Houston can get
confusing, and it sometimes feels as if the wrong things were
included. Rather than an extended anecdote about a pizza party
for her seventh birthday, couldn’t Godiwalla have elaborated on
her relationship with “Laura Smith,” a woman who is barely
mentioned throughout the book and then suddenly plays a vital
role in the climax?  After the Story Ends  There’s a sense that the real “woman on Wall Street”
emerges from the girlish Godiwalla just as the book is ending;
I’ll bet the most interesting part of the story comes later.  Ultimately, as we see from her dust-jacket biography,
Godiwalla left investment banking: She founded a company that
teaches meditation and stress management to professionals, and
lives in Austin, Texas. Though she has moved on from the
financial industry, it would have been nice if she’d
concentrated more on what the book’s title promised -- the story
of a woman on  Wall Street  -- and less on her journey to get
there.  “Suits” is published by Atlas & Co. (350 pages, $24). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Joanna Ossinger is a writer for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 