-- 
Warren Defends Openness of Consumer Bureau to Congress, Public

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-03-15T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/warren-defends-openness-of-consumer-bureau-to-congress-public.html
  Elizabeth Warren  will rebut
Republican criticism that the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau lacks openness in her first appearance before Congress as
the special adviser charged with setting up the agency.  “There will be more oversight and accountability of the
CFPB than any other federal-banking regulator,” Warren said in
prepared remarks for a hearing tomorrow. “Over time, I believe
these limits will succeed in ensuring both sunlight and
accountability in the consumer bureau’s operations.”  Congressional Republicans have criticized what they see as
the bureau’s lack of accountability and Warren’s role in
negotiations on mortgage servicing. Warren was invited to the
talks as an adviser, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
wrote today in a letter to leading congressional Republicans.  “I personally invited Elizabeth Warren to advise the other
agencies as a part of this process of how to design appropriate
servicing standards for the mortgage-servicing industry,”
Geithner said today during a Senate Banking Committee hearing.  Regarding the mortgage-servicing negotiations, Warren
condemned “political attacks” against law-enforcement
officials for responding to alleged crimes, according to
excerpts of the testimony released by her office.  “We know what can happen when laws aren’t fairly or
consistently enforced because of political pressure, and it
doesn’t end well for American families, for honest businesses,
or for the economy,” she said in the remarks.  ‘Active Partner’  The CFPB also will be an “active partner in the important
work of oversight,” through its so-called stand-up period,
which is scheduled to end July 21, she said.  “Oversight of the CFPB, during its stand-up and beyond,
will build greater confidence in the consumer bureau by both
other governmental entities and the public,” Warren said,
according to the excerpts.  Warren will testify before the financial institutions and
consumer credit subcommittee of the  House Financial Services
Committee.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 