-- 
Watson, Ocean Tomo, Fiat, Goldman: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-15T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/watson-icap-ocean-tomo-fiat-goldman-intellectual-property.html
  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) ’s
generic version of Fentora doesn’t infringe two patents licensed
exclusively to  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) , a federal judge in  Delaware  ruled.  Cephalon sued Watson for patent infringement in June 2008
after the Corono, California-based company filed applications to
produce the generic form of the drug. Fentora is administered
orally to treat breakthrough cancer pain.  U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson said Cephalon failed to
prove the two patents -- 6,200,604 and 6,074,590 -- were
infringed and that Watson successful proved they were invalid.  The case is Cephalon Inc. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
1:08-cv-00330-SLR, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Glaser’s AIDS-Cure Patent Offered at ICAP Ocean Tomo Auction  One of the patents offered at the ICAP Ocean Tomo auction
March 31 is for a therapy that uses genetically modified red
blood cells to treat viral diseases such as AIDS, according to a
 statement  from the auction house.  Patent 7,462,485 was issued in December 2008. The named
inventor is Lawrence F. Glaser of Fairfax Station,  Virginia .  According to the patent, the modified cells, when
administered to a patent infected with the human
immunodeficiency virus that causes AIDS, can “absorb and entrap
plasma HIV,” keeping it from infecting a protein on the surface
of white blood cells involved in cell-mediated immunity.  Glaser is the named inventor on a wide range of patents,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office. He’s the holder of patent 6,375,995, which covers a
multidensity cereal product in which one portion of the cereal
product floats on the surface of milk while another sinks to the
bottom of the cereal bowl.  He also invented technology for a computer peripheral
device that causes a particular theme to be displayed by the
computer’s graphical user interface. That technology is covered
by his patents 7,007,238 and 6,392,671.  Other Glaser patents cover closures for vacuum-sealed
containers, a method of connecting an electrical conductor to a
terminal, and a system of telecommunications installation and
management.  Glaser is also known for a  securities fraud  case he filed
against New York-based Enzo Biochem Inc. of  New York . Glaser at
one time owned more than a million shared of Enzo stock, and
accused the company of exaggerating the success of its therapies
against AIDS and Hepatitis B.  Glaser filed  a document  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in September 2008 in which he said statutes of
limitations for securities fraud “should not exist.”  In March 2005 a federal appeals court ruled that a trial
court had properly dismissed Glaser’s securities fraud claims.
The following year the appeals court said his common law fraud
claims against Enzo were also property dismissed, according to
Bloomberg data.  The lower court case was Glaser v.  Enzo Biochem Inc. (ENZ) , 1:02-
cv-01232-GBL, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria). The appeals were Glazer v. Enzo Biochem Inc., 03-
2188 and 05-1920, 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Richmond).  Department of Defense Funds Wound-Healing Technology Development  The U.S. Defense Department has awarded a $1.3 million
grant to develop a patented technology for an artificial wound-
healing material for battlefield injuries invented by a Colorado
State University professor.  Professor Melissa M. Reynolds , of the university’s School
of Biomedical Engineering, has developed a biodegradable polymer
containing nitric acid that can be used inside or outside the
body, the school said in a  statement .  The polymer will look like gauze and contain additional
biological materials to promote healing. Nitric acid, which
naturally occurs within the body, can prevent infection and
promote the growth of healthy cells, the university said.  Reynolds said her invention could be used on deep cuts
inside the skin and muscles, and the polymer eventually
dissolves within the body.  The technology covered by Reynolds patent has been licensed
to Diazamed, a company spun off by the university’s
commercialization arm.  Reynolds is a named inventor on patent 7,335,383, and on
 eight published and pending patent applications  related to
medical devices and wound healing, according to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  For more patent news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Fiat’s Maserati Wins Star Billing in ‘Limitless’ Sans Fee    Fiat SpA (F) ’s Maserati unit reaped publicity for the luxury
auto’s trademark in Relativity Media LLC’s “ Limitless ” film
without paying anything for product placement,  according to  the  Hollywood Reporter .  The Italian automaker, which sold fewer than 2,000
 Maseratis  in the U.S. last year, got the gig by quickly
supplying two cars to the shooting location in Puerto Vallarta
in June, the movie-industry trade newspaper reported.  The total cash outlay to Maserati was less than $10,000,
and that amount was spent on shipping costs and for a company
technician sent to the shooting site, according to the Hollywood
Reporter.  The Turin, Italy-based automaker got one minute of footage
of the car being driven through Puerto Vallarta, and the
Maserati was also featured in two commercials for the film that
ran during the Super Bowl game in February, the newspaper
reported.  Sailing Festival Seeks New Name to Avoid Trademark Clash  The organizers of an annual New Hampshire festival
featuring tall sailing ships is looking for a new name for the
festival in efforts to avoid a trademark dispute, the Portsmouth
Herald  reported .  The Piscataqua Maritime Commission, which has hosted its
Tall Ships Festival for 25 years, has been in negotiations for
two years with the American Sail Training Association, owner of
the “tall sails” trademark, the newspaper reported.  Donald Coker, chairman of the commission, told the
newspaper his organization is seeking public input about a new
name for the festival, which will be held on the Memorial Day
weekend.  Any new name for the festival should be “short, snappy and
to the point” and must avoid use of the “tall ships” phrase,
Coker said, and the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Cepia Sued by Californian Over Zhu Zhu Pet Trade Secrets  Cepia LLC , the closely held maker of the  Zhu Zhu Pet
robotic hamster , was sued for trade secret misappropriation by a  California  resident who claims he’s the actual inventor of the
toy.  Jason G. Heller of  San Mateo , California, alleges that
Cepia learned of his invention through one of its Chinese
suppliers. Heller, in his complaint filed March 10 in federal
court in  San Francisco , said he disclosed confidential
information about the robotic pet to toy-modeling houses in  Hong
Kong .  The disclosures were covered by a mutual non-disclosure
agreement, Heller said, and claimed he didn’t give “any entity
or individual” permission to give information about his
invention to any third party.  He claims that at least one of the companies to which he’d
disclosed his invention had “improperly” passed the
information along to St. Louis-based Cepia. He said he can prove
that representatives of Cepia were on the premises of the Hong
Kong company at the time it was in possession of his prototype.  It was at the Dallas Toy Fair in 2009 that Heller said he
became aware of Cepia’s Zhu Zhu Pets, which “appeared to
embody” his own idea for the robotic toy hamster.  Before the Zhu Zhu toy was released, Heller said Hasbro
Inc. had expressed interest in his invention.  He claims he’s damaged by Cepia’s actions, and that he’s
suffered losses of at least $201 million from the St. Louis-
based company’s actions.  Alternatively, he asked for a royalty of 7 percent of
Cepia’s total sales of Zhu Zhu Pets from April 2008 until the
date judgment is entered.  Co-defendants with Cepia are three Hong Kong-based toy
developers.  Cepia didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail requesting
comment. The company’s Zhu Zhu Pet, which sold for about $10,
was the must-have pet for the Christmas 2009 season, according
to Bloomberg data.  Heller is represented by  Robert C. Matz  of the  Law Office
of Robert C. Matz LLP  of Alameda, California.  The case is Jason G. Heller v. Cepia LLC, 3:11-cv-01146-
DMR, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Goldman Ex-Programmer Should Get Up to 10 Years, U.S. Says  Sergey Aleynikov, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
programmer, should be sent to prison for as long as 121 months
for stealing computer code from his former employer, U.S.
prosecutors said.  IP Moves  Edwards Angell Hires Peter Konzel for  Washington  IP Group  Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP  hired S. Peter Konzel for
its Washington IP practice, the Boston-based firm said in a
 statement .  Konzel , who does both transactional work and litigation,
joins from Washington’s  Novak Druce & Quigg LLP . He has also
served in a combat unit in the U.S. Army.  He has represented clients in the biotechnology, chemical,
electrical, mechanical and semiconductor fields.  Konzel has an undergraduate degree in biology from the  State University of New York  at Geneseo, and a law degree from
the State University of New York at Buffalo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 