-- 
Wheat, Corn, Soybeans Tumble on Indications of Reduced Demand From Japan

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-15T10:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/wheat-corn-soybeans-tumble-on-indications-of-reduced-demand-from-japan.html
Wheat, corn and soybeans fell in  Chicago  on signs demand from  Japan  will drop after last week’s
earthquake left thousands dead and explosions at a nuclear power
plant spurred concern about radiation  Shipments into Kashima and other ports on Japan’s east
coast were stopped because of power outages caused by the 9.0-
magnitude earthquake and accompanying tsunami, Zen-Noh, Japan’s
largest corn buyer, said yesterday. Japan said today it plans to
buy 32,381 metric tons of wheat in a tender on March 17, 76
percent less than it purchased last week.  “The simple fact is nobody actually knows what impact this
will have” on the nation’s economic growth and food demand,
Luke Mathews, a strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia ,
said by phone from Sydney today. “The global supply situation
across a broad range of agricultural commodities is still tight,
even if we do a see a temporary demand decline coming out of
Japan.”  Wheat for May delivery dropped 15.5 cents, or 2.2 percent,
to $7.0525 a bushel at 10:10 a.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE
Liffe in Paris fell 2.7 percent to 211 euros ($292.53) a ton,
retreating for a 12th day.  Corn for May delivery slid 7.5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$6.585 a bushel in Chicago after declining as low as $6.53.
Soybeans for May delivery lost 13.75 cents, or 1 percent, to
$13.2625 a bushel.  Default Risk  Japanese stocks slumped, with the Topix index suffering its
worst two-day slump on record, and default risk soared. The  Bank
of Japan  pumped 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) into money markets
today, adding to yesterday’s record cash injection.  “Investors are getting worried about the Japanese
situation and trying to avoid risky assets like equities and
commodities right now,” said Benjamin Hong, a trader at KB
Futures Co. in Seoul. “Agricultural commodities are sliding
along with the broader downward sentiment.”  The risk of further radiation leaks is rising after a third
explosion rocked the Fukushima power plant north of Tokyo,
Japanese Premier  Naoto Kan  said, warning people living within 30
kilometers (18.5 miles) of the reactor to stay indoors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  