-- 
Wisconsin Anti-Union Legislation Lawsuit Will Come Before Judge March 18

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-03-15T20:27:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/wisconsin-collective-bargaining-statute-challenge-gets-march-18-hearing.html
A  Wisconsin  county executive’s
challenge to a bill curbing collective bargaining for most state
government workers will be considered at a hearing March 18, a
judge said.  The Wisconsin Assembly passed a modified version of
Governor  Scott Walker ’s budget bill March 10, a day after the
State Senate voted 18-1 for the measure. Senate Republicans
ended a stalemate by stripping the bill of some fiscal measures
to circumvent a requirement that three-fifths of members be
present. The chamber’s 14 Democrats left the state Feb. 17 to
prevent a quorum.  Kathleen Falk, Dane County Executive, sued Wisconsin, its
secretary of state and four legislators March 11, asking the
court to declare that the senate’s vote was unconstitutional and
to stop the bill from becoming law. Judge Amy Smith, who later
recused herself from the case. denied Falk’s request that day
for a temporary restraining order.  “I see no conflict of interest or other need to recuse,”  Dane County  Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi, who has taken over
the case, said at a status conference today. She asked lawyers
for both sides to decide whether they wanted a new judge and set
a hearing on the lawsuit for March 18.  “If no such request is made, we can have a full day
hearing on Friday,” Sumi said. She said she would make no
decision on the case that day.  Earlier Decision  Sumi declined to reverse Smith’s earlier decision denying a
restraining order blocking the bill. Governor Walker said he
would sign the bill into law as soon as legally possible.  Sumi said she wants to hear arguments from both sides and
would like to see any party that intends to intervene to do so
by Friday. The defense was also asked to respond to the
complaint by Friday.  “We’re a court of law,” Sumi said. “We are not a court
of politics or passion.”  The bill as passed “contains substantive fiscal items
within it, and the Wisconsin Senate did not have the required
three-fifths of its members to vote,” according to Falk’s
complaint. The Senate’s action also “is in clear violation of
Wisconsin’s open meetings laws,” she said.  Wisconsin Assembly Minority Leader Peter Barca last week
asked Dane County District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne to
investigate and reverse the state Senate’s passage of the bill.  The vote violated the state’s open-meetings law by failing
to give 24-hours’ notice, Barca said in a complaint filed in
Madison, the state capital. Barca said he was informed of the
session considering the bill less than two hours before it
convened.  Ozanne has said he is investigating.  The case is Dane County v. State of Wisconsin, 11cv1175,
Circuit Court, Dane County, Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 