-- 
Worker Confidence on Having Enough Money for Retirement Hits 20-Year Low

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-03-15T15:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/worker-confidence-on-retirement-money-at-20-year-low-ebri-says.html
More than a quarter of U.S. workers
said they’re “not at all confident” about their ability to
afford a comfortable retirement, the highest percentage in two
decades, according to an  Employee Benefit Research Institute 
report.  “We’re getting the most pessimistic results we’ve ever
seen,” said Jack VanDerhei, EBRI’s research director and
coauthor of the  study  released today.  “Those that are not well prepared are finally starting to
get it. The bad news is they’re not really reacting to it yet,”
VanDerhei said in an interview yesterday. “Hopefully this will
be something that in the future will generate more savings.”  About 27 percent of workers lacked confidence about their
retirement savings, up from 22 percent last year. The increase
was driven by those with less than $100,000 in savings,
according to the report. The percentage of those with less than
$25,000 in savings who are not at all confident about having
enough in retirement rose to 43 percent in 2011, up from 19
percent in 2007. For savers with more than $100,000 it was 5
percent, about the same as 2007.  EBRI worked on the study with research firm  Mathew
Greenwald & Associates Inc.   About 1,000 workers and 250
retirees age 25 and older were interviewed by telephone in
January for the survey, which EBRI has conducted for 21 years.  $500,000 Needed  About 39 percent of workers think they’ll need at least
$500,000 by the time they retire to live comfortably, while 31
percent think they can get by with less than $250,000, according
to the report.  More than half, or 56 percent, of workers surveyed had less
than $25,000 in savings and investments, excluding their primary
residence and any defined benefit pension plan, the study said.
About 42 percent estimated their retirement savings needs “by
guessing,” said EBRI, which researches employee benefits. The
Washington-based nonprofit has a database of more than 20
million participants in 401(k)  retirement plans .  “People were shell shocked to some extent by what was
going on in 2008 and 2009,” said VanDerhei. “Many people
wouldn’t even open their 401(k) statements when they came every
quarter because they were too afraid to look.” Now individuals
are trying to figure out if they have enough money saved and are
getting informed about whether they’re on target, he said.  Online Advice  Workers should use online tools such as EBRI’s “ Choose to
Save ” calculator, make a savings plan and implement it through
contributions to a 401(k) retirement plan with their employer or
by opening an individual retirement account, said Greg Burrows,
senior vice president of retirement and investor services for  Des Moines , Iowa-based Principal Financial Group, one of the
report’s underwriters, in a interview at Bloomberg headquarters
in  New York .  Sixty-eight percent of savers said they could save $25 more
a week for retirement, which was a positive finding in the
study, Burrows said. Principal has 3.4 million participants in
retirement plans.  Average balances of 401(k) accounts rose to $71,500 at the
end of last year, up about 11 percent from the end of 2009,
according to  Fidelity Investments . The Boston-based mutual-fund
manager is the largest provider of the accounts with about 11
million participants in defined-contribution plans.  Redefining Retirement  High unemployment rates, government budget woes, rising
health care costs, lower investment returns and questions about
the funding for Social Security and Medicare are forcing
Americans to redefine retirement, VanDerhei said.  Regulators and legislators also are looking at the risk of
Americans outliving their savings as life expectancies increase
and funds have shifted from traditional pension plans to
defined-contribution plans such as 401(k)s.  The Labor Department held a hearing in September examining
whether it should be easier for employers to add annuities to
retirement accounts. In February senators including Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, re-introduced  legislation  that
would require 401(k) plan sponsors to inform workers of the
projected monthly income they could expect at retirement based
on their current account balance.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 