-- 
Yen Falls From Four-Month High as BOJ Funds, Stock Rally Curb Safety Bid

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-16T02:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/yen-weakens-on-bets-boj-to-pump-in-funds-to-stabilize-markets-after-quake.html
The yen fell from a four-month high
against the dollar as a rebound in stocks and a third day of
fund injections by the  Bank of Japan  eased investor risk
aversion caused by last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  The yen dropped against all of its 16 major counterparts as
analysts said more robust asset purchases from the central bank
and a quicker effort to assemble a fiscal stimulus package could
help assuage the quake’s economic damage. The BOJ today added
3.5 trillion yen ($43 billion) to the financial system. The euro
fell versus most of its peers after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded  Portugal .  “The BOJ will have no choice but to add to monetary
easing, which may ease the yen’s appreciation,” said Tomokazu Matsufuji, a dealer in Tokyo at SBI Liquidity Market Co., a unit
of financier SBI Holdings Inc. “Policy makers may intervene
verbally if the yen strengthens rapidly beyond around 80.60
versus dollar.”  The yen fell to 80.99 per dollar as of 10:47 a.m. in Tokyo
from 80.72 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached 80.61, the
strongest since Nov. 9. The Japanese currency touched 80.22 on
Nov. 1, the strongest since April 1995, when it reached a
postwar record of 79.75.  The yen was at 113.22 per euro from 112.99 yesterday, when
it touched 111.97, the highest since Feb. 28. The euro slipped
to $1.3982 from 1.3998.    Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 4.4 percent today
after plunging 11 percent yesterday.  Bank of Japan  The central bank poured a record 15 trillion yen of cash
into the financial system on March 14. As he boosted the central
bank’s asset-purchase program by 5 trillion yen, Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa warned the BOJ had to avoid underwriting
government debt to maintain its credibility.  “Given that Japan is in an unprecedented emergency
situation now, the central bank should also do something
unprecedented,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.
“There’s a chance the BOJ could call an emergency board meeting
to add more monetary stimulus” before the end of the month.  Losses in the yen were limited after  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co. confirmed a new fire at its stricken nuclear power plant,
prompting speculation Japanese investors will bring home assets.  Nuclear Plant  The possibility of damage to the cores of the No. 1 and No.
2 reactors at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power complex,
can’t be ruled out, Tokyo Electric Power spokesman Daisuke
Hirose said.  “People are expecting the yen to strengthen as Japan’s
investors repatriate” overseas assets, said Toshiya Yamauchi, a
senior currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which
provides foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “Concern is
increasing that the global economy will slow down, partly due to
Japan’s situation.”  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen fell to
13.87 from 14.08 yesterday, the highest since May 26. The
volatility has risen 61 percent since the March 11 earthquake.
Implied volatility is a measure of expected price swings and the
key gauge of option prices.    Germany  yesterday decided to keep its seven oldest nuclear
reactors offline during a three-month moratorium it will use to
evaluate the safety of the facilities, following explosions at
the Fukishima plant. The halts will account for 25 percent of
the country’s atomic energy capacity.  ‘Significant Challenges’  The euro fell against the greenback after Portugal’s long-
term debt rating was cut two steps to A3 from A1 by Moody’s,
which cited a “subdued” growth outlook, risks to implementing
the government’s deficit-reduction plans, and a possible need to
recapitalize its banks.  “The government faces significant challenges, not least a
less supportive economic environment,” Moody’s said in a
statement dated yesterday. The country’s gross domestic product
is expected to “decline this year and experience a weak
recovery at best in 2012,” according to the statement.    South Korea ’s won rebounded from its lowest level this year
as overseas investors pumped funds into the nation’s equities,
betting a sell-off in global stocks following Japan’s earthquake
was excessive.  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,132.50 per dollar. It
reached 1,137.95 yesterday, the weakest level since Dec. 30. The
benchmark Kospi index advanced 1.8 percent and the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of regional shares rallied 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  