-- 
Yen Rises as Japan Earthquake Boosts Bets on Repatriation; Euro Fluctuates

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-15T21:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/yen-rises-as-japan-earthquake-boosts-bets-on-repatriation-euro-increases.html
The yen rose against all of its
major counterparts as concern in  Japan  of radiation leaks
increased speculation that insurers will repatriate assets to
pay for earthquake damages.  The dollar was little changed against the euro after the  Federal Reserve  maintained its asset-purchase program and kept
borrowing costs at a record low. The Swiss franc advanced to a
record against the greenback on demand for a refuge as Japan’s
Prime Minister Naoto Kan said his government is doing everything
it can to contain the radioactive leaks following last week’s
earthquake and tsunami.  “The yen is strengthening across the board,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more
than $20 trillion in assets under administration. “We’re seeing
follow-through yen buying off of renewed risk aversion emanating
from Japan.”  The yen appreciated 1.1 percent to 112.99 versus the euro
at 5 p.m. in  New York , from 114.22 yesterday. The yen advanced
1.1 percent to 80.72 per dollar, from 81.63. The Japanese
currency strengthened to 80.22 Nov. 1, the strongest since April
1995, when it reached a postwar record of 79.75.  The dollar traded little changed at $1.4000 against the
euro, after earlier adding as much as 1 percent.  FOMC View  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the Federal Open Market Committee said today in its
statement after a meeting in  Washington . The effects of higher
fuel and commodity costs on inflation will be “transitory,”
and officials “will pay close attention to the evolution of
inflation and inflation expectations,” the Fed said.  The central bank kept borrowing costs at a record low of
zero to 0.25 percent and said its purchases of $600 billion in
Treasuries through June are needed to bolster growth and lower
the 8.9 percent unemployment rate.  Stocks in the U.S. pared earlier losses, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index dropping 1.1 percent after falling as much as
2.7 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  index posted its biggest two-day
drop since 1987, falling 11 percent today to 8,605.15.  Less Stress  “The level of stress has diminished,” said  Robert Lynch ,
head of currency strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in New York.
“The fact that equities have stabilized and moved off their
lows is offering at least some marginal amount of relief to the
risk trade. That contributed to this pullback in the dollar and
rebound in some currencies like the euro.”  The franc appreciated 0.9 percent to 91.65 centimes per
dollar after touching 91.41, the strongest level since at least
1971, when Bloomberg records begin.  Volatility in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market
rose to the most in more than two months amid increased risk in
Japan of radiation leaks. Implied volatility measured by a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index rose 9.9 percent to 12.15 today, the
most since Jan. 10.  Currencies of commodity-exporting countries plunged as
speculation increased the explosions at the Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant will damp demand for raw materials.  Weak Rand    South Africa ’s rand, the worst performer among the major
currencies, dropped 2.2 percent to 6.9650 per dollar.  Australia’s dollar weakened 1.9 percent to 99.10 U.S. cents
and  Canada ’s currency fell 1.2 percent to 98.59 cents per  U.S.
dollar .  The yen may continue to strengthen as investors unwind
carry trades amid reduced demand for assets from higher-yielding
countries. In a carry trade, investors borrow where yields are
low, such as in Japan, to fund purchases in higher-returning
countries.  “We’re seeing a stronger yen because of the unwinding of
carry trades against commodity currencies,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “The markets will settle down
once it has a better feel for the scope of the destruction in
Japan.”  The carry trade of borrowing in yen and selling it to buy
the currencies of  Australia ,  Norway ,  New Zealand  and  Brazil  has
lost 49 percent this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a return of 8.3 percent in January
and February.  Bahrain Update  Appetite for haven assets was boosted after Bahrain
declared a three-month state of emergency as a second contingent
of forces from Gulf states poured into the kingdom to support
its government following persistent protests.  Further gains in the yen may be limited as the  Bank of
Japan  pumps more money into financial markets, according to
analysts at BNP Paribas SA.  The BOJ added 5 trillion yen to the financial system in a
one-day operation today. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has
pledged to keep pouring cash into the economy to stabilize
markets. The bank injected 15 trillion yen ($185 billion)
yesterday and doubled its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion
yen, an increase that’s about one-tenth the size of the Fed’s
program of buying Treasuries.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he doesn’t
think Japan will have to sell Treasuries to raise cash as the
government in  Tokyo  battles to cool earthquake-damaged nuclear
reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  