-- 
Zillow.com Said to Hire Citigroup to Manage Its Initial Public Offering

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-03-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-15/zillow-com-is-said-to-hire-citigroup-to-manage-its-initial-public-offering.html
Zillow Inc. , an online real-estate
information service, has hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to manage its
initial public offering, three people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said.  The exact timing of an IPO filing from the Seattle-based
company wasn’t provided by the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans are private. Companies planning to
sell shares to the public hire banks before filing a prospectus
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Zillow.com lets home buyers, sellers, renters and managers
list and search for properties and related information. The
company also runs a mortgage marketplace. Investors include  Legg
Mason Capital Management , Benchmark Capital, Technology
Crossover Ventures and PAR Capital Management Inc. A financing
round of $30 million in 2007 valued Zillow at $400 million.  The company gets its revenue from selling advertising space
on its website and through mobile-phone applications, Chief
Executive Officer Spencer Rascoff said in September. Zillow
struck an agreement with Yahoo! Inc. last year to add its home
listings to Yahoo’s real-estate pages.  Katie Curnutte, a spokeswoman for Zillow, declined to
comment, as did Mark Costiglio, a spokesman at New York-based
Citigroup.  An IPO filing would add Zillow to the growing list of U.S.
Internet companies that intend to go public, including online-
radio provider Pandora Media Inc. and social-networking site
LinkedIn Corp. On March 11, HomeAway Inc., a vacation-rental
website, filed to sell as much as $230 million worth of shares
in an IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  