-- 
‘Oprah’ Draws Largest Audience in Over 17 Years, CBS Says

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-26T16:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/-oprah-finale-show-draws-largest-audience-in-more-than-17-years-cbs-says.html
Oprah Winfrey , departing broadcast
television for cable TV, attracted her largest audience in 17
years with the finale of her daily talk show.  The last “The Oprah Winfrey Show” was seen in 13.3
percent of the 115.9 million U.S. TV households tracked by
Nielsen Co., New York-based CBS said today in an e-mailed
statement. Because the show aired at different times in
different cities, complete data won’t be available until June 7.  The rating marked the highest household total since the
Feb. 21, 1994, episode titled “People Shed Their Disguises,”
according to CBS, the program’s distributor. A link to that show
is available at Winfrey’s  website .  “I’m truly amazed that I, who started out in rural
 Mississippi  in 1954 when the vision for a black girl was limited
to be either a maid or a teacher in a segregated school, could
end up here,” Winfrey, 57, said during the final broadcast.
“You all have been a safe harbor for me.”  Winfrey is leaving the weekday show to focus on the 24-hour
cable channel she and her Chicago-based production company,
Harpo, started with  Silver Spring , Maryland-based  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  Viewership of the Oprah Winfrey Network has
slid 25 percent since beginning in January.  With the broadcast show over, Winfrey will begin appearing
more frequently on OWN. In September, the cable channel will
begin carrying vintage episodes of her talk show. OWN plans to
air 60 episodes with new introductions taped by Winfrey. In
January, she will start a new show, “Oprah’s Next Chapter.”
The host committed to appear on OWN about 70 hours a year,
double what she initially planned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  