-- 
‘Rogue’ Websites Targeted in Bill Passed by Senate Panel

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-26T18:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/-rogue-websites-targeted-in-bill-passed-by-u-s-senate-panel.html
Legislation aimed at combating
“rogue” websites that sell pirated content won unanimous
 approval  from a U.S. Senate panel before being blocked by a
senator opposed to certain provisions in the bill.  The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the measure, called
the Protect IP Act, which targets websites “dedicated to
infringing activities,” including the sale of illegally copied
music, movies, pharmaceuticals and consumer products.  The measure, S.968, would allow the U.S. attorney general
to seek court orders requiring U.S.-based  search engines  to stop
providing links to infringing sites. Internet-service providers
also would be called on to block access to infringing sites, and
payment processors and online advertising networks would be
required to stop doing business with such sites.  “Copyright infringement and the sale of counterfeit goods
can cost American businesses billions of dollars, and result in
hundreds of thousands of lost jobs,” said Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Leahy introduced the bill May 12 with Republican
Senators  Orrin Hatch  of Utah and Chuck Grassley of Iowa.  Within hours of the committee’s vote, Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat, said he would use a procedural move to block
the measure from reaching a vote in the full Senate, saying it
“takes an overreaching approach to policing the Internet.” In
December, Wyden placed a hold on a similar anti-piracy bill.  ‘Real Concerns’  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which operates the world’s largest search
engine, said it has “real concerns” with the legislation.  “We support the goal of the bill but we have real concerns
about some provisions,” including the impact that blocking
access to websites would have on free expression, Google
spokeswoman Mistique Cano said in a statement.  “We look forward to working with Congress to make sure the
Protect IP Act can target sites dedicated to piracy while
protecting free expression and legitimate sites,” Cano said.  Google, Yahoo Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  American
Express Co. (AXP)  sent a letter to Leahy and Grassley on May 25
objecting to a provision that would allow trademark or copyright
holders to take legal action against a domain name associated
with an infringing website. The companies said it would lead to
a “new litigation industry.”  The bill has the support of other business and trade
groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the  Business
Software Alliance  and the  Motion Picture Association  of America.  “Today’s vote serves as a wakeup call to those who
illicitly profit at the expense of American businesses and
consumers,” David Hirschmann, president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s intellectual property center, said in a statement.
“The U.S. will not tolerate your careless, reckless, malicious
behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  