-- 
Abbott’s Cholesterol Combo Fails to Protect Heart in Study

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-26T20:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/abbott-cholesterol-therapy-fails-to-protect-heart-in-study-shares-decline.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Niaspan failed
to prevent heart attacks and may have boosted stroke risk in a
U.S.-funded study that calls into question the benefit of
raising good cholesterol to combat the leading cause of death.  The National Institutes of Health said today it stopped a
3,414-person study early after the addition of Niaspan to
simvastatin, a standard therapy for high cholesterol, was linked
to strokes in 1.6 percent of patients, compared with 0.7 percent
in the control group. The combination failed to reduce heart
attacks, heart-related hospitalizations and the need for
procedures to reduce chest pain and restore strong blood flow.  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , paid $3.4 billion
for Kos Pharmaceuticals Co. in 2006 to gain Niaspan, a version
of the vitamin niacin that has led a new wave of heart drugs to
raise good cholesterol. The findings may also jeopardize
medicines in that group being developed by Merck & Co.,  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   “This sends us a bit back to the drawing board in terms of
trying to figure out how to approach this hypothesis,” Susan
Shurin, acting director of the NIH’s National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, said today on a conference call with reporters.  Shares Fall  Niaspan accounted for 2.6 percent of the company’s revenue
last year with $927 million in sales. Abbott dropped 1.6
percent, or 83 cents, to $52.14 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m., the biggest percentage decline
since March 16.  Abbott sells a combination of Niaspan and simvastatin
called Simcor. The company’s Trilipix and Tricor pills are also
designed to raise good cholesterol. Outside advisers to the FDA
recommended last week that Abbott conduct a new trial of
Trilipix after a government study failed to show heart benefits.  “Today’s news is a major surprise to us and another
setback for Abbott’s cholesterol franchise,”  Larry Biegelsen ,
an analyst at Wells Fargo in New York, said today in a note to
clients. He estimated that sales of Niaspan may fall by 20
percent to 30 percent as a result of the trial.  David Lewis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  San Francisco ,
said in a note that there was “overreaction” to the data and
that it “should not noticeably impact use of Niaspan.”  The study, dubbed Aim-High, followed patients with a
history of  heart disease  and low levels of good cholesterol for
32 months, 18 months fewer than planned. Investigators had
hypothesized that giving Niaspan to patients whose levels of bad
cholesterol were under control would have additional clinical
benefit. The trial was funded by the NIH with additional support
from Abbott.  Types of Cholesterol  Good cholesterol, or HDL, flushes fat deposits from
arteries to the liver to be purged from the body. Statins such
as simvastatin and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s top-selling Lipitor work by
decreasing levels of LDL, or bad cholesterol, which clogs
arteries and leads to heart attacks.  Cardiovascular disease is the  leading cause  of death in the
U.S., killing about 830,000 people a year, according to the
American Heart Association.  The Aim-High population didn’t include everyone who might
benefit from Niaspan and “there are a number of unanswered
questions that remain,” Abbott said today in a statement.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is reviewing the
results and isn’t changing its recommendations for Niaspan use
at this time. Almost a third of the strokes occurred in patients
who had stopped taking Niaspan so “it is unclear what role, if
any,” the drug played in the risk imbalance, the FDA  said .  Pfizer Failure  Questions about the benefits of raising good cholesterol
have swirled since New York-based Pfizer’s torcetrapib raised
heart risks in a December 2006 trial.  The approach was revived in November at the  American Heart
Association  meeting in  Chicago , when a study showed Merck’s
anacetrapib raised levels of good cholesterol and slashed bad
cholesterol. Patients on the drug had fewer heart complications,
though the numbers were small, the Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based company found.  Roche, based in Basel,  Switzerland , and Lilly of
Indianapolis have similar drugs in development, which analysts
estimate may generate as much as $15 billion in peak annual
sales if the benefits are confirmed in large trials.  The Aim-High findings show regulators need to demand long-
term studies to prove medicines improve health, rather than
clearing the treatments based on laboratory tests of markers
like cholesterol, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the
 Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio .  Niacin does all the things that doctors would expect to
benefit patients, such as lowering bad cholesterol and
triglycerides while raising good cholesterol, said Nissen, who
prescribes it for his patients.  “This was the group everybody thought had the best chance
at a benefit,” he said today in a telephone interview. “At
this point, we have to take a deep breath and realize we’re not
as smart as we thought we were.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 