-- 
Abbott, Samsung, LOCOG, Dolby, Napster: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-26T10:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/abbott-samsung-locog-dolby-napster-intellectual-property.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  won a U.S.
appeals court ruling that will make it harder for companies to
block inventors from enforcing their  intellectual property 
rights because of misconduct in obtaining the patent.  The ruling tightens standards for “finding both intent and
materiality” in determining inequitable conduct before the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, Chief Judge Randall Rader wrote in
an opinion posted yesterday on the website of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington . Except in
egregious cases, patents would be unenforceable only if
information withheld would have affected whether the invention
was approved.  Generic-drug companies had been challenging patents on
medicines in a way that “plagued not only the courts but also
the entire patent system,” the Federal Circuit said. The case
was an appeal involving an Abbott dispute with Becton, Dickinson
& Co. and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s health-care unit over a glucose-monitor
design. An Abbott patent was deemed unenforceable as punishment
for the company giving contradictory information to the U.S. and
European patent offices on the same invention.  Courts under the old standard had to decide how important
withheld information was, and how much evidence there was of
intent to deceive, with each factor weighed against the other.
If the information was key to obtaining the patent, then intent
mattered less. If there was clear evidence of deception, the
material nature of the information is less important.  The old standard had “numerous and unforeseen and
unintended consequences” that discouraged settlements and put
more attention on the morality of the inventor than the merits
of the patent, Rader wrote for the six-member majority of the 11
judges who ruled on the case.  Abbott, based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , had argued that
companies were being penalized for mistakes that wouldn’t have
affected whether the patent was issued. It said inequitable
conduct should be found only if there had been fraud that was
committed to obtain the patent.  It had partial support of the patent office, which claimed
to be overwhelmed with inventors presenting too much data for
fear they would later be found to have withheld information.
Still, the agency said patentees could engage in gamesmanship if
it was too difficult to prove inequitable conduct.  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, which
represents drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Merck & Co.,
urged the court to clarify the standard, saying use of the
inequitable conduct argument was “spiraling out of control.”  The decision will have little effect on the underlying
case, which Abbott lost. Becton Dickinson -- which has since
sold its glucose monitoring business -- and Bayer HealthCare won
rulings that the aspects of the patent that were in the case
were invalid and that issue wasn’t reconsidered.  The case is Therasense Inc. v. Becton, Dickinson & Co.,
2008-1511, -1512, -1513, -1514, -1595, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Therasense Inc. v. Becton Dickinson & Co., 04-2123, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  Vermillion to Get U.S. Patent for Alzheimer’s Diagnostic Test  Vermillion Inc. (VRML) , a biotech company that focuses on
diagnostic tests, received notice that a patent will be issued
shortly covering a test for Alzheimer’s disease.  The test looks at two biomarkers that are indicators of the
disease, according to a company statement. Vermillion received
an earlier patent for Alzheimer’s biomarkers, the company said
in a June 2010  statement .  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Vermillion also has patents for a biomarker test for
ovarian cancer, a test for peripheral artery disease, and tests
for kidney disease.  Previously the company was based in Fremont, California.
Now its offices are in Austin,  Texas .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Samsung Told to Hand Over Phone Sample to Apple’s Lawyers  Samsung Electronics Co., which was sued for trademark
infringement over its newest mobile phones, was ordered to
produce its newest product samples for a range of products.  In a May 18 order, U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh ordered
the Korean company to give samples of five mobile phones, their
packaging and the package inserts to outside counsel for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , the plaintiff in the case.  She said that while she understood that “the production of
pre-release samples to a competitor can be prejudicial,” she
thought the “stringent” protective order would not be
prejudicial to Samsung’s interests. She said the phones,
packages and inserts were to be designated for “outside
counsel’s eyes only” and not provided to Apple or its in-house
counsel.  Apple sued Samsung in federal court in Oakland, California,
April 15, claiming the Samsung products “slavishly copied”
Cupertino-based Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod touch products.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 5:11-cv-
01846-LHK, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  LOCOG’s Trademark Covers Range of Non-Sports Goods, Services  The  London Organizing Committee of the Olympic and
Paralympic Games  is reaching far to protect IP rights associated
with the 2012 sporting event, if the committee’s U.K. trademark
is any indication.  According to  a filing  with the U.K.’s Intellectual Property
Office, the committee has registered its “LOCOG” trademark for
a wide range of goods that include some categories not
ordinarily associated with athletics.  Among the classes of goods and services for which the mark
is registered are chemical substances for preserving foodstuffs,
greases, dental wax, artificial limbs, asbestos, whips, articles
made from whalebone, yarns and threads, steel wool, tobacco,
vinegar, the leasing of access time to a computer database, and
pins and needles.  The committee filed its application in July 2005, and the
mark was registered in May 2006. If the committee is as zealous
about protecting its mark as was the organizing committee for
the Vancouver Olympics and the sponsors of the games’ television
broadcasts, trademark specialists will find plenty of work.  Political satirist Stephen Colbert was so concerned about
the possibility of infringement litigation that he consulted
with his brother, a partner in a New York IP specialty firm,
about what he could and couldn’t say in about the Vancouver
Olympics.  He learned that because Colbert Report, which appears on
Viacom Inc.’s Comedy Channel, wasn’t an official sponsor of the
competition, he couldn’t say “Olympics,” “winter games,” or
show the interlocked rings that are a symbol of the athletic
competition.  Video Store Owner, Employee Accused of Importing Fake CDs  The manager and an employee of a Monterey Park, California,
video store were arrested for selling what U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement said are DVDs from  China  with fake Dolby
Digital trademarks,  according to  the San Gabriel Valley Tribune.  ICE said the retail value of the seized DVDs exceeded $1
million, the newspaper reported  Claude Arnold, special agent in charge for ICE Homeland
Security Investigations in  Los Angeles , said the retailer was
supplying clients in California and  Nevada , according to the
newspaper.  The store owner and employee each face prison sentences of
up to 10 years if they are convicted of criminal trafficking in
counterfeit goods, the San Gabriel Valley Tribune reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Napster Co-Founder Sees Web Boom for Undervalued Music Labels  Sean Parker , co-founder of music-download pioneer Napster
Inc., said “dramatically undervalued” record companies are
well-positioned to make money as online jukebox services such as
 Spotify  proliferate.  Spotify, which offers paid-for subscriptions and free
services supported by advertising, shows how the music industry
can generate income from libraries of songs, said Parker, whose
Napster was sued for copyright infringement by record companies
and shut down in 2001. Earlier this year he considered investing
$100 million in Warner Music Group, Parker said, speaking at the
eG8 technology forum in Paris.  Record labels such as Warner, Universal Music Group and EMI
Group Ltd. are increasingly turning to online music operators
such as Spotify and Pandora to offset falling revenue from fewer
sales of CDs and rampant online piracy. Apple Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and Amazon.com Inc. are also pursuing models that allow
consumers to stream music online instead of downloading it to a
hard drive.  “There’s a pretty dramatic change happening in the way
music is monetized, and the back catalogs of the record
companies are going to become extremely valuable,” Parker said.
“The record business is dramatically, dramatically
undervalued.”  Consolidation among the biggest record companies may be
under way after Warner was sold to its former director,  Len Blavatnik , for about $1.3 billion this month. Blavatnik’s Access
Industries Holdings will pay $8.25 a share. The sale of Warner
also includes bond debt, valuing the entire transaction at about
$3.3 billion.  EMI, the record label of the Beatles and Pink Floyd, may
come up for sale in the coming weeks after creditor  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  seized the company in January from Guy Hands’s Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd.  Spotify, which is presently only available in Europe, has
been in talks with the major record labels to offer service in
the U.S.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 