-- 
Tablemac Rises to Four-Year High on Outlook, Recommendation

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-26T18:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/tablemac-rises-to-four-year-high-on-outlook-recommendation-2-.html
Tableros y Maderas de Caldas SA (TABLEMA) , a
Colombian wood products maker, jumped to a four-year high after
brokerage Celfin Capital gave it a “buy” recommendation as
construction picks up in the South American country.  “We are now seeing a boom once again in construction
licenses and the company sits in a sweet spot for the next
upswing in building,” Celfin said in an e-mailed report May 24
by analysts Jairo Agudelo and Nicolas Velasquez. Celfin, which
initiated coverage, provided a year-end target price of 16.6
pesos.  The company, also known as Tablemac, rose 2.5 percent to
12.5 pesos at 2 p.m. New York time, its highest since May 2007.  Medellin-based Tablemac plans to double sales within three
years on the fourth-quarter opening of a medium-density
fiberboard plant, the country’s first such facility, the
company’s president, Juan Fernando Vasquez, said in a phone
interview May 2 from Medellin. Investors are betting the plant
could open sooner than expected, said Juan Fernando Restrepo,
head of research at Interbolsa SA,  Colombia ’s biggest brokerage.  Tablemac said first-quarter sales rose 31 percent from a
year ago to a record 28 billion pesos ($15.3 million). The
company has paid off all but 0.4 percent of liabilities under
the Colombian bankruptcy law after seeking protection in 2001.  “The company’s numbers are interesting and the
construction sector is growing favorably,” said Cesar Cuervo,
analyst at Correval SA.  Colombia granted licenses for 2.2 million square meters of
construction in March, a 79 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to government data.  “Start of construction can lag permits by more than 12
months, so we are expecting a strong impact on Tablemac’s
results in 2012,” Celfin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  