-- 
Serbia Sees EU Boost After Mladic Arrested for War Crimes

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-05-27T11:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/mladic-s-capture-to-spur-serbia-s-eu-entry-aspirations-boost-investment.html
Serbia  is counting on the capture of
Europe’s most-wanted fugitive, Ratko Mladic, the country’s top
general during the siege of Sarajevo and the Srebrenica
massacre, to boost its drive to join the European Union.  Mladic, 69, who has been on the run since his 1995
indictment, was found in a Serbian village 51 miles north of
Belgrade using a false name. Mladic, looking frail, attended a
hearing at 1 p.m. in Belgrade and faces extradition to the
United Nations  War Crimes  Tribunal for the former  Yugoslavia  in
 The Hague .  Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s government was
criticized by the EU for dragging its feet on capturing Mladic
and refusing to recognize the independence of the breakaway
province of Kosovo. European leaders yesterday said the arrest
shows the country’s determination to improve ties with the rest
of  Europe  as it seeks to win candidate status this year.  “It’s a very brave decision by the Serbian president,”
French President Nicholas Sarkozy said yesterday in Deauville,
 France , during a Group of Eight summit. “It’s one step forward
for Serbia’s integration in the EU.”  Stocks rallied for a second day, with the benchmark BELEX15
stock index rising 2.67 percent to 811.52 points, the highest
since October 2009. The dinar was little changed at 96.94 to the
euro at 1:29 p.m. in Belgrade, according to Bloomberg data.  Economic Laggard  Serbia wants to use its improved relations with the EU to
close the gap with the 10 former communist countries in eastern
Europe that have joined the trading bloc since 2004. Gross
domestic product per capita was $5,260 last year, according to
the  International Monetary Fund , compared with $13,527 in
Croatia, a former Yugoslavia partner that is in talks to enter
the EU, and $38,600 in  Germany .  “This is great news for investors, for the market and the
dinar,” said Aleksandar Jaredic, the head of treasury at
Volksbank’s unit in Serbia. “The moment the news broke, euro-
selling began.”  Still, his arrest was not universally lauded. More than 500
Mladic supporters gathered late yesterday in Belgrade and in
Novi Sad, Serbia’s second-biggest city, protesting the arrest.
One supporter was injured in Novi Sad in a brief skirmish with
the police before the crowds dispersed, state-run television
reported.  A sign at the entrance to the village where he was arrested
said “Ratko the Hero.” Mladic did not resist arrest and told
the police officer, “I am the one you are looking for,” Tanjug
newswire reported today.  ‘Regional Relations’  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s high representative for foreign
affairs and security policy, was in Belgrade yesterday to
discuss a range of issues still dogging Serbia, including its
“regional relations” in the Balkans.  Serbia refuses to recognize the independence of  Kosovo ,
where it sent troops in the late 1990s under then-President
 Slobodan Milosevic . The NATO attacked Serb troops in 1999, under
then-U.S. President  Bill Clinton  to force them out of the region
and to protect local civilians.  ‘Move Forward Swiftly’  Kosovo, a nation of 2 million mostly ethnic Albanians,
declared independence in February 2008 and has been recognized
by 22 of the EU’s 27 members and the U.S.  Serbia’s chief negotiator with Kosovo, Borislav
Stefanovic, said the two sides have resumed talks on
telecommunications, land registers, freedom of movement and
other issues.  “I know that people will be thinking about Serbia and its
EU future,” Ashton said in Belgrade. “We will approach it with
new energy because of today. I look at the messages from
Brussels and other European capitals to Serbia and hope that we
will be able to move forward swiftly.”  Serbia plans to follow its former Yugoslav partners
 Slovenia , an EU member since 2004, and  Croatia , which seeks to
conclude entry negotiations this year.  “The arrest of Ratko Mladic is extraordinarily important
for Serbia’s international position and for relations between
Serbia and Bosnia Herzegovina, and for all the countries in the
region,” said Croatian President Ivo Josipovic.  EU Candidacy  “Our aim is not only to get candidate status, but also a
date for the start of membership talks,” Tadic told reporters
in Belgrade late yesterday. “It’s important not only for
Serbia, but for the whole Balkan region.”  Serbia may become a candidate country next year,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a statement from  London  yesterday. The arrest is
a “major positive step for Serbia’s further EU integration and
underpins the sovereign ratings on Serbia,” it said.  S&P rates Serbia’s government debt at BB, its second
highest non-investment grade, the same as Turkey, Macedonia and
Montenegro. The Mladic arrest has no immediate effect on the
rating, the credit evaluator said.  Investors will have more confidence after steps to
strengthen the country’s economic recovery helped boost the pace
of foreign investment, said Vladimir Gligorov, an economist at
the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies, who
sees a start of negotiations in the first half of next year.  The country received about 800 million euros ($1.13
billion) in foreign direct investment in the first three months
of the year, compared with 850 million euros for all of 2010.  “Improved EU prospects will certainly lower the risks to
investments into Serbia,” Gligorov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 Msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  