-- 
Mladic’s Arrest Gives Serbia EU-Entry Momentum, Fule Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-26T15:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/mladic-s-arrest-gives-serbia-eu-entry-momentum-fule-says-1-.html
The European Union said  Serbia  moved
closer to EU membership by arresting war-crimes suspect Ratko Mladic, predicting “new momentum” in the country’s accession
bid.  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive arm
in Brussels, said the arrest shows Serbia’s commitment to
cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the
former  Yugoslavia , or ICTY. The commission is due to make a
recommendation in October on whether to award Serbia the status
of a candidate to join the EU, a step that would lead to entry
negotiations.  “A great obstacle on the Serbian road to the European
Union has been removed,” EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule told reporters today in Brussels. “Serbia has fulfilled an
important international obligation. Justice is being served.”  Mladic, 69, was caught hiding in Serbia, President  Boris Tadic  told a news conference in Belgrade. Tadic didn’t give
further details on the arrest, saying Mladic will be transferred
to  The Hague  for trial.  The EU pressed Serbia for more than 15 years to find and
arrest Mladic, who led Bosnian Serb troops during the violent
breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. Mladic was the Bosnian Serb
chief of staff during the siege of Sarajevo and the Srebrenica
massacre.  EU Membership  Progress in arresting and handing over Mladic and former
Croatian Serb leader  Goran Hadzic  to the United Nations War
Crimes Tribunal in The Hague is one of the top conditions Serbia
must meet to start advancing toward EU membership.  In Serbia, “work must intensify on reforms” to ensure a
favourable commission recommendation in October on EU candidate
status, said Fule. Natasha Butler, a commission spokeswoman,
declined to speculate about the opinion in the wake of Mladic’s
arrest.  “It is not until October that we will decide on our
recommendation regarding the next steps of Serbia’s accession
path,” Butler said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  