-- 
Lagarde Starts Campaign for Emerging-Market Support for IMF Job With China

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-26T11:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/lagarde-starts-campaign-for-emerging-market-support-for-imf-job-with-china.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  is seeking meetings in China and other emerging powers
as part of an effort to broaden support for her candidacy to
head the  International Monetary Fund  beyond Europe.  Dates for visits to China trip or other countries have yet
to be set, the French Finance Ministry said today.  Lagarde, who announced her bid yesterday, has won
endorsements from across Europe, gaining support from the U.K.,
Germany and Sweden, among others. U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner praisedLagarde’s qualifications to head the
Washington-based fund while refraining from endorsing her
candidacy.  Lagarde “is an exceptionally capable person, an excellent
mix of financial economic knowledge, talent and the kind of
political skill you need to navigate this context,” Geithner
said at an event in Washington. A second candidate, Mexican
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, is also “very
talented,” he said.  Lagarde would fellow French national  Dominique Strauss-Kahn 
and become the first woman to lead the IMF since its founding in
1945. Nobel-prize winning economist Robert Mundell said Lagarde
could help repair the damage done to the fund by the arrest of
Strauss-Kahn on charges of sexual assault and attempted rape.  “She’s made a tremendous impression,” Mundell, a member
of the faculty at Columbia University and an adviser to the IMF,
said on the Bloomberg Radio program, the “Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “What the IMF needs right now, in backing up
from the fiasco recently, is someone who can lead strongly.”  Carstens, a former IMF deputy managing director, remains
the Mexican government’s choice for the IMF even after Lagarde
announced her candidacy, Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said.  Mexico’s Case  “They are both strong, credible candidates,” Cordero said
in Paris after a meeting with Lagarde. “We agreed that what the
IMF needs is an open, transparent, merit-based process.”  IMF executive directors representing  Brazil , Russia,  India ,
 China  and  South Africa  have protested the presumption that the
fund’s next chief once again be a European while failing to
unite around an alternative to Lagarde.  By tradition, the head of the IMF has always been a
European, while the World Bank president has been a U.S.
citizen. Countries from the European Union hold about 31 percent
of the votes at the agency and the U.S. almost 17 percent.  “Being a European should not be a plus and it shouldn’t be
a minus,” Lagarde said at a press conference in Paris
yesterday. “I am not arguing for my candidacy because I am a
European.”  President Barack Obama and fellow Group of Eight leaders
plan to convene today in the French resort of Deauville, where
the succession at the IMF is likely to be discussed.  Poland,  Greece   Poland and Greece joined the list of those backing Lagarde.  “Minister Lagarde’s candidacy is very good, it’s difficult
to imagine a better one, and it has the full support of the
Polish government,” PAP newswire cited Jacek Rostowski, the
Polish finance minister, as saying yesterday.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  called
Lagarde “an excellent candidate.” Papaconstantinou’s
government is struggling to avert a default on its debt even
after receiving a bailout financed in part by the IMF.  Carstens, meanwhile, won the support Uruguay’s central bank
president, Mario Bergara.  Lagarde, 55, has a 90 percent chance of becoming the IMF’s
11th managing director and its fifth from France, according to
Dublin-based odds-maker  Intrade.com . The 187-member IMF aims to
pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, little more
than a month after he resigned following his arrest in  New York .  A lawyer who practiced in the U.S. before entering the
French government in 2005, Lagarde would bring frontline
experience from the sovereign-debt crisis as Greece’s debt woes
threaten to spark another round of contagion across the euro
region.  Euro Slides  The euro yesterday slumped to its lowest level against the
Swiss franc since the currency’s introduction in 1999 on concern
that  Europe  has yet to contain the debt crisis. The single
currency recovered against the dollar and the yen today,
snapping four days of losses, on speculation China will increase
its purchases of European bonds. It last traded at $1.417.  The U.S. will probably reserve its backing for Lagarde
until it’s clear she has the broad support of IMF membership,
said  Edwin Truman , a former official at both the U.S. Treasury
Department and the  Federal Reserve  who is now a senior fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington.  While the fund’s executive board has pledged to act
transparently and make an appointment based on merit, European
leaders have moved swiftly to support Lagarde, who has collected
endorsements from U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi and  Jose Barroso , the European
Commission president.  China is also “favorable” on the prospect of Lagarde
leading the IMF, French government spokesman  Francois Baroin 
said this week. Chinese officials haven’t publicly commented on
specific candidates.  The IMF provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages. Its next chief will be at the center of
debates on determining an escape route for the euro out of the
debt crisis, which still threatens to push Greece, Ireland and
Portugal into default and raised concern about the currency’s
longevity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in London at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 