-- 
Atlantic Airbus Crash Pits Brain Against Computer Encroaching on Cockpit

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-26T10:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/air-france-crash-pits-pilot-brains-against-computers-taking-over-cockpits.html
The crash of Air  France  flight 447 in
2009 that killed 228 people casts the spotlight on pilots’
ability to execute split-second decisions and avert disaster in
an era when computers have taken control of the cockpit.  Evidence gleaned from the Airbus A330’s last transmits
shows the autopilot disengaged after speed readings became
unreliable, forcing the two co-pilots in the cockpit to take
over, just as the jet traversed a storm. Data from the final
minutes indicate the aircraft went into a stall before crashing
into the sea, four hours into its flight to Paris. The French
investigators will publish a detailed report tomorrow.  The findings will likely fan the debate whether modern-day
pilots, accustomed to simulators and automated flight controls,
still possess the airmanship skills and training routine needed
to overcome sudden adverse scenarios. The interaction between
man and machine in the last two decades has moved toward
computers flying the jet, with pilots more at the receiving end
of electronic commands rather than the other way around.  “Automation is inevitable, yet the whole interface between
pilot and automated systems must be rethought,” said  Hans Weber , president of Tecop International Inc., an aviation
consulting firm based in  San Diego , who has given safety advice
to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and companies
including Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Joystick Steering  The Airbus A330 jet that crashed on June 1, 2009, was a
wide-body aircraft using so-called fly-by-wire technology that
replaces traditional manual flight controls with an electronic
interface. Airbus pioneered the system in civil aviation more 
than two decades ago on its A320 single-aisle jet, which remains
the Toulouse, France-based company’s best-selling model to date.  Today, all Airbus planes are fly-by-wire, as is  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s 777, introduced in 1995, and its 787 Dreamliner, set for
service this year. The system prescribes flight parameters that
Airbus pilots cannot override completely to avoid maneuvers that
would potentially jeopardize the aircraft. On Airbus, a one-hand
joystick similar to those used for computer games has replaced
the traditional steering yoke of older aircraft.  The BEA, France’s flight-accident investigator, will reveal
its first findings from the analysis of the two data recorders
tomorrow. The boxes were retrieved from the bottom of the
Atlantic this month, after almost two years of intermittent
search missions. The data and voices proved to be intact,
allowing the BEA to reconstruct Flight AF447’s last minutes.  Tropical Storms  The aircraft took off on May 31,2009, in  Rio de Janeiro 
under the stewardship of Chief Pilot Marc Dubois and two
deputies. About four hours into the flight, the A330, now
cruising on autopilot at an altitude of about 35,000 feet
(10,700 meters), passed over an area known as the inter-tropical
convergence zone close to the equator where storms produce icy,
windy conditions that create frequent turbulence.  With Dubois taking a routine break outside the cockpit, the
two less-seasoned pilots were in charge when the plane’s air
speed sensors failed, most likely after icing up. The absence of
reliable speed data prompted the autopilot to disengage, data
transmitted from the flight has shown.  Amid darkness and likely storm turbulence, the two pilots
were forced to take control and keep the correct level of thrust
on the two engines to maintain the right air speed and pitch
attitude, the degree to which the jet’s nose is tilted upward,
according to two people who have been briefed on the data
recorders. They spoke on condition of anonymity ahead of the
BEA’s report tomorrow.  Low-Speed Stall  Readings from the flight data retrieved from the sea bed
show the jet lost velocity, which led to a low-speed stall
because the plane slowed to the point where its wings suddenly
lose lift. While getting out of a stall is part of any standard
pilot training, coping with the challenge amid adverse weather
conditions, darkness, and a multitude of automated alarm signals
may have overwhelmed the flight crew.  “It’s easy enough in a simulator,” said Henri Marnet-
Cornus, a former Air Force fighter pilot and flight captain at
Air France on Airbus A330 and A340 jets. “But in reality, when
you’re in the middle of a storm, shaken by turbulence with
airspeed warnings and a whole series of other alarms going off,
it’s not a safe condition.”  Under Air France’s continuous training and re-assessment
program, every pilot has four simulator sessions each year of
about 30 hours in total, focused on handling abnormal aircraft
situations including stalls. Failure of any assessment sessions
leads to re-training and a new assessment. Each pilot is also
accompanied by an instructor on one flight a year.  Much Safer  Captain Dubois had logged a total of 11,000 flying hours in
his airline career, compared with 6,500 hours by the first co-
pilot and 2,900 by the second. After the AF447 accident, Air
France pilots were granted one extra simulator sessions to help
deal with speed-sensor failures.  In the last half century, commercial aviation has become
“100 times safer,” said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at
London-based aviation data and advisory firm Ascend Worldwide
Ltd. Still, automation has increased the number of systems that
pilots need to monitor, he said.  “Sometimes, the man-machine interface can introduce
problems itself,” Hayes said. “It may cure 70 percent of
problems, but then add a few more.”  Pilots’ rapid reaction has proven a potential life saver on
recent incidents. When an engine exploded on a  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  Airbus A380 superjumbo in November, the cockpit boasted
five experienced pilots because the flight was part of a
training routine. That line-up allowed the crew to work through
the host of warning signals and land the aircraft safely after
shrapnel from the explosion had ripped away parts of the wing.  Hudson Miracle  US Airways Captain Chesley B. “Sully” Sullenberger III,
who flew an  Airbus A320  in his “miracle” Hudson River landing
two years ago, told the  New York Times  in 2009 that automation
is a “mixed blessing.” While computerized planes are capable
of protecting a pilot, they can also produce other types of
errors that would likely not have occurred in an older aircraft,
he said, according to the article.  “There needs to be more hands-on, more physical awareness,
and more initiatives,” said David H. Jenkins, a 72 year-old
retired Boeing 747 jumbo captain who flew for Pan American World
Airways and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  “Computers make great monitors
for people, but people make poor monitors for computers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  