-- 
Egypt’s Opening of Gaza Crossing Prompts Hamas Welcome, Israeli Concern

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-05-26T11:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/hamas-hails-opening-of-rafah-crossing-into-egypt-israel-expresses-concern.html
Egypt ’s decision to open its border
crossing with the Gaza Strip permanently from May 28 has been
welcomed by Hamas, which controls the Palestinian enclave, while
raising concern in Israel.  In addition to ending restrictions at the Rafah crossing,
Egypt will waive visa requirements for most Palestinians
entering from other departure points, except neighboring Libya,
the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported yesterday.  “These measures are the right decision in the right
direction to facilitate the daily life of the population and
ease its suffering,” Hamas, the Islamic movement that controls
Gaza, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Egyptian move is a “problematic” first step, Israeli
Deputy Defense Minister Matan Vilnai told  Israel  Radio today,
though he said it doesn’t constitute a violation of the Camp
David accords between the countries. Israel’s Foreign Ministry
will withhold comment until it sees what the arrangements at the
border with Gaza will be, spokesman Yigal Palmor said.  Israel maintains an embargo on the Gaza coast in what it
says is an effort to prevent weapons smuggling. It has
restricted the flow of goods and people in and out of Gaza
through its own border crossings since Hamas gained full control
of the area in 2007.  Egypt has also restricted the passage of Gazans through its
own crossing since Hamas clashed with Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah movement, breaking apart their
unity government.  Reconnecting Gaza  Opening Rafah will “again reconnect the  Gaza Strip  with
the Arab world and the international community,” said Mohsen
Abu Ramadan, a Gaza-based economist. “It would be helpful to
businessmen to make deals with Arab and foreign businessmen and
investors, and consequently this would lead to ending the
Israeli siege imposed on Gaza.”  Egypt’s move to open the border is part of its efforts to
back the Palestinian groups’ reconciliation, its state-run news
agency said. The new Egyptian leadership, which has taken a more
favorable approach to Hamas since President  Hosni Mubarak  was
forced out in February following anti-government protests,
brokered an agreement between Fatah and Hamas in Cairo this
month that paves the way for a new unity government.  Hamas is defined as a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  Restoring 2007 Rules  In easing the border restrictions, Egypt is restoring the
rules that existed before the 2007 Gaza clashes, with only
Palestinian men 18 to 40 requiring visas, MENA said. As a result
of the turmoil in  Libya , all Palestinians entering from there
will also need visas, the agency said.  Tunnels dug underneath the Egypt-Gaza border have become a
central means of smuggling goods and people back and forth to
evade restrictions at the Rafah crossing. Israel says the
tunnels are also used to bring in weapons and the rockets fired
into the country’s south.  Humanitarian and pro-Palestinian groups have repeatedly
tried to break the sea blockade by sailing ships toward Gaza,
and nine Turkish activists from one such flotilla were killed in
a clash with the Israel navy a year ago. Another Gaza-bound aid
flotilla is scheduled to leave  Turkey  next month.  Israel eased restrictions on essential goods and fuel
brought into Gaza via its Kerem Shalom crossing over the past
year, in part as a reaction to international pressure spurred by
the flotilla clash.  Gisha, an Israeli group that advocates Palestinian rights
of movement, said today that Israel should respond to the
opening of the Rafah crossing by also permitting the “passage
of people and goods between Gaza and the  West Bank .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 