-- 
Amtrak May Come Under More U.S. Control in House Bill

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-05-26T20:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/amtrak-may-come-under-more-direct-u-s-control-in-house-bill-2-.html
(Corrects first paragraph to clarify that Mica’s proposal
involves transfer of Northeast Corridor, not all of  Amtrak .)  Representative John Mica, chairman of
the House transportation committee, said he plans to propose
legislation to place ownership of Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor
under control of the Transportation Department.  The transfer would allow the government to seek bids from
investors to develop and operate high-speed rail service in the
corridor between Washington and Boston, the Florida Republican
said. He made the comments at a committee hearing today.  The legislation would look to separate the Northeast
Corridor, where Amtrak owns 363 miles of track, from the rest of
the U.S. national passenger railroad, Justin Harclerode, a
spokesman for Mica, said.  Amtrak was created as a government-chartered corporation in
1971 to take over unprofitable passenger services operated by
freight railroad companies.  The railroad has proposed spending more than $118 billion
to bring a high-speed link between Washington and  Boston  over
the next 30 years. The House proposal would cut that time by a
third, while ensuring the current workers continue to receive
their same salary and benefits, Mica said.  “Until we actually see his proposal in its fullness, I
can’t comment,” Steve Kulm, an Amtrak spokesman, said.  Investors Sought  Amtrak said May 19 it’s asking private investors for
proposals to help finance planned 220 mile-per-hour service in
the Northeast Corridor. Under the plan, the taxpayer-supported
railroad would develop and operate the trains.  Twenty-six private investors, including investment bankers,
have expressed an interest, Al Engel, Amtrak’s vice president of
high-speed rail, said last week. Amtrak doesn’t expect all 26 to
submit full proposals for participation, he said. Proposals are
due June 10.  Adding Mica’s Amtrak elements to a proposed surface
transportation bill would threaten its passage because the
provisions are “too controversial,” said Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia’s non-voting representative to
the House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  