-- 
Man Group Posts Decline in Annual Profit

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-26T09:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/man-group-posts-decline-in-annual-profit.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge fund firm, said assets under management
climbed 2.7 percent since March, boosted by sales in  Japan  and
its acquisition of GLG Partners Inc.  Funds under management increased to $71 billion today from
$69.1 billion at the end of March, the London-based company said
in a statement today. Sales of the Nomura Global Trend fund
totalled $2 billion since Man Group opened the pool two months
ago after Japan’s worst earthquake. The Man IP220 GLG fund
generated $400 million of sales in April and May, the firm said.  Man Group bought GLG for $1.6 billion in October after
investors questioned whether the firm was too dependent on AHL,
a computer-driven trading program that once accounted for more
than half of assets. The purchase helped to increase assets by
75 percent in the year. Sales in Man Group’s fiscal fourth
quarter exceeded redemptions for the first time in two years.  “Momentum in terms of sales appears to be building,” Mark Williamson, a London-based analyst at Peel Hunt Ltd., wrote in a
note to clients. The $2 billion of sales for the Nomura fund
after “the tragic Japanese earthquake speaks volumes,”
according to Williamson, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  The shares rose as much as 5.4 percent and were up 3.2
percent, or 7.7 pence, at 246.8 pence as of 10:52 a.m. in London
trading. The stock has dropped 17 percent this year, paring the
firm’s market value to about 4.6 billion pounds ($7.5 billion).  Profit Drops  Man Group today posted a smaller-than-estimated decline in
full-year profit. Pretax profit from continuing operations fell
to $324 million in the year through March from $541 million a
year earlier, beating Man Group’s March forecast of $280
million. Sales in the fiscal fourth quarter totalled $600
million, paring total outflows for the year to $2 billion.  The Man IP220 GLG pool is the first GLG structured product
Man Group has offered to investors since buying the company last
year. Structured products are typically packages of derivatives
based on stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  The integration of GLG is “going very well,” Chief
Executive Officer Peter Clarke said on a conference call with
reporters. “That can be measured in performance, which has been
good, and it can be measured in flows, which have been good.”  Management and performance fees rose 7 percent to $599
million for the year. Net income dropped to $211 million from
$445 million in the year-earlier period.  Unit Writedown  The hedge fund manager said in March full-year profit would
be hurt by costs including a $375 million expense to write down
the value of one of its investment businesses because of
declining revenue. Man Group took the writedown because its
structured-products unit switched to selling GLG investments.  AHL, which attempts to profit from trends in prices of
currencies and commodities, gained 17 percent last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is down 6.7 percent
this year. AHL funds on average are 12 percent below their so-
called high-water marks, which is the level at which Man Group
can charge investors performance fees.  So-called managed futures funds such as AHL declined when
the Japanese earthquake triggered a quick shift in  currency
markets  in March and when oil and silver prices plunged over two
days earlier this month.  Clarke told reporters he doesn’t expect AHL’s losses this
year will affect sales because investors know there will be
periods in which it doesn’t perform.  “I don’t think performance in April in May is going to
affect sales directly,” he said.  Man Group said it has $900 million of surplus capital, up
38 percent since March. The company has no plans to use those
funds for acquisitions, Clarke said.  Hedge funds  are private, lightly regulated pools of capital
whose managers can buy or sell assets, bet on falling as well as
rising asset prices and participate in profits from money
invested.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 7
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  