-- 
Manchester United Twins’ Parents Suffer Over Spot in Champions League Game

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-26T13:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/manchester-united-twins-parents-suffer-over-spot-in-champions-league-game.html
Manchester United defender Rafael Da
Silva’s parents will be disappointed, as well as proud, whatever
the result of this weekend’s  Champions League  final against
Barcelona.  The 20-year-old Brazilian is battling with his identical
twin Fabio for a place on the right side of defense ahead of
European soccer’s biggest club game, in two days. That’s giving
their family some anxiety.  “I think this quite a hot situation we’re in at the
moment,” Rafael told reporters at United’s training ground this
week. “My parents don’t like it very much, they prefer one to
play on each side instead of fighting for the position.”  Rafael was first choice at the start of the season, while
 Fabio  has started games toward the end of a campaign that ended
with the duo collecting Premier League winners’ medals. The
brothers moved to Manchester from their native  Rio de Janeiro  in
2007. They have a similar mop of curls, wispy facial hair and
even wear the same Nike Inc. tennis shoes -- each with his own
name emblazoned on the heel.  Their similarity has caused some confusion. Fabio was
yellow-carded in a match in 2009 after he was mistaken for
Rafael, who committed the foul. Their manager  Alex Ferguson 
joked earlier this year he was considering playing a suspended 
Rafael  in Fabio’s shirt.  Rafael became a regular in the starting line-up ahead of
his brother and has played 40 league games, about twice as many
as Fabio. Injuries and the retirement of former captain Gary Neville have increased their importance to United.  Aggressive Defender  Fighting for a starting berth hasn’t put a strain on their
relationship.  “My brother’s been playing quite well so we’ll try to
fight for the place,” Rafael said. “Of course because we are
very close with each other so we have to congratulate the other
one.”  While they may look the same, with the exception of a few
small facial marks, they are opposites when it comes to
temperament, Rafael said. He’s an aggressive, attacking defender
who was sent off in last year’s  Champions League  quarterfinal
loss to  Bayern Munich .  “He’s probably much calmer than me on the opposition. I
think that’s the difference,” said Rafael, who received an
8,000-pound ($13,000) fine from the Football Association after
facing off with referee Mike Dean over a red card in a league
game against Tottenham in January.  “Sometimes it’s nice to be
like that in the match but I think I’ve learnt a lot from the
red cards.”  United is going for its fourth European Cup. Ferguson said
it won’t be easy to decide who’ll be left off the roster for the
final, a repeat of the 2009 match with Barcelona that United
lost 2-0 in  Rome .  “Unfortunately there’s one person that has to tell them
and it’s me,” he said. “It’s not an easy job but it has to be
done. We have to win the game and they understand that. I pick a
team for the right reasons and I pick the subs for the right
reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 