-- 
Handy Enables Smith to Crush Harvard’s Annual Endowment Returns

-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/handy-enables-smith-to-crush-harvard-s-annual-endowment-returns.html
Prescient bets against the stock
market have helped endowment manager Alice Handy regularly beat
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Handy, who manages money for
Smith, Barnard and Middlebury colleges at a firm she founded
called Investure LLC, has also done something more satisfying:
vanquish Harvard and Yale.  Smith College, Handy’s first client and a proxy for 10
others, earned 16.3 percent on its $1.2 billion in the year
ended on June 30, 2010, the most recent fiscal year for which
data are available. That compared with 11 percent for  Harvard
University  on its $27.6 billion and 8.9 percent for  Yale
University , which had $16.7 billion. Investure manages $8
billion.  The drubbing wasn’t a fluke, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its July issue. Smith beat Harvard over five years,
too -- 7.3 percent to 4.7 percent -- partly because Handy had
the guts to bet against U.S. stocks early in 2007 when it looked
like the bull market might never end.  Handy, 63, the granddaughter of a Cape Cod cranberry
farmer, is modest about her track record.  “All ships need to float in this market,” Handy says. “It’s
a very humbling experience to run money.”  Handy started  Investure  in 2004, catering to schools that
wanted to outsource their endowment to get better returns. Small
schools have a tougher time attracting talent than Harvard or
Yale.  Talent Search  “If you’re not in  New York  City or Boston, it’s harder to
recruit and retain the investment professionals you need,” says
Ruth Constantine, vice president for finance and administration
at Smith, in Northampton, Massachusetts. Harvard, for its part,
once employed Mohamed El-Erian, now chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees $1.28
trillion.  Off-campus money management is a growth industry. U.S.
endowments and foundations will outsource about $215 billion by
2015, more than double today’s $100 billion, says Kevin Quirk, a
founding partner at Casey Quirk & Associates LLC, a management-
consulting firm in Darien, Connecticut.  “We wanted someone who worried about the endowment every
day -- who got up worrying about it,” says Investure client
Robert Taylor, senior vice president for finance and
administration at the  Colonial Williamsburg Foundation , the
private institution that runs the restored Virginia town.  ‘High-Touch Model’  During most of its seven-year existence, Charlottesville,
Virginia-based Investure has been more exclusive than Yale’s
Skull and Bones society. Handy closed the firm to new investors
in 2007 on concern, she says, that she couldn’t deliver the same
level of service to a bigger group. Each of her 11 clients has
three investment meetings a year, and that’s just the beginning
of the Investure staff’s visits.  “A high-touch model is hard to scale,” she says.  Now, Investure is open again. Handy wants to add one client
a year for the next five, she says. Investure just signed its
11th this year:  the Houston Endowment , a $1.5 billion foundation
that supports education, the arts, health and the environment in
the Houston area.  The foundation joins Smith; Barnard College; Dickinson
College; Middlebury College; Trinity College in Hartford,
 Connecticut ; the University of Tulsa; the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace; the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation; the
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation; and the Rockefeller Brothers
Fund. Once on board, a client has Investure manage all of its
money.  Virginia Base  The company’s base is in leafy Charlottesville, 116 miles
(187 kilometers) southwest of  Washington , D.C., because Handy
ran the University of Virginia (U.Va.) endowment there for 29
years starting in 1974. A trim woman who wears her hair short,
she hits the road in sensible shoes and understated jewelry.  In person, Handy is politely blunt. After a March trip to
 India  to meet with a  money manager , she said, “By the time you
pay bribes and everything, it’s hard to make a return.” On hedge
funds, she says, “Hedge funds are just a fee structure; they
aren’t an asset class.”  And she likes hedge funds. During her tenure at U.Va., she
pushed the endowment into them and into venture capital long
before most schools dared.  “If you’re looking for value, you have to look where other
people aren’t looking,” Handy says.  That sort of thinking prompted her bet against the U.S.
stock market in early 2007. Many investors were still piling
into stocks and real estate investments, the latter borne aloft
by low  interest rates  and lax lending standards. The team at
Investure couldn’t find anything to buy.  “Nothing looked attractive, so we said, What is the
reverse?” Handy says.  Short the Bull  The reverse was a put option -- a derivatives contract that
gave Investure clients the right to sell the  S&P 500  at a
certain price for two years. Investure wouldn’t make money until
the index fell 5 percent or more. That made the put less
expensive. The firm bought several puts on the same terms
starting in February 2007, spreading its bets among  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   The purchases began to look smart in October 2007, when the
S&P 500 started falling from its peak of 1,565. It plummeted the
next year, turning the put contracts into gold. Smith invested
$31.7 million in its puts and sold the position for $97.5
million, Constantine says. Colonial Williamsburg made $100
million on its puts, the foundation’s Taylor says.  ‘Endowment Insurance’  Investure’s puts generated returns that offset losses
on other assets. Smith lost 16.7 percent in the fiscal year
ended on June 30, 2009. Harvard’s endowment, by comparison,
tumbled a record 27 percent, and Yale’s was down 25 percent,
also a school record.  “The put protected us,” Constantine says. “Alice called it
buying endowment insurance.”  Handy was born and raised in Wilmington, Delaware, after
her Massachusetts-born father, a chemist, went to work at a
DuPont Co. facility there. After high school, she returned to
her family roots and enrolled at Connecticut College in  New
London , where she studied economics, and graduated in 1970.  Her husband-to-be got a job at a Hartford, Connecticut,
bank. Handy went to work at Travelers Cos. “I said I wanted to
work with people, and because I had an economics degree, they
put me in the investment office,” Handy says. She ended up in
the bond department, which was great, she says, because there
were only three managers, including her.  Finding a Home  Handy helped manage the fixed-income portfolio for four
years and then followed her husband to Charlottesville when he
enrolled in graduate school there. While they later divorced,
she found a working home at U.Va., which hired her in 1974 as
the first full-time investment officer of its then-$50 million
endowment.  She got a quick lesson in market volatility. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  plunged to 577.6 in December 1974 from about
850 a year earlier. The slump didn’t sway Handy or the U.Va.
investment committee that controlled the endowment. They had
about 75 percent of their money in equities and stuck with them,
she says. In 1980, she added international shares to the
portfolio, just as many non-U.S. markets took off.  Handy also plunged into hedge funds, investing U.Va. money
with  Paul Tudor Jones  of Tudor Investment Corp., with Lee Ainslie’s Maverick Capital Ltd. and with John Griffin’s Blue
Ridge Capital Holdings LLC. All three are U.Va. graduates.  “It was very incestuous,” Handy says. “There was a comfort
in knowing these people.”  Hedge Fund Bet  After Handy took over Smith’s endowment in 2004, she pushed
its allocation to hedge funds and other private partnerships to
36 percent from 14.4 percent the first year.  “That was the single most significant change for us,”
Constantine says.  Investure’s main activity is picking firms to manage its
clients’ money. One of Handy’s favorites is Appaloosa Management
LP, the Short Hills, New Jersey-based hedge fund run by  David Tepper . Tepper is great, Handy says, as long as you’re
comfortable with big swings in performance. Appaloosa’s flagship
fund returned 28 percent in 2010 and 132 percent in 2009 after a
26.7 percent loss in 2008.  “He has a pretty amazing long-term record,” she says. “But
you have to love his volatility.”  One of Handy’s most profitable moves at Virginia was
investing in venture capital firms, including Crosspoint Venture
Partners and Oak Investment Partners in the 1990s, just before
technology boomed.  Dodging Tech Crash  By 1999, she had concluded that tech stocks were
overvalued. Virginia state institutions, including U.Va., were
precluded from investing in derivatives, so one of Handy’s board
members went to the legislature and the governor and succeeded
in getting the law changed.  Handy bet against $100 million in technology stocks. In
March 2000, the tech-heavy  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  peaked and
then plunged 60 percent in 12 months.  “We had all these new IPOs that had huge gains,” says Don Lindsey, who worked with Handy at U.Va. for 13 years. “We locked
in all those gains before the tech meltdown.”  Lindsey is now chief investment officer at George
Washington University in Washington, D.C.  The Virginia endowment rose an average of 13.8 percent a
year during the last two decades of Handy’s tenure, she says,
compared with 10 percent annually for the S&P 500. By the time
she left the school, the endowment had grown to $2 billion.  Outsourcing  Handy got the idea for Investure in 2003 after
administrators at both Georgetown and Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland, Virginia, asked her if she could recommend an
investment manager to handle their endowments. “I did a little
work on outsourced offices and found that there were very few,”
Handy says.  A friend who was a venture capitalist encouraged her to
write a business plan, which she shared with Nina Scherago, a
former analyst at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and a member of
the Smith investment committee. She’s now its chairwoman.  Smith had been trying to get other members of the Seven
Sisters -- a group of selective women’s liberal arts colleges,
two of which have gone coed -- to pool their money in a new
investment office. Others balked, so Smith signed on with Handy.  “She was able to have a steady hand on the portfolio and
not panic and make rash decisions,” says Anita Volz Wien,
another Lehman alumna who’s now an investment committee member
at Smith. She’s also married to  Byron Wien , vice chairman of
Blackstone Advisory Partners, part of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in New
York.  No ‘Woohoo’  In the past two years, Handy has been bottom-fishing,
buying beaten-down mortgage securities, bank assets and stock in
companies that drill and dig for commodities. She’s also holding
cash because of unsettling world events.  “There is so much that is still wrong out there,” Handy
says. “You can’t sit back and say, ‘Woohoo! We’re out of the
woods.’ We’re trying to find the most opportunistic investments
we can make, things that are distressed and have a chance to
make money even if the economy doesn’t.”  One distressed asset she likes is the Yellowstone Club, a
private ski resort in the Montana Rockies that went bankrupt in
2008. Cross-Harbor Capital Partners LLC, a Boston-based private-
equity firm, bought the club out of bankruptcy and is selling
both its luxury ski chalets and the land to build new ones.  Investure clients have money in a CrossHarbor fund, which,
in turn, is an investor in the club. Investure clients also took
a direct stake in the alpine hideaway. Private equity funds like
CrossHarbor sometimes solicit such co-investments from clients
looking for more direct exposure to an asset. Fees on co-
investments are often lower, too.  The investment is an unusual one compared with the stocks
and bonds that most endowments buy. Handy is counting on such
value plays to keep her clients’ money growing in a tricky
world. If she keeps doing well, investment managers at Harvard
and Yale risk losing bragging rights to the modest, blunt
Virginian yet again.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net 
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 