-- 
Manhattan District Attorney Said to Add Women to Strauss-Kahn Prosecutors

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-26T14:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/manhattan-district-attorney-said-to-add-women-to-strauss-kahn-prosecutors.html
Manhattan  district attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. added two female prosecutors to the sexual-assault
case against  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former International
Monetary Fund chief, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  John “Artie” McConnell has been lead prosecutor against
Strauss-Kahn, who was arrested and charged with attempted rape
and sexual assault of a maid on May 14 at the Sofitel hotel in
Midtown Manhattan.  Joan Illuzzi-Orbon, recently appointed chief of the newly
formed Hate Crimes Unit, joined the prosecution team against
Strauss-Kahn, the person said. Assistant District Attorney Ann
Prunty is now working on the case as well, said the person, who
didn’t want to be identified because staffing decisions aren’t
public.  “It’s a serious case. It’s also a press case,” said  New
York  defense attorney Thomas Curran, a former Manhattan
prosecutor. “The DA’s office is going to bring whatever assets
it has to bear on that case. And having people like Joan and Ann
available is the envy of any prosecutor’s office.”  Strauss-Kahn’s defense team includes New York attorney
Benjamin Brafman and Washington lawyer William Taylor III. The
financier’s wife, Anne Sinclair, posted his $1 million bail and
a $5 million bond, his lawyers and bail bondsman Ira Judelson
have said.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for the district attorney,
declined to comment on the staffing.  Murder Cases  Prunty has been involved in the case against Nicholas
Brooks, son of the songwriter Joseph Brooks, who was indicted
for murder in January in the December death of swimsuit designer
Sylvie Cachay. In 2008, she prosecuted the rape and torture of a
Columbia Journalism School student.  Illuzzi-Orbon was involved in the 2010 case against Natavia
Lowery, who was found guilty of murdering her employer, Linda Stein. Illuzzi-Orbon also prosecuted rapper Lil Wayne, who
pleaded guilty to a gun charge in 2009. She is a graduate of  New
York University  and St. John’s University School of Law.  Daniel Alonso, chief assistant district attorney, appeared
with McConnell for Strauss-Kahn’s initial court appearance on
May 16. Lisa Friel, chief of the sex crimes unit, second-seated
McConnell for a later bail hearing. John Irwin, deputy chief of
the trial division, also has been involved in the case.  Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the trial division at the
Manhattan district attorney’s office, recused herself from the
case. Her husband, Marc Agnifilo, is a lawyer with Brafman &
Associates and has been working on Strauss-Kahn’s defense.  Brafman’s clients have included pop star  Michael Jackson ,
Gambino crime family underboss Salvatore “Sammy Bull” Gravano,
rapper Sean “Diddy” Combs, and former New York Giants wide
receiver Plaxico Burress.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 