-- 
Apax Partners Said to Seek $13 Billion for Leveraged-Buyout Fund

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-26T15:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/apax-is-said-to-seek-13-billion-for-buyout-fund-as-deal-activity-recovers.html
Apax Partners LLP, the British buyout
firm, is seeking 9 billion euros ($13 billion) for a new fund,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The London firm, which is targeting 20 percent less than
its 11.2 billion-euro pool raised in 2007, sent out the
marketing documentation to investors, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Apax, whose backers include China Investment Corporation,
follows  BC Partners  Ltd., Cinven Ltd. and EQT Partners AB in
seeking a total of 24 billion euros from investors in  Europe  as
private equity deal activity recovers from a near-halt during
the credit crisis.  An official at Apax declined to comment.  Private-equity firms raised $225 billion last year, the
lowest since 2004 as investors became reluctant to commit money
to new funds before reaping profits from previous investments,
according to Preqin Ltd. They may raise more than $300 billion
this year, the London-based firm research said.  Latest Fund  BC Partners, one of the first European funds to start
raising money since 2008, has amassed 4 billion euros out of the
6 billion euros it’s seeking for its latest fund, people with
knowledge of the talks said in March.  Cinven, another London-based firm, is targeting 5 billion
euros for a new pool, three people with knowledge of the matter
said the same month. EQT Partners, the private-equity firm
partly owned by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family, is seeking 4.3
billion euros, two people with knowledge of the plan said last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  