-- 
Asciano Says Dockworkers Dispute to Delay Australian Exports, Slow Mining

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-05-26T03:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/asciano-says-dockworkers-dispute-to-delay-australian-exports.html
Asciano Ltd. (AIO) ,  Australia ’s largest
port cargo handler, said a weeklong labor dispute at three
container terminals will cut its revenue, disrupt commodity
shipments and may trigger delays at mining projects.  “Exporters have already been hit by the higher Australian
dollar and now they’re facing seven-day delays to get their
products out,” Rhianna Fursdon, a spokeswoman for Asciano’s
Patrick unit, said in a telephone interview today. “The  mining
industry  could be quite badly hit.”  The seven-day industrial action by members of the  Maritime
Union of Australia  campaigning for higher pay will affect 26
vessels and 27,950 containers across wharves in Sydney, Brisbane
and Fremantle, Asciano said in a  statement  today. The Melbourne-
based company said it has met with the union 24 times and the
parties have appeared before workplace mediator Fair Work
Australia 10 times.  Australia’s economy is approaching full capacity as
unemployment drops below 5 percent, spurred by hiring by
resource companies that are trying to meet demand from  China  and
 India  for  iron ore  and coal. Exports account for about one-fifth
of the nation’s gross domestic product and union workers from
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, and Qantas
Airways Ltd., Australia’s biggest airline, are also considering
industrial action.  The union’s deputy national secretary, Mick Doleman,
yesterday said Patrick has refused to allow workers to undertake
their duties and have stood down the workforce. What the company
calls a strike the union characterizes as a lockout.  ‘Ready to Return’  “Workers are ready to return to work -- it is Patrick that
is causing chaos,” Doleman said in a statement. “We call on
them to allow our workers to get back on the job.”  The work stoppage will cut as much as A$8 million ($8.5
million) from Asciano’s full-year revenue and A$4 million from
its earnings before interest and taxes, it said in a statement
to the Australian stock exchange today. The company previously
forecast on May 2 earnings before interest and taxes of A$530
million to A$540 million.  “Brisbane handles about 75 percent of Australia’s cotton
exports, and there are estimates the strike will affect between
A$26 million and A$50 million of those exports,” Fursdon said.
“It’s also a chief beef export port to countries like  Japan ,
China and the Middle East.”  Sydney is Australia’s major import terminal, with retailers
relying on it for supplies of durable goods and fresh food, she
said.  Mining Region  In Fremantle, the major container port for the main mining
state of Western Australia, about 54 containers from Japan,
 Brazil  and the U.S. with specialized tires for the mining
industry have been delayed, which could lead to transport at
mining sites being affected and delays at projects, Fursdon
said. Other mining-equipment imports and grain-feed exports will
also be affected, she said.  The dockworkers union has rejected an offer to enter
conciliation and arbitration before the Fair Work Commission,
Patrick said in a statement today. While the union wants a 6
percent pay raise, the company is offering a 5 percent increase
with productivity targets.  Patrick says the union’s pay claim, which isn’t offset by
productivity benchmarks, would cost A$32 million in the first
year of a three-year agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  