-- 
Stocks in U.S. Advance for Second Day as Profits Overshadow Economic Data

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-26T20:14:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/asian-stocks-advance-as-commodity-rally-eases-growth-concern-euro-gains.html
Stocks rose for a second day, erasing
an early slide, as corporate earnings that beat forecasts
overshadowed slower economic growth. Treasuries gained, sending
10- and 2-year yields to their lowest levels of the year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4 percent to
1,325.69 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
climbed 1.5 percent as South Korean equities jumped the most
since June 2009 after  consumer confidence  improved. Ten-year
yields slid as low as 3.06 percent and 2-year rates reached 0.48
percent, while 10-year German bund yields fell below 3 percent
for the first time since January. Commodities retreated even as
the dollar weakened against most major peers.  Rallies of more than 6.9 percent in  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and
 NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , which topped analysts’ estimates, helped the equity
market recover from an early slump triggered by data on gross
domestic product and jobless claims. U.S. GDP expanded 1.8
percent last quarter, trailing forecasts, and jobless claims
unexpectedly rose. The data added to concern the economy will
struggle to grow as the  Federal Reserve  prepares to end its
second round of quantitative easing, known as QE2.  “Corporate earnings are doing very well,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “People would argue on both sides about
the economic recovery. There’s concern about things getting
tougher with the end of QE2. The fact that the corporate side is
doing well tells me that we’ll continue to see things doing
better.”  ‘Sparkling Results’  Companies that rely on discretionary  consumer spending 
climbed 0.8 percent as a group to lead gains in eight of 10
industries in the S&P 500 today. Tiffany surged 8.6 percent, the
most since August 2009, after reporting sales increased globally
and recovered in earthquake-hit  Japan . NetApp, a maker of data-
storage products, climbed 6.9 percent to lead technology shares
higher.  “Companies like Tiffany that cater to the more affluent
have put up sparkling results, and we honestly think it can
continue, even though there are still economic challenges out
there,” Matt Arnold, a Des Peres, Missouri-based analyst at
Edward Jones & Co., told Bloomberg Television. “The more
affluent consumer feels better, and they’re spending
accordingly”  The S&P 500 halted a three-day slump yesterday. The
benchmark gauge of U.S. stocks has fallen 2.8 percent from a
nearly three-year high at the end of April as gauges of energy,
financial and raw-material companies tumbled at least 4.9
percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities is down almost 9
percent from a more than two-year high last month.  Fed, Profits  May losses in equities and commodities came as economic
data began to trail estimates and investors prepared for the Fed
to complete QE2, its $600 billion bond-purchase program, at the
end of June. The 5.4 percent advance in the  S&P 500  this year
was propelled by the Fed’s stimulus measures and higher-than-
estimated profits.  Citigroup Inc.’s U.S. Economic Surprise Index, which
measures the rate at which data is exceeding or trailing
projections, turned negative in May and has slumped to its
lowest level since August. It reached a record in March. The
slump came even as earnings-per-share topped analysts’ estimates
at 72 percent of the 468 companies in the S&P 500 that released
results since April 11, Bloomberg data show.  The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for 2.2 percent growth in first-quarter gross domestic
product. Applications for  unemployment benefits  were forecast to
fall by 5,000 to 404,000 in the week ended May 21, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Goldman’s Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its year-end forecast for
the S&P 500 to 1,450 from 1,500 and reduced its 2012 earnings
projection, citing weakening economic estimates. S&P 500
companies will post combined profit of $104 a share next year,
compared with Goldman Sachs’s prior estimate of $106, according
to  David Kostin , the bank’s equity strategist. He maintained his
2011 earnings forecast for the S&P 500 of $96 a share.  “Our adjustments reflect a combination of developments
including recently lowered GDP growth estimates by our
economists in the U.S. and  Asia  and a significant increase in
our Brent oil price forecast,” Kostin wrote today in a note to
clients.  Treasury yields remained lower after the government’s $29
billion offering of seven-year notes drew the highest demand in
at least two years. The yield on the current seven-year note
slid nine basis points to 2.36 percent, the lowest level since
Dec. 7.  Treasury Auction  At today’s auction, the securities drew a yield of 2.429
percent, compared with the average forecast of 2.448 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of nine primary dealers.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities slipped 0.3 percent.
Wheat and cocoa rose at least 1.6 percent for the biggest gains
among 24 materials tracked by the index, while cotton and nickel
lost more than 2.4 percent for the worst declines. Oil fell from
a two-week high, losing 1.1 percent to $100.23 a barrel.  The Dollar Index slumped 0.5 percent to 75.573 as the U.S.
currency weakened against 14 of 16 major peers, losing at least
1.2 percent versus the South Korean won and  New Zealand dollar .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.1 percent, sinking to its
lows of the day after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the
 International Monetary Fund  may not release its portion of a 12
billion-euro ($17 billion) aid payment to  Greece  next month. A
team of inspectors from the European Union, the IMF and the
 European Central Bank  are set to complete a review of Greece’s
progress in meeting bailout terms next week.  Bailout Payments  Their recommendation is needed before the fifth bailout
payment can be distributed. The IMF is due to contribute 3.3
billion euros of the June payment.  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said today at a conference in
Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said.  South Korea  led gains in emerging markets, with the Kospi
Index rallying 2.8 percent, after consumer confidence rose to a
three-month high this month, the  Bank of Korea  said.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 1.1
percent after  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  posted a better-than-expected 72
percent gain in fourth-quarter profit. Serbia’s dinar climbed
1.2 percent against the euro, the most in a month, after the
arrest of war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  