-- 
Aston Martin Brings Leather Smell to Cygnet

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-26T23:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/aston-martin-leather-smell-converts-toyota-into-new-sales-cars.html
Aston Martin, the maker of  sports
cars  favored by Prince Charles and driven by James Bond, is
departing from tradition with a city car based on  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) 's iQ subcompact to broaden its appeal and boost revenue.  The Cygnet’s hand-stitched leather interiors and Aston
Martin badge on the grill will persuade customers to pay 30,995
pounds ($50,500) for the model, the Gaydon, England-based
company says. That’s more than double the price of Toyota’s iQ,
which provides the engine, transmission and frame.  “This car is a luxury city car,” chief designer Marek Reichman said in an interview. “Prior to Cygnet your choice
was, you open the door and it smells of plastic; now you open
the door, and you’ll be hit by this wonderful smell of
leather.”  Aston Martin  relied on Toyota to cut the cost and time for
building the Cygnet in a unique project with the Japanese
carmaker. The ultra-luxury carmaker, which unlike rivals isn’t
backed by a larger auto manufacturer, developed the model in
about 12 months, compared with the typical three-year timeframe
for most car projects. Aston Martin needed the quick turnaround
to boost demand as its owners seek funding.  Aston Martin, which doesn’t disclose financial results,
aims to sell 1,500 Cygnets a year, which would make it the
closely held company’s second-best seller after the V8 Vantage’s
annual deliveries of about 2,000. Overall, sales in 2010 gained
about 6 percent to 4,250 cars, spokesman Kevin Watters said.  City Cars  Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Bez has been examining the
company’s financing options and  capital structure  to fund growth
plans. The review follows restructuring at Investment Dar Co.,
which owns half of Aston Martin. The Kuwaiti financial services
company agreed in March on a plan to repay debt after missing a
$100 million Islamic bond payment in May 2009.  Environmental pressure and growing city populations have
prompted luxury-car makers to tailor offerings for urban
drivers.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi introduced the A1 subcompact last
year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the luxury-car leader, will
introduce an electric-powered city car in 2013.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz later this year will start selling a revamped B-
Class compact, the first in a line of four new small cars.  Aston Martin has to meet these demands on its own. The
company hasn’t had the backing of an automotive parent since
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold the carmaker to a group of investors
including Investment Dar for 479 million pounds in 2007.
Lamborghini, Bentley and Bugatti are owned by VW, while  Fiat SpA (F) 
controls Ferrari and Maserati.  Seven Cow Hides  That solitary status may have pushed Aston Martin too far
in the effort to reach new customers, said Simon Empson,
managing director of U.K. discount car website Broadspeed.com.  “I have no idea who would buy an Aston iQ or why they
would even want one -- it looks just daft,” said Empson, who
previously owned the Aston Martin DB5 featured in “The Italian
Job” film. “Extending the brand is all well and good -- fitted
luggage and sunglasses I get -- but city cars I just don’t.”  Cygnet buyers will get a leather interior made from seven
cow hides, the same amount used in the 125,000-pound DB9 sports
car, Reichmann said. Aston Martin will offer six types of alloy
wheels and as many as 3 million possible combinations of trim
and color options. A navigation system, six-speaker stereo and
leather-clad steering wheel and gear shift are standard.  The luxury doesn’t extend beneath the hood, with the car’s
97-horsepower engine essentially unchanged from the Toyota iQ,
which starts at about 12,500 pounds. The Cygnet accelerates to
100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour in about 11.6 seconds,
compared to 3.7 seconds for the 750-horsepower One-77.  Slowest Model  The Cygnet, which goes on sale next month, will be Aston
Martin’s slowest car. The four-seat, stub-nose compact will rely
more on  fuel efficiency  and practicality to win over buyers than
the speed of its other models such as the 176,000-pound
($285,000) DBS,  James Bond ’s latest ride.  “It’s not about naught to 60 speeds, or road holding or
handling, or great racing capabilities,” Reichman said in an
interview last week during a test drive in London. “In the
city, space is far more at a premium. You’ve got fewer chances
to park, far more congestion, so it makes sense that our
customers have a small luxurious product.”  The Cygnet also gives Aston Martin a less-polluting option,
which provides buyers with a “green halo,” said Peter Schmidt,
managing director of Warwick, England-based Automotive Industry
Data. The compact emits about 120 grams of carbon dioxide per
kilometer compared to 572 grams for the One-77.  The automaker insists the car was built for customers
rather than regulators. Aston Martin has received 400 orders for
the car and will sell the Cygnet to newcomers and current
customers in the U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe , it said.  “The attitude of the super-rich has changed,” Schmidt
said. “They really do want to be seen to be green. People can
turn up at their golf club in this car and it will be a talking
point, and Aston Martin owners love talking about their cars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  