-- 
AT&T’s Bid for T-Mobile May Raise Wireless Prices, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-26T17:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/at-t-s-bid-for-t-mobile-may-raise-wireless-prices-lawmakers-say.html
U.S. House lawmakers said they are
concerned that  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.
may thwart competition and raise prices for wireless users.  The $39 billion deal would result in more consolidation
“than any previous merger” in the wireless communications
market, said Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican
who heads a Judiciary subcommittee on business competition. He
expressed concern the combination would let AT&T charge smaller
competitors more money to use the company’s mobile network, a
process known as roaming.  “There are legitimate questions about whether this merger
could move the wireless market past the anticompetitive tipping
point,” Goodlatte said today at a hearing in Washington before
his  panel on competition and the Internet .  At a hearing May 11, senators said they have similar
worries. Yesterday, Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts
Democrat, and Representative John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat,
said the transaction would hurt consumers and may result in job
losses.  “I see no redeeming reason” for federal regulators to
approve the transaction, Conyers said today. “Not even one.”  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson and Rene Obermann, chief executive officer of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-
Mobile’s parent company, told the House panel the deal would
mean better service through increased wireless capacity.  “The transaction will mean significant benefits,”
Obermann said.  Combining Forces  The deal announced March 20 for the Deutsche Telekom unit
would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create
a new market leader, ahead of No. 1  Verizon Wireless  and third-
largest  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The transaction requires approval from the  Justice
Department  and the Federal Communications Commission. Congress
doesn’t play a direct role in merger reviews.  Some lawmakers said they are concerned the acquisition
would lead to more unemployment.  The word “synergies” often is a “euphemism for massive
job losses,” said Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina
Democrat.  While AT&T expects to hire people to help build an
advanced wireless network reaching rural areas, Stephenson said,
there would be “redundancies” leading to cutbacks. “We will
not need two finance organizations, for example,” he said. “We
will not need two marketing organizations.”  Rural Carriers  Rural carriers and some consumer advocates have asked
federal authorities to block the transaction.  Steven Berry, who represents small competitors as president
of the  Rural Cellular Association , said the planned purchase
will “deal a mortal blow to competition and cause significant
harm to consumers” through higher prices and lower quality
service.  Stephenson said the deal would let the combined company get
more capacity from existing spectrum than AT&T and T-Mobile
would have operating separately.  “AT&T and its partners can continue to develop, introduce
and aggressively promote innovative, but capacity-consuming,
services, devices and applications,” Stephenson said.  The deal “would amass an unprecedented amount of spectrum
in a single carrier’s hands,” according to Berry, whose group
is based in Washington. “The deal would further consolidate an
industry already teetering on the brink of duopoly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  