-- 
Tata’s Land Rover Unit Plans India Production Line in Emerging-Market Push

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-05-27T08:21:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/tata-s-land-rover-plans-india-plant-in-emerging-market-push.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest
maker of trucks and buses, will open a Land Rover sport-utility
vehicle assembly unit at its factory in the city of Pune today
in a push to supply  luxury vehicles  to emerging economies.  “Our India assembly unit is the start of building our
house in India,” Ralf Speth, head of Tata’s Jaguar Land Rover
division, said at a press conference in Pune. “We believe we
have huge potential to grow in India. It has a rapidly
increasing middle class and the second-largest population in the
world.”  The assembly line will allow Tata to hold back costs as
India levies a 100 percent duty on imported cars while high-end
competitors from abroad expand. In the last two months, Aston
Martin Lagonda Ltd. and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Ferrari and Maserati brands
have set up dealerships in the world’s second-fastest growing
major economy as rising wealth spurs demand for luxury vehicles.  Aston Martin said when it opened its first Indian
dealership in April that it’s targeting about 25 percent of its
sales to come from  Asia  and the Middle East in the next five
years, compared with 10 percent to 12 percent now. Ferrari,
Fiat’s most profitable unit, expects to sell as many as 100
vehicles in India by 2014, its Indian dealer said yesterday.  Profit Triples  The Land Rover brand will initially assemble Freelander
models in India, Speth said at a separate press conference in
 Mumbai  yesterday. He declined to comment on the line’s capacity.  Tata’s net income in the year through March 31 more than
tripled to 92.7 billion rupees ($2.05 billion) from 25.7 billion
rupees, as consolidated revenue jumped 33 percent, the company
said yesterday. Jaguar Land Rover reported a 1.04 billion-pound
($1.7 billion) profit compared with a year-earlier loss of 14.2
million pounds.  Even so, Tata Motors fell as much as 6.9 percent to 1081.75
rupees in Mumbai trading today to a three-month low after
margins fell and quarterly profit, excluding the Jaguar Land
Rover operations, fell 4 percent to 5.73 billion rupees. The
stock has declined 17 percent in 2011.  “While Tata Motors’ fourth-quarter consolidated profit was
in line with estimates, margin pressures were clearly visible
with both India and JLR reporting a quarter-on-quarter margin
drop,” CLSA Ltd. said in a report dated yesterday.  The Indian company, whose Nano model is the world’s
cheapest car, paid $2.4 billion in June 2008 to buy the Jaguar
car and Land Rover SUV brands from  Ford Motor Co. (F) , and it
combined them into a single division. Chief Financial Officer
Chandrasekaran Ramakrishnan said yesterday that  capital spending 
on the unit will amount to 1.5 billion pounds annually.  Chief Executive Officer Carl-Peter Forster, who said in May
that investments in Jaguar Land Rover will total 5 billion
pounds, said yesterday that Tata Motors is willing to consider
setting up an Indian engine plant for the division. Ford
currently supplies engines to the unit.  “With good growth volume, we will have to think about our
future engine strategy,” Forster said at the press conference.  26% Delivery Growth  Jaguar Land Rover’s fiscal 2011 deliveries rose 26 percent
to 243,621 cars and SUVs. Sales jumped 43 percent in  China  and
 Russia , with the Chinese market accounting for 29,600 vehicles,
Nicola Rzeznik, a spokeswoman for the unit in Warwick,  England ,
said in a May 25 e-mail.  “Tata Motors’ main focus is on their international
business,” said Walter Rossini, who manages 250 million euros
($356 million) in an India equity fund at Aletti Gestielle SGR
SpA in Milan. “They are doing very well, not just in
traditional markets such as  Europe  and the U.S., but also in
emerging markets like China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  