-- 
LATAM Airlines Says It’s ‘Confident’ of Antitrust Approval

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T19:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/latam-airlines-says-it-s-confident-of-antitrust-approval-1-.html
LATAM Airlines Group, the holding
company formed by  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) ’s planned acquisition of  Tam
SA (TAMM4) , said it probably will secure regulatory approval to create
the world’s 11th largest carrier by passengers.  Tam’s Mauricio Amaro, who will be chairman of LATAM, is
“confident, but not sure” of regulatory clearance, he told
reporters after a public hearing on the transaction at  Chile ’s
antitrust tribunal in Santiago today.  Brazil ’s antitrust agency, known as Cade, is likely to
issue approval “soon,” Amaro said. Today’s hearing proves the
tie-up will be good for consumers, said Lan’s Enrique Cueto, who
will be chief executive officer of LATAM.  The Chilean tribunal, known as TDLC, is investigating the
transaction at the request of consumer defense association
Conadecus. Lan already is  Latin America ’s biggest airline by
market value while Tam is the largest by revenue. Together, they
will have a network of 116 destinations in 23 countries, Lan
said in August when announcing the $3.7 billion purchase.  The tie-up will bring down airfares, Cristobal Eyzaguirre,
a lawyer for Lan, said at today’s hearing.  Chile’s Pal Airlines asked the tribunal to block the
transaction on the grounds that it would lead to a “mega-
monopoly,” lawyer Dante Garreto said on behalf of the carrier.
Lan’s dominant market position in Chile and “predatory”
pricing policies should be taken into account, Conadecus lawyer
Gonzalo Cruzat said.  The TDLC may rule on the takeover in 30 days to 60 days
after the hearing, newspaper La Tercera reported May 24, citing
TDLC President Tomas Menchaca.  Lan won’t complete the purchase of Tam before the fourth
quarter, Chief Financial Officer Alejandro de la Fuente said in
a conference call April 27.  Lan rose 0.8 percent to 13,575 pesos at 2:59 p.m. New York
time in Santiago trading. Tam slid 0.5 percent to 34.8 reais in
 Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  