-- 
Baby Makes Five as Couples Grapple in ‘Cradle and All’: Theater

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-26T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/baby-makes-five-as-two-couples-grapple-in-cradle-and-all-jeremy-gerard.html
Beneath the shiny surfaces and glib
ripostes of Daniel Goldfarb’s  “Cradle and All”  lurks a
refreshingly mean-spirited misanthropy. You may go home with
dark feelings about yourself or your significant other, but
please leave the kid, if there is a kid, out of it.  Really a pair of linked one-act plays, “Cradle” will be
catnip to the two actors who play childless couple Claire and
Luke in the first half and married-with-infant Annie and Nate in
the second. They live across the hall from each other in tony
Brooklyn Heights apartments that neither couple shows any
evidence of being able to afford. So to our growing fear about
their couplehood, add concern about their solvency.  Act I, “Infantry,” opens with Claire (Maria Dizzia)
dressed to thrill (clingy, shimmery blouse and black pants)
sprinkling rose petals around the apartment.  Something’s up,
though Luke (Greg Keller) is at first oblivious when he walks
through the door in this  Manhattan Theatre Club  production.  Together through five blissful years of eating at the right
restaurants, making bloodless lifestyle choices and generally
behaving like the spoiled brats they are, Claire and Luke are at
a crossroads.  She’s about to turn 40 and the clock is ticking. He’s five
years younger and not interested in her clock, never was. He
also is not interested in working for his uncle, an antiques
dealer, though the occasion of the night is ostensibly to
celebrate his sale of a Tiffany lamp for $600,000. Silly me, at
first I thought they were talking about a book deal.  One-Flop Wonder  Luke fell in love with Claire when, as a teenager, he saw
her in a movie with Keanu Reeves. She turns out to have been a
one-flop wonder. They’re not happy. Claire is convinced that
having a baby will fix things, and we all know how that story
goes.  In Act II, “The Extinction Method,” Annie and Nate spend
the same evening trying to let their 11-month-old daughter cry
herself to sleep. It’s excruciating for both of them; us, too.  He’s an unemployed actor who bakes; she’s a stay-at-home
mom who seems to enjoy needling him (“wuss” is one of her
preferred terms of endearment). Maybe they’re just stressed from
lack of sleep; it happens. Can this marriage be saved? They
finally unite against a third party: the childless parenting
coach who’s been advising them via IM.  Astringently staged by Sam Buntrock and performed with
conviction by Dizzia and Keller, “Cradle and All” seems old
hat: Those arguments, again? Those secret hurts, still? Well,
yes. I wanted to slap them and say, “Grow up.” But that’s
exactly what they were doing.  Through June 19 at 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-
1212;  http://www.manhattantheatreclub.com  Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 