-- 
BAE to Sell Regional Aircraft Leasing Company for $187 Million

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-05-26T15:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/bae-to-sell-regional-aircraft-leasing-company-for-187-million.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, said it will sell its regional aircraft
management business and units that own 151 airplanes to  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  for $187 million.  The BAE Systems Asset Management unit, with operations in
Hatfield and Farnborough,  England , and Herndon,  Virginia , sells
and leases regional aircraft to commercial aircraft operators
and employs about 70 people, BAE said today in an e-mailed
statement. The sale to the New York-based asset manager won’t
include its U.K.-based regional aircraft support and engineering
business.  “We believe that this business will have a promising
future and that we have found a buyer with the resources and
expertise to support the growth of this activity,” Alan Fraser,
managing director of BAE Systems regional aircraft, said in the
statement.  BAE has been selling civilian-industry assets in the past
two decades to focus on military applications. Disposals have
included its 20 percent stake in planemaker Airbus SAS in 2006
and the Rover Cars brand in 1994. It dropped a plan to sell its
platform solutions unit making components for aircraft and
hybrid vehicles in January, saying it failed to reach an
agreement with potential buyers.  BAE Systems Asset Management is the world’s second-biggest
lessor of regional jets by fleet value, the London-based parent
company said. BAE has been running down its stock of aircraft at
the business. In 1993, when it was founded, it had 118 jets and
428 turboprop aircraft, according to its  website .  The business sustained impairment charges of 14 million
pounds ($22.9 million) during the 2010 fiscal year, BAE said in
its annual report. The business earned 35 million pounds before
interest, taxation and amortization and other items during that
year, according to the report.  On May 24, BAE said it would sell its composite structures
business in Brea,  California , to EnCore Composites Holdings
Inc., for about $32.5 million in cash.  About 170 people who
make composite parts for commercial and defense aircraft are
employed at the plant, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  