-- 
Banks That Mislead Watchdogs in EU May Be Fined 10% of Sales

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-26T12:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/banks-that-mislead-regulators-may-be-fined-10-of-sales-eu-says.html
The European Union may give national
regulators the power to impose tougher penalties for banks that
fail to disclose dangers to their survival, according to
proposals designed to safeguard the region’s financial markets.  Banks may be fined at least 10 percent of their annual
sales for the worst cases of misleading regulators about levels
of capital reserves, liquidity, indebtedness and risk taking,
under the draft EU proposals obtained by Bloomberg News. Bankers
may also be fined at least 10 percent of their yearly pay or 5
million euros ($7.1 million) for the most serious breaches.  “Effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctioning
regimes are key” to ensuring “compliance with EU banking
rules, protect users of banking services and ensure safety,
stability and integrity of banking markets,” said the draft
legislation prepared by the European Commission.  The Group of 20 countries is seeking to toughen financial
rules to curb excessive risk-taking and prevent a repeat of the
crisis triggered by collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
2008. Regulators in the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
agreed last year to more than double the high quality capital
that lenders must hold to cushion against possible losses, as
well as to enforce rules on bank liquidity and indebtedness.  The EU overhaul would be used to police lenders’ reporting
on whether they comply with the new Basel standards. Banks would
also be punished for missing targets for liquidity that the EU
intends to impose as part of its implementation of Basel rules.  “Great European Takeover’  Penalties would be applied to banks that fail to meet a so-
called liquidity coverage ratio, which requires them to hold
assets sufficient to survive a 30-day credit crunch, and to
lenders that contravene rules banning banks from focusing too
much of their activities on a single partner.  The plans are “the beginning of the great European
takeover of the process of how infractions are dealt with,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP
in  London , said in a phone interview. “It’s the thin end of the
wedge.”  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial-services chief, declined to immediately comment. EU
governments and the European Parliament need to approve the
final versions of draft laws before they can take effect.  While governments would have the power to set higher or
lower penalties depending on the severity of infractions, they
wouldn’t be able to set the ceiling for fines at a lower level.  Fining Powers  The rules may enable countries including  Germany  and Spain
to increase fines beyond current levels, according to data
published by the commission in December. The U.K. already has
fining powers beyond the minimum levels proposed by the EU.  “Serious questions will remain, firstly over whether
single member-state regulators will wish to be subject to the
overbearing hand of  Europe .” Penn said. “There will be a lot
of political nervousness about that.”  A bank’s financial strength, the size of its gains from any
breach of the rules, and its cooperation with regulators should
be considered by regulators to determine the level of fines,
James White, a spokesman for the Association for Financial
Markets in Europe. AFME represents international lenders
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   ‘Element of Discretion’  The EU rules should respect national legal frameworks, said
Irving Henry, a director of the British Bankers’ Association,
said in a telephone interview.  “The application of penalties
should have an element of discretion, as in U.K. law.”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and the Bank of
 Spain  declined to comment. Germany’s financial regulator, Bafin,
doesn’t comment on legislative proposals, said spokesman Ben
Fischer.  The fining measures are intended to accompany the EU’s
plans on the implementation of Basel III in the 27-nation region
that Barnier has promised to publish by the end of July.  Under the proposals, supervisors would also be required to
put in place whistle-blowing programs to improve detection of
violations.  Authorities should ensure “appropriate protection for
employees of institutions who denounce potential or actual
violations committed within the institution against retaliation
and discrimination,” the document says.  The rules would cover banks giving services that haven’t
been authorised by their regulators and failure to notify
supervisors of planned acquisitions.  The European Banking Authority, which brings together
regulators from across the EU, would be tasked with drawing up
guidelines on fines that should be applied in specific cases,
the document says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 