-- 
Bank of Ireland Said to Near Junior Debt-For-Equity Offer

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/bank-of-ireland-said-to-near-subordinated-debt-for-equity-offer.html
Bank of Ireland Plc is close to
completing an offer that allows junior bondholders to swap their
debt for equity in the lender, according to two people familiar
with the progress of the negotiations on the plan.  Ireland’s government, which owns 36 percent of the Dublin-
based lender, may initially permit the bank to proceed with a
voluntary debt-for-equity swap offer, rather than seeking a
court order to weaken the terms of the bonds, according to the
people, who declined to be identified, because details are not
yet complete.  The bank aims to convince as many as possible of its junior
debt holders, owed  2.8 billion euros  ($3.96 billion) at the end
of December, to take part, they said. The lender is working with
government officials on the plan, which may be submitted to
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  for approval as early as
tomorrow, according to a third person.  Ireland’s government, which has injected 46 billion euros
into its banks in the past two years, is seeking to share the
cost of bailing out the country’s lenders. The Irish central
bank in March ordered Bank of Ireland to raise 5.2 billion euros
in capital by the end of July, to boost reserves and cover loan
losses.  The take up of the debt-for-equity swap will determine how
much needs to be raised from a share sale. The government has
promised to provide any capital the bank cannot raise privately.
Officials from Bank of Ireland and the Finance Ministry declined
to comment.  Better Deal  “A debt-for-equity swap is probably a better deal for the
taxpayer than a straight cash tender,” said  Tom Jenkins , an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “It’s going
to be very difficult to structure, given that some bondholders
won’t be able to hold equity but it has the advantage of
respecting the seniority of the various levels of investor.”  Bank of Ireland was down 1.6 percent at 18.5 euro cents at
4:29 p.m. in Dublin trading, having earlier fallen as much as
8.5 percent.  Bank of Ireland’s 747 million euros of 10 percent, senior
subordinated bonds due 2020 rose 6 cents on the euro to 55.5
cents, a gain of 6.2 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. Its 201 million euros of 4.625 percent bonds due 2019
gained 2.2 cents to 48.7 cents, the prices show.  The  Finance Ministry  will probably tell the bond holders
that the government will take whatever steps are necessary to
force losses on junior bondholders that do not participate in
the debt-for-equity swap, according to the two people.  On May 11,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  said it would offer to
buy back junior debt at a discount of as much as 90 percent of
face value, after Noonan obtained a court order allowing him to
alter the terms of the bonds.  The order is currently being challenged by two New York-
based investment firms, Abadi & Co. and Aurelius Capital
Management LP. The case is set to be heard by the Dublin-based
 High Court  on June 2.  -- With assistance from John Glover in  London . Editors: Dara Doyle, Mark Gilbert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  