-- 
BofA, Morgan Stanley Settle Claims on Military Foreclosures

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-26T21:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/bofa-morgan-stanley-settle-u-s-allegations-over-foreclosures-on-soldiers.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  units will pay $22.4 million to resolve U.S. allegations
that they improperly foreclosed on active-duty soldiers,
including some who suffered severe injuries, without first
obtaining court orders.  The Bank of America unit will pay $20 million to settle a
lawsuit alleging improper foreclosure on about 160 members of
the military between 2006 and 2009, the Justice Department said
in a statement today. Morgan Stanley’s Saxon Mortgage Services
Inc. unit will pay $2.35 million to resolve a lawsuit alleging
it improperly foreclosed on 17 service members from 2006 to
2009.  “The men and women who serve our nation in the armed
forces deserve, at the very least, to know that they will not
have their homes taken from them wrongfully while they are
bravely putting their lives on the line on behalf of their
country,” Thomas Perez, the assistant attorney general
overseeing the  Justice Department ’s civil rights division, said
in today’s statement.  The foreclosures violated the Servicemembers Civil Relief
Act, which was enacted to shield deployed military personnel
from financial stress, according to the Justice Department.  ‘Not Acceptable’  “These errors are not acceptable, and we certainly regret
them,” Terry Laughlin, head of Bank of America’s unit managing
foreclosures and defaulted loans, said in an e-mail. “While
most cases involve loans originated by Countrywide and the
improper foreclosures were taken or started by Countrywide prior
to our acquisition, it is our responsibility to make things
right.”  Morgan Stanley apologizes to the military families affected
by the mistakes, Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our servicemen and women deserve the highest level of
 customer service ,” Lake said. “Saxon has taken meaningful
steps to ensure it has appropriate policies and procedures in
place to comply fully with the Servicemembers Civil Relief
Act.”  Last month, JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $27 million
in cash to about 6,000 active-duty military personnel who were
overcharged on their mortgages, cut  interest rates  on soldiers’
home loans and return homes that were wrongfully foreclosed
upon, according to settlement terms filed in federal court in
Beaufort,  South Carolina .  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  apologized
this month for improperly foreclosing on U.S. military
personnel.  ‘Deeply Apologize’  “We deeply apologize to the military, the veterans,
anyone who’s ever served this country,” Dimon said during the
New York-based bank’s annual shareholder meeting.  In many instances, the lenders knew or should have known
about the military status of the service members, according to
the Justice Department. Victims included people who served in
Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Some of those in the military foreclosed on by Saxon were
severely injured in the line of duty or suffer from post-
traumatic stress disorder, according to the Justice Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  