-- 
BofA Targeted as Attorneys General Step Up Pressure in Foreclosure Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/bofa-targeted-as-states-step-up-pressure-in-foreclosure-probe.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  faces increased
pressure from two attorneys general to change its mortgage-
servicing and foreclosure practices as states said the bank and
four other servicers may face $17 billion in claims.  Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff accused Bank of
America of breaking state law, while Connecticut Attorney
General George Jepsen said the bank failed to fix “well-
documented” problems in its mortgage-servicing business,
according to letters released by their offices yesterday.  Their demands, along with subpoenas issued to  Lender
Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  by attorneys general in  California  and
Illinois, were made public the day after state officials told
the five largest mortgage servicers they may face civil lawsuits
seeking $17 billion if they don’t settle the nationwide
investigation, according to a person familiar with the matter
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  The moves by states show  attorneys general  are aggressively
targeting the mortgage servicing industry even after banks
reached settlements with federal regulators, Kurt Eggert, a
professor at Chapman University School of Law in Orange,
California, said in an interview.  “It’s realistic that if the banks don’t craft some kind of
settlement that they will face significant lawsuits in some
states,” Eggert said. “There will be some states where the
attorney general says ‘I’m not going to do that,’ but I think
there will be a significant number of states where the attorney
general will want to do that investigation and will want to
bring lawsuits. I think we’re seeing actions in that
direction.”  50-State Probe  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced an
investigation last year following claims of faulty foreclosure
practices by banks. State officials and federal agencies,
including the  Justice Department , are negotiating a nationwide
settlement with the five largest mortgage servicers: Bank of
America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  At a May 24 meeting, state legal officers told the banks
they will face an estimated $17 billion in claims if the
inquiries result in civil lawsuits, according to the person.
Negotiators for the banks said they are prepared to dispute such
demands in court, the person said.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, declined comment. Miller is leading negotiations for the
states.  ‘Bad Things’  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
investigating banks’ mortgage securitizations, and California
Attorney General Kamala Harris announced May 23 that she has
established a mortgage fraud task force.  “It’s clear that servicers have done a lot of bad things
and they haven’t been called to account for it yet,” Eggert
said. “A state attorney general who really wants to do some
digging can find a lot of bad actions by servicers and the
question has always been who is going to do the digging and
who’s going to find what facts are there.”  Utah  and Connecticut this month sent letters to  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America complaining of illegal or
inadequate practices.  Utah’s attorney general claims the bank’s ReconTrust Co.
unit isn’t meeting legal requirements for conducting home
foreclosures. The letter to Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer Brian Moynihan is dated May 19 and was released
yesterday by the attorney general.  Utah Foreclosures  “All real estate foreclosures conducted by ReconTrust in
the state of Utah are not in compliance with Utah’s statutes,
and are hence illegal,” Shurtleff wrote.  ReconTrust must be a member of the state bar or a title
insurance company to conduct its foreclosures, according to the
attorney general.  “ReconTrust will continue to handle foreclosures in
compliance with applicable laws,”  Jumana Bauwens , a Bank of
America spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Bank of America makes
every effort to reach out to delinquent customers to offer home
retention options as well as foreclosure avoidance programs.”  Jepsen of  Connecticut  said Bank of America, the biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, “is failing to devote adequate resources”
to its mortgage-servicing business in the state, according to a
May 20 letter released by his office yesterday.  Mortgage borrowers seeking help are experiencing
“significant difficulties” with the bank, according to the
letter. Jepsen is helping to lead settlement negotiations with
mortgage servicers as part of the 50-state investigation.  Consumer Complaints  “Despite having had more than two years to ‘right-size’
your staff and establish effective procedures and systems, Bank
of America has so far not prevented even the most common
consumer complaints,” Jepsen wrote to Moynihan.  Bank of America officials recently met with Jepsen to
discuss “mortgage-related concerns,” T.J. Crawford, a company
representative, said in an e-mail. The bank has worked with
local governments and counseling organizations in the state to
educate homeowners, according to Crawford.  “Since January of 2009, we have expanded the staffing
level in default servicing three-fold, and approximately 30,000
are now dedicated to this area,” Crawford said.  Harris, California’s attorney general, said she subpoenaed
Lender Processing as part of her investigation into so-called
robo-signing, the practice of signing foreclosure documents
without verifying their accuracy.  Illinois  Subpoenas  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan issued subpoenas to
Lender Processing and Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., she said
yesterday.  “Foreclosure became a rubber-stamping operation that
robbed many homeowners of the American dream without a fair and
accurate process,” Madigan said in a statement. “California
homeowners have been exposed to fraud and crime at every step of
the mortgage process,” Harris said in a separate statement.  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , didn’t return a call
seeking comment yesterday.  “Nationwide Title Clearing has not yet been served a
subpoena from the Illinois attorney general and therefore cannot
comment on the specifics at this time,” Cassandra McSparin,
spokeswoman for the Palm Harbor, Florida-based company, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The company intends to cooperate with
the attorney general’s office to the fullest extent of the
law.”  ‘Thoroughly Audited’  Nationwide’s mortgage assignment documents and procedures
have been “thoroughly audited and examined for accuracy,”
McSparin said.  Madigan said she will investigate reported allegations that
Lender Processing Services and Nationwide Title Clearing engaged
in robo-signing and would include a “complete review of the
accuracy of the systems and services” they supply to large
lenders.  Lender Processing provides loan servicing support for more
than 50 percent of all U.S. mortgages, with a principal balance
of more than $4.5 trillion, Madigan said. Nationwide provides
services to eight of the top 10 lenders and servicers in the
U.S., she said.  “Nationwide is not a foreclosure services company and does
not prepare foreclosure specific affidavits, such as those to
evict people from their homes, and has never done so,” McSparin
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  