-- 
Bofinger Proposes Joint Euro Bonds, Haircut to Lower Greek Debt

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/bofinger-proposes-joint-euro-bonds-haircut-to-lower-greek-debt.html
Euro-area governments should consider
haircuts and the issuance of joint bonds to cut the debt burden
of countries such as  Greece , said Peter Bofinger, a member of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers.  Cutting Greece’s debt by 40 percent and converting the rest
of the money owned into so-called euro-bonds should lower
Greece’s interest-rate payments and also stabilize the euro-area
region, Bofinger told journalists in Hamburg last night.  “The higher the rates, the longer it takes and the harder
it is for countries to get their debt right,” Bofinger told the
Hamburg club for business journalists. “It must be in our
genuine German interest” to lower “this whole debt mountain.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is seeking political
backing for a new round of spending cuts and asset sales that
run through 2015, as the euro region and the  International
Monetary Fund  discuss additional financing Greece needs to avert
a default. The country got a 110 billion-euro ($155 billion)
bailout from the European Union and the IMF last May in exchange
for measures including wage cuts and higher sales taxes.  The “punitive interest rate” Greece pays on its bailout
loans means the country is unlikely to be able to lower its debt
burden, Bofinger said. The country will have total debt of 400
billion euros by 2013-2014, which compares with the 500 billion
euros available in the European Stability Mechanism, he said.  The failure to lower the interest rates on the debt of
countries such as Greece means politics have failed “to get a
head-start over the markets,” Bofinger said. The high interest
rates lead to more austerity measures, which may cause higher
unemployment, lower growth and less investment, said Bofinger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  