-- 
Branson Says Virgin Atlantic Has Options in Quest for Allies

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-26T13:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/branson-says-virgin-atlantic-has-choice-of-allies-as-deal-nears.html
Richard Branson  said he’s in talks
with as many as three potential suitors for Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. and that he’s likely to reach a decision on a
partnership sometime in the next quarter.  “Discussions with two or three parties are progressing,”
Branson said last night in an interview in Chicago. “Within the
next two or three months we should be clear on whether there’s
an alliance we’re happy with or not.”  Branson, 60, has hired Deutsche Bank AG to assess Virgin
Atlantic’s strategic options as rivals British Airways and
American Airlines boost cooperation on key trans-Atlantic
routes. The entrepreneur, who founded the U.K. carrier in 1984,
said that while joining an alliance is essential, it’s not yet
clear whether he will sell down his 51 percent stake.  “I’ve always made clear that I would still be very much
involved,” Branson said. “My principal interest is in the
alliance. If it means selling shares, we’ll consider that.”  Carriers may be dissuaded from taking a stake in Virgin
Atlantic because of the strength of British Airways, said  Chris
Logan , an analyst at Echelon Research & Advisory in  London . BA
is allowed to coordinate fares and timetables with  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American after their alliance won antitrust approval last year.  ‘Price War’  “I’m not sure any airline would want to pay a lot of money
for Virgin and then try and earn a return on that investment on
business across the North Atlantic,” Logan said. “That would
mean taking BA on head-to-head and might trigger a price war.
I’m not sure that’s something they would want to do.”  The fate of a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic held by
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which could determine control of the
company, will probably turn on the choice of alliance, Branson
said. Singapore Air is a member of the Star Alliance, alongside
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and BMI,
the No. 2 slot-holder at London’s Heathrow airport after BA.  “Whether Singapore Airlines decides to sell their shares
or not depends on what offer, what the alliance is,” Branson
said. “That’s undecided.”  Joining the SkyTeam grouping led by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
and  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group would also help bolster Virgin’s
business model. Membership of the Oneworld alliance may be less
likely given the rivalry with British Airways at Heathrow.  “It’s pretty safe to say that Virgin won’t join Oneworld,”
Logan said. “They could do something in Star, including even a
Heathrow slot exchange or joint venture arrangement with
Lufthansa-BMI. That’s something that would be easier to do than
if they were operating as a standalone airline.”  Brand Strength  Virgin Atlantic doesn’t necessary need to join the biggest
alliance on offer, said Branson, who was speaking at an event to
publicize the Virgin America unit’s new services from  Los
Angeles  and  San Francisco  to Chicago.  “Virgin already has the branding around the world and
that’s getting stronger,” he said. “So no need to have the
biggest grouping. But we do think it should have a grouping that
brings strength.”  Virgin Atlantic first said in December it had attracted
approaches from several parties, six months after Chief
Executive Officer Steve Ridgway signaled its interest in a
merger, and had appointed Deutsche Bank to evaluate options.  Branson said earlier this month in Sydney that the linkup
between British Airways and  American Airlines  had made it “more
of an imperative for us to look at our own alliances.”  Airline alliances allow carriers to offer a wider network
of flights, share lounges and in some cases to reduce common
costs, and are likely to form a template for mergers within the
industry, according to Willie Walsh, chief executive officer of
BA’s parent, International Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  “I don’t think an alliance is going to make much difference
to Virgin,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS
Consulting. “They are smaller but they have areas of focus that
have value. They could tweak the network and perhaps decide to
fly less elsewhere and play to their strengths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in  Chicago  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  