-- 
Brazil Cuts Estimate for ‘Gigantic’ Oil Field After Drilling

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-26T19:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/brazil-s-libra-field-likely-has-5-billion-barrels-anp-says.html
Brazil ’s oil regulator reduced its
estimate for the Libra field after conducting a drilling program
at the site, director Magda Chambriard said.  The agency, known as the ANP, said the field likely holds 5
billion barrels and may contain as few as 4.5 billion barrels,
Chambriard said today at the Latin Oil Week conference in Rio de
Janeiro. That’s down from a previous estimate of as many as 15
billion barrels.  The agency said in October that the field may hold
“gigantic” reserves almost twice as large as those of Tupi,
which has since been renamed Lula and was the biggest discovery
in the Americas in the past three decades. Brazil is counting on
large discoveries in the so-called pre-salt region offshore to
fund social programs aimed at reducing poverty in  South
America ’s largest economy.  “Libra, before drilling a well, was statistically
calculated as an opportunity of 3.7 to 15 billion barrels,”
Chambriard told reporters. “We drilled, we reduced uncertainty,
and now the most probable volume is 5 billion barrels. It could
be 4.5 billion, it could be 6 billion.”  The regulator is waiting for lawmakers to approve new
legislation on oil royalties before auctioning Libra and other
exploration areas in the pre-salt region in deep waters of the
Atlantic Ocean, Chambriard said. The government’s first auction
will include the Libra field, she said.  Biggest Share Sale  State-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  will operate all
new concessions in the pre-salt under new regulations. The
company raised about $70 billion in September in the world’s
biggest share sale ever as it seeks cash to fund exploration.  Brazil plans to auction 174 oil exploration areas on land
and off the coast of northern and northeastern Brazil in the
third quarter of this year.  “We’re expecting all the large companies,” Chambriard
said about possible bidders for the blocks. “We’re including
larger exploration blocks at the request of the companies.”  The exploration licenses to be awarded in so-called Round
11 will be bigger than in previous auctions because there hasn’t
been much exploration in the region, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  