-- 
Brazil Fund Switches From Railways to Wind Farms to Feed Growth

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/brazil-development-fund-shifts-from-railways-to-wind-farms-to-feed-growth.html
Fundo de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste,
a government fund that investments in development projects in
northeast  Brazil , will shift its focus from railways to wind
farms to meet the region’s growing power needs.  The fund may approve 1.3 billion reais ($800 million), or
more than three-quarters of its budget, for wind projects this
year, Norberto Scopel, a general coordinator at  Superintendencia
do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste , the development agency that
helps administer the investment vehicle, said yesterday in a
phone interview.  Rising demand for electricity to support the growing local
economy prompted the fund to concentrate more of its efforts on
projects that will harness energy from the region’s windy
coastline.  “Energy demand is growing quickly,” Scopel said. “We
don’t want any more blackouts like we had at the start of the
decade.”  Scopel said the fund may become more popular than two
government banks, which have been the first port-of-call for
wind developers seeking  project financing . More than half the
fund’s loans will be furnished to wind projects over the next
few years, he said.  Biggest Wind Financer  “We’re on track to become one of the northeast’s biggest
financers of energy,” he said. Another 420 million reais may be
earmarked from this year’s budget for two fossil-fuel
thermoelectric projects, he said.  FDNE’s 20-year loans cover as much as 60 percent of project
costs and carry annual rates as low as 7 percent, he said.
Virtually all its resources in recent years were pledged to a
1,728-kilometer (1,074-mile) railway connecting two ports to the
interior of Piaui state.  Electricity consumption in Brazil’s northeast region
increased 8.9 percent last year over 2009, compared with a 7.9
percent rise for all of Brazil, according to Sao Paulo-based
electricity trading board Camara de Comercializacao de Energia
Eletrica, known as CCEE.  More than 80 percent of the 3.9 gigawatts of wind projects
that signed contracts in power auctions in the last three years
are planned for Brazil’s northeastern states of  Rio Grande  do
Norte, Ceara, Bahia and Sergipe, according to CCEE and national
energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica.  Developers planning wind farms in the region expect their
projects to generate power more than 50 percent of the time,
more than twice what’s possible in  Europe , according to CCEE and
New Energy Finance.  FDNE has an annual budget of about 1.7 billion reais that
rises every year with Brazil’s economic growth, Scopel said. It
has approved more than $500 million of loans for wind farms
since it was created in 2001, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  