-- 
British Consumer Confidence Increases the Most in 18 Years

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-27T08:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/british-consumer-confidence-jumps-the-most-in-18-years-gfk-says.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  jumped the
most in 18 years in May as Britons became less pessimistic about
their finances and the economy, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed.  An index of sentiment rose 10 points from April to minus
21, the highest in five months, the London-based research group
said in an e-mailed report today. That’s the biggest increase
since May 1993 and lifts the gauge from a level equal to that
seen in the depth of the recession in February 2009.  A separate report from  Nationwide Building Society  showed
 house prices  rose more than economists forecast in May. Still,
both GfK and Nationwide said the reports may not be the
beginning of a pickup in spending, citing the squeeze on
households from accelerating inflation and concerns about the
government’s budget squeeze.  “It is far too early to know whether this could be the
start of an upward trend,” GfK Social Research Managing
Director Nick Moon said in a statement. “We are improving from
a rock-bottom position and consumer confidence is still deeply
in the negative. We are not out of the woods.”  GfK’s measure of consumers’ view of their personal
financial situation over the last 12 months rose 5 points to
minus 18, and an index of expectations gained 11 points to minus
3. A gauge of Britons’ willingness to make major purchases rose
5 points to minus 26. The overall confidence index fell 3 points
from a year ago.  GfK surveyed 2,005 Britons from May 6 to May 15. The
results have a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  ‘Feel-Good Factor’  A measure of sentiment on the economic outlook advanced 15
points to minus 15. GfK said the gain in confidence may be
partly due to a “feel-good factor” following two consecutive
four-day holiday weekends and the wedding of  Prince William  and
 Kate Middleton  at the end of April.  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest fashion retailer,
raised its full-year profit forecast on May 4 after the warmest
April on record and royal wedding celebrations boosted sales.  Still, U.K. unemployment claims rose at the fastest rate in
15 months in April, underlining the fragility of the economic
recovery.  Bank of England  officials said this month that an
interest-rate increase now could damp consumer spending.  Nationwide’s report showed the average cost of a home
increased 0.3 percent to 167,208 pounds ($274,840) this month
after a 0.2 percent drop in April.  “While the outlook remains uncertain, sideways still
appears the most likely trajectory for house prices over the
remainder of the year,” Nationwide Chief Economist Robert Gardner said. The deterioration in  consumer spending  “argues
against a strong bounce in property prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  