-- 
Burberry Full-Year Profit Rises 39%

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-26T10:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/burberry-says-profit-rises-sees-modest-margin-gain-ahead-1-.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury goods maker, fell in  London  trading after saying
it expects “a more modest” increase in profitability in the
fiscal year ahead as it opens and refits outlets.  Retail and wholesale adjusted operating margin widened to
15.6 percent in the 12 months ended March 31 from 12.7 percent a
year earlier, London-based Burberry said today in a statement.
This year’s forecast is “simply calling out a more modest
trajectory from here,” Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said on a conference call.  The retailer said its operating margin will probably fall
in the first six months of the fiscal year as investments are
weighted to the period. The shares fell as much as 3.5 percent,
leading European luxury stocks lower.  The apparel industry is facing higher overheads because of
rising cotton prices and increased pay for workers who make
clothes in  Asia . Yesterday, U.S. rival Polo Ralph Lauren Corp.
fell the most in more than two and a half years after reporting
a 36 percent declined in profit.  “The shares look fully priced for now and will need the
Asia region to continue to perform, including new concept stores
and their second men’s wear collection to stop returns from
falling,” MF Global analysts including Andy Smith and Mike Dennis wrote today in a note. They have a “strong sell”
recommendation on the shares.  Adjusted pretax profit climbed 39 percent to 297.9 million
pounds ($486 million) from 214.8 million pounds a year earlier,
Burberry said. That beat the 292.8 million-pound average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ralph Lauren  Miss  “With the shares having rallied 11 percent over last three
months and with Ralph Lauren missing numbers yesterday, profit-
taking was to be expected” for Burberry today, said  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in London.  Burberry fell 46 pence, or 3.5 percent, to 1,274 pence at
11:10 a.m. in London.  The company, known for its  plaid-lined trench coats , raised
its forecast in April after revenue in its fiscal fourth quarter
rose 32 percent to 390 million pounds, led by demand in China.
The company said at the time it expected adjusted pretax profit
to be at the top end of estimates that ranged from 279 million
pounds to 300 million pounds.  Burberry said it plans to boost capital expenditure this
year to as much as 200 million pounds from 108 million pounds.  Store Renovations  “About half will be spent on renovating some of the big
flagship stores that have not been renovated for a number of
years,” Chief Executive Officer Angela Ahrendts said in an
interview posted today on YouTube. “The other part of the
investment is going into new stores,” particularly in  China .  About 20 million pounds will be spent in London, Ahrendts
said today on the call. About 30 million pounds will be spent on
IT business projects, Burberry said.  “We have the most solid foundation the company has had in
a long time due to all the investments we’ve made in the
business in the last five years,” Ahrendts said. “We’re simply
shifting our focus to the front end of the business,
accelerating investment to optimize this opportunity.”  The luxury goods maker increased its annual dividend by 43
percent to 20 pence a share. Attributable profit was 208.4
million pounds. Net cash was 297.9 million pounds.  Burberry “is very happy to run with a prudent balance
sheet for now, mindful of the investment opportunities,”
Cartwright said.  Last year’s figures exclude Burberry’s discontinued
business in  Spain , where it closed a warehouse and stopped
making a local collection last year. The adjusted numbers
exclude restructuring credit and charges linked to Burberry’s
business in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 