-- 
California Gay History Plan Widens Textbook Divide With Texas

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/california-gay-history-plan-widens-textbook-divide-with-texas.html
A California state lawmaker’s bill to
require that public-school textbooks include the achievements of
gay Americans may widen a divide among U.S. states over how to
teach history, with publishers such as McGraw-Hill Cos. and
 Pearson Plc (PSON)  in the middle.  Senator Mark Leno’s  measure  directing social-science
classes to include the “role and contributions” of lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgendered people  passed  the Senate in
April. To become law, it needs approval by the Assembly and
Governor  Jerry Brown , elected last year with  support  from
Equality California, the state’s largest gay-rights group.  California and Texas are the largest textbook buyers in the
U.S., accounting for more than 20 percent of the $3.4 billion
market in 2009, according to the  Association of American
Publishers . That gives them outsized influence with publishers,
who try to sell the books to other states, said Gilbert T.
Sewall, director of the New York-based  American Textbook
Council , an independent group.  “That wouldn’t pass muster in  Texas ,” said  Patricia
Hardy , a Republican on the Texas Board of Education, which
approves which textbooks to use. “It wouldn’t be something the
voters in Texas would accept. Period.”  Hardy was among nine Republicans on the 15-member board who
ordered  curriculum changes  last year that elevated politically
conservative historical figures and topics, such as  Ronald
Reagan  and free-market economic theory.  Idealogical Agenda  Democratic members of the Texas board accused the
Republicans of bending history to suit an ideological agenda.
Mavis Knight, a Dallas Democrat, labeled the outcome a
“travesty,” according to the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.  California lawmakers responded by passing a  bill  to bar use
of the Texas textbooks because of their “sharp departure from
widely accepted historical teachings.” Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican,  vetoed  the measure, calling it
unnecessary since California already had its own process for
screening textbooks.  Gay issues are politically important in California. Last
week, Brown proclaimed “Harvey Milk Day,” in honor of the
first openly gay man in the U.S. elected to public office. Milk,
who won a seat on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, and
Mayor George Moscone were shot to death in  City Hall  in 1978.  If Leno’s bill becomes law, the 2010 debate may play out in
reverse this year. That’s fine with  Gail Lowe , a Republican
who’s president of the Texas Board of Education.  “California has the right to adopt the standards they want
and Texas has the right to adopt ours,” she said in a telephone
interview.  No Similar Mandate  Leno, a gay Democrat from  San Francisco , said no other
state has a similar mandate to teach gay history.  “I am well aware of the fact that California leads on many
important social issues,” he said in a telephone interview. “I
would not be surprised if students elsewhere learn about the
important contributions of these Americans” because of
California’s requirement.  The Tennessee Senate took the opposite approach May 20,
 voting  to forbid teachers and students in kindergarten through
eighth grade from discussing that some people are gay. The
 Associated Press  reported that no other state has a similar law.
The Tennessee bill has not gone to the state House.  McGraw-Hill, Pearson and Boston-based Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt Publishing Co. are three of the largest U.S. textbook
publishers, according to Jeremy Steffens of the Association of
American Publishers, a Washington-based trade group.  Education Unit Profit  McGraw-Hill’s education unit accounted for 39 percent of
the New York-based company’s 2010 revenue and 23 percent of its
$1.4 billion in operating income, according to company filings.
London-based Pearson made about 80 percent of its earnings from
education in 2010. Its North American education unit accounted
for 47 percent of the company’s $5.6 billion in revenue in 2010.  Megan Wilson, a spokeswoman for closely held Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages
requesting comment. Mary Skafidas, a spokeswoman for McGraw-
Hill, and Kate Miller, a spokeswoman for Pearson Education,
referred questions to the publishers’ association.  Jay Diskey, the executive director of the association’s
school division, said  California  and Texas have lost some clout
in the national textbook market as publishers have tailored
books to the social and academic standards of different states.
Improved technology has lowered the cost of publishing different
editions of the same volume, he said by phone.  National Editions  “There was a time with the national editions where you
might see more California content in a book,” Diskey said. “In
this era of standards-based reform where every state has its own
standards, the influence is not necessarily a significant one.”  Still, California and Texas accounted for more than 22
percent of total public-school  enrollment  in the 2009-10 school
year, according to U.S. Education Department statistics. While
their influence over textbooks in other states may be waning,
it’s still significant, said Sewall, the head of the New York-
based American Textbook Council, which reviews history and
social-studies books.  “They say there’s more gradation, and to some extent
that’s true,” Sewall said. “Believe me, California and Texas
still matter.”  If Leno’s bill becomes law, it may take several years for
California textbooks to catch up, said Tom Adams, director of
the schools  division  responsible for instructional materials.
The state, which is struggling to close a $9.6 billion budget
gap, has a moratorium on adopting new instructional materials
until 2015, he said in a telephone interview.  In addition to changing textbooks, Leno’s bill would let
social-studies teachers more openly discuss the contributions of
gay people, just as they do with other minority groups, Adams
said.  “No one says you have to spend three days or three months
on it -- or three minutes,” Adams said, adding that local
school boards still have broad powers over curriculum in
California schools. “Rarely at the state level do we mandate
something like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  