-- 
Cameron Pledges $180 Million Aid Package for Egypt, Tunisia

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-26T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/cameron-pledges-180-million-aid-package-for-egypt-tunisia.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
Britain will provide  Egypt ,  Tunisia  and other Arab nations with
110 million pounds ($180 million) of aid to encourage political
and economic development.  The aid, to be disbursed over four years, will aim to
support the creation of political parties and human-rights
groups and foster freedom of speech, Cameron’s office said. The
money will also be used to support economic programs by the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other
international lenders.  “What I would say to everybody about the issue of overseas
aid is that there is a real case for saying if you can secure
greater democracy and freedom in countries like Egypt and
Tunisia, that is good for us back at home,” Cameron said in
Deauville,  France , where he is meeting Group of Eight leaders
today and tomorrow. “That will mean less extremism, it will mean
more peace and prosperity, it will mean there will not be the
pressure on immigration that many otherwise face our country.”  International aid is the only budget area other than health
that will increase over the next four years as Cameron’s
coalition administration implements the biggest cuts in public
spending since World War II. Popular uprisings in Tunisia and
Egypt this year ousted incumbent presidents. NATO-led forces are
supporting Libyan rebels in their attempts to oust the country’s
longtime leader,  Muammar Qaddafi .  Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said in an opinion piece in
today’s Financial Times that anti-democratic forces will gain
strength in the months ahead if recent mass protests that
triggered the fall of dictators in the Middle East aren’t
accompanied by financial support and economic development.  About 40 million pounds of the U.K support will come from
the Foreign Office budget and 70 million pounds from the
 Department for International Development . Other countries
getting support include Jordan and Morocco, Cameron’s office
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Deauville, France, at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  