-- 
Carlyle Group Took $118 Million From Libyan Fund, Group Says

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-05-26T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/carlyle-group-took-118-million-from-libyan-fund-group-says.html
Buyout firm  Carlyle Group  accepted
$118 million from the biggest sovereign-wealth fund in Libya,
demonstrating the North African nation’s success in courting
asset managers and banks after persuading Western politicians
that it had dropped ties to terrorism.  Carlyle, whose advisers have included former U.S. President
George H.W. Bush and former Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci,
received $75.5 million for its Carlyle-Partner V Fund, according
to a document released today by  Global Witness , a London-based
advocacy group. The Carlyle-Mena Fund accepted $42.6 million,
according to the Libyan Investment Authority filing, which
 Global Witness  said it obtained from an undisclosed source.  Libya established the investment authority in the past
decade to find outlets for its rapidly growing oil wealth. As
part of his plan to open  Libya ’s economy, Muammar Qaddafi’s
government organized meetings with former U.K. Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  and Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . The
Carlyle allocations are among $13 billion of investments Libya
made in private-equity firms,  hedge funds , stocks and bonds,
according to the document released today.  “The political establishment opened their arms to Qaddafi
after 2006 and the financial establishment followed suit,”
Robert Palmer, a policy adviser and investigator for Global
Witness, said in an interview. “This is surprising, considering
the very obvious risks of corruption in Libya and that state
assets could have been diverted for his personal gain.”  Hedge Funds  Palmer declined to comment when asked who gave the Libya
Investment Authority filing to Global Witness.  Carlyle spokesman Christopher Ullman declined to comment.  Hedge funds that accepted money from the Libyan Investment
Authority include New York-based  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC (OZM) , which received $300 million, and Millennium Global
Investments Ltd., which got $301 million, according to the
filing released by Global Witness.  Spokesmen for Och-Ziff and Millennium declined to comment.  The 19-page document outlines the Libyan Investment
Authority’s holdings and investment performance through June
2010. The market value of the fund’s assets at the time was
$53.3 billion, with $19.8 billion held as deposits, according to
the filing.  The Libyan fund’s investments in equity derivatives with a
book value of $1.25 billion plunged 98 percent to $19.9 million
as of June 30, according to the report.  Rubenstein’s Comments  Private-equity firms including Carlyle have set up teams or
raised funds targeting investments in the Middle East in North
Africa as they seek to tap faster growth than in Western
economies.  Carlyle Co-founder  David Rubenstein  said in a March 1
speech that his firm hadn’t invested in Libya. He didn’t say
whether Carlyle had accepted investments from the nation.  Governments around the world froze assets tied to Qaddafi’s
regime in February after violence erupted in the African nation.
The U.S. and U.K. governments are now backing rebels trying to
remove Qaddafi from power.  The Carlyle V fund, which targets buyouts in  North America ,
amassed $13.7 billion in 2007. Carlyle raised $500 million for
the Mena fund, which invests in the Middle East and North
Africa, in 2009.  Investments such as the Carlyle allocation began flowing
into and out of Libya after Qaddafi told Blair in 2004 that he
would abandon efforts to develop nuclear weapons, destroy
stockpiles of chemical weapons and renounce terrorism.  ‘Investment Opportunities’  The U.S. Commerce Department in 2008 issued a 67-page
document advising companies on how to do business in Libya.
While there are “potentially rich trade and investment
opportunities” in the nation, it also poses “great challenges
to successfully operating,” the document said.  The Libyan Investment Authority filing shows  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  held assets for Qaddafi’s
government. HSBC held $292.7 million across 10 accounts and
Goldman Sachs had almost $44 million in four accounts. The banks
declined to comment.  About $3.9 billion was invested in structured products with
hedge funds and investment banks, including more than $1 billion
at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and $171.5 million at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the document shows. Spokesmen for the banks declined to
comment.  The Libyan fund’s investments were reported earlier today
by the Financial Times and the  BBC .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 7
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  