-- 
Carlo Ancelotti May Be Offered QPR Manager’s Job: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-26T10:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/carlo-ancelotti-may-be-offered-qpr-manager-s-job-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ancelotti for QPR?  Former Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  may be offered an
immediate Premier League return with promoted Queens Park
Rangers, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  QPR coach Neil Warnock’s leading boardroom ally, vice-
chairman Amit Bhatia, quit his post yesterday in a move that
left Warnock “exposed,” the newspaper added.  Bhatia, son-in-law of metals billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ,
confirmed that his family’s bid to buy the team from Bernie Ecclestone had been turned down. He also disagreed with an
increase of as much as 40 percent in season-ticket prices.  Jose Mourinho has ruled out a return to Chelsea,  the Sun 
reported. The Real Madrid coach “snubbed” Blues owner Roman Abramovich by saying he is not interested in replacing
Ancelotti, who left last weekend, the newspaper added  Arsenal Target  Arsenal has pulled out of the race to sign West Ham’s  Scott Parker  and is now focusing on Lille’s Eden Hazard, according to
the  Daily Star .  Attacking midfielder Hazard is rated at 30 million pounds
($49 million), the Star added.  Ex-Arsenal captain Patrick Vieira may return to his old
club as a coach, the  Daily Mail  reported.  He’s set to be released by Manchester City in the weeks
ahead after making only 16 starts for the team this season, the
Mail added.  Houllier’s Return  Aston Villa manager  Gerard Houllier  is keen to return to
work after doctors reassured him that his recent health scare
wasn’t connected with his job, the  Daily Express  said.  He expects to be back in charge for pre-season as early as
July 7, the Express added.  Black Cat Crouch?  Striker  Peter Crouch  is a target for Sunderland manager
Steve Bruce,  the Sun  said.  Tottenham will only do a deal if it can recoup the 10
million pounds Crouch cost two years ago when he joined from
Portsmouth, the newspaper added.  Sunderland is set to open talks with Coventry goalkeeper
Keiren Westwood before this weekend,  the Guardian  reported. He’s
available on a free transfer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 