-- 
Carter: Economic Stagnation Explained, at 30,000 Feet

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-05-26T19:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/carter-economic-stagnation-explained-at-30-000-feet.html
The man in the aisle seat is trying
to tell me why he refuses to hire anybody. His business is
successful, he says, as the 737 cruises smoothly eastward.
Demand for his product is up. But he still won’t hire.  “Why not?”  “Because I don’t know how much it will cost,” he
explains. “How can I hire new workers today, when I don’t know
how much they will cost me tomorrow?”  He’s referring not to wages, but to regulation: He has no
way of telling what new rules will go into effect when. His
business, although it covers several states, operates on low
margins. He can’t afford to take the chance of losing what
little profit there is to the next round of regulatory changes.
And so he’s hiring nobody until he has some certainty about
cost.  It’s a little odd to be having this conversation as the
news media keep insisting that private employment is picking up.
But as economists have pointed out to all who will listen, the
only real change is that the rate of layoffs has slowed. Fewer
than one of six small businesses added jobs last year, and not
many more expect to do so this year. The private sector is
creating no more new jobs than it was a year ago; the man in the
aisle seat is trying to tell me why.  He is trim and white-haired and bursting with energy. He’s
proud of the business he has built: not large by the way things
are measured these days, but certainly successful. He shows me
sales figures, award citations, stories from trade magazines. I
congratulate him, then turn to the window and enjoy the view for
a bit. We are flying over the Midwest, away from the setting sun
and toward the darkness. America stretches beneath us in every
direction, flat and broad and beautiful. My seat-mate has just
discovered that I am a law professor: That is the reason for his
discourse.  Party Doesn’t Matter  “I don’t understand why  Washington  does this to us," he
resumes. By "us," he means people who run businesses of less-
than-Fortune-500 size. He tells me that it doesn’t much matter
which party is in office. Every change of power means a whole
new set of rules to which he and those like him must respond.
‘‘I don’t understand,” he continues, “why Washington won’t
just get out of our way and let us hire.”  There are a lot of responses I could offer at this point.
But I am interested now; I prefer to let him talk.  It isn’t just hiring that is too unpredictable, he says. He
feels the same way about investing. He has never liked stock
markets; he prefers to put cash directly into businesses he
likes in return for a small stake, acting, in short, as a small-
time venture capitalist.  “Can’t do that now,” he says. For people like him --
people who aren’t filthy rich -- it has become too hard to pick
winners. But he doesn’t blame the great information advantages
enjoyed by insiders. He blames Washington, once more, for
creating a climate of uncertainty.  Thinking of Selling  Growing bold -- or maybe rude -- I ask why, if the climate
is so terrible, he doesn’t just sell his company. This brings a
smile.  “I think about retirement a lot,” he says. “But I
can’t.” I wait to hear about how much he loves the business he
founded, or about his responsibilities to his employees, or
perhaps to the town, somewhere in the Dakotas, where his factory
is located. Instead, he tells me that it’s impossible to make a
sensible decision about winding down his firm when he doesn’t
even know from one year to the next what the capital gains rate
is going to be.  I argue a bit. Surely government isn’t all bad. It protects
property, the environment, civil rights . . .  No `Installed Base'  My seat-mate seems to think that I’m missing the point.
He’s not anti-government. He’s not anti-regulation. He just
needs to know as he makes his plans that the rules aren’t going
to change radically. Big businesses don’t face the same problem,
he says. They have lots of customers to spread costs over. They
have “installed base.”  For medium-sized firms like his, however, there is little
wiggle room to absorb the costs of regulatory change. Because he
possesses neither lobbyists nor clout, he says, Washington
doesn’t care whether he hires more workers or closes up shop.  We will be landing shortly in  Minneapolis . I ask him what,
precisely, he thinks is the proper role of government as it
relates to business.  `Invisible'  “Invisible,” he says. “I know there are things the
government has to do. But they need to find a way to do them
without people like me having to bump into a new regulation
every time we turn a corner.” He reflects for a moment, then
finds the analogy he seeks. “Government should act like my
assistant, not my boss.”  We are at the gate. We exchange business cards.  On the way to my connection, I ponder. As an academic with
an interest in policy, I tend to see businesses as abstractions,
fitting into a theory or a data set. Most policy makers do the
same. We rarely encounter the simple human face of the less-
than-giant businesses we constantly extol. And when they refuse
to hire, we would often rather go on television and call them
greedy than sit and talk to them about their challenges.  Recessions have complex causes, but, as the man on the
aisle reminded me, we do nothing to make things better when the
companies on which we rely see Washington as adversary rather
than partner.  (Stephen L. Carter, a Bloomberg View columnist, is a professor
of law at  Yale University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  For related news and information:  To contact the writer of this column: 
 stephen.carter@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  