-- 
China Tops India as Asian Country Most Likely to Maintain Economic Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-27T06:39:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/china-tops-india-as-asian-country-most-likely-to-maintain-economic-growth.html
China  ranks first among 22 emerging
Asian economies as the country most likely to maintain steady
and rapid growth over the next five years, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Momentum Index for Developing  Asia .  China scored 76.2 percent in a ranking of 16 areas
including economic competition, education level, urban
migration, high-technology exports and inflation that measure a
country’s ability to continue delivering high growth.  India  was
second with a score of 64.1 percent followed by Vietnam at 61.9
percent. Timor-Leste was last at 25.3 percent.  The index suggests China and India’s economic surge is
durable and will likely continue to drive global growth as the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  lag behind. Gross domestic product in
each of the top three Asian countries in the index expanded at
least 5.4 percent a quarter on average throughout 2008 and 2009
while the U.S., the eurozone and Japan fell into recession.  “China has a proven track record, as they have maintained
superior growth for a long time,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . In
particular, the Chinese government “demonstrated their ability
to manage the global crisis.”  In the past 30 years,  China’s economy  has expanded on
average by 10 percent a year as it overhauled state-owned
companies and allowed more foreign investment. Among economies
with annual gross domestic product above $1 trillion, India
posted the second-highest growth rate after China last year,
expanding by 8.2 percent in the last quarter of 2010.  Stocks Lag  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecasts U.S. economic growth of 2.6 percent this year, 2
percent for the eurozone and a 0.9 percent contraction for
Japan.  Still, the leading countries’ economic track record hasn’t
been mirrored by stock market performance in the past 12 months.
Vietnam and China are among the worst-performing indexes in the
22-strong Bloomberg index.  Fourth-ranked Mongolia, where a mining boom is fueling
inflation and driving up the currency, has the world’s best-
performing stock market in the past 12 months. The MSE Top 20
Index has more than doubled in that time.  Sri Lanka , ranked 14th
out of 22 countries by the Bloomberg index, comes second with a
stock index advance of 82 percent.  Risks  The Bloomberg index may overstate China’s rank relative to
India’s and other countries, in part because Chinese official
figures understate debt levels, said Victor Shih, a professor
who studies China’s financial system at Northwestern University
in Evanston,  Illinois .  China could face economic and political shocks that would
impact on its growth.  Fitch Ratings  said in March that China
faced a 60 percent chance of a banking crisis by mid-2013 in the
aftermath of record lending and surging property prices.
Strikes, riots and protests are also on the rise, doubling in
five years to 180,000 incidents last year, according to Sun Liping, a sociology professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  The Bloomberg index put some countries with among the
world’s highest growth rates in the past several decades,
including Malaysia and  Thailand , behind such countries as
 Vietnam , which ranked third, and  Bangladesh , which ranked fifth.  The index gives weightings of 10 percent each to four
categories: the competitiveness of market structure, which
rewards countries for having fewer big companies that dominate
equity markets; the quality of the labor force, including
education levels, the age of the work force, and the growth rate
of scientific journal publications; gross national savings as a
percentage of GDP; and the growth of high-technology exports.  A further 12 areas have 5 percent weightings, including
growth in GDP per capita adjusted for the cost of living, growth
in world share of GDP, stability of inflation rates, diversity
of top trading partners, external and public debt burdens,
lending costs, net foreign direct investment and deforestation.
Four “cohesiveness factors” include ethnic and religious
homogeneity, income equality, rates of urbanization and poverty
reduction, and variation in the jobless rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  