-- 
Explosions in China’s Jiangxi Province Kill Two People, Including Bomber

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T15:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/china-hit-by-explosions-in-jiangzi-province.html
Three explosions in Fuzhou in
southeastern  China ’s Jiangxi province killed two people today,
including the suspected bomber, and injured 10, Xinhua News
agency said.  The first explosion was in a parking lot at a prosecutors’
office, according to a website run by the local propaganda
bureau. Another took place inside an administration building and
the third near a food and drug administration office. The blasts
took place between 9:18 a.m. and 9:45 a.m. local time.  Most of the windows of the prosecutors’ office were
shattered, a Volkswagen AG Santana sedan was destroyed and at
least 10 more vehicles damaged, Xinhua said, citing an
unidentified witness.  Qian Mingqi, a 52-year-old unemployed resident of the
city’s Linchuan district who died in the blasts, is the
suspected bomber, Xinhua said, citing unidentified local
security officials. Qian was involved in a house-demolition
dispute and may have been seeking revenge against the local
government, Xinhua said, citing an unidentified Linchuan
district official.  Qian left a message on his  http://www.sina.com.cn 
microblog, saying he was forced to “step on a road I don’t want
to step on” because of the loss of his newly built house, which
was “illegally demolished,” according to Xinhua.  Mass Incidents  The number of so-called mass incidents in China -- strikes,
protests and riots -- is on the rise as income gaps widen. Sun Liping, a professor of sociology at Beijing’s Tsinghua
University, said in a Feb. 25 article in the Economic Observer
that the number of mass incidents in China doubled from 2006,
rising to at least 180,000 cases in 2010.  Earlier this week, hundreds of ethnic Mongolians in
northern China’s Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region  protested 
outside a local government building after a herder was
reportedly hit and killed by a coal-mining truck driving across
grazing land, according to the U.S.-based Southern Mongolian
Human Rights Information Center.  A former employee of a rural bank in an autonomous Tibetan
region of northwestern Gansu Province threw a gasoline bomb into
his former workplace two weeks ago, injuring more than 40
people, the local government  said  at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 