-- 
China Auto Sales May Decline 10% This Year, Center Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T08:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/china-auto-sales-may-fall-10-this-year-china-automotive-says.html
China’s auto sales may fall 10
percent this year with the end of government stimulus policies
and restrictions on car licenses, according to the  China
Automotive Technology & Research Center .  Industrywide vehicle deliveries fell for the first time in
27 months in April, as the government raised fuel prices, cities
implemented controls to curb traffic and  Japan ’s record
earthquake slowed deliveries. Total auto sales declined 0.25
percent to 1.55 million units, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  “The exit of government stimulus policies was abrupt,
judging from the current effects,” said Zhao Hang, president of
the center, which assists the government in formulating auto
industry standards and policy research. “The slowdown of auto
sales in the first four months was due to the phase-out of
government stimulus policies and measures to tackle traffic
jams,” he said in an interview in Beijing today.  Zhao’s forecast for industry sales to decline contrasts
with a forecast for growth to trail the nation’s gross domestic
product by the manufacturers association. The government’s
official target is for 8 percent economic growth this year.  State subsidies and buying incentives aimed at boosting
consumer demand in the wake of the 2008 global recession helped
 China  overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest vehicle market in
2009.  China’s domestic automakers will be affected more by the
slowdown given their products are aimed more at the mid- to low-
end market segments, Zhao said. He declined to say what measures
should be taken to reverse a decline.  The government may release a development plan for
alternative-energy autos soon, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  