-- 
Christie to Pull New Jersey Out of ‘Gimmicky’ U.S. Northeast Carbon Market

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-26T21:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/christie-to-pull-new-jersey-out-of-gimmicky-u-s-northeast-carbon-market.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he plans to pull his state out of the U.S. Northeast’s
carbon market by year-end.  The 10-state Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cap-and-
trade program that regulates carbon-dioxide emissions, is
“nothing more than a tax on electricity, a tax on our residents
and on businesses with no discernible effect on our
environment,” Christie, a 48-year-old Republican, told
reporters in Trenton today.  “We remain completely committed to the idea that we have a
responsibility to make the environment of our state and world
better,” Christie said. “We’re not going to do it by
participating in gimmicky programs that don’t work.”  The market, similar to a cap-and-trade system backed by
President  Barack Obama  that failed in Congress last year,
requires  power plants  to pay for carbon dioxide released from
their smokestacks. Since 2008, the program  said  its 10
participants, including all six New England states plus New
Jersey,  New York ,  Delaware  and Maryland, have raised more than
$860 million by auctioning pollution rights, or allowances.  ‘A Failure’  New Jersey has already reached reduction targets for
greenhouse-gas emissions, and the program has failed to
accomplish its goal of motivating companies to cut pollution,
Christie said. The state won’t allow the construction of new
coal-fired power plants and will seek to increase solar-and
wind-energy production, he said.  “The whole system did not work as intended and was a
failure,” he said. “The future of New Jersey is green
energy.”  The decision followed discussions with scientists,
academics and government leaders on the causes of global
warming, Christie said. He said scientific consensus has since
convinced him that people are “at least part of the problem.”  The regional carbon market has created $2.3 billion in
economic activity and 18,000 jobs, said Jeff Tittel, director of
the  Sierra Club ’s New Jersey chapter. “The only science
involved in this decision was political science,” he said.  Campaign Support  The move puts Christie at odds with the New Jersey
Environmental Federation, which was the state’s only major
conservation group to endorse him in his 2009 run against
Democrat  Jon Corzine , a supporter of the initiative. David
Pringle, campaign director for the group, said the move may cost
Christie an endorsement should he run again in 2013.  “Clearly we have a major disagreement here -- the biggest
one to date,” Pringle said in an interview.  Almost two-thirds of the money states have raised selling
carbon-dioxide allowances is set aside for energy-efficiency and
renewable-energy projects, according to a Feb. 28 report from
the group. The most recent auction in March brought in $83.4
million, according to a statement from operators.  “This is a disaster,” said Senator James Whelan, a
Democrat from  Atlantic City . “We used to say clean energy was
the future. It’s right now. And where is the money going to come
from to do it?”  Republican lawmakers in states including  New Hampshire  are
trying to break up the carbon-trading program, which they say is
an  energy tax  that increases the cost of electricity. Christie’s
decision will bolster the repeal effort elsewhere, said New
Jersey Senator Michael Doherty, a Republican from Warren County
who sponsored a bill to end the state’s participation.  U.S. Declined  “Hopefully the whole thing falls apart,” he said in a
telephone interview. “The federal government didn’t do it, so
why should 10 states hamstring themselves?”  New Hampshire’s Republican-led  House of Representatives 
passed a bill in March to abandon the regional carbon market.  Granite State Governor  John Lynch , a Democrat, has
threatened to veto the bill. The Senate, run by Republicans,
voted May 11 to stay in the program unless other states back
out.  The cap-and-trade system “has widespread support across
the region and will continue,” Regional Greenhouse Gas
Initiative Inc., the group that administers the program, said in
a statement.  Maryland  Governor  Martin O’Malley  and  Vermont ’s Peter Shumlin, both Democrats, said Christie was making a mistake and
rejected his assertion that the program is ineffective. The
effort has reduced carbon-dioxide emissions by the equivalent of
taking 3,500 cars off the road and has produced $162 million in
his state alone, O’Malley said.  ‘Important’ Program  The carbon market “represents an important multistate
effort to address climate change at a time when consensus eludes
Congress,” O’Malley said in a statement. “Governor Christie is
simply wrong when he claims that these efforts are a failure.”  December-delivered carbon allowances from the Northeast’s
cap-and-trade program rose 1 cent today to $1.93 each on the
Chicago Climate Futures Exchange. Each allowance represents
2,000 pounds (907 kilograms) of carbon dioxide.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also urged
Christie to reconsider his decision.  “This is a disappointing step given New Jersey’s legacy of
leadership on environmental issues,”  Brendan Gilfillan , an EPA
spokesman, said in a statement.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , a New York-based
environmental group, said an opinion poll showed 61 percent of
New Jersey residents “would support a program that curbed
 climate change  while also creating jobs.” The group released
the survey results before Christie’s announcement.  ‘Popular’ Effort  The program is “hugely popular” and its supporters will
pressure Christie to reverse course, Dale Bryk, the council’s
energy director, said by telephone. “This is just the
beginning, not the end, of the story in New Jersey,” she said.  Some states, including New Jersey, have used part of the
proceeds to plug budget holes. Last year, Christie sought $65.2
million from carbon-allowance auctions to help close a $10.7
billion deficit.  Christie’s announcement today won praise from the New
Jersey Business & Industry Association, which represents 22,000
employers in the state.  “High energy costs, like taxes, just make New Jersey a
tougher state in which to do business,” Philip Kirschner,
president of the Trenton-based group, said in a statement.
“This is not a partisan issue, it’s just a bad deal for New
Jersey.”  Not so, according to Assemblyman John McKeon, a West Orange
Democrat who leads the Environment and Solid Waste Committee. He
said he will take “whatever legislative steps that may be
possible to prevent this from happening.”  “Governor Christie has in one wrong-headed decision
decimated New Jersey’s clean-air and energy-advocacy efforts,”
McKeon said in a statement. “This day will go down in history
as the one in which New Jersey ceded its standing as a leader in
environmental-protection efforts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net  