-- 
CIC, Temasek Said to Be Among Key Investors in Huaneng Offering

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-26T05:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/cic-temasek-said-to-be-among-key-investors-in-huaneng-renewables-ipo.html
China  Investment Corp. and Temasek
Holdings Pte are among key investors who plan to buy a combined
$415 million of shares in Huaneng Renewables Corp.’s initial
public offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Chinese sovereign wealth fund has agreed to subscribe
for $60 million of shares, while Temasek,  Singapore ’s state
investment company, plans to invest $50 million, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the process is private. The
funds are among 13 so-called cornerstone investors that include
 General Electric Co. (GE) , the people said.  The wind power unit of China Huaneng Group Corp., China’s
biggest electricity producer, is seeking to raise as much as
HK$7.4 billion ($950 million), offering about 2.5 billion shares
at HK$2.28 to HK$2.98 apiece, the people said. The company aims
to start trading on June 10, they said.  Cornerstone investors, who get guaranteed access to IPOs in
return for agreeing to hold the shares for typically six months,
account for at least 44 percent of Huaneng Renewables’ sale, as
the Beijing-based company tries to garner support for its second
attempt since December to list in  Hong Kong .  Hu Xiaoyu, a director at China Huaneng Group’s news office
in Beijing, declined to comment, as did Temasek spokesman
 Jeffrey Fang . Two phone calls to CIC’s public relations office
in Beijing went unanswered.  Huaneng Renewables said on Dec. 13 that market volatility
forced it to scrap a planned IPO. Rival China Datang Corp.
Renewable Power Co., the wind unit of the nation’s second-
largest power producer, began trading in December after raising
HK$5 billion.  General Electric plans to buy $15 million of shares, while
China State Grid Corp. has agreed to invest $50 million in the
IPO, the people said. A  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  unit and CSR
Corp., China’s largest listed trainmaker, plan to invest $50
million each in the offering, they said.  Bank of China Group Investment Ltd.,  China Huadian Corp. 
and Anshan Iron & Steel Group each plan to buy $30 million of
stock, the people said. Morgan Stanley, China International
Capital Corp. and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are managing the IPO, the
people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 