-- 
Citigroup Lags in Debt Deals as Pandit Rebuilds

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-05-26T00:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/citigroup-loses-out-on-record-bond-fees-to-jpmorgan-with-pandit-rebuilding.html
Richard Landgarten is one reason
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  hasn’t regained its once-dominant position in the
resurgent corporate lending market.  The investment banker left the company in 2009, ultimately
joining Barclays Capital and taking relationships with clients
such as  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  with him. Tenet, which had used
Landgarten and Citigroup to advise on a $1.6 billion debt
exchange in January 2009, went with Barclays to lead a $600
million bond sale last August.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  now dominates the so-called league
tables, reporting $971 million of debt underwriting revenue in
the first quarter, almost double that of fourth-place Citigroup,
the market leader for nine years before the 2008 financial
crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has
dropped to fifth in U.S. speculative-grade debt, after ranking
second in all but two of eight years before 2007.  “They definitely lost a lot of key personnel -- some of
their best performers,” said Jonathan Hatcher, a credit
strategist at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York  who covers
financial companies. “It’s difficult to get that momentum back
once you lose it.”  While Citigroup is fighting to regain a top-four ranking in
most markets, JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have amassed
such large lending franchises that Citigroup Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit has abandoned notions of retaking the top
spot, according to a person familiar with the bank’s strategy,
who asked not to be identified because it hasn’t been publicly
discussed. Management has determined the staffing and capital
costs of such an effort wouldn’t justify the returns on the
bank’s equity, the person said.  Biggest Bailout  Pandit, 54, has spent the last three years rebuilding a
bank that took $141 billion in losses and asset writedowns as
U.S. home prices plummeted and tipped the nation’s economy into
the worst recession since the Great Depression.  The U.S. government injected $45 billion into Citigroup,
the largest bailout, and taxpayers guaranteed more than $300
billion of the firm’s assets to prevent its failure.  Citigroup cut its overall staff by 30 percent to 260,000 in
the three years ended in December as it hoarded capital, slashed
pay and rebuilt its balance sheet, according to regulatory
filings. Citigroup hasn’t disclosed a breakdown for the
investment bank.  Key Loss  Landgarten, one of three executives in charge of  investment
banking  for health-care companies at Citigroup, left for
advisory firm Moelis & Co. before joining Barclays in late 2009.
At Citigroup, he formed relationships with health care companies
that were among the biggest borrowers in the high-yield debt
market, including Quintiles Transnational Corp.’s Dennis Gillings, who along with private equity firms took the company
private in a $1.7 billion buyout in 2003.  Quintiles, which tapped Citigroup to finance its 2003
buyout and two subsequent transactions, chose JPMorgan to lead
its latest $2.23 billion loan refinancing this month. Barclays
was added as a lender along with Citigroup.  Landgarten declined to comment through Brandon Ashcraft, a
spokesman for Barclays Capital in New York. Phil Bridges, a
spokesman for Quintiles, also declined to comment, as did Rick
Black, a spokesman for Tenet.  A crop of Citigroup bankers left after 2008. Thomas King,
Citigroup’s former head of banking in  Europe , joined Barclays in
2009 as co-head of corporate finance. Reid Marsh, Citigroup’s
former co-head of global industrials, also joined the London-
based bank.  Others Leave  Vincent Lima, head of Citigroup’s high-yield syndicate for
18 years, left in 2008 for Christopher Street Capital before
joining Moelis last year. Michael Brennan, who helped run the
bank’s division that sold bonds and loans globally, left in 2008
and started advisory firm North Sea Partners LLC. Joining him
was Jonathan Calder, who headed loan sales at Citigroup.  “We recognize the competitive environment and as we always
have, will deliver best-in-class ideas, solutions and
execution,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup in New York, said in a statement. “We will also
continue to support our clients with access to our capital and
balance sheet, as we’ve done in all market environments.”  Citigroup has been hiring investment bankers in Europe and
filling in spots in the U.S. and  Asia  where it’s fallen behind.
It hired a group of UBS AG energy investment bankers last year,
including Stephen Trauber, the global head of the business and
one of the Swiss bank’s top dealmakers. Mark Hobbs, formerly the
co-head of energy for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  at UBS,
is joining Citigroup’s oil and gas team in Houston, Citigroup
said this week. Earlier this month, Citigroup hired UBS’s Kevin Cox to become co-chairman of global industrials investment
banking.  Underwriting Bonanza  Citigroup’s decline in global underwriter rankings has come
amid the biggest bonanza ever for banks. Companies have sold
$8.6 trillion of bonds the past 29 months as the  Federal Reserve 
pumped trillions of dollars into the financial system and held
 interest rates  near zero, allowing treasurers to borrow at
record-low rates, Bloomberg data show.  That has generated $4.1 billion of debt underwriting
revenue in the past five quarters for both JPMorgan, the only
major bank to make it through the financial crisis without a
loss, and Bank of America, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
lender that bought Merrill Lynch & Co. in January 2009. JPMorgan
has averaged $820 million a quarter during that period, up from
$599 million during the previous 20 quarters, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Big Europe Drop  Citigroup has averaged $535 million, down from its longer-
term average of $578 million. Last quarter, it reported a 21
percent drop in debt underwriting revenue to $504 million.  In the U.S. junk  bond market , where banks underwrite debt
for companies with below investment-grade ratings and earn their
biggest fees, Citigroup’s market share has declined to 8.4
percent this year and 7.7 percent in 2010, down from an average
12.4 percent in the nine years before the crisis, Bloomberg data
show. The drop pushed it to fifth in the rankings.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  In the European corporate bond market, the bank dropped to
18th last year, with 2.1 percent of the market, after being
third for all but two of the seven years before 2007, Bloomberg
data show. It has climbed to eighth this year, with a 3.9
percent market share.  Bear Stearns  JPMorgan, the top corporate bond underwriter globally for
the past two years, acquired Bear Stearns Cos. as the fourth-
largest U.S. securities firm was failing in March 2008. It later
bought the banking unit of Washington Mutual Inc. after the
Seattle-based thrift was taken over by regulators.  Bank of America has emerged as the second-biggest
underwriter for U.S. investment-grade and high-yield debt,
grabbing 14 percent and 12 percent of those markets,
respectively.  Citigroup is “not trying to be as aggressive as some
others,” Jefferies’s Hatcher said. “They’re going to get their
share. Capital markets are always going to be an important part
of Citi, but that doesn’t seem to be the emphasis,
strategically, as for some of the others.”  Barclays, which bought the North American business of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. after it filed for bankruptcy in
September 2008, has made some of the biggest gains at
Citigroup’s expense.  Barely a Player  Its  Barclays Capital  unit was barely a player in the U.S.
speculative-grade bond market before the financial crisis, with
0.5 percent of market share or less before 2007, Bloomberg data
show. Since the end of 2009, it has underwritten at least 6.6
percent of the junk-bond market, about one percentage point less
than Citigroup.  “It seems strange to me that Citigroup would be backing
away from a business that’s as important to investment banks as
debt underwriting, especially banks that function as commercial
banks,” said David Hilder, an analyst with Susquehanna
Financial Group LLP. “They cut too many people or lost too many
people and need to rebuild.”  After more than $29 billion in losses during Pandit’s first
two full years in charge of the bank, it has since reported a
$13.6 billion profit for the five quarters through the end of
March. The bank’s shares are down 90 percent since Dec. 10,
2007, the day before Pandit was appointed CEO. They fell 17
cents, or 0.4 percent, to $40.33 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday.  More Deposits  Since the crisis, Citigroup has increased customer deposits
while loosening its dependence on short-term capital markets
that froze in 2007 and 2008. Deposits have grown to $865.8
billion, or 49 percent of total liabilities, as of March 31 from
$738.5 billion, or 39 percent four years ago, Bloomberg data
show. Short-term borrowings during the same period declined to
$403.1 billion, or 23 percent of liabilities, down from $693.2
billion, or 37 percent.  At the same time, a measure of the bank’s financial
strength almost doubled. Citigroup’s  Tier 1 capital  increased to
13.26 percent of its total risk-based capital from 7.12 percent
in December 2007.  Tier 1 capital includes common stock, retained earnings and
perpetual stock. Regulators from 27 nations last year agreed to
more than double  capital requirements  for banks to help avert
future financial crises.  Loans Repaid  As the economy and debt markets improved, Citigroup repaid
$20 billion to the U.S. in 2009. The Treasury Department in
December sold the last of the bank’s stock it received in
exchange for the bailout, returning a profit of about $12
billion to taxpayers.  “Citigroup has not been in a position to lend a lot of
money to a lot of companies in the last three years,” said
 Richard Bove , the analyst with Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,
 Florida , who cut ratings on the shares of banks including Lehman
four months before its collapse.  “It has had to sell off businesses. It has been involved
in management changes. It’s been involved in attempting to
rebuild the liquidity of the organization,” he said. “When
you’re doing all those things, you’re not, as your first
priority, making money available so that someone can do a debt
underwriting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  