-- 
Citigroup Says Lehman Brokerage’s $1.3 Billion Clawback Suit ‘Fails’

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/citigroup-says-lehman-brokerage-s-1-3-billion-clawback-suit-fails-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  asked a judge to
dismiss most of a $1.3 billion suit brought by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s brokerage trustee, saying the trustee’s efforts
to recoup most of the money “fail on multiple independent
grounds” of the law.  Citigroup, the third largest U.S. bank by assets, lent
Lehman’s brokerage more than $15 billion in the days after the
Lehman parent went bankrupt in September 2008, according to a
court filing yesterday. Trustee James Giddens demanded in a
March lawsuit that Citigroup return more than $1.3 billion in
cash and other assets that he said the bank seized or froze in
violation of bankruptcy law, to trim its risk during the
financial crisis.  According to Giddens, Citibank seized $1 billion that the
brokerage pledged to it for settling foreign exchange trades,
and froze another $300 million of the brokerage’s assets around
the world. Under bankruptcy law, debtors can try to reclaim
assets taken within 90 days of a bankruptcy filing to share
among all creditors.  Citigroup’s Citibank unit took the $1 billion deposit
belonging to the brokerage before it went into liquidation, so
there was no violation of the so-called automatic stay in
bankruptcy, Citigroup said in the filing. Moreover, the $1
billion, which was deposited to settle foreign exchange trades,
was part of a swap agreement. Such agreements are protected by
what are known as safe harbors under bankruptcy law, and by
other doctrines, the bank said in its filing.  Facts Alleged  “The facts alleged in the complaint show that the trustee
cannot recover the $1 billion on multiple independent grounds,”
Citigroup said in the filing.  The trustee’s office said in an e-mailed statement that its
“claim to recover these assets from Citibank rests on
straightforward principles of applicable bankruptcy law” and
the Securities Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc .,
went into liquidation four days later on Sept. 19.  So-called clawback suits are common in bankruptcy courts,
after creditors take deposits to offset pending losses on their
loans.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  this week appealed a bankruptcy
judge’s ruling that it return about $500 million in deposits to
the bankrupt Lehman parent, saying it had a legal right to set
off deposits against money still owed.  The brokerage benefited from Citibank’s extension of credit
to it amid panic provoked by Lehman’s bankruptcy, and Citibank
suffered more than $1 billion in losses for helping Lehman,
Citigroup spokeswoman Danielle Romero-Apsilos said in March. The
money sought by Giddens was used by Citibank to partly cover
losses, she said.  Earlier in March, Citigroup said it might face demands by
Lehman for $3 billion in funds taken around the time of the
brokerage’s liquidation.  Lehman’s bankruptcy case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  ( Manhattan ). Giddens’s suit is Lehman Brothers Inc. v.
 Citibank NA , 11-01681, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  