-- 
Starbucks Drinkers Won’t Get Break as Colombia Supply Drops

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-05-27T20:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/coffee-drinkers-won-t-get-price-break-as-colombia-supply-slumps.html
Colombia , the second-largest producer
of mild arabica coffee bought by companies such as  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) , said consumers will have to get used to
higher prices because of rising demand and reduced supply.  Production next year will fall short of consumption,
keeping the cost of arabica coffee in a range of $2 to $3 a
pound for the next 12 months, according to  Colombian National
Coffee Growers Federation’s  Chief Executive Officer Luis Munoz.
Higher prices also reflect increased farming costs, he said.  Coffee has almost doubled in the past year as storms hurt
plants in Colombia and demand increases globally. Rising costs
are prompting Starbucks to boost the price of bagged coffee sold
at U.S. cafes by an average of 17 percent, according to
spokesman Alan Hilowitz. The company will likely continue to be
an “important” buyer of Colombian coffee, Munoz said.  “The final consumer is realizing that you have to pay a
bit more for those little enjoyments,” Munoz said yesterday in
an interview at the federation’s headquarters in Bogota. “Not
just Starbucks, but the industry in general, wouldn’t have been
able to do anything besides raising prices.”  Starbucks rose 0.05 percent to $36.46 at 4:30 p.m. New York
time. The shares have gained 13 percent this year.  Brazil ,  Asia  Demand  Higher prices reflect how increases in farming costs, like
more expensive fertilizer, are starting to be passed onto
consumers, Munoz said. At the same time, coffee drinkers from
Brazil to Asia are increasing consumption and are willing to pay
more for high-quality coffee, Munoz said.  Japan  is one of
Colombia’s best markets for coffee in Asia.  In Colombia, storms last year that damaged flowering likely
will cut the second-quarter crop by about 10 percent to about 2
million bags, according to Munoz. Worldwide, producing nations’
stocks are at “precarious” levels and won’t make a sustained
recovery, partly because of adverse weather, he said.  “It’s been raining here for two years,” Munoz said.  Antioquia, Colombia’s largest coffee-growing province, will
get more rain today and tomorrow, the state-run Institute of
Meteorology and Environmental Studies said on its website.  Arabica coffee for July delivery fell 1.90 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $2.637 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
Coffee reached $3.089 on May 3, the highest since May 1997.  Improving Harvest  The Colombian harvest will improve in the second half of
the year, Munoz said. The federation, which represents the
majority of Colombia’s more than 550,000 coffee growers,
forecasts 2011 production of 9.5 million bags, up from 8.9
million bags last year. In April, output declined 19 percent to
523,000 bags, a 15-month low, from 647,000 bags a year earlier.  In 2009, the Andean nation’s crop fell to a 33-year low of
7.8 million bags. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms, or 132 pounds.  Global coffee supplies will likely be “tight” through the
rest of the year as stockpiles held by exporting nations such as
Colombia stay near a 40-year low, Jose Sette, head of the
 International Coffee Organization , said in February. Global
consumption last year rose 2.4 percent to 134 million bags,
according to the group.  Brazil is the largest producer of arabica beans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  