-- 
Commerce Plans Export Regulation Overhaul to Boost Trade

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-26T15:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/commerce-plans-export-regulation-overhaul-to-boost-trade-1-.html
The U.S. Commerce Department will
simplify export guidelines, streamline the patent award process
and eliminate outdated import restrictions as part of President
Barack Obama’s plan to cut unneeded regulations.  The department overhaul is aimed at lowering costs for
companies and individuals seeking to sell products abroad,
according to a report today by the White House. Obama formed an
Export Council in March 2010 to help double U.S. exports to
about $3.1 trillion by 2015 and support 2 million additional
jobs.  Under the proposal, the State Department will simplify
regulations for exporters of defense products and services. The
Obama administration estimates that as many as 30,000 licenses
for basic defense articles that were handled by the department
last year under arms trafficking laws will be transferred to the
Commerce Department and governed by more flexible export rules,
according to the report.  Obama ordered a review of government departments on Jan.
18, saying he wanted “to remove outdated regulations that
stifle  job creation  and make our economy less competitive.” A
White House report released today outlined plans for 30 U.S.
agencies to revise regulations.  “It’s pretty technical stuff, but the impact will be to
free up small businesses and large businesses to export goods to
other nations without facing nearly as much red tape and
bureaucratic barriers,” Cass Sunstein, director of the Office
of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said in an interview.  ‘Simplify, Streamline’  The proposals would “simplify and streamline”
requirements for businesses to gain export control approvals for
“low-risk” national security technology, he said.  The changes at the Commerce Department focus on the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, the Bureau of Industry and Security
and the International Trade Administration. The overhaul will
remove unnecessary technical complexity in some export-control
rules, streamline the process for individuals and companies to
get patents and withdraw obsolete import restrictions that
burden regulators, according to the report.  The department’s plan calls for reviewing all significant
regulations at the patent office and removing most license
requirements for exports to nations that pose no national
security threat to the U.S. The State and Commerce departments
also will update their export-control lists and consolidate them
into a single list, according to the report.  The guidelines will create a three-tiered system for
manufacturers and technology companies that bases export license
requirements on more objective criteria such as physical
capabilities rather than open-ended, subjective or design
intent-based judgments, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  