-- 
Copper Falls as European Debt Crisis May Erode Metal Demand

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-26T18:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/copper-falls-as-european-debt-crisis-may-erode-metal-demand.html
Copper prices fell for the first time
in three days in London on speculation that escalating sovereign
debt in  Europe  will curb economic growth and metal demand.  Portugal’s elections on June 5 may produce a political
stalemate that slows implementation of austerity measures needed
to trim the euro region’s fourth-biggest debt. The euro has
dropped 4.6 percent this month against the dollar as European
policy makers struggle to find a resolution to  Greece ’s deficit.  “What’s on the back of everyone’s mind is the uncertainty
over the euro zone debt,” said Nick Riley, the head of London
Metal Exchange sales at Marex Financial Ltd., one of 12
companies on the LME floor.  Copper for delivery in three months fell $45, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $9,020 a metric ton ($4.09 a pound) at
6:05 p.m. in  London . The price gained 3.1 percent in the
previous two days.  Lead, nickel and tin also dropped on the LME.  Europe consumes 20 percent of the world’s copper output,
and 15 percent to 25 percent of aluminum, zinc, nickel and lead,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Economic growth of 7 percent to 9 percent in  China , the
world’s largest copper buyer, would be enough to keep prices
high for “a very long period of time,” Chile’s President
Sebastian Pinera, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  This week, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Deutsche Bank AG predicted higher copper prices as mining
output trails demand.  In  New York , copper futures for July delivery rose 0.4
cent, or 0.1 percent, to close $4.111 a pound on the Comex. The
price has gained 33 percent in the past 12 months.  Aluminum and zinc also climbed in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  