-- 
Copper May Rise on Renewed Concern About Supply, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/copper-may-rise-on-renewed-concern-about-supply-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise after mining
companies reported or predicted lower production, renewing
concern supply might fall short of demand, a survey showed.  Seven of 13 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 54 percent, said prices will gain next week. Three
predicted a drop and three forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was down 0.4 percent for this week at
$9,038 a metric ton by 5:15 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange.  Kazakhmys Plc, the biggest Kazakh copper company, said May
4 its first-quarter production of finished copper, or cathode,
fell from a year earlier on lower ore grades. A day earlier,
Boliden AB reported lower copper output. Codelco, the world’s
biggest producer, said May 3 output at its largest mine will
drop “strongly” during conversion into a subsurface operation.  “The market has been reminded about how tight the supply
side looks for copper,” said  Gayle Berry , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in London. “The Q1 production results for a
number of copper miners underperformed people’s bleak
expectations. It does further illustrate how tight the raw
materials market is for copper.”  Copper demand outpaced refined supply by 17,000 tons in
February, the International Copper Study Group said May 23. It
expects a 377,000-ton global shortage this year.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of May 20.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
67 of the past 138 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 3 Bullish: 7 Hold: 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  