-- 
Corriente’s Hart Bets Against China’s Yuan on Concerns of Rising Inflation

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-05-26T02:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/corriente-s-hart-bets-against-yuan.html
Corriente Advisors LLC’s Mark Hart,
whose firm handed investors a six-fold gain betting against U.S.
subprime mortgages, says he is wagering on a decline in the
Chinese yuan.  Hart is shorting the currency by buying put options on the
yuan, he told the audience yesterday at the 16th Annual Ira Sohn
Investment Conference in New York. Hart, chairman of  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based Corriente Advisors, said  China ’s growth has been
fueled by a credit bubble, and that rising inflation will bring
the boom to an end.  “There are lots of ways to play China, but this is the
most mispriced,” Hart said of his purchase of puts, contracts
that provide the right to sell a security or currency at a set
price within a set period.  His views on China echo those of hedge-fund managers such
as  Jim Chanos , known for predicting Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse,
and Hugh Hendry of  London ’s Eclectica Asset Management LP, who
are betting on a decline in the country’s real estate market and
economy. Chanos said in an interview this week that he would
short sell Chinese companies listed in the U.S. if it were
feasible to borrow shares to open the bearish positions.  Chanos, who has been forecasting a Chinese housing crash
since last year, said Chinese developers have too much land on
their balance sheets, similar to the U.S. before its housing
market tumbled in recent years.  China’s economy  expanded 10.3
percent in 2010 and the country has been aiming to curb climbing
 house prices .  ‘Path of Least Resistance’  Chanos, the founder of New York’s Kynikos Associates LP,
said the cost of betting against Chinese stocks is keeping him
away. Renren Inc., a Beijing-based social-networking company
that went public in the U.S. earlier this month, is among the
most expensive U.S. equities to short. The stock is difficult to
borrow with 72 percent of the lendable supply out on loan,
according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research firm.  Hart said “misallocations” of capital led to “empty”
cities in China after developers built too many properties.  “There are signs of a bubble in China everywhere,” he
said, adding that a bust would be worse than the 1997 Asian
currency crisis, when the Thai baht collapse roiled markets.  Hart, who profited last year betting against European
sovereign debt, said China may accept a  currency devaluation  as
the “path of least resistance” as inflation undermines
economic growth. Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April from
a year earlier, as higher wages and commodity costs added to
price pressures. Non-food inflation held at 2.7 percent, the
fastest pace in at least six years.  Yuan Reaches High  The Chinese inflation rate understates the increase in
prices because the government subsidizes food, education and
housing, Hart said.  China’s yuan advanced to a 17-year high in  Shanghai  today
as the People’s Bank of China set the reference rate at the
strongest level since July 2005. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards gained 0.2 percent in  Hong Kong , reflecting a 1.8
percent premium over the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2009, Hart’s firm started the Corriente China
Opportunity Fund LP, which seeks to profit from an economic
slowdown in China, including declines in the country’s currency
against the  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  