-- 
Cowen Seeing Weak Growth Makes ‘Great Stagnation’ Hotly Debated Bestseller

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-26T21:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/cowen-seeing-weak-growth-makes-great-stagnation-hotly-debated-bestseller.html
Tyler Cowen sits with a cranberry
juice and a pile of books he no longer intends to read. He’s at
Harry’s Tap Room, near the Air France ticket counter in the main
terminal of Dulles International Airport, on his way to São
Paulo.  Two days ago he e-mailed me his 27-book reading list for
the trip and I vowed to keep up with it. Already, before he
boards, he has assembled a pile of discards.  “Unger. I’d say I browsed it. I looked at every page,” he
says. “There’s nothing wrong with the book. It’s a good book to
stir up leftists.” Roberto Mangabeira Unger’s “The Left
Alternative” falls with a thud to the table.  Cowen, 49, has round features, a hesitant posture, and an
unconcerned haircut. He handles each book as he ticks it off his
list. “This I discarded. It appeared to get a good review, but
there’s no framework, just scattered vignettes. I looked at 20,
30 pages.” Sarah Vowell’s “Unfamiliar Fishes,” thud.  Cowen’s first rule of reading is as follows: You need not
finish. He takes up books with great hope and no mercy, and when
he is done -- sometimes after five minutes -- he abandons them
in public, an act he calls a “liberation.”  In January, Dutton published Cowen’s e-book, “The Great
Stagnation.” It has shown up twice on the New York Times’ e-
book bestseller list. Dutton, a Penguin imprint, will release a
hardcover edition on June 9, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its May 30 issue.  Brooks Column  David Brooks  has called it “the most debated nonfiction
book so far this year” and leaned on it for a column in the
Times. “In terms of framing the dialogue,” wrote Kelly Evans
for the Wall Street Journal, “Tyler Cowen may well turn out to
be this decade’s Thomas Friedman.” The year is young, but among
wonks the book has reached that most coveted of states: It must
be responded to.  Cowen thought it was too long for a magazine article and
too short for a book, so he suggested that the publisher offer
it only as an e-book. The work is priced on Amazon.com at $3.99
for 15,000 words. Cowen gets the sense that Dutton humored him,
both on the format and the content.  “In a way [neglect] was a bonus,” he says. “If this
were like the second coming of  Harry Potter , everyone would have
had an idea about how it should be written.” Now most reviews
point first to the road it paved as an e-book before moving on
to the importance of Cowen’s ideas.  “The Great Stagnation” runs through three centuries’
worth of what Cowen calls the “low-hanging fruit” of economic
growth: free land, technological breakthroughs, and smart kids
waiting to be educated. For developed economies, he argues, none
of these remains to be plucked. Yet America,  Europe , and  Japan 
have built political and social institutions on the assumption
of endless growth. Cowen summarizes the financial crisis in
eight words: “We thought we were richer than we were.”  Can’t Be Fixed  It’s not that he disagrees with any of the better-known
explanations for the crisis -- easy credit, flawed ratings. It’s
that he sees a more fundamental problem, one that can’t be fixed
with regulation, bailouts, or tax cuts.  Cowen thinks that now that America has used up the
frontier, educated all of the farm kids, and built a couple of
cars for every family, we might be done growing for awhile.
“The Great Stagnation” is a short work, simply written. It
avoids any but the most basic discussion of economics, yet also
brushes lightly over all of modern history; behind simplicity in
style and argument lies a lifetime of intensely productive
reading.  Icelandic Sagas  Tyler Cowen has read what’s listed in Harold Bloom’s “The
Western Canon,” though not, he concedes, every single last one
of the Icelandic sagas. He rereads what you probably haven’t
heard of, like Anton Chekhov’s “Sakhalin Island.”  For the  Brazil  trip, in case he runs out of new books, he
has also brought Neal Stephenson’s 1,100-page “Cryptonomicon,”
which he has already read. Fiction slows him down, he says,
which makes packing easier. He carries a Kindle but reads paper
when he can; he says he’s invested too much time on the rhythm
of how the eye tracks the page. Several people have told me the
same story about Cowen: They have watched him read, and he scans
a page as others might scan a headline.  He has a PhD in economics from  Harvard University  and holds
the Holbert C. Harris Chair of Economics at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax,  Virginia , where he’s taught since 1989.
He runs the university’s  Mercatus Center , a libertarian think
tank, and has published 15 books and over 60 academic articles.
In May the American Institute for Economic Research asked
academic economists to name their favorite economists under 60.
Cowen ranked 16th, only five thinkers behind  Ben S. Bernanke ,
the current chairman of the  Federal Reserve .  Shared Blog  Cowen is still best known for the blog he shares with Alex
Tabarrok, “Marginal Revolution.” The same survey listed Cowen
and Tabarrok’s blog as the second-most popular on economics.
Greg Mankiw’s eponymous blog at Harvard just edged it out; both
picked up far more votes than Paul Krugman’s New York Times blog
“Conscience of a Liberal,” which ranked third, or
“Freakonomics,” at fifth. That’s among economists.  According to Compete.com, “Marginal Revolution” gets more
unique visitors than any other blog in the AIER survey’s list,
except for Krugman’s and “Freakonomics,” both hosted by the
New York Times. Cowen and Tabarrok, who also teaches economics
at George Mason, started the blog in 2003. There were few
economics blogs at the time, and Cowen thought the two might
have a comparative advantage; they had collaborated on papers
since 1990, and have together published an introductory textbook
on economics (as have two of the other top five economics
bloggers).  Agony Aunt  In his posts, Cowen often serves as a kind of agony aunt
for intellectuals. On May 9 a reader asked about the best books
on American history and culture written by foreigners. Cowen
suggested Vladimir Nabokov and Ayn Rand and linked to a two-
year-old list of fiction in the Wall Street Journal.  In the same week he summarized a book on the origins of
World War I, recommended the Chinese food in the basement of the
Golden Mall in Queens, N.Y., and asked his readers to name the
best pop album that never caught on. Cowen blogs like he reads:
prolifically and about pretty much everything.  At the bar at Dulles, he produces David Goldfield’s
“America Aflame,” a three-inch-thick hardback on the Civil
War. He pats it like an obedient dog and urges me to open a page
at random and read a paragraph. “It’s clear,” he says, “it’s
about stuff.” When we’re done eating, he offers me a plastic
bag filled with the books he’s liberated, tells me that reading
is the handmaiden of travel, and heads for security.  Chess Champion  When Tyler Cowen was 15, he became the New Jersey Open
Chess Champion, at the time the youngest ever. At around the
same age, he began reading seriously in the social sciences; he
preferred philosophy. By 16 he had reached a chess rating of
2350, which today would put him close to the top 100 in the U.S.
Shortly thereafter he gave up chess and philosophy for the same
reason: little stability and poor benefits.  He’d been reading economics, though. He figured that
economists were supposed to publish, and by age 19 he had placed
two papers in respected journals. As a PhD candidate at Harvard,
he published in the “Journal of Political Economy” and the
“American Economic Review.”  “They were weird, strange pieces,” he says, “but still
in good journals, top journals. That cemented my view that I
could, you know, somehow fit in somewhere.” I ask him what he
was like, what made him doubt he could fit in.  “I was like I am now.”  “You’ve always been like that?”  “Always. Age 3. Whatever.”  “What did you do at age 3?”  “Read a lot of books.”  Unafraid of Silence  Cowen speaks in short, declarative sentences that follow
each other like steps in a proof. When the proof ends, he is not
afraid of silence. In a man with straighter shoulders this might
come off as overconfident, but Cowen also listens generously. He
says “yes” like a Scandinavian, with a cautious intake of
breath, as if to say that you are so often right that it would
be rude to spend too much time on it.  And he’s funny. In April, I sat in on a seminar he teaches
on literature and law that puts 10 students at a conference
table, each with a pile of books. (George Mason’s law school
needed someone to teach the class, so he volunteered outside of
his department.) Cowen got laughs, and not tentative chuckles
either. He got class-stoppers out of “Bartleby, the Scrivener”
and Edgar Allan Poe.  “He asks the right questions,” says Megan J. McArdle,
“which is a gift.” McArdle, a friend of Cowen’s who writes
about economics for the Atlantic, offers a story from a
conference.  Company Cheerleaders  An economist had complained about the pharmaceutical
company “cheerleaders” who visit doctors’ offices to promote
 prescription drugs , and suggested that the government fund drug
research.  “Yes,” said Cowen. “But what do you do with the
cheerleaders? They provide a function, they get into doctors’
offices and make doctors listen. Will the government have to
hire cheerleaders?” Cowen refuses to scold. He begins his
analyses by assuming that if a market, or a person, behaves in a
certain way, moral failure is the least likely explanation.
Bryan Caplan, a colleague at George Mason, gushes about Cowen’s
fundamental decency and civility. He also says that other
economists avoid challenging him directly for fear of being made
to look a fool. “When I criticize him in public,” says Caplan,
“I get covert high fives.”  Biotechnology in  Africa   Three days after leaving for Brazil, Cowen e-mails that he
has liberated “America Aflame” on a plane. “Contrary to
expectations,” he writes, “it turned out to be pretty
boring.” He has finished “Starved for Science” -- a plea to
allow biotechnology into Africa -- and moved on to Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s “In the First Circle.” His wife had recommended
it. Her grandfather had spent 17 years in a Soviet prison camp.
“Very, very good,” writes Cowen.  Since the late 1990s much of Cowen’s work has looked at the
economics of culture. He consumes art and music at the rate he
does books, but unlike most critics he doesn’t sniff that
markets have either ruined culture or brought it low.  In 2002 he published “Creative Destruction,” which argues
that globalization created much of the art and music we might
consider “native.” Reggae in  Jamaica , for example, borrowed
from commercial rhythm and blues broadcasts that drifted over
the water from  New Orleans  and Miami. The fur trade and the
metal knife helped create the totem poles of the Northwestern
American Indians.  Distinct Ethos  But the book also introduces the idea of a distinct
“ethos” in creative cultures, which Cowen admits is hard to
define for an economist. And “Creative Destruction” points out
that the global markets that spur innovations in art can also,
eventually, build a demand that discourages further changes.
Tyler Cowen is a pragmatic kind of libertarian: He’s for free
markets, but he doesn’t get all huffy about it.  “I write books to solve problems for myself,” he says,
“to figure things out. Things bug me, in a Lieutenant Columbo
sort of way.”  He began work on “The Great Stagnation” by wondering why
growth rates for median wages were failing to keep up with
either those for the highest earners or with gross domestic
product. Economists on the left have called this trend “income
inequality” and blamed it on policy; economists on the right
have maintained either that it’s not a problem or that it’s
being measured wrong and doesn’t exist in the first place. Cowen
had been skeptical himself, but saw too many bits of evidence to
ignore: sports salaries, data on  executive compensation , the
gulf between J.K. Rowling’s fortune and what other authors make.  Financial Crisis  Then the financial crisis happened.  “For something so fundamental to have gone wrong,” he
says, “my intuition and the evidence suggest that there’s
something wrong with the real economy as well.”  Maybe the two were related, he thought: What if the
financial system took on so much debt because most of us assumed
that growth was eternal? Cowen says he has no grand plans when
he begins to write, just what he refers to as myopia. What looks
strategic from the outside is just Cowen refusing to let
something go.  In 2004 a reader of his blog suggested to him in an e-mail
that he might be autistic. Offended at first, he applied himself
to understanding the term, then decided he has what he calls an
“autistic cognitive style,” then wrote a book about it,
“Create Your Own Economy.” (Cowen never sought a professional
diagnosis.)  No Pity  He treats autism as he does the drug company cheerleaders,
with neither pity nor celebration. It’s not that he denies that
autism exists, rather he points out that there is some joy in
obsession. He describes people with autism as “infovores” who
are attracted to information -- the minutiae of train schedules.
Or books. He mourns the coming end of big-box bookstores and the
enchantment he felt circling the new release table. He goes to
the public library twice a week, chasing after serendipity. He
has no algorithm for finding a book. If he is intrigued, he
buys. “When economists look at what other people call
pathologies,” he says, “they see reason, they see
specialization, they see intent. They see a lot of pleasure.”  A week after leaving for Brazil, Cowen e-mails that he is
enjoying Steven Levy’s “In The Plex,” about Google. “We’ll
see if it picks up in intensity,” he writes. “If it doesn’t,
I’ll stop by the halfway point.” He has liberated two more
books, spent a disappointing hour in an English-language
bookstore, and found good material in Francis Fukuyama’s “The
Origins of Political Order,” though he can’t yet see it coming
together. He has started Mat Johnson’s novel “Pym,” and
abandoned a biography of Otto von Bismarck at the 60 percent
mark on his Kindle.  Ascent to Tenure  At Dulles, Cowen noted that most economists don’t read, at
least not widely. Robert Frank agrees. Frank, who teaches
economics at  Cornell University , says the ascent to tenure leads
young economists toward math and small questions. Universities
hold on to only the leading figures in each academic sub-
specialty.  “You want to climb to the top of a hill,” says Frank,
“and it’s a lot easier to climb to the top of a small hill than
a big broad one.”  In some ways, Cowen has skipped a step in the normal path
of the economist from academy to celebrity, which may explain
why three notable economists contacted about Cowen declined to
comment. There’s an idea among academic economists that the
privilege of writing a narrative argument must be earned through
the hard work of modeling and econometrics.  Not Science  “There is a view that what can’t be disproven isn’t
science,” says  Raghuram Rajan , a former director of research at
the  International Monetary Fund  who now teaches at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He has published
his own work for a general audience, most recently “Fault
Lines,” on economic risks the financial crisis has yet to
uncover.  Rajan doesn’t think that narrative economics is any less
difficult than writing models. “I don’t see your having to
prove yourself before moving on to something that is ‘less
rigorous,’” he says. “Both are hard. Both are important.”  Tyler Cowen can do the math, but he works in narrative.
“Economists talk of models,” he says. “Is a novel a model?
What do you learn about society from novels? They’re false, but
so are models.”  After Cowen gets back from Brazil, we meet at Eyo
Restaurant & Sports Bar in  Falls Church , Va., an Ethiopian place
that sits in a strip mall underneath several housing towers.
This is yet another of Cowen’s enthusiasms: searching for food,
and recording it on “Tyler Cowen’s Ethnic Dining Guide,”
another blog. He’s included rules on how to find a restaurant
and how to order when you get there in a book, “Discover Your
Inner Economist.”  Strangest Thing  For one: Order the strangest thing on the menu -- chances
are the chef put the most work into it. And the best ethnic
food, he writes, is prepared at strip malls. He orders for me,
then asks whether I eat raw beef.  We talk about his department. For the last 15 years, Cowen
has had a strong hand in new hires for George Mason. The school
looks for economists who are undervalued elsewhere.  Cowen finds economists as he does books, by curiosity and
faith in chance. When Caplan, then a graduate student, mailed
Cowen a critique of one of his papers in 1994, Cowen began a
correspondence and hired him in 1997. “I’ve been arguing with
him since I met him,” says Caplan, “but he’s bent over
backwards to help my career.”  Pay Off  Harvard or Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ranked
first and second by U.S. News & World Report, wouldn’t need this
strategy, but it’s starting to pay off at George Mason. The
economists at GMU, he says, have been getting offers elsewhere
and turning them down. They like each other too much. (Caplan
has said this, too.)  “You get to talk about ideas the whole time,” says Cowen,
“not about local politics or the real estate market, not about
sports. You get to talk about ideas, from one second on to the
end of the conversation.” He’s enough of a regular at Eyo for
the waitress to volunteer, “We love him. We wish he’d come more
often.”  When we’re done, I ask for the bill, and he gathers his
stack: three paperbacks, four hard covers, and three stapled
printouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt in New York at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  