-- 
Crude Oil Falls From Two-Week High as Reports Show Slower U.S. Expansion

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-26T19:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/crude-oil-falls-from-two-week-high-as-reports-show-slower-u-s-expansion.html
Oil fell from a two-week high in New
York as the  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the first
quarter, a signal that fuel demand may struggle to recover.  Futures tumbled 1.1 percent after the Commerce Department
reported that gross domestic product in the world’s largest oil-
consuming country expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, more slowly than the 2.2 percent estimated in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Initial jobless claims
unexpectedly rose last week.  “It’s getting harder and harder for the energy markets to
ignore the economic backdrop,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Today’s GDP number showed that growth is slowing,
which underscores the poor economic data of the last few
weeks.”  Crude oil for July delivery fell $1.09 to settle at $100.23
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
increased 40 percent in the past year.  Brent crude oil for July settlement rose 12 cents to
$115.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the highest closing price since May 10.  The revised increase in U.S. GDP was the same as estimated
last month and compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the prior
quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending cooled in the first quarter by more than
previously estimated as rising prices held back the biggest part
of the U.S. economy. Household purchases rose at a 2.2 percent
annual pace over the period, less than the 2.7 percent
calculated last month and short of the 2.8 percent median
forecast by Bloomberg News, the government said.  Applications for  unemployment benefits  increased by 10,000
to 424,000 in the week ended May 21, the Labor Department said.
The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a drop to 404,000.  “In the last weeks we’ve seen macroeconomic data worse
than expected,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “The oil demand-supply situation is
relaxed, and there’s no danger of any shortage.”  Crude oil supplies gained 616,000 barrels to 370.9 million
in the week ended May 20, the Energy Department said yesterday.
Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, rose 56,000 barrels
to 40.1 million. Inventories reached 41.9 million barrels in the
week ended April 8, the highest level since the department began
gathering data at the hub in 2004.  ‘Supercontango’  Rising oil supplies at Cushing in the third quarter may
cause a price “supercontango,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a
report today. Contango describes a market where contracts are
more expensive for later delivery than earlier shipments. This
allows buyers to profit from storing crude.  Cushing inventory levels, rising Canadian production and a
moderation of wildfires in  Alberta  could start to push Cushing
storage close to capacity limits, JPMorgan analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles said in the report. “We also see a
ramp up in U.S. domestic oil production,” the analysts said in
the report.  Oil in New York, heading for the first monthly decline
since August, has rebounded from its Fibonacci support near $95
a barrel, a level based on weekly price swings over the past
year, according to Stephanie Aymes, a technical analyst at
Societe Generale SA. Crude will probably continue to trade
“sideways” in coming weeks before climbing to $106 a barrel,
the next Fibonacci retracement level, she said.  Gasoline Rally  Earlier, prices rose as much as 0.6 percent as gasoline
futures climbed for a fifth consecutive day.  Gasoline advanced on reports of outages at Midwest
refineries owned by Marathon Oil Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. and
as motorists prepared for the Memorial Day holiday on May 30.
Demand for the fuel peaks between the Memorial Day holiday this
weekend and Labor Day in early September, when Americans
traditionally take vacations.  Gasoline for June delivery increased 3.21 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $3.0483 a gallon on the Nymex.  Inventories of gasoline climbed 3.79 million barrels to
209.7 million last week, the most since February, according to
yesterday’s Energy Department report.  Total U.S. fuel demand dropped 0.9 percent to an average
18.5 million barrels a day over the past four weeks, 5.3 percent
lower than the same period last year, the department’s report
showed. Gasoline consumption slipped 0.3 percent to an average
8.96 million barrels a day over the past four weeks, 2.1 percent
lower than a year earlier.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 621,930
contracts as of 3:16 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 604,850
yesterday, 10 percent below the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 