-- 
Cuban Exile, Free in Miami, Recalls Abuse in Spain: Interview

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/cuban-political-exile-now-in-miami-recalls-abuse-in-spain-jeremy-gerard.html
Freed from one of Cuba’s worst
prisons, Kilo 7, after more than seven years, journalist
Normando Hernandez Gonzalez arrived in Miami last week after a
jarring 10 months at a shabby hostel in an industrial section of
 Madrid .  On Friday, I met with him at his mother’s modest pink home
in a section of this city unfrequented by the tanned, oiled and
lubricated crowds of  South Beach  just a few miles away.  Yarai, his wife, and their 9-year-old daughter, Daniela,
joined us as we spoke about the terrible last years, a
conversation that continued at Bloomberg’s offices downtown.
Anna Kushner, a former staff member at the  PEN American Center 
who had been on the case from the beginning, served as
interpreter.  Hernandez belonged to a group of Cuban dissidents released
last July through the intercession of the Catholic Church and
flown to Madrid.  Instead of freedom, he told me, they often found themselves
treated contemptuously and sometimes cruelly.  “We had no status in  Spain , ninguno,” said Hernandez.
“Once we arrived, we asked for political asylum. We got no
response. By the time I left after 10 months, the Spanish
government, in violation of its own law, had still not responded
to my petition for political asylum.”  Dire Health  Health care was almost as hard to come by as it had been in
prison, despite the fact that many of the men arrived severely
ill.  “I was in very critical condition,” he said. “I weighed
only 54 kilos (119 pounds). My body wasn’t even able to process
 baby food . I was very weak and just overwhelmed by a crisis of
diarrhea from chronic illness.”  The men were among 75 arrested during the “Primavera
Negra” (“Black Spring”) crackdown of 2003. Hernandez -- a
self-taught reporter who had founded a school for investigative
journalism in the central island city of Camaguey -- was the
youngest of the “criminals.”  His crime? Weapons dealing of a sort.  The authorities found the “arms” in the home of the
accused: “Folders. Pens. Typewriters. Computers. Magazines. The
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A fax machine,” he
remembers.  Bread Crumbs  When the judge at his star chamber trial asked the
prosecutor what kind of journalism Hernandez practiced, he
replied, “Well, he criticized the quality of bread.” Which was
true, Hernandez said. The state of bread, made in state-owned
bakeries, in Cuba apparently is lousy.  “For telling the truth about the bread, I was sentenced to
25 years in prison, of which I served seven years and four
months,” Hernandez said.  Last July, it was enough to have been reunited with Daniela
and Yarai. (Also exiled with them were an uncle and three
cousins.) But the euphoria was short-lived.  “We lived in a permanent state of hopelessness,” he said.
“The Spanish government and the ones who were truly responsible
for us acted in a way that seemed complicit with the Cuban
government from the first moment that we arrived.”  The examples Hernandez cited included terrible food that
was prepared exactly as it had been in prison, the lack of
medical treatment and poor housing offered the men and their
families.  No Pass  Although they were free to move about the city, they were
at the mercy of a capricious system, he said. He was told he
could no longer renew his public transit pass, for example,
which he used to take Daniela to school. No reason was given.  Why the men were poorly treated remains a puzzle. The
official in charge of their case was Agustin Santos Maraver,
director of the Cabinet of the Minister of  Foreign Affairs  and
Cooperation. He did not respond to several requests for comment.  I first learned of his plight when the  PEN American Center 
awarded Hernandez the PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write
prize in 2007, designed to spotlight some of the world’s most
endangered writers.  Did he ever think that he would die in jail?  “You think about everything when you’re in prison,” he
said. “If there’s a place to think about things, it’s prison.
Once, I had a high fever and was delirious and my throat was so
dry. I just held out my hand hoping someone would give me some
water, and when no one did, I thought, ‘This is it, I’m not
going to wake up tomorrow.’”  The next morning, when the medical chief of the district
asked how he was doing, he replied: “I’m not as well as I’d
like to be, but not as sick as you’d like me to be.”  ‘Sick Romanticism’  Hernandez believes American lefties who continue to support
the Castro revolution should get over their “sick
romanticism.” His message to President  Barack Obama  is not to
lift the trade embargo because “it will only benefit the
government.” He said this after bitterly asking, ”What
embargo? America is Cuba’s fifth-largest trade partner.”  Before we returned to the pink house with the parched yard,
I asked him if he dreams of going back to Cuba. He answered in
Spanish, but his reply was as American as  Tom Joad ’s monologue
at the end of “The Grapes of Wrath.”  “I haven’t left Cuba!” Hernandez said. “I’m physically
here, but I’m still in Cuba. I’m standing right there next to
the 12 Apostles, who did not accept the condition of leaving.
I’m standing right there next to that common prisoner who was
forced to commit a crime in order to feed his family. And I’m
with my sister, my father, my nephew, my friends, standing right
next to everyone. I’m right there.”  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 