-- 
Default Swaps Trading on U.S. Debt Doubles on Deficit Wrangling

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-05-26T09:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/default-swaps-trading-on-u-s-debt-doubles-on-government-deficit-wrangling.html
Trading of credit-default swaps
insuring U.S. Treasuries has doubled as the government struggles
to agree on plans to cut its  budget deficit  and raise the $14.3
trillion national debt limit.  A total of 819 contracts covering a net notional $4 billion
of debt were outstanding as of May 20, up from 449 contracts
covering $2 billion a year ago, according to the  Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  Average daily trading volume surged to
$490 million last week from $10 million the week before, making
the U.S. the fourth most active among 1,000 contracts tracked by
DTCC, up from 633rd.  President Barack Obama’s administration is under pressure
to resolve a standoff with Republicans over ways to reduce the
deficit, or the federal government may lose its AAA credit
rating,  Standard & Poor’s  said last month. Governments around
the world are wrestling with deficit crises, with the European
Union having had to rescue  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  “In a way, it’s worse than in Greece because no one can
bail out the U.S.,” said Georg Grodzki, the London-based head
of credit research at Legal & General Investment Management,
which oversees $580 billion of assets. “Complete political
paralysis is OK if your deficit is 3 percent, but not if it’s 10
percent.”  This year’s federal budget deficit is projected to reach
$1.5 trillion, or 9.8 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The government
will run out of options to avoid a default if the limit is not
raised by early August, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said May 2.  More Expensive  Swaps insuring Treasuries for five years are trading at 50
basis points, according to CMA. That compares with 37 basis
points in April and a record 100 basis points at the peak of the
financial crisis in 2009. One-year contracts are now more
expensive than  Panama , the  Philippines  and  Mexico , CMA prices
show.  Greek debt is the world’s most expensive to insure at about
1,400 basis points for five years and more than 2,000 basis
points for one year. Swaps on Norway are the world’s least
expensive at 17 basis points for five years and 5.5 basis points
for one year.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.2 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Debt Limit  The federal government is at an impasse over whether to
increase taxes or cut spending as conditions for passing
legislation to raise the statutory debt limit.  An election in western  New York  this week underscored the
divide, with Democrats claiming their victory was a clear sign
of public opposition to the Republican plan to privatize
Medicare. The race was watched for its implications for national
politics, including the 2012 presidential race and House
Republicans are now vowing to prevent that election from
becoming a referendum on the proposal.  “Those in the know will read these elections as further
proof the U.S. is miles away from agreeing on how to bring its
fiscal deficit down before it’s too late,” Grodzki said. “With
every month going by without material deficit cuts the debt
burden and the share of tax revenues spent on interest payments
keep rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  