-- 
Delphi Automotive Files for Stock Offering

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/delphi-automotive-files-for-ipo-to-tap-into-industry-comeback.html
Delphi Automotive Plc, the former
parts unit of  General Motors Co. (GM) , registered for an initial
public offering as the industry’s recovery drives demand for
automotive stocks.  The offering was registered with a $100 million initial
amount as a placeholder to calculate filing fees. The sale’s
final size may vary, Troy, Michigan-based Delphi said yesterday
in a regulatory filing. The offering may raise more than
$1 billion, a person with knowledge of the plans said last week.  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, exited
bankruptcy restructuring in October 2009. Delphi has since
become more profitable, reduced its dependence on its former
parent and expanded in fast-growing emerging markets. It’s also
benefited from the recovery in the U.S. auto industry,
highlighted by last year’s IPOs of GM and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the
first U.S. automakers to go public in more than 50 years.  “This is an indication that investors feel the industry is
worthy of investment consideration,” Don Luciani, a managing
partner at Amherst Partners LLC, a Birmingham, Michigan-based
investment banking firm, said in an interview. “The industry
continues to search for capital, particularly now that
production volumes are building. The issue now is how do we fund
the growth?”  Delphi, which seeks to trade under the symbol “DLPH,”
exited bankruptcy with four classes of shares. It bought back
stakes from GM and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. in March.
Lenders including private-equity firms Elliott Management Corp.
and Silver Point Capital LP bought most of the original Delphi
and still hold a controlling interest.  The offering’s proceeds will be used for general purposes,
retiring debt and  capital spending , Delphi said.  Profit Growth  The maker of fuel-injection systems and other parts said
profit in the three months that ended March 31 jumped 35 percent
to $291 million from $215 million a year earlier as it lowered
costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent
of sales fell to 5.1 percent in the quarter, from 5.8 percent a
year earlier, Delphi said in the filing.  Revenue climbed 17 percent to $4 billion. Delphi reported
profit of $631 million last year on revenue of $13.8 billion.
Sales this year will be $14.5 billion to $15 billion, the
company said May 10. The company has 91 percent of its hourly
workers in low-cost countries.  Delphi’s Chapter 11 filing in October 2005 was the biggest
U.S. auto-related bankruptcy at that time. Lenders including New
York-based Elliott and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Silver Point
won an auction for Delphi in July 2009 by bidding the value of
debt they were owed by the parts supplier. The loans totaled
$3.3 billion, according to court documents.  Director Bonus  Delphi said in the filing that board members will each
receive a $275,000 bonus after the IPO if the company’s implied
value is more than $6 billion. Chief Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal, who isn’t compensated for his work as a director, was
paid $21.1 million including salary, bonuses and stock last
year, according to the filing.  The underwriters include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch,  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   GM raised $23.1 billion in a sale of common and preferred
shares during its IPO in November. The shares have declined 5.2
percent from their initial offer price of $33 a share.  Fisker Automotive Inc., the startup maker of plug-in hybrid
luxury sports cars, this month filed with regulators that it was
raising $100 million after completing a $190 million round of
financing in March. Henrik Fisker, the automaker’s chief
executive officer, has said that the company had enough money to
execute its business plan and may start preparing for an initial
share sale after it begins production.  Tesla Secondary  Tesla, the maker of electric Roadster sports cars, plans to
sell 5.3 million shares in a secondary offering to help fund
development of a rechargeable sport-utility vehicle, according
to a filing today by the  Palo Alto , California-based company.
The shares have risen 70 percent from their initial offer price
of $17 in June.  “There seems to be a lot of money chasing automotive
investment again, but the question is ‘How soon will that
investment bear a return?’ ” said  Eric Noble , president of The
Car Lab, an industry consultancy in Orange,  California . “That’s
a very tough one.”  Some automakers question whether Delphi has “shaken the
legacy” of being a part of old GM, and about the pace of
recovery in the U.S. auto market, weakness in Europe and slowing
sales growth in  China , Noble said.  In 2004, purchases by GM accounted for 54 percent of
Delphi’s $28.6 billion revenue. No one customer accounts for
more than 21 percent of Delphi’s sales now, the company said in
an April presentation.  Auto Sales  U.S. auto sales may rise to 13 million this year, the
average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in April.
That would still be more than 22 percent less than the
16.8 million annual sales that was the average from 2000 to
2007, according to Autodata Corp.  Car sales in  Europe  have declined 12 of the last 13 months,
and growth in China industry deliveries slowed to 2.8 percent in
April and 6.5 percent in March after surging 32 percent last
year.  “The industry has been going through a significant
downturn,” said Amherst’s Luciani. “A lot of investors lost a
lot of money and it’s taken a while to feel comfortable that
we’re back into a period where we’ll see some sustained growth.
So this bodes well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  