-- 
Wasserman Schultz Says Voters Rejecting Republican Agenda

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-26T23:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/democrat-says-voters-rejecting-radical-republican-agenda-1-.html
Democratic National Committee 
Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz said her party’s success in
a New York special congressional election this week reflects a
broader rebuff by voters of Republicans’ agenda that will define
the 2012 elections.  Wasserman Schultz said Democrat Kathy Hochul’s come-from-
behind win May 24 of a U.S. House seat long held by Republicans
was “an indicator” that her party will reclaim the House next
year and President  Barack Obama  will win re-election.  “The voters got a glimpse of what it would be like under
Republican control -- an extreme radical social agenda,” said
Wasserman Schultz, 44, a U.S. representative from  Florida  who
took the helm of the Democratic National Committee May 4.  Her comments were echoed by Representative Steve Israel, A
New York Democrat and head of the party’s House campaign arm,
who said his party hopes to build on its success in the New York
election in which Hochul focused on attacking the Republican
plan to overhaul Medicare.  “I fundamentally believe that the  House of Representatives 
is in play and the Democrats can win a majority in November
2012,” he told reporters today.  ‘Served Notice’  “We served notice to Republicans that where there is a
Democratic candidate who will support Medicare, we will take the
fight to those districts,” he said.  Senate Democrats also found hope in Hochul’s victory.
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee Chairwoman  Patty Murray , of  Washington , said the Republicans’ plan to privatize
Medicare, passed by the House, is complicating the Senate bids
of several party members.  Republicans George Allen in  Virginia , Josh Mandel in  Ohio 
and Heather Wilson in  New Mexico  have refused to say whether
they would have backed the plan.  “Republicans are tying themselves in knots in order not to
take a position,” Murray said.  Speaking with reporters in Washington at a breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor, Wasserman Schultz
called Republicans’ plans “nothing short of an assault on
women.” She cited measures they proposed to curb abortion
rights and end funding for the women’s health network Planned
Parenthood, and said the party proposed “slashing and burning
in terms of budget cuts.”  ‘Seen the Preview’  “The voters have seen the preview. The curtain has been
lifted and they don’t like it,” Wasserman Schultz added.  She said the New York race “turned on the hard core,
radical right-wing agenda that the Republicans have given us a
preview of.” She said a Senate vote on the party’s budget plan
yesterday -- which drew backing from 40 of the Senate’s 47
Republicans -- indicated they are “doubling down” on that
approach.  Wasserman Schultz dismissed the drubbing her party took in
the 2010 midterm congressional elections as a manifestation of
voters’ economic malaise. It was not “a wholesale rejection of
Democrats,” she said. “You shouldn’t read anything into that
other than that voters were incredibly frustrated” with
joblessness and the slow pace at which the economy was
recovering.  Wasserman Schultz also said Obama’s recent speech on
Mideast peace, in which he called for using 1967 borders as the
starting point for Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, would not
significantly damage the president’s standing among Jewish
voters and supporters of  Israel .  “The natural home politically for the Jewish community in
America is the  Democratic Party ,” Wasserman Schultz said. She
added that Obama has always faced more skepticism than other
U.S. presidents about his position on Israel.  “Uniquely, unfortunately, with him, we have needed to
address unfounded mischaracterizations and outright lies about
what his record is,” Wasserman Schultz said of Obama. “Where
there are concerns, we’re trying to address them individually
and broadly in the community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  