-- 
Deutsche Bank Shares Hurt by Sovereign Concern, Ackermann Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-05-26T08:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/deutsche-bank-shares-hurt-by-sovereign-concern-ackermann-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said concern about the European
sovereign-debt crisis and tougher regulation are weighing on the
share price of  Germany ’s biggest lender.  “We believe there is still significant upside potential in
the bank’s share price,” he said according to the text of a
speech prepared for the annual shareholders meeting today.
“Worries about the high sovereign debt in a few countries of
the euro zone and doubts about the future credit ratings of the
U.S. as well as geopolitical tensions in North Africa and the
Middle East will persist for some time.”  Deutsche Bank shares have fallen 3.3 percent over the past
twelve months, compared with a 5.4 percent gain in the 44-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. The stock
trades at about seven times estimated earnings, compared with
nine times for the index. European Central Bank leaders and
European Union policy makers are clashing over how to prevent
the currency region’s first default, after 256 billion euros
($363 billion) in bailouts to  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
failed to stop contagion from the debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank had net sovereign risks tied to Greece of
1.6 billion euros at the end of last year, it said in March.
German banks’ claims against Greek borrowers fell to $34
billion in the final quarter of 2010 from more than $40
billion, Bank for International Settlements statistics show.  “Despite all adversities, we can look ahead to the future
with great confidence,” Ackermann said. He reiterated the
bank’s full-year operating pretax profit target of 10 billion
euros, helped by gains in  investment banking  and  Asia . The
“current focus” is on expansion in Asia, where Deutsche Bank
aims to be among the top three investment banks and aims to
achieve at least 4 billion euros in revenue this year.  Ackermann is counting on acquisitions such as  Deutsche
Postbank AG (DPB) , private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim and ABN Amro
Holding NV’s commercial-banking operations in the Netherlands in
the last two years to reduce dependence on investment banking to
about 50 percent of earnings over the long term from 71 percent
in 2009. Those three businesses are expected to make a "positive
contribution" to earnings this year, Ackermann said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  