-- 
Djokovic Perfect Season Start Next Test Is Del Potro at French Open Tennis

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/djokovic-perfect-season-start-next-test-is-del-potro-at-french-open-tennis.html
Novak Djokovic hasn’t lost since
November and has his sights on the record for an unbeaten start
to a tennis season.  All that perfection may end today in the third round of the
 French Open .  Djokovic, 39-0 in 2011 and zeroing in on the No. 1 ranking
on the ATP World Tour, plays 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro on the red clay of Roland Garros in an unusually tough
early round match created by injuries and luck of the draw.  Del Potro is seeded 25th in Paris after missing most of
last season with a bad wrist. Djokovic, four wins away from
breaking John McEnroe’s 27-year-old mark for consecutive
victories to begin a season, said he knows he’s in for a tough
time on the main Court Philippe Chatrier against the 6-foot-6
Argentine right-hander, who is 27-6 with two tournament titles
this year.  “It’s going to be a great match, a battle,” Djokovic, a
24-year-old from  Serbia , said at a news conference two days ago.
“He is playing equally well on any surface. Big serve, great
ground strokes. For his height, he’s moving really well. He’s
just overall a top player for me. It’s going to be a big
challenge for both of us.”  Djokovic is trying to become the first player since Jim Courier of the U.S. in 1992 to win the Australian Open and
French Open back-to-back. Unbeaten in three matches against Del
Potro, Djokovic will take the tour’s top spot from Spain’s
Rafael Nadal if he reaches the final in Paris. He already has
two clay-court wins against Nadal, a five-time French Open
champion, in his current streak.  ‘Special’ Goal  “It’s special he’s trying to make a record here, to be No.
1,” Del Potro told a news conference after his second round.
“It will be a really tough match for me.”  Roger Federer , the record 16-time Grand Slam champion from
 Switzerland  who Del Potro beat for his lone major title, plays
Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia in the third round today.  Caroline Wozniacki , the women’s top seed who is seeking her
first Grand Slam title, plays Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia,
while defending champion Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  meets Peng
Shuai of  China .  Bethanie Mattek-Sands, who will pass  Venus Williams  as the
second-highest-ranked American woman once the French Open is
over, meets three-time semifinalist Jelena Jankovic of Serbia.  Kim Clijsters, the women’s second seed from Belgium, was
upset in the second round yesterday by Arantxa Rus of the
Netherlands, 3-6, 7-5, 6-1. Clisjters wasted two match points in
the second set.  Nadal, Murray  Nadal beat Pablo Andujar of  Spain  7-5, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4), and
fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain defeated Simone Bolelli of
Italy 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, 7-5.  Maria Sharapova, the women’s seventh seed who needs a
French Open title to complete the career Grand Slam, came back
from a set and 4-1 down to beat Caroline Garcia of  France  3-6,
6-4, 6-0.  Djokovic can equal McEnroe’s record by reaching the
semifinals, while a championship would tie him with  Argentina ’s
Guillermo Vilas for the longest win streak in the Open era of
professional tennis, 46 straight in 1977.  “In the last couple of months everything got together for
me from the mental perspective,” Djokovic said. “In the game,
I improved maybe by small margins, by a small percentage some
shots in my game, especially the serve. And from the mental
side, obviously confidence that I have winning match after match
after match helps me to keep on playing the best tennis. That’s
about all.”  Last Loss  Djokovic hasn’t lost since Federer beat him for a spot in
the championship match of the ATP World Tour Finals in  London  on
Nov. 27, 2010. His winning run started in Belgrade in December,
when he won both singles matches in Serbia’s victory over France
for the Davis Cup in front of 16,200 home fans, including
President  Boris Tadic .  Djokovic, who lives in Monte Carlo, has improved his serve
in the past year under coach Marian Vajda. The rest of his team
consists of a fitness coach and a nutritionist.  He has lost some weight, which he said helped his movement
around the court, by switching to a gluten-free diet. He won’t
give details of what he eats, saying repeatedly at news
conferences that such information is “private.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  