-- 
Dollar Tumbles on Rate Prospects; Euro Slumps to Record Low Against Franc

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-26T21:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/dollar-falls-on-rate-outlook-after-data-trail-forecast-euro-erases-gains.html
The dollar dropped against most major
peers as the economy grew less than forecast and jobless claims
unexpectedly rose, adding to speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will lag behind other central banks in raising  interest rates .  The euro reached a record low against the Swiss franc after
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads euro-area finance
chiefs, said the  International Monetary Fund  may not release its
share of aid to Greece next month. U.S. Treasury yields fell.
 New Zealand ’s dollar led gains versus the greenback on a report
China Investment Corp. plans to buy assets in the nation.  “With data coming out weaker, it negates what a lot of the
Fed’s more hawkish members have been saying and solidifies the
talk of the dovish camp of the Fed,” said  Mary Nicola , a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . Treasury
“yields have come off significantly, and that’s having an
impact on dollar-yen.”  The dollar weakened 0.8 percent to 81.29 yen at 5 p.m. in
New York, from 81.97 yen yesterday, and touched 81.16 cents, the
lowest level since May 18. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.4145
after earlier gaining as much as 0.8 percent. It depreciated to
$1.3970 on May 23, the weakest since March 17. The common
currency fell 0.4 percent to 114.97 yen, from 115.47.  The euro dropped for a fifth straight day versus the franc,
the longest losing streak in a month. It touched a record 1.2203
francs before trading at 1.2243, down 0.4 percent.  The IMF said in a report today that  Switzerland ’s central
bank should start raising borrowing costs to fight emerging
price pressures as the economy strengthens.  Yields Slide  Benchmark Treasury two-year note yields dropped to as low
as 0.48 percent, the least since Dec. 7, as investors sought
safety. The extra yield investors get by purchasing the U.S.
securities versus comparable Japanese debt fell to 30 basis
points, or 0.30 percentage point, the narrowest since December,
reducing the appeal of dollar-denominated debt.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, the same as estimated last month,
Commerce Department figures showed today. That compares with a
3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 2.2 percent rise.  Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  rose by 10,000 to
424,000 in the week ended May 21, Labor Department figures
showed. A Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to 404,000.  The euro earlier rose versus the dollar and franc after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy
makers are “carefully” monitoring inflation, fueling bets the
region’s economy is strong enough for higher borrowing costs.  ECB Versus Fed  The ECB raised its main refinancing rate to 1.25 percent
last month after keeping it at a record low of 1 percent for
almost two years. The Fed has held its target rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. It’s forecast to keep the
benchmark unchanged until the first quarter of 2012, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of economists and analysts.  The U.S. central bank is discussing how quickly to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in Treasuries in June to stimulate growth. New York Fed
President William C. Dudley says the Fed still has a
“considerable way to go” to reduce unemployment from 9
percent, while policy makers including Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  say waiting too long risks igniting inflation.  Europe ’s shared currency weakened versus 12 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after Juncker’s comments. The IMF is due to
contribute 3.3 billion euros ($4.7 billion) of a 12 billion-euro
aid payment to  Greece  next month. Officials from the European
Union, IMF and ECB, known as the troika, are set to end next
week a review of Greece’s progress in meeting bailout terms.  ‘Specific IMF Rules’  “There are specific IMF rules, and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said at a conference in
Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said.  The euro lost 2.3 percent over the past month in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies, as European leaders struggle to
resolve Greece’s budget-deficit woes. The franc climbed 2.8
percent, and the greenback gained 1.6 percent.  “The markets don’t like this kind of uncertainty, and it
certainly justifies the weaker euro,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA
in  London .  Asian Investors  The euro also rose earlier versus the dollar as the
Financial Times reported European Financial Stability Facility
Chief Executive Officer Klaus Regling said Asian investors,
including  China , may buy Portuguese bailout bonds when the EFSF
sells them next month, easing concern the region’s debt crisis
will spread.  New Zealand’s dollar rallied the most in two months against
its U.S. counterpart after interest.co.nz reported China’s
sovereign investor may have set aside 1.5 percent of its
foreign-exchange reserves, the equivalent of NZ$6 billion ($4.8
billion), to invest in assets in the South Pacific nation.  The kiwi climbed 1.6 percent, the most on a closing basis
since March 18, to 81.16 U.S. cents.  Canada ’s dollar and  Mexico ’s peso were the two worst
performers against the greenback among its most-traded
counterparts amid weaker growth in their largest trading
partner. The Canadian currency slipped 0.1 percent to 97.81
cents per  U.S. dollar , while the peso was little changed at
11.6728 after falling earlier as much as 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  