-- 
Drop in Physical Activity at Work Leads to Obesity, Study Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S t a i t i   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-26T12:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/drop-in-physical-activity-at-work-leads-to-obesity-study-says.html
A drop in workplace physical activity
over the past half century has helped propel rates of U.S.
obesity to among the highest in the world, a study said.  Less than 20 percent of jobs now require at least moderate
exertion, a drop from almost half of all private-industry jobs
five decades ago, according to research published yesterday in
the journal  PLOS One . The change in job-related daily physical
effort matched the actual change in weight for some.  “Over the last 50 years in the U.S. there has been a
progressive decrease in the percent of individuals employed in
occupations that require moderate intensity physical activity,”
the study said. The reduction in energy expenditure “accounts
for a significant portion of the increase in mean U.S. body
weight for women and men over the last five decades.”  More than a third of U.S. adults, or over 72 million
people, are obese, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta. The obesity rate has doubled for
adults between 1980. Obesity increases the risk of type 2
diabetes,  heart disease , and some cancers, according to the CDC.  The researchers analyzed occupational data from the U.S.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics  and compared it with mean body
weights from the U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination
Surveys. They found that predicted weights based on change in
occupational-related daily energy expenditure since 1960 closely
matched the actual change in weight for 40- to 50-year-old men
and women.  The number of calories expended by U.S. workers had dropped
on average by more than 100 in the period, said the researchers,
led by Timothy S. Church and Claude Bouchard at  Louisiana State
University  in  Baton Rouge .  Service occupations, which are less strenuous than
manufacturing and agriculture, now account for 43 percent of
U.S. private-sector jobs, compared with 20 percent in the early
1960s. The study didn’t factor in technological changes that
make manufacturing and agriculture easier, meaning that the
study may be underestimating the trend, the researchers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Staiti at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 