-- 
Dubai Keeps August Crude Price Stable at 40 Cents Below Oman

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-26T10:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/dubai-keeps-august-crude-price-stable-at-40-cents-below-oman-1-.html
Dubai crude, a Persian Gulf benchmark
for  Asia , will sell in August at the same discount as in July,
its deepest in a year as buyers favor lighter, sweeter grades
over the more sulfur-heavy blends produced in the Middle East.  The official selling price for Dubai oil loading in August
will be 40 cents less than the Oman futures contract for that
month, according to an e-mailed statement today from Dubai’s
Department of Petroleum Affairs. The discount widened from 25
cents to Oman for June, the lowest since June 2010.  The Oman futures contract is the only product traded on the
 Dubai Mercantile Exchange , which announced the differential
determined by the department. The spread between Oman futures
and costlier European benchmark Brent crude has nearly tripled
over the past six months to $7.34 a barrel yesterday.  Crude is gaining this year as unrest in the Middle East and
a halt in exports from  Libya  because of fighting in that country
raised concern that supply may be interrupted elsewhere. The
lack of Libyan crude has pushed up the premium buyers are
willing to pay for grades such as Brent. Libyan oil is lighter
and sweeter than many Middle East blends, meaning it contains
less sulfur and yields more lucrative products such as diesel
and gasoline.  Brent is selling for a fifth more than it did at the end of
last year, advancing to $114.93 a barrel yesterday. Oman crude
has risen by 23 percent to $108.73 a barrel in the same period.  The final August price for Dubai crude will be calculated
on the last day of trading for that month’s contract on the DME,
when Oman is set. The Department of Petroleum Affairs issues the
price formula for its oil on the last Thursday of every month to
apply to the closing three months ahead.  The DME’s futures contract also determines the price for
Oman’s production of more than 800,000 barrels a day. Oman and
Dubai are the only government entities to price their oil based
on the exchange-generated price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 