-- 
Easyjet Studies Airbus, Boeing Offers on Narrowbodies

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-26T19:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/easyjet-studies-airbus-boeing-offers-on-narrowbodies-correct-.html
(Corrects to show talks are preliminary in first
paragraph.)  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest
discount airline, is in preliminary discussions with Airbus SAS
and  Boeing Co. (BA)  about their proposed offerings in the single-
aisle category, Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said
today in an interview.  Discussions are proceeding “slowly,” McCall said in
Toulouse, France, without specifying how many aircraft EasyJet
might need in the future. The Luton, England-based carrier is
predominantly an Airbus operator at present.  Whichever planemaker it chooses, EasyJet will continue to
source engines from CFM International, a joint venture of
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and the Snecma unit of France’s  Safran SA (SAF) ,
McCall said. CFM is designing the Leap-X engine to power new-
generation narrowbodies including the redesigned A320neo.  EasyJet has had no discussions with Canada’s  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  about the CSeries jet, its rival to the  Airbus A320  and
Boeing 737, said the CEO, who spoke at Airbus’s headquarters
following a ceremony to mark the handover of its latest plane.  EasyJet, ranked second to Boeing operator  Ryanair Holdings
Plc (RYA)  in the European discount market, has a fleet of more than
200 Airbus jets. The planes are mainly the A319 model, though
the U.K. carrier is boosting the proportion of larger A320s.  Stelios Haji-Ioannou EasyJet’s founder, has cautioned
against rapid expansion, arguing that the company should focus
on improving year-round utilization of its fleet rather than
adding aircraft to serve routes sustainable only in the summer.  Shares of EasyJet closed down 0.4 percent at 350 pence in
London, taking declines this year to 20 percent and valuing the
company at 1.50 billion pounds ($2.45 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse,  France , at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  