-- 
ECB’s Paramo Says ‘Vienna’ Plan for Greece May Be Positive

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-26T15:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ecb-s-paramo-says-vienna-plan-for-greece-may-be-positive-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said a Vienna Initiative-
style debt-rollover program for  Greece  could be “positive,”
even as it would only be part of the solution for the indebted
nation.  “In general a Vienna Initiative is an interesting
initiative, in that it is voluntary, and it means a vote of
confidence in what the Greek authorities are doing,” Gonzalez-
Paramo told reporters in Barcelona today.  The Vienna Initiative program developed in 2009 for eastern
 Europe  was floated by Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  this month as an option for Greece. Such a plan would
aim to persuade creditors to buy new bonds from the Greek
government when existing ones mature.  “It’s a positive initiative in that it implies the
interest of the private sector in the refinancing of the  Greek
economy ,” Gonzalez-Paramo said. “It can only be part of the
solution,” he said, as Greece must fulfill the conditions of
its 110 billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout program.  The initiative was a key plank in the IMF-sponsored rescues
of Hungary, Romania, Latvia and Serbia in 2009. Under the plan,
banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Raiffeisen Bank International AG,
and Societe Generale SA, then the biggest lenders in eastern
Europe, publicly pledged to keep their units in those countries
afloat by rolling over funding and providing fresh capital if
needed.  ECB Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny , who heads
Austria’s central bank, said today the Vienna Initiative was an
“interesting model,” though it couldn’t be directly adopted in
Greece.  Gonzalez-Paramo, a Spaniard, also said he couldn’t
“conceive” of Greece not meeting the conditions of its
program, and said the country has the resources to solve its
economic difficulties. Greek citizens have to “grit their
teeth,” to steer the economy back to growth, he said at the
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  