-- 
Medvedev Seeks to Recapture Lost Russian Electoral Momentum at G-8 Summit

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/medvedev-seeks-to-recapture-lost-russian-electoral-momentum-at-g-8-summit.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
most important audience during the Group of Eight summit may be
a world leader who isn’t present: Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Medvedev met yesterday with U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
who said improved relations have led to greater cooperation on
issues such as a planned missile-defense system,  Iran  and
nuclear security. The summit in Deauville,  France , may help
Medvedev demonstrate the importance of his links to world
leaders, said  Chris Weafer  of UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.  "Medvedev has clearly lost domestic momentum in the race
for the March election," said Weafer, UralSib’s chief
strategist. "A successful G8 summit, even without any specific
concessions won, is important for him as it shows the domestic
audience that he is a credible and respected leader that can
successfully represent  Russia ’s interests on a global stage."  Putin, who stepped down as president in 2008 because of a
ban on serving more than two consecutive terms, this month
formed the All-Russia People’s Front to rally support for his
United Russia party, a move many analysts interpreted as a sign
he would run for president next year. He won the backing of
billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , who joined the movement.  Putin, 58, chose Medvedev as his successor in 2008, and
neither men have ruled out running in the March 2012 elections.
The premier, who has remained at the center of power as prime
minister, leads Medvedev in opinion polls.  ‘Man in Charge’  "In the end, it is Putin, not Medvedev, despite his more
western-friendly image, who has the best chance of controlling
power in Russia beyond 2012," Ariel Cohen, a senior fellow at
the  Heritage Foundation  in  Washington , said by phone yesterday.
"The G-8 leaders better recognize that and prepare to deal with
the man in charge."  While Medvedev and Obama discussed missile defense in
France and agreed to work together to maintain the "strategic
balance," the two countries remain divided on the issue. A
resolution may take until 2020 and be left to future U.S. and
Russian presidents, Medvedev said yesterday.  Putin returing to the presidency is the scenario priced in
to Russian equities ,Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares
at CF Global Trading in London, said by phone on May 18. The
stocks would jump 10 percent in "short order" if Medvedev, who
has pledged to improve the rule of law and promote foreign
investment, would continue as president, he said.  Russian stocks are the cheapest of the four so-called BRIC
nations, with a price-earnings ratio of 8.1 compared with 9.7
for  Brazil  and about 16 for China and  India , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Same Old Excuses’  "If Medvedev stays then the same old excuses for not
investing in Russia will fade away, and it could lead to Russia
becoming a conventional investment target," said Mattias Westman, chief executive officer of London-based Prosperity
Capital Management Ltd., which oversees $5.2 billion in Russia
and the  Commonwealth of Independent States .  Uncertainty continues to cloud the succession as Putin and
Medvedev delay announcing which of them will run.  "The chance that the next president of Russia will be
either Medvedev or Putin is astonishingly high," Peter Jarvis,
senior investment manager at Pictet Asset Management Ltd., which
has about $1.5 billion invested in Russia, told reporters in
 London  on May 17. "In terms of backing one horse or the other,
only two people have the answer to that."  Medvedev, a 45-year-old former corporate lawyer from
Putin’s hometown of St. Petersburg, has staked out diverging
positions from Putin in recent weeks.  ‘Dangerous Thing’  Speaking at a conference of youth activists in central
Russia on May 13, Medvedev said an excessive concentration of
power is a “dangerous thing,” and that he opposed building a
political system tailored to one individual.  The comments amounted to a veiled criticism of Putin and
reflect disappointment at what Medvedev sees as a move to
sideline him, according to Masha Lipman, an analyst at the
Carnegie Moscow Center.  At a news conference outside Moscow last week, his first
major appearance before journalists since he became president,
Medvedev said that freeing imprisoned billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  wouldn’t be “dangerous at all” and that he
supports faster modernization of the economy than Putin.  The Moscow City Court on May 24 rejected Khodorkovsky’s
appeal of his conviction on money-laundering and oil-theft
charges that added six years to his original eight-year
sentence. The court agreed to reduce the sentence by one year.  ‘Doesn’t Deliver’  Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man, says Putin
targeted him because he funded opposition parties, a charge the
prime minister denies. The U.S. and European governments said
the latest verdict was a step backward for judicial independence
in Russia and would harm the investment climate.  While Medvedev’s platform enjoys some support, he hasn’t
shown the ability to implement his policies, said Mikhail Dmitriev, head of the Moscow-based Center for Strategic
Research, which advises the government. As president, Medvedev
has the right to pardon Khodorkovsky.  "The problem is not with Medvedev’s political agenda but
this is a confidence problem," Dmitriev said. "The public is
convinced that he promises too much and doesn’t deliver."  Medvedev and Putin have governed Russia through a so-called
tandem of power, with the president serving as the face of
Russia in international affairs. While Putin will consider
Medvedev’s role in foreign policy when deciding whether to run
next year, it will be of secondary importance, said Mikhail
Vinogradov, head of the  St. Petersburg  Politics Foundation.  "The chances of Putin taking presidency in 2012 are 65
percent versus Medvedev’s 35 percent, but this is not final," he
said. "Foreign policy is, of course, something that Medvedev can
claim as his success, and he needs foreign leaders’ support as
he is criticized in Russia for being a weak president."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  