-- 
Teenage Country Crooner Scotty McCreery Crowned Fox’s 10th ‘American Idol’

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 
2011-05-26T17:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/teenage-country-crooner-scotty-mccreery-crowned-fox-s-10th-american-idol-.html
Scotty McCreery, the 17-year-old
country singer from  North Carolina , was voted the 10th season
winner of “ American Idol ,” the most-watched U.S. television
show.  The crooner topped Lauren Alaina, 16, by receiving the
majority of viewers’ record 122 million votes, host  Ryan Seacrest  said at the end of yesterday’s two-hour season finale.  “Never in my wildest dreams,” McCreery said. “I got to
thank the Lord first though, he got me here.”  The pairing of the two country singers marked the youngest
finals matchup in the show’s history. McCreery receives a
recording contract with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group.
Jimmy Iovine, who runs Universal Music’s Interscope Records,
helped contestants prepare for the competitions.  “It’s been a year since me and Lauren Alaina tried out,”
McCreery said. “Me and her have been together since Day 1 and
we’re gonna stay together.”  The show drew an estimated 29.3 million viewers, Fox said
today, citing revised Nielsen Co. data. That represents a gain
of 21 percent over last year’s close, the network said in a
statement. The audience in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic
sought by advertisers increased 12 percent, Fox said.  This season’s top 13 contestants performed during the
results show broadcast live from the Nokia Theatre in  Los
Angeles  last night.  Season’s Ratings  James Durbin, who counts judge  Steven Tyler  among his
influences, sang with heavy metal band Judas Priest, while Jacob
Lusk performed gospel singer Kirk Franklin’s “I Smile” with
Franklin and Gladys Knight. Casey Abrams was joined by actor
Jack Black for a rendition of Queen’s “Fat Bottomed Girls.”  As of last week, “Idol” averaged 25 million viewers this
season, 4 percent more than a year earlier, said Fox, citing
data from Nielsen Co. It’s the first time in four years that the
show has increased its audience.  The talent show helped News Corp.’s Fox close the TV season
with its seventh straight win in the 18-to-49-year-old audience
demographic that advertisers target. CBS is the most-watched
network overall, based on Nielsen data.  Producers FremantleMedia  North America  and  CKX Inc. (CKXE) ’s 19
Entertainment retooled “Idol” this year, bringing in rocker
Tyler and pop singer Jennifer Lopez as judges. The producers
tapped Iovine to coach contestants on their performance skills.  Last-Minute Drama  The conclusion took on added drama before the final
competition May 24 when Alaina had to seek medical treatment for
problems with her voice. Haley Reinhart, who was eliminated last
week, rehearsed before the telecast in case Alaina wasn’t able
to take the stage. She recovered and performed three songs.  Last night, R&B star Beyonce joined some of the season’s
female contestants to perform her Grammy award-winning “Crazy
in Love.” Reinhart, the 20-year-old from Illinois, sang
“Steppin’ Out With My Baby” with Tony Bennett before McCreery
hit the stage with country singer Tim McGraw for a duet of
“Live Like You Were Dying.” Alaina, from Georgia, performed
“Before He Cheats” with Season 4 winner Carrie Underwood.  The show saluted Tyler and Lopez with video tributes and
featured performances by Lopez’s husband, Marc Anthony, ‘70s
star  Tom Jones , Tyler, Lady Gaga and U2’s Bono and the Edge.  In September, Fox plans to air “The X-Factor,” a reality
competition program that will feature  Simon Cowell  and Paula Abdul, original “Idol” judges, evaluating contestants.  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in  New York  and controlled by Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, rose 48 cents to
$17.66 at 1:23 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The Class A shares had gained 18 percent this year
before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Moran in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  