-- 
Egypt Says Natural-Gas Export Pipeline May be Fixed in Two Weeks

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-05-26T13:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/egypt-says-natural-gas-export-pipeline-may-be-fixed-in-two-weeks.html
Egypt ’s natural-gas pipeline is
expected to be fixed within two weeks, an Egyptian Natural Gas
Co. official said, a month after an explosion that suspended
exports to the country’s eastern neighbors.  The Cairo-based company known as Gasco, which operates the
pipeline running through North Sinai, is almost done with
replacing parts damaged in the blast on April 27, Abd El Sattar
El Demerdash, general manager of gas network and engineering and
analysis at the company, said in an interview in Cairo. The
pipeline is part of a network that carries Egyptian gas to
Israel, Jordan,  Syria  and Lebanon.  “We are currently in the final stage of the mechanical
work which involves changing the valves and other parts,” El
Demerdash said. “Once we are ready, we will notify the Oil
Ministry, and they decide when gas exports could resume. It
won’t take them long to do so, but we have another issue, which
is securing the pipeline.”  Gasco is currently stepping up security measures by
deploying more armed security men, increasing patrols and
erecting barbed wire at several points along the 192-kilometer
(119-mile) pipeline that lies 1.5 to 2 meters below the surface,
El Demerdash said.  “We already had armed security men guarding it but they
were sometimes outgunned by attackers,” El Demerdash said.  Israel  Deal Criticized  Unidentified gunmen last month bombed a monitoring room in
the northern Sinai city of El-Arish, halting domestic supplies
and gas exports. The ministry said at the time that the incident
was an “act of sabotage” and that an investigation was
underway to identify the perpetrators. The attack was the second
in three months on the pipeline after a similar one on Feb. 5
during a popular uprising against former President  Hosni Mubarak . Authorities thwarted a separate attempt on the same
network on March 27.  During the 18 days of demonstrations that ended with
Mubarak’s ouster on Feb. 11, some protesters were demanding
halting gas exports to Israel, with which the North African
country signed a peace treaty in 1979. The  Muslim Brotherhood ,
Egypt’s biggest opposition group, and other opponents of Mubarak
have repeatedly criticized his regime for exporting the fuel to
Israel at prices they say were below market rates.  Ex-Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  and other former officials are
being tried in court over the gas-sale agreement signed under
Mubarak. East Mediterranean Gas Co., in which  Ampal-American
Israel (AMPL)  Corp. owns a 12.5 percent stake, buys the gas from the
Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Co., or Egas, and ships it to
Israel via an undersea extension. A separate branch that splits
from the Gasco-operated main North Sinai pipeline transports the
fuel to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.  Egypt holds  Africa ’s third-biggest gas reserves, with 78
trillion cubic feet (2.19 trillion cubic meters), according to
data from BP Plc. It produces 6.3 billion cubic feet of gas a
day, according to Oil Ministry documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 