-- 
Telefonica’s Tuenti Social Network to Expand Beyond Spain, Hire Engineers

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-27T08:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/telefonica-s-tuenti-social-network-plans-expansion-outside-spain.html
Tuenti,  Spain ’s second-most popular
social networking site, plans to open to foreign users in the
five-year-old company’s first attempt to grow outside its home
country.  The by-invitation only site of 11 million users, owned by
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , will begin accepting registrations from outside
Spain as early as next week, founder and Chief Executive Officer
Zaryn Dentzel said in an interview. The Madrid-based company
intends to hire 100 engineers this year, adding to its workforce
of 226, he said.  “There’s a lot that’s going to happen in social networking
and this is just the beginning,” said the 27-year-old American,
a native of  Santa Barbara , California, who started Tuenti in
2006. “Before we really wanted to focus just on this market. It
was almost kind of an obsessive focus.”  Regional rivals to Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking site, are holding their own even as the Palo
Alto, California-based company weighs new offerings like movies
and music. VKontakte, a Russian site part-owned by Mail.ru Group
Ltd., remains that country’s most popular site, a feat also
accomplished by local sites in  Japan  and  China .  Facebook attracted about 22.5 million unique visitors in
Spain in April, compared with about 16 million for Tuenti,
according to figures from comScore Inc. The seven-year-old
American site has more than 500 million users worldwide and is
open to any Internet user, while Tuenti requires an invitation
from an existing member.  Mobile Push  Tuenti, which stands for “your entity” in Spanish, is
also starting its own mobile virtual network operator called Tu.
The service is currently being tested by a small set of users
and built into the social network.  The social network is “obsessively focused” on developing
mobile offerings, Dentzel said.  “Tuenti had a bigger impact in the beginning but now I use
more  Facebook ,” said Nieves Merino, a 23-year-old student of
industrial engineering who has accounts on both sites. “Most of
my friends started with Tuenti, which was more popular three
years ago but now people start to try Facebook more and I kind
of like it better.”  Madrid-based Telefonica,  Europe ’s second-biggest phone
company, bought a majority stake in Tuenti last August with a 70
million euro ($99 million) investment.  Global Plans  In the longer term, Tuenti will use the presence of
Telefonica, which operates in countries including the U.K.,
 Germany , and  Latin America  to extend its reach beyond Spain.  “The reason that we did the deal with Telefonica was to
give us the support and resources of a partner that would allow
us to be a global player,” Dentzel said. “It’s absolutely a
priority,” he said.  Social media efforts by telecommunications companies have
sometimes struggled to gain traction.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 360,
an Internet address book that integrates data from other social
media applications, had less than a million users last year.
When the head of the 360 project quit last September, he wasn’t
replaced.  Telefonica shares climbed 0.5 percent to 16.66 euros at
9:51 a.m. in Madrid trading, giving the company a market value
of 76 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  