-- 
Emerging Stocks Advance Most in 5 Weeks on Korea, U.S. Economy

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T21:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/emerging-stocks-rally-most-in-five-weeks-on-commodity-gain-growth-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, pushing
the benchmark index to its biggest rally in five weeks, after
South Korean consumer confidence increased and growth in the
U.S. slowed, a sign the  Federal Reserve  may wait to raise rates.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.4 percent to
1,133.37 at 4 p.m. New York time, its biggest rally since April
20. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 2.8 percent, the most since
June 2009. Brazil’s Bovespa rose 1.1 percent as a report showed
unemployment declined in April. The real strengthened 0.9
percent against the dollar.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 1.8 percent last quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures from  Washington  today.
The rise in gross domestic product fell short of the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, which called for a
2.2 percent increase. Greek, Spanish and Portuguese bonds rose
after the head of the European Union’s bailout fund said the
region has found the “right response” to its debt crisis.  “Modest growth in the U.S. isn’t a bad scenario for
emerging markets,” said Greg Lesko, who helps manage about $800
million at Deltec Asset Management in  New York . Developing
nations might benefit from a slower pace of future rate
increases in the U.S., he said.  The MSCI emerging-market index has declined 1.6 percent
this year amid growing concern that the global expansion will
slow as developing nations raise  interest rates  and Europe’s
debt crisis worsens. The 21-country gauge is valued at 11.04
times analysts’ 12-month profit estimates, down from 11.6 at the
start of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Growth Story’  “The long-term growth story for emerging markets remains
intact, and there are signs that the global economic recovery
hasn’t faltered,” said Fitz Aclan, who helps manage about $13
billion at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila.  South Korea ’s consumer sentiment index rose to 104 this
month from 100 in April, while strategists at Credit Suisse
Group AG and Citigroup Inc. said the nation’s stocks will
advance on improved earnings.  South Korea saw the strongest upgrades of earnings
forecasts within the region in May, Credit Suisse analysts led
by Sakthi Siva wrote in a report dated yesterday, advising
investors to buy the nation’s equities on “dips.” The Kospi
may rise to 2,350 by the end of the year, Citigroup analysts led
by Michael Chung said in a report. It closed at 2,091.91 today.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s second-biggest carmaker,
surged 6.7 percent after Moody’s Investors Service placed the
company’s Baa3 issuer rating under review for a possible
upgrade.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the nation’s largest automaker,
advanced 5.6 percent.  Yield Spreads  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 1.1
percent after Tata Steel Ltd. posted a better-than-expected 72
percent increase in fourth-quarter profit. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
slipped 0.5 percent as oil retreated.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent,
falling for a sixth day in the longest stretch of losses since
July, on concern monetary tightening measures are slowing the
economy and making it harder for small companies to borrow
money.  Russia’s Micex Index retreated for the first time in three
days as OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer, slid 1
percent. Crude declined 1.1 percent to $100.23 a barrel in New
York trading.  Unemployment in  Brazil , Latin America’s biggest economy,
fell to 6.4 percent in April, from 6.5 percent the previous
month. Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by
market value, rose the most in two months, leading gains by
companies that depend on credit growth. Souza Cruz SA, Brazil’s
biggest tobacco company, gained after it was raised to
“overweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Retailer Lojas Renner SA
jumped after it was raised to “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 314, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  