-- 
Ener-G Plans to Start its First Johannesburg Waste-to-Energy Plant

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ener-g-to-start-its-first-johannesburg-waste-to-energy-plant-1-.html
Ener-G Plc, a Manchester, England-
based low-carbon technology company, will commission the first
of five waste-to-energy  power plants  in Johannesburg this month.  The gas extraction and flaring system at the Robinson Deep
landfill will be installed this month and the site will start
producing about 6 megawatts of electricity in October, said
David Cornish, Ener-G’s general manager in  South Africa .  A second facility at the Marie Louise landfill will go
online by December and produce another 6 megawatts of power,
Cornish said on the phone from Durban today.  Three additional plants at the Ennerdale, Linbro Park and
Goudkoppies landfills will be commissioned by June 2012, he
said. The five projects will produce 19 megawatts of electricity
in total, he said.  Ener-G plans to sell the power to Eskom Holdings Ltd. under
the country’s renewable energy feed-in tariff program, which
pays above-market rates for power from clean sources.  The  Department of Energy  is expected to issue a formal
request for tenders from independent power producers by the end
of June for 1,025 megawatts of renewable energy. A total of 125
megawatts of power is targeted to come from landfill gas
projects.  ‘Readiness to Implement’  The facilities Ener-G is working on are the countries
“most advanced in terms of development and readiness to
implement,” Cornish said. “When it comes to that request for
qualification from the DOE, our projects will be ready to go.”  The company formed a joint venture under the name Ener-G
Systems Joburg Pty Ltd. to develop the projects and was awarded
a 20-year build-own-operate contract from the City of
Johannesburg in 2009 worth about 500 million rand ($71.6
million), said Cornish. The other shareholders are General
Energy Systems, the Central Energy Fund, Waste Rite and  Likusasa
Energy Africa , he said.  Ener-G has already built a 400 kilowatt pilot project in
Richard’s Bay, which has been supplying power to BHP Billiton
Plc for the past two years, he said. Two additional plants are
planned in the Kwa-Zulu Natal province and another in Cape Town,
with a combined generating capacity of about 6 megawatts, he
said.  Ener-G’s portfolio of projects in Johannesburg will also
earn revenue from the sale of carbon credits. The projects
should be registered with the United Nation’s Clean Development
Mechanism before the end of the year, said Cornish. They are
expected to generate up to 400,000 credits a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  