-- 
Lenovo’s Profit Triples on Corporate Demand

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-26T08:56:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/lenovo-s-profit-triples-on-corporate-demand.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,  China ’s biggest
maker of personal computers, reported fourth-quarter profit
tripled, beating analysts’ estimates, after increasing sales to
businesses in the U.S. and  Europe .  Net income climbed to $42 million in the three months ended
March 31, from $13 million a year earlier, Lenovo said today in
a statement. That exceeded the $38.4 million average of six
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 13 percent
to $4.88 billion, it said.  Stronger orders for office computers have helped Lenovo and
U.S. rival Dell Inc. post better-than-expected earnings, as
slowing demand from consumers weakened sales at  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and Acer Inc. The Chinese company, the maker of Thinkpad
laptops, is stepping up a challenge to Apple Inc. by offering
smartphones and tablet devices, and plans to enter the game-
console market in the second half.  “The commercial PC market has been very strong,” Roxy Wong, who rates Lenovo shares “buy” at Mirae Asset Securities
in  Hong Kong , said before the earnings were announced. Lenovo is
less exposed to the consumer market, which accounts for about
one third of the company’s sales, with the remainder coming from
corporate and government clients, Wong said.  Lenovo rose 0.7 percent to close at HK$4.33 in Hong Kong
before the announcement. The stock has declined 13 percent this
year, compared with the 0.6 percent drop in the city’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index.  Market Share  Industry leader Hewlett-Packard accounted for 17.6 percent
of the global PC market last quarter, declining from 18 percent
a year earlier, according to research company Gartner Inc.
Lenovo, the fourth-biggest, increased its market share to 9.7
percent from 8.2 percent, while Taipei-based Acer dropped to
12.9 percent from 14.6 percent, according to Gartner.  Lenovo, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, posted higher PC
shipments in  North America , Europe and Asia, Gartner said.  The Chinese company, which moved its headquarters to the
U.S. after buying the PC division of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005, said revenue from China rose 12 percent
to $2.2 billion, or 45 percent of the company’s total. Sales in
emerging markets, which includes sales in  India , Brazil and
Russia, rose 14 percent.  Revenue in Lenovo’s mature-markets division, which includes
its operations in the U.S. and Western Europe, rose 13 percent
to $1.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  