-- 
U.S. Environment Agency May Scrap Unneeded Rules Through Regulatory Review

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-26T21:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/epa-to-review-31-regulations-in-effort-to-scrap-unneeded-rules.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency plans 31 regulatory reviews, including how to improve
estimates of industry costs, after scrapping a definition of
milk as oil that forced farmers to meet petroleum-spill rules.  The EPA’s April decision to exclude the  dairy industry  from
rules on oil spills is an example of the kinds of changes the
agency seeks, Cass Sunstein, director of the White House Office
of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said in an interview. The
exemption will save farms and milk factories $146 million a
year, according to a White House fact sheet.  President  Barack Obama  has ordered agencies to eliminate
regulations that stifle  job creation . The  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , the biggest U.S. business lobby, said the EPA effort
falls short because the agency failed to re-examine the rules
considered most onerous for companies.  “About 20 new rules have come out in the last year-and-a-
half and the review doesn’t really address any of those and they
are the ones that will have the most impact on the economy,”
Bill Kovacs, the chamber’s senior vice president of environment,
technology and regulatory affairs, said today in an interview.
“It doesn’t seem they will take on the tough issues.”  The Washington-based chamber has said Obama’s EPA is
issuing more major rules, or those costing industry at least
$100 million, than any administration in at least three decades.  Industrial Boilers  Kovacs said he didn’t understand why the EPA didn’t include
its rule on emission limits for industrial boilers in its
review. The EPA said last week that it will delay the new
standards so it can make changes.  The EPA said today that its regulatory review will include
re-examining the cost estimates of five rules. A goal of the
project is to determine whether any “systematic biases” exist
in EPA cost projections developed before a regulation is issued,
the agency said. The EPA didn’t identify which five rules would
be studied.  House Republican lawmakers and Representative Jim Matheson,
a Utah Democrat, are pushing legislation that would require an
interagency analysis of some EPA regulations.  The EPA’s review includes a proposal to eliminate a mandate
in some states for vapor-recovery systems at gas stations, which
the agency said would save about $670 million during the next 10
years. The EPA will also consider changes to obligatory labeling
for hazardous materials.  Most Complaints  The EPA led U.S. agencies in complaints when more than 200
U.S. businesses and industry groups responded to an invitation
from the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to
identify federal rules to investigate. Of 111 measures cited by
companies, 57 were issued by the EPA, according to copies of the
letters obtained by Bloomberg in February.  The agency declined to give a cost estimate of how much
money may be saved as a result of the regulatory reviews.  “It’s not possible to predict cost savings for each review
before the agency has had the opportunity to review the
underlying science, technology and/or economics,” the EPA said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  