-- 
Erotic Orchids, Paris Scenes Charm in Caillebotte Show: Jorg von Uthmann

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-05-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/erotic-orchids-paris-scenes-charm-in-caillebotte-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
“Faire cattleya” is, in Proust’s
big novel, a code word for making love inspired by the favorite
flower of Madame Swann, a semi-retired cocotte.  If you’ve ever wondered what that species of orchid looks
like, there are plenty of examples in a new exhibition at the
 Musee Jacquemart-Andre  in Paris. It’s devoted to the brothers
Gustave (1848-94) and Martial Caillebotte (1853-1910).  Gustave, whose paintings appeared in several of the early
Impressionist shows, is best known for his cityscapes. They
include the giant canvas at the  Art Institute of Chicago 
depicting a Paris street corner on a rainy day and life-size
figures with umbrellas in the foreground.  You’ll look in vain for such museum pieces. Virtually all
of the 50 paintings in the show come from private collections.
That doesn’t mean they are of inferior quality.  The paintings mingle with some 130 photographs by Martial,
who often treated the same subjects as his older brother. Both
were amateurs and had the means to indulge their hobbies. Their
father had made a fortune by selling fabric for uniforms to the
Ministry of War.  Gustave first studied for a law degree, then became a naval
architect. His true passion, though, was painting which he
briefly studied at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts.  Paris at the time was in full transformation pushed through
by Baron Haussmann, the prefect of the Seine department, who
ruthlessly modernized the still largely medieval city. The
Caillebotte brothers were astute observers of the momentous
change, mostly concentrating on the new Quartier de l’Europe
where they lived.  Country Gardens  They were also fond of gardening. Their country houses to
the north and south of Paris offered plenty of opportunities for
the horticulturist, the painter and the photographer.  This is where Madame Swann’s cattleyas come in.  The interiors show the universe of a bourgeoisie in the age
before television, with men reading the papers and women
absorbed in their knitting or dreamily staring out the window.  At the end of the 1870s, the brothers threw themselves into
yachting. They not only joined in regattas; Gustave also
designed boats, naming his most ambitious vessel “Roastbeef”
in homage to the sailing nation across the Channel.  In one of his self-portraits, you can see in the background
Renoir’s masterpiece “Le Bal du Moulin de la Galette” on the
wall.  Gustave was a great collector of his contemporaries and, in
his will, left 67 canvases by Manet, Monet, Degas, Cezanne,
Renoir and others to the state provided they were actually
displayed at the  Musee du Luxembourg , which was then the
showcase for modern art.  After much foot-dragging, the museum finally accepted some
40 works, banishing them to a shabby annex.  When the annex opened in February 1897, Le Journal des
Artistes dismissed the new arrivals as “ugly and disgraceful,”
likening them to the anatomical monstrosities on display at the
 Musee Dupuytren .  Today, those monstrosities are the pride of the  Musee
d’Orsay .  “Dans l’Intimite des Freres Caillebotte” runs through
July 11 at the Musee Jacquemart-Andre. Information:
 http://www.musee-jacquemart-andre.com  or +33-1-4562-1159.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 