-- 
Error-Prone Kim Clijsters Loses Way in Loss Against Rus at French Open

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-26T14:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/error-prone-kim-clijsters-loses-way-in-loss-against-rus-at-french-open.html
Kim Clijsters  was a point away from a
quick victory in the second round of the  French Open  against
 Arantxa Rus  when the U.S. and Australian Open tennis champion
lost her way.  Leading by a set and 5-2, Clijsters failed to convert a
match point on the 114th-ranked Dutchwoman’s serve. The second-
seeded Belgian squandered another at 5-4 with a backhand that
went wide.  Suddenly, it was all Rus, a 20-year-old who won the 2008
girls’ title at the Australian Open. She won five games in a row
to take the second set 7-5 as Clijsters sent a forehand wide,
her 46th error of the match. Rus advanced to the third round of
a Grand Slam for the first time with a forehand winner on her
second match point.  “I felt kind of in control,” Clijsters told a news
conference, after she lost 3-6, 7-5, 6-1. “Then I started
doubting myself a little bit. On clay that is the wrong attitude
to have.”  Clijsters said Rus started dominating in the third set,
limiting the aggressive tennis the Belgian wanted to play.  Clay will always be her most difficult surface, Clijsters
said.  “My ground strokes just don’t have the same impact as on a
hard court,” Clijsters said. “You think you have won the
point, and then the ball still comes back.”  Rus, a former top-ranked junior player, said she was
inspired by Clijsters while growing up in Monster, south of The
Hague. It was Clijsters’s earliest loss in a major since
Wimbledon in 2002.  “I was very nervous in the first set, playing on a big
stadium court, against Clijsters,” Rus told a news conference.
“But in the second set, I thought ‘Let’s show something
beautiful here.’”  Injuries  Clijsters missed the entire clay-court season because of
injuries. She missed the Fed Cup for Belgium and  Madrid  in April
with right shoulder and wrist problems. In the middle of April,
she hurt her ankle while dancing barefoot at a cousin’s wedding.
Clijsters, 27, told a news conference before the start of her
first  French Open  since 2006 that she would be playing with tape
around her right ankle to prevent the injury from worsening.  Today, she said “physically everything was fine.”  Her lack of match practice showed.  Rus, who is making her fifth Grand Slam appearance, made 22
errors, including three double faults. Clijsters had 65
mistakes, including 10 double faults. Clijsters, a losing
finalist at the 2001 and 2003 French Opens, produced 28 winners,
while Rus had 8.  If the Dutchwoman wins her third-round match against
 Russia ’s  Maria Kirilenko , the No. 25 seed from Russia, she could
meet another former world No. 1 and major champion in the last
16:  Maria Sharapova . The Russian, seeking the only major title
that has eluded her, plays her second round today against
 France ’s Caroline Garcia.  Rus said she would celebrate with a dinner with her family
and her coach Ralph Kok, and then return to preparation.  “For sure, today” she’d celebrate, she told journalists.
“Then I want to look forward to the next match.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  