-- 
Metal Recycling Needed to Prevent Shortages, UN Research Finds

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-05-26T12:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/metal-recycling-needed-to-prevent-shortages-un-research-finds.html
A “very large” number of metals are
not be being recycled, potentially leading to shortages for raw
materials used in modern technology, according to a study
released by the  United Nations Environment Program  today.  More than two-thirds of 60 metals used in everything from
phones to construction have recycling rates below 50 percent,
with less than 1 percent of 34 types of raw material being
reused, according to the study.  “Recycling rates are low,” Thomas Graedel, director of
the Center for Industrial Ecology at  Yale University  and lead
author of the report, said today at the London Metal Exchange.
“They’re particularly low for these specialty metals that are
so important to the modern technology.”  The study, which Graedel said is the first of its kind to
be so comprehensive, found there is virtually no recycling of
metals like indium used in semiconductors, energy efficient
light emitting diodes and advanced medical imaging.  “We aren’t very good at recovering these materials,”
Graedel said. “We’ve got a lot of squirrels around. If we can
flush this material out of closets, this would certainly help.  ‘‘By failing to recycle metals and simply disposing of
these kinds of metal, economies are foregoing important
environmental benefits and increasing the possibility of
shortages,’’ he said in a statement released with the report.  Better product design for easy recycling and support for
waste management programs could also boost the levels of metals
being reused, said the report, which was simultaneously released
in Brussels by Achim Steiner, UNEP’s executive director and UN
under-secretary general.  ‘‘In theory, metals can be used over and over again,
minimizing the need to mine and process virgin materials and
thus saving substantial amounts of energy and water while
minimizing environmental degradation,’’ Steiner said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  