-- 
Mets Owners Seek to Move Picard Suit to District Court

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-26T19:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/mets-owners-seek-to-move-picard-suit-to-district-court-1-.html
Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, owners of
the  New York  Mets Major League Baseball team, asked a federal
judge in New York to consider whether  Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, has a right to sue them for
$1 billion on behalf of Madoff’s clients.  Picard sued the Mets owners in  bankruptcy court , demanding
return of $300 million in what he called “fictitious” profit
and $700 million in principal taken out of the Madoff firm by
Sterling Equities Inc. and its partners. His amended suit in
March, seeking to reverse so-called fraudulent transfers, was
“rife with false allegations,” and raises “significant
questions” about Picard’s interpretation of federal
legislation, the Sterling partners said in a court filing.  As former customers of the con man, they withdrew funds in
conformity with securities laws, they said. Asking a district
court judge to take their case, they said a higher court’s
ruling might affect many of Picard’s lawsuits in the Madoff
case. In all, the trustee has filed more than 1,000 suits to try
to claw back money for Madoff investors.  “Resolution of these issues will directly affect the
resolution of this case and likely will affect all of the cases
brought by the trustee against BLMIS customers,” they said in a
bankruptcy court filing today, referring to Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC.  The Mets owners’ move to take their case out of bankruptcy
court is another challenge to Picard, whose firm was paid $146
million through March for work since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  Right to Sue  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in  Manhattan  said this
week she would decide whether the trustee has the right to sue
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $6.4 billion on behalf of Madoff
customers, as Picard claimed he did.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has asked
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan to dismiss a $9
billion lawsuit against it and so-called feeder funds, saying
Picard doesn’t have legal authority to bring such suits on
behalf of Madoff customers.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  According to Wilpon and Katz, Picard is seeking to recover
money that Sterling took out from Madoff’s firm as far back as
25 years ago, wrongly deeming the withdrawals to be fraudulent.
Under federal regulations, brokerages must issue customer
statements and trade confirmations that are “legally
enforceable evidence” of a broker’s obligation to customers,
entitling customers to take out money, they said.  Valid Debt  “By definition, a transfer to a creditor that discharges a
valid debt -- such as BLMIS’ transfers to customers -- cannot be
avoided as fraudulent,” they said.  The Sterling partners also challenged Picard’s assertion
that they should have investigated Madoff instead of ignoring
warnings that he may have been a fraud. The assertion was key to
Picard’s demand that Sterling should return all money taken from
their brokerage accounts.  “The trustee’s legal conclusions are unprecedented,”
Sterling said. “The Sterling defendants were customers of a
registered broker. No federal securities law imposes upon a
brokerage customer a duty to investigate his broker to ensure
that the broker is not engaging in fraud,” they said.  Picard first sued the Mets owners in December. In March,
the Sterling partners asked a bankruptcy judge to dismiss the
trustee’s amended complaint. The trustee filed his opposition to
dismissal on May 19.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  