-- 
EU Wants Progress in Kosovo Talks for Serbian 2011 Candidacy

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-05-26T10:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/eu-wants-progress-in-kosovo-talks-for-serbian-2011-candidacy.html
The European Union wants  Serbia  show
evidence it is making progress in regional cooperation,
including with the breakaway province of  Kosovo , to boost the
chance of becoming an entry candidate by year’s end.  “Regional cooperation is essential,” said  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs and
security policy, in a  statement  before meeting Serbian officials
in Belgrade today.  Serbia wants to follow former Yugoslav republics Slovenia
and  Croatia  into the Brussels-based bloc by battling corruption,
boosting its economy and trade with the EU, recognizing the
independence of Kosovo and catching war crimes suspects.
Slovenia joined in EU in 2004 and Croatia may become a member in
2013.  Today, police authorities in Belgrade reported that they
arrested a man suspected to be Ratko Mladic, wanted by the U.N.
war crimes court in The Hague. President  Boris Tadic  will hold a
press conference today in Belgrade at 1 p.m. Authorities are
using DNA testing to verify the arrestee’s identity, according
to B92’s website.  Ashton, who will also hold a briefing today, said in the
statement that talks between Belgrade and Kosovo are
“fundamental for removing obstacles on the road towards the
EU.”  “We stand ready to help both Serbia and Kosovo to move
forward,” she said.  Kosovo, a nation of 2 million, mostly ethnic-Albanians,
declared independence from Serbia in February 2008, a move
Serbia has vowed never to accept. Most Western powers have
recognized Kosovo as a state, including 22 of 27 EU members and
the U.S.  Serbia and Kosovo launched a series of talks under the EU
auspices in March, trying to resolve non-political issues such
as customs procedures, communications and land registries.  European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  last week
told Serbia that time was running out and it had to do more by
the end of June to convince the EU it is ready to become a
candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  