-- 
Most European Stocks Fall on Concern IMF May Withhold Greek Aid

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-26T16:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/european-stock-futures-stage-advance-antofagasta-man-group-may-be-movers.html
Most European stocks retreated after
the head of the group of euro-area finance ministers said the
 International Monetary Fund  may not release its portion of an
aid payment to Greece next month.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, and  Banco Espirito
Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s largest by market value, both lost more
than 2 percent.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s biggest luxury
retailer, tumbled 4.6 percent.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  jumped 2.5 percent
after the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge fund manager
said profit fell less than it had previously forecast and client
assets increased.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.1 percent to 277.14 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London  as three stocks fell for every two that
climbed. The gauge has risen 5.7 percent from this year’s low on
March 16 as investors speculated that company profits and
government stimulus measures will keep the economic recovery on
track.  “Should Greece default, it is a problematic scenario for
risky assets and for the financial system,” said Thomas Steinemann, chief strategist at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich,
whose team helps oversee about $80 billion. “It’s a story
killer.”  National benchmark indexes dropped in 16 out of 18 West
European countries today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index climbed 0.2
percent and France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  lost 0.3 percent. Germany’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  slumped 0.8 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index for
companies in the euro area fell 0.5 percent to 2,797.  Juncker Speaks  European stocks consolidated their losses as  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the euro area’s group of finance ministers,
said that the IMF may withhold its 3.3 billion-euro ($4.7
billion) contribution to the 12 billion-euro payment that Greece
had expected to receive next month.  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said at a conference in
Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said.  UniCredit retreated 2.9 percent to 1.52 euros. Espirito
Santo declined 2.3 percent to 2.72 euros. The cost to insure
Greek sovereign debt rose 7 basis points to 1,424, according to
CMA prices for credit-default swaps. That signals a 69 percent
chance of default within five years.  U.S. Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than economists had forecast, reflecting a
smaller gain in consumer spending than previously calculated.  The revised increase in gross domestic product was the same
as the U.S. Commerce Department estimated last month and
compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter. The
median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 2.2 percent increase.  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota yesterday trimmed his forecast for U.S. economic
growth and slightly raised his outlook for unemployment, while
reiterating his call for higher  interest rates  this year.  Kocherlakota predicted unemployment of “close to 8.5
percent” at year’s end, in a speech in Rochester, Minnesota, an
estimate contrasting with “between 8 percent and 8.5 percent”
in a May 11 speech. He estimated that the economy will grow
“around 3 percent,” compared with “between 3 percent and 3.5
percent.”  Burberry Shares Slip  Burberry sank 4.6 percent to 1,260 pence as the company
said that its operating margin will probably fall in the first
six months of the fiscal year. Burberry, which is best known for
its plaid-lined trench coats, also reported that full-year
adjusted pretax profit rose 39 percent to 298 million pounds
($487 million). That beat the 292.8 million-pound average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The level of investment is expected to weigh on first-
half margins,” Katherine Wynne and David Jeary, analysts at
Investec Plc, wrote in a note to clients today. “After a strong
run, the shares may pause for breath, but we remain buyers for
the sustainable growth story.” Burberry has soared 13 percent
this year, while the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has failed to advance more
than 0.1 percent.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the largest wind-turbine
manufacturer, slumped 5.8 percent to 145.60 kroner.  Jim Chanos ,
the short seller known for predicting Enron Corp.’s collapse,
said investors should bet against the stock. The company “will
be under financial strain and best avoided,” Chanos said
yesterday at the Ira Sohn Conference in  New York  after European
markets had closed.  SIG, Man Group  SIG Plc (SHI)  sank 2.2 percent to 148.1 pence after BofA Merrill
Lynch cut its rating on the shares to “underperform” from
“neutral.”  Bayer AG (BAYN)  fell 1.9 percent to 54.71 euros after  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut
its recommendation on the maker of aspirins to “neutral” from
“buy,” citing valuation and “less positively skewed” near-
term catalysts for the company’s Xarelto blood-thinner.  Man Group jumped 2.5 percent to 245 pence after saying
full-year pretax profit from continuing operations dropped to
$324 million from $541 million a year earlier. That beat Man’s
March forecast for pretax profit of $280 million. Funds under
management totaled $71 billion, up from $69.1 billion at the end
of March, Man said.  Nobel Biocare rallied 6.3 percent to 18.65 Swiss francs,
its biggest jump in 18 months, after Morgan Stanley raised the
stock to “overweight” from “underweight.” The brokerage
predicted that dental implant sales will accelerate.  Weir, Hellenic Telecommunications  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the Glasgow-based engineering company,
rallied 5.3 percent to 1,984 pence, its highest price since at
least 1989.  “We still remain positive in respect of Weir’s outlook,”
Andrew Douglas, an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London, wrote in a note to clients late yesterday. “The
shale story has a long way to go, in our view, both in  North
America  and on a global scale, and we expect Weir to be a strong
beneficiary of this future growth.”  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA climbed 4.8
percent to 7 euros after website Euro2day reported that Greece’s
government will sell a 10 percent stake in the company to
Deutsche Telekom AG within the next few days. Euro2day didn’t
say how it got the information.  Elan Corp. gained 2.1 percent to 6.31 euros, its highest
price since February 2009. The Irish drugmaker will probably do
another licensing deal in the next six months, Chief Executive
Officer Kelly Martin said after the close of trading yesterday.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, advanced 3.5 percent to 1,258 pence after saying
first-quarter profit rose 30 percent as output grew and prices
climbed to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  