-- 
Serbia Police Arrest Ratko Mladic, Europe’s Most Wanted War Crimes Suspect

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-05-26T17:43:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/europe-s-most-wanted-war-crime-fugitive-mladic-said-to-have-been-arrested.html
Serbian police arrested  war crimes 
suspect Ratko Mladic, who led Bosnian Serb troops during the
violent breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s, Europe’s bloodiest
conflict since World War II.  Mladic, 69, was caught hiding in Serbia, President  Boris Tadic  told a news conference in Belgrade today. He was using the
name Milorad Komadic in the village of Lazarevo, 82 kilometers
(51 miles) north of the Serbian capital, local media said. Tadic
refused to provide further details. Mladic will be sent to the
United Nations War Crimes Tribunal in  The Hague  for trial.  The European Union pressured Serbia for more than 15 years
to find and arrest Mladic, the Bosnian Serb chief of staff
during the siege of Sarajevo and the Srebrenica massacre, before
it would accept a request to start membership talks. The Serbian
dinar jumped as much as 1.3 percent on optimism the country will
win EU candidacy status by year’s end and gain investor trust.  “Today we closed a chapter of our history that will bring
us closer to reconciliation in the region,” Tadic said at the
televised press conference. “I believe all doors to our EU
membership have been opened now.”  The dinar was up 0.9 percent to 97.06 per euro by 3:18 p.m.
in Belgrade. The currency is headed for its strongest close
since Jan. 1, 2010.  ‘Good News’  “It’s very good news for  Serbia ” and should help the EU
accession bid, said Tim Ash, the head of emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The arrest creates “a new momentum” in EU-Serbia
relations, the bloc’s Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said
in a statement from Brussels.  “This is a historical step on the part of Serbia,”
according to the statement. “It demonstrates that Serbia
recognizes the key importance of regional reconciliation.”  While pledging U.S. assistance for continuing
reconciliation efforts in the Balkans, President  Barack Obama 
said Mladic’s arrest marks “an important day” for the families
of his victims and “for Serbia, for Bosnia, for the  United
States , and for international justice. "  In a statement issued from Deauville,  France , where he’s
attending a Group of Eight summit, Obama said the U.S. expects
Mladic’s “expeditious transfer to The Hague.”  “From Nuremberg to the present, the United States has long
viewed justice for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and
genocide as both a moral imperative and an essential element of
stability and peace,” he said in the statement.  Indictment  Mladic was indicted in July 1995 along with former Serbian
leader Radovan Karadzic on charges of genocide and crimes
against humanity. Mladic was Serbia’s top military general
during the war and commanded the siege of Sarajevo and the 1995
mass executions in the so-called U.N. safe haven of Srebrenica,
where more than 8,000 Bosnian men and boys were killed.  “He is accused of the most appalling war crimes both in
terms of what happened in Srebrenica but also in Sarajevo,”
said U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, who is also attending
the G-8 summit. “There is a very good reason why the long arm
of international law had been looking for him for so long.”  At Lazerevo, where Mladic was picked up, a “Ratko the
Hero” sign was erected on the side of the road. Local residents
said they were surprised Mladic was hiding in their midst.  Mladic was caught in the early morning after police swarmed
a house and burst in, grabbing him before he could run, said
residents, who declined to give their last names.  EU Effort  Serbia plans to gain candidate status by the end of the
year to follow former Yugoslav partners  Slovenia , an EU member
since 2004, and  Croatia , which seeks to conclude entry
negotiations this year.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s high
representative for foreign affairs and security policy, will
meet Serbian officials including Tadic today in Belgrade.  “Mladic’s arrest fulfils the last condition for
pacification in the region, especially in Serbia since Mladic is
also known as the butcher of Srebrenica,” said Damir Grubisa, a
political analyst and head of European Studies Center in Zagreb.
“It also shows to everyone in the region that justice is
possible.”  Ten years after  Slobodan Milosevic ’s arrest for war crimes,
Serbia is still dogged by the shadow of the conflicts and
concerns about corruption. Gross domestic product per capita was
$5,260 last year, according to the IMF, compared with $13,527 in
Croatia, a former  Yugoslavia  partner that will join the EU as
early as next year, and $38,600 in  Germany .  Rates, Unemployment  The 12.5 percent main interest rate is the highest in
Europe after Belarus and last month’s 20 percent jobless rate
tops every EU nation except  Spain .  Serbia is rated 78th by  Transparency International  on
corruption, behind Bulgaria and  Romania  and former Yugoslav
partners Croatia and Slovenia.  The country still must show progress in its relations with
the breakaway province of  Kosovo , which Serbia invaded in the
late 1990s under then-President Slobodan Milosevic, who was
later ousted and died in custody in The Hague.  Kosovo, a nation of 2 million, mostly ethnic Albanian,
people declared independence from Serbia in February 2008 and
has been recognized by 22 of 27 members of the EU and the U.S.  Serbia has vowed never to accept Kosovo’s independence and
considers it the cultural cradle of the Balkan country,
hindering Serbia’s efforts to join the EU. Kosovo also wants to
win EU membership to strengthen its economy.  NATO Attack  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization attacked Serb troops
in 1999, under then-U.S. President  Bill Clinton  to force them
out of Kosovo and protect the local civilians.  “NATO has been a guarantor of security in the Balkans for
the best part of two decades and today we have seen an important
step towards a  Europe  that is whole, free and at peace,” said
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen in a statement
today. “We remain committed to assisting the whole region on
the way to Euro-Atlantic integration.”  Tadic said the arrest moves the country closer to ending
cooperation with the war crimes tribunal, though “it is not the
end of the search for all others who helped Mladic. The
investigation will continue.” He vowed that authorities would
capture former Croatian Serb leader  Goran Hadzic , another
fugitive from the civil wars.  Serbian central bank Deputy Governor Bojan Markovic said in
an interview that the arrest will help the country’s image
abroad.  “This should raise the confidence of investors in the
European prospects for Serbia and further macroeconomic
prospectives,” Markovic said in Bucharest. “The National Bank
of Serbia as always stands ready to prevent any short-run
fluctuations in the markets should they appear at any point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 Msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  