-- 
Ex-Banker Wants You to Trade Wall Street ‘Misery’ for Mongolia

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ex-banker-wants-you-to-trade-wall-street-misery-for-mongolia.html
Former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker
Mike Howe is moving to New York to help bored finance workers
escape  Wall Street  for far-flung jobs and adventures, from
Mongolian  venture capital  to African charities.  The 26-year-old former  money manager  is opening U.K.
startup recruitment website  Escape the City Ltd.  in the U.S.
next month. The company has attracted more than 30,000 members
since founders Rob Symington, 27, and Dom Jackman, 28, quit
consulting firm Ernst & Young in 2009.  “ Escape the City  was created specifically to help talented
people escape from unfulfilling corporate jobs after we realized
that our own feelings of misery and frustration at work were
shared by a lot of people,” Symington said in an interview in
 London . “We stumbled upon a business opportunity by following a
hunch about job dissatisfaction to its logical conclusion.”  London’s financial services industry employs 318,000, still
10 percent below the 2007 peak, and growth since has been slow,
according to the Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd.
Bankers’ bonuses have been taxed and restricted by politicians
since  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc took taxpayer bailouts in 2008.  “I don’t think I’ve ever met more people who are highly
trained and unhappy in banking -- except when it comes to the
money,” said  Peter Hahn , 53, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  banker who
lectures on finance at London’s  Cass Business School . The site
“will probably appeal to people who have paid off financial
liabilities like student debt and haven’t settled down yet to
family life. It’s a sizeable but niche group,” he said.  Adventure and Enterprise  Escape the City advertises jobs that meet its criteria of
adventure and enterprise, Symington said. The company, which
earned a profit in its first year, spreads the word with weekly
e-mails of jobs from Indian microfinance to Moroccan surf camps,
and evening events where adventurers regale crowds with tales of
skateboarding across  Australia  or cycling around the world.  “The City trains you up and gives you exposure,”
Symington said. “What’s wrong with it is it felt like the work
we did -- crunching spreadsheets -- just didn’t matter to
anyone, including to our customers or employers.”  Harry Minter left his job at hedge fund Headstart Advisers
Ltd. to manage the Guludo beach lodge in  Mozambique  after
discovering the job posted on Escape the City. Will Tindall
found a job as chief communications officer of  Asia Pacific
Investment Partners , which invests in companies in Mongolia. He
hired a chief operating officer through the site this year and
is advertising for a chief financial officer.  ‘Real Alternatives’  “The people who look at Escape the City are typically
entrepreneurial and want to do something out of the norm,”
Tindall, 28, said in an interview. “Mongolia isn’t the easiest
place to operate.”  Escape the City could be “very successful” in the U.S.,
said Pamela Slim, the Arizona-based author of “ Escape from
Cubicle Nation : From Corporate Prisoner to Thriving
Entrepreneur.”  “People are looking for more meaningful work and Escape
the City provides real, actual alternatives,” said Slim, who
previously worked for  Barclays Global Investors  and has advised
companies including Hewlett-Packard Co. on management.  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader Frank Yeung, 26,
quit after getting his bonus in January 2009 to start Poncho No.
8, a burrito bar in London’s East End. He’s considering hiring
through Escape the City.  “The people they attract are educated and intelligent and
want something more out of their working lives,” Yeung said.
“There is more and more disillusion with the traditional
corporate world.”  Wealth Manager  Howe quit Merrill Lynch in London earlier this year after
four years at the company, where he saw four different chief
executive officers and worked through the company’s 2008
takeover by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Howe invested money for
wealthy individuals.  The Englishman, who lived in  New York  as a child, said he
grew tired of working for a large company. Now he wants others
to follow in his footsteps.  “The American way of thinking is very entrepreneurial so I
think the upside could be huge,” he said. “There’s so much
support for entrepreneurs in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  