-- 
Texas Passes Voter Photo-ID Law

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-26T17:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/texas-passes-voter-photo-id-law.html
Texas joined  South Carolina  and
Wisconsin in passing a bill to curb vote fraud by demanding
photo identification before letting someone cast a ballot.  Republican Governor Rick Perry plans to sign the measure
tomorrow, according to an e-mailed statement today. The second
most-populous state joins six others including Florida and
 Indiana  that demand a photo ID from voters at the polls.  Opponents plan to challenge the measure in court, said Jim
Harrington, director of the  Texas Civil Rights Project . The
Austin-based nonprofit group, which advocates on behalf of
minorities, says the law is unconstitutional and aimed at making
it harder for Latinos to vote. Republicans who dominate the
Legislature say it will survive judicial review.  “It’s a way of suppressing the Hispanic vote, which is
increasingly important in  Texas ,” Harrington said May 23 in a
telephone interview. “It’s nonsense and it’s racist and just
cheap politics.”  About 75 percent of Hispanic Texans who voted backed
Democrats in November’s election, Richard Murray, a  University
of Houston  politics professor, said in December. Latinos made up
65 percent of the state’s population growth in the past decade,
 according  to the U.S. Census Bureau. About 38 percent of Texas’s
25.1 million residents are Hispanic, compared with 45 percent
who are non-Hispanic whites, Census data show.  Confidence Building  Requiring a photo ID will boost Texans’ confidence in
elections and increase voter turnout, Representative Patricia Harless, a Spring Republican who sponsored the measure, said
during floor debate. The bill permits those lacking an ID to
cast a provisional ballot and provide identification later, as
do laws passed this year in South Carolina and  Wisconsin .  Texas lawmakers passed the bill after Perry said it was a
priority for the legislative session that ends May 30. The
measure makes vote fraud a second-degree felony punishable by as
much as 20 years in prison. Those convicted also could face a
fine of as much as $10,000.  South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, also a Republican, on
May 18 signed into law a bill that requires a photo ID to vote.  In Wisconsin, Republican Governor  Scott Walker  signed a
voter ID bill yesterday after  praising  its passage last week.  “If you need an ID to buy cold medicine, it’s reasonable
to require it to vote,” Walker said May 19, echoing comments
from Haley at a  signing ceremony . “Requiring photo
identification to vote will go a long way to eliminate the
threat of voter fraud,” Walker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in New York at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  