-- 
Global Food Production May Be Hurt as Climate Shifts, UN Forecaster Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-26T11:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/extreme-weather-will-upset-global-food-output-during-next-decade-un-says.html
Global food output may be hurt as
climate change brings more extreme weather over the next decade,
with  China  likely set for harsher droughts and  North America 
getting heavier rain, said the  World Meteorological Organization .  “Extreme events will become more intense in the future,
especially the heat waves and extreme precipitations,” Omar
Baddour, a division chief at the  United Nations ’ agency, said in
a phone interview from Geneva. “That, combined with less
rainfall in some regions like the Mediterranean region and China,
will affect crop production and agriculture.”  The more extreme weather -- including in the U.S., the
world’s largest agricultural exporter -- may disrupt harvests,
possibly cutting production of grains, livestock and cooking
oils and boosting prices. Global food costs reached a record in
February, stoking inflation and pushing millions into poverty.  “We foresee with high confidence in climate projections
that intense precipitation in some parts of the world will be
more intense, and drought will be more intense,” said Baddour,
who’s tracked the subject for more than two decades. Extreme
heat waves “will also be more intense and more frequent.”  The UN Food and Agriculture Organization’s World Food
Price Index, which tracks 55 food-commodity items, rose nine
times in the past 10 months, with the gauge peaking at 237.24 in
February. The index climbed to 232.07 last month.  ‘Massive Disruptions’  Baddour’s comments add to projections that more extreme
weather may affect farm production. Sunny Verghese, chief
executive officer at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , among the world’s
three biggest suppliers of rice, forecast in February that food-
supply chains face “massive disruptions” from climate change.  Drought in China has affected 6.5 million hectares of
farmland, the Office of State Flood Control and Drought Relief
Headquarters said on its website on May 20. China has ordered
the operator of the Three Gorges Dam, the world’s biggest, to
release water to replenish the  Yangtze River  and counter the
local region’s lowest rainfall in half a century.  The drought in China may cut early-season rice output if
there’s no adequate rain over the next two weeks, according to
industry researcher Cngrain.com. “If the drought doesn’t end in
two weeks, the impact on the region’s rice will no doubt be
significant,” Zhang Lu, an analyst at the group, said yesterday.  In the U.S., floods along the  Mississippi River  and its
tributaries have affected almost 3.6 million acres of cropland,
causing the most damage in Arkansas, the  American Farm Bureau
Federation  said on May 23. Floods in  Canada ’s Frenchman River
Basin may be the largest since 1952, and the waters slowed the
nation’s sowing, the Canadian Wheat Board said on April 20.  Intense Pressure  “Climate change, high-and-volatile food and energy prices,
population and income growth” will put intense pressure on land
and water and challenge global food security as never before,
according to Mark Rosegrant, director of environment and
production technology at the International Food Policy Research
Institute. Rosegrant also cited changing diets and increased
urbanization in a May 24 e-mailed statement.  Corn will average $7.75 per bushel this quarter and $8 in
the third quarter on “growing concerns about crop weather in
the U.S.,  Europe  and now parts of  Russia ,” said  Abah Ofon , a
Singapore-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. Corn traded
at $7.4625 per bushel at 7:29 p.m. in  Singapore  today, more than
double the price a year ago.  Food costs are at “dangerous levels” after pushing 44
million people into poverty since June, World Bank President
Robert Zoellick said Feb. 15. That adds to the more than 900
million people around the world who go hungry each day, he said.  Agricultural research is needed to adapt farming to  climate
change , Olivier de Schutter, the UN’s special adviser on the
right to food, said at a conference on May 23. “The improvement
of plants is absolutely important given the challenges we are
facing, particularly the threat posed by climate change,” de
Schutter said in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  