-- 
Facebook Says New York Lawsuit Is a Fraud

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-26T22:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/facebook-zuckerberg-deny-claims-of-new-york-man-calling-lawsuit-a-fraud.html
Facebook  Inc. and its co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  admitted some factual allegations in a lawsuit by a
western New York man who says a 2003 contract entitles him to
half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings, while calling the case
as a whole “a fraud on the court.”  In an answer filed today in federal court in Buffalo,
Facebook and Zuckerberg admitted that the two men met in the
lobby of a Boston hotel in April 2003 and that Zuckerberg, then
a Harvard University student, signed a contract with Ceglia to
work on StreetFax.com, a company Ceglia was trying to start at
the time, after answering an online job posting.  Facebook and Zuckerberg today denied the principal
allegations of the suit, claiming that Ceglia’s claims are based
on a doctored contract and fabricated e-mails. The contract
Zuckerberg signed had nothing to do with Facebook, they said.  In an amended complaint filed last month, Ceglia quoted
from e-mails he claimed he exchanged with Zuckerberg, which he
said support his claim that the two men formed a partnership
that gave Ceglia half-ownership of Facebook when it was launched
in 2004.  Ceglia claims Zuckerberg defrauded him by lying about the
early success of “The Face Book” at Harvard. Ceglia said he is
entitled to a multi-billion-dollar stake in Facebook, a closely
held company valued at as much as $55 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, an online marketplace for investment in
companies that aren’t publicly traded.  Palo Alto , California-
based Facebook runs the world’s biggest social-networking site.  ‘Utterly Silent’  “The purported contract was signed in 2003, yet plaintiff
waited until 2010 to file this action -- a seven-year delay
during which plaintiff remained utterly silent while Facebook
grew into one of the world’s best-known companies,” the company
said in its answer today.  In an interview in July, Ceglia said he found the contract
while looking through old files to find assets to pay back
disappointed clients of his wood-pellet business. The business,
Allegany Pellets, was shut down in 2009 by state authorities
after customers complained they didn’t receive the pellets they
had ordered.  Robert Brownlie, a lawyer for Ceglia, didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  New York  (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 