-- 
Fed Gave Banks Crisis Gains on $80 Billion Secretive Loans as Low as 0.01%

-- B y   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-05-26T14:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/fed-gave-banks-crisis-gains-on-secretive-loans-as-low-as-0-01-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  each borrowed at
least $30 billion in 2008 from a Federal Reserve emergency
lending program whose details weren’t revealed to shareholders,
members of Congress or the public.  The $80 billion initiative, called single-tranche open-
market operations, or  ST OMO , made 28-day loans from March
through December 2008, a period in which confidence in global
credit markets collapsed after the Sept. 15 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Units of 20 banks were required to bid at auctions for the
cash. They paid interest rates as low as 0.01 percent that
December, when the Fed’s main lending facility charged 0.5
percent.  “This was a pure subsidy,” said Robert A. Eisenbeis,
former head of research at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta
and now chief monetary economist at Sarasota, Florida-based
Cumberland Advisors Inc. “The Fed hasn’t been forthcoming with
disclosures overall. Why should this be any different?”  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , which oversaw ST OMO,
posted aggregate data about the program on its website after
each auction, said Jeffrey V. Smith, a  New York  Fed spokesman.
By increasing the availability of short-term financing when
private lenders were under pressure, “this program helped
alleviate strains in financial markets and support the flow of
credit to U.S. households and businesses,” he said.  Not in Dodd-Frank  Congress overlooked ST OMO when lawmakers required the
central bank to publish its emergency lending data last year
under the  Dodd-Frank  law.  “I wasn’t aware of this program until now,” said U.S.
Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who
chaired the House Financial Services Committee in 2008 and co-
authored the legislation overhauling financial regulation. The
law does require the Fed to release details of any open-market
operations undertaken after July 2010, after a two-year lag.  Records of the 2008 lending, released in March under court
orders, show how the central bank  adapted  an existing tool for
adjusting the U.S. money supply into an emergency source of
cash. Zurich-based Credit Suisse borrowed as much as $45
billion, according to bar graphs that appear on 27 of 29,000
pages the central bank provided to media organizations that sued
the Fed Board of Governors for public disclosure.  New York-based Goldman Sachs’s borrowing peaked at about
$30 billion, the records show, as did the program’s loans to
RBS, based in Edinburgh.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  each borrowed at least $15 billion, according to the graphs,
which reflect deals made by 12 of the 20 eligible banks during
the last four months of 2008.  No Exact Amounts  The records don’t provide exact loan amounts for each bank.
Smith, the New York Fed spokesman, would not disclose those
details. Amounts cited in this article are estimates based on
the graphs.  One effect of the program was to spur trading in mortgage-
backed securities, said  Lou Crandall , chief U.S. economist at
Jersey City, New Jersey-based Wrightson ICAP LLC, a research
company specializing in Fed operations. The 20 banks --
previously designated as primary dealers to trade government
securities directly with the New York Fed -- posted mortgage
securities guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises such
as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac in exchange for the Fed’s cash.  ST OMO aimed to thaw a frozen short-term funding market and
not necessarily to aid individual banks, Crandall said. Still,
primary dealers earned spreads by using the program to help
customers, such as  hedge funds , finance their mortgage
securities, he said.  ‘Spreads Vary’  “Spreads vary from one transaction to another,” making
any calculation of dealers’ profits on the Fed loans impossible,
Crandall said.  The Fed opposed disclosing details of its open market
operations because doing so would probably cause borrowers
“substantial competitive harm,” according to a March 2009
declaration by Christopher R. Burke, vice president of the New
York Fed’s markets group. The declaration is filed in federal
court.  Revealing the borrowing “could lead market participants to
inaccurately speculate that the primary dealer was having
difficulty finding term funding against its collateral in the
open market and that the dealer itself must therefore be in
financial trouble,” Burke said in opposing a media request for
records about the borrowing.  Bidding  Interest Rates   The New York Fed conducted 44 ST OMO auctions, from March
through December 2008, according to its website. Banks bid the
interest rate they were willing to pay for the loans, which had
terms of 28 days. That was an expansion of longstanding open-
market operations, which offered cash for up to two weeks.  Outstanding ST OMO loans from April 2008 to January 2009
stayed at $80 billion. The average loan amount during that time
was $19.4 billion, more than three times the average for the 7
1/2 years prior, according to New York Fed data. By comparison,
borrowing from the Fed’s discount window, its main lending
program for banks since 1914, peaked at $113.7 billion in
October 2008, Fed data show.  In March 2008, ST OMO was “desperately needed,” because of
the shaken state of short-term credit markets, said  Michael Greenberger , a professor at the University of Maryland School of
Law in Baltimore and former director of the division of markets
and trading at the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. After
the Fed created other lending mechanisms and the Treasury
Department began distributing money from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program in October, ST OMO became “just a way for banks
to have at it,” he said.  ‘Profit-Making Enterprise’  “At such low interest rates, it’s no longer a rescue, it’s
a profit-making enterprise,” Greenberger said. “By December, a
lot of money was made off this program.”  Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, tapped the program most in December 2008, when data
on the New York Fed website show the loans were least expensive.
The lowest winning bid at an ST OMO auction declined to 0.01
percent on Dec. 30, 2008, New York Fed data show. At the time,
the rate charged at the discount window was 0.5 percent.  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  December Peak  As its ST OMO loans peaked in December 2008, Goldman
Sachs’s borrowing from other Fed facilities topped out at $43.5
billion, the 15th highest peak of all banks assisted by the Fed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That month, the bank’s
Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities trading unit lost $320
million, according to a May 6, 2009, regulatory filing.  Under ST OMO, cash changed hands through repos, or
repurchase agreements, which the central bank has used to move
money in and out of the banking system for at least 60 years. In
a repo, the dealer sells securities to the Fed and agrees to buy
them back for a higher price after a set period of time.  Open-market operations traditionally use repos to influence
the federal funds rate, which is banks’ cost of short-term
borrowing, said Sherrill Shaffer, the officer in charge of the
discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia from
1994 to 1997. He’s now a banking professor at the University of
Wyoming in Laramie.  When the central bank increases the money supply -- by
paying cash for securities in repos -- interest rates tend to
fall. When it drains cash from the system by selling securities
in reverse repos, rates can climb.  Pedal to Metal  Using repos to provide emergency cash, a step the Fed
announced on March 7, 2008, was a departure from that process,
said John H. Cochrane, a finance professor at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business.  “The Fed was slamming the pedal to the metal in the
lender-of-last-resort category,” Cochrane said. “What they did
was so far from what we conventionally think of as monetary
policy.”  Credit Suisse’s borrowing peaked at about $45 billion in
September 2008, the Fed charts show. Steven Vames, a Credit
Suisse spokesman in New York, declined to comment.  RBS’s use of ST OMO hit about $30 billion in October 2008.
The U.K. government has had a stake in the bank since Oct. 13,
2008. “RBS no longer makes any use of these emergency Federal
Reserve lending programs and all money borrowed from the Fed has
been repaid in full with interest,” said  Michael Geller , a
spokesman for RBS Global Banking & Markets in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Annual Report  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s use peaked at about $20
billion in October 2008, its chart shows. The bank had 87
billion euros ($122 billion) in repurchase agreements with all
central banks as of the end of 2008, according to its annual
report. John Gallagher, a bank spokesman, declined to comment.  London-based Barclays’s peak reached about $20 billion in
December 2008, the chart said. Mark Lane, a Barclays spokesman,
declined to comment.  UBS, based in Zurich, borrowed as much as about $15 billion
in late 2008, the chart shows.  “UBS’s usage of those facilities should be seen in the
context of our overall desire to maintain flexibility and
diversification in our funding sources, even during the
crisis,” said Kelly Smith, a spokeswoman for UBS in New York.
“Given UBS’s substantial presence and commitment to U.S.
dollar-denominated markets, utilization of such facilities was
relatively modest.”  Other Banks  Other banks listed in the Fed charts borrowed less than
their peers. New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Paris-based  BNP
Paribas (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest bank by assets, took no more than
about $10 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Merrill Lynch & Co., which is now part of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
borrowed less than $5 billion each.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman in New York, Howard Opinsky, a
spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan Chase, and Megan Stinson,
a spokeswoman in New York for BNP Paribas, declined to comment
on their banks’ borrowings.  “Look at it in hindsight and these programs did exactly
what they were intended to do -- stabilize the financial system,
provide liquidity and instill confidence,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America.  The bar charts were included in the Fed’s court-ordered
March 31 disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. The
release was mandated after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected an
industry group’s attempt to block it. Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, and  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox News Network LLC
had sued the central bank after it refused to release lending
records under the FOIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 