-- 
Fidelity Counters Pimco, Goldman With Bullish Dollar View

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-26T12:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/fidelity-counters-pimco-goldman-with-bullish-dollar-view-1-.html
Fidelity Investments, the Boston-
based fund company that  oversees  $1.64 trillion, is bullish on
the U.S. currency just as Pacific Investment Management Co. and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are warning investors against buying.  “The value of the dollar is close to a bottom,” John Carlson, manager of the  Fidelity New Markets Income Fund (FNMIX) , wrote
in a report yesterday on the company’s website. “I’ve never
been more optimistic on the long-term prospects of the  U.S.
dollar  and U.S. economy.”  America’s currency will strengthen over the next 18 months
to three years because of competitive advantages in the U.S.
including the rule of law, a strong education system and labor
mobility, Carlson wrote. The greenback is cheap now, according
to the report.  The dollar has dropped 13 percent in the past year against
a trade-weighted basket of six currencies, even after rallying
more than 3 percent from a 33-month low set May 4. Pimco and
Goldman Sachs argue that overseas markets will lure money
managers in the coming years with faster economic growth, higher
 interest rates  and stronger government finances.  The U.S. currency slid 0.7 percent against the euro to
$1.4184 as of 1:03 p.m. in London.  Alternatives to Treasuries  Bill Gross, who runs the $240.7 billion Total Return Fund
for Pimco in  Newport Beach , California, said investors should
“revolt” against the  Federal Reserve ’s low interest rates.
Fund managers should seek alternatives to U.S. bonds,
“including developing/emerging-market debt at higher yields
denominated in non-dollar currencies,” he wrote in a  commentary 
this month on the company’s website.  Gross’ Total Return Fund, the biggest bond fund in the
world, returned 7.83 percent in the past year, beating almost
four-fifths of its competitors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Carlson’s New Markets Income Fund gained 14.1 percent,
which topped almost two-fifths of its peers, the data show.  Goldman Sachs, the U.S. bank that lost money from trading
on only one day in the first quarter, cut its dollar forecasts
on May 18, saying growth in the world’s largest economy is
lagging behind other nations.  Dollar Forecast  The dollar will decline to $1.55 per euro in a year,
analysts led by  Thomas Stolper  in  London  wrote in a note to
clients. It will trade at 86 yen in 12 months, from an earlier
forecast of 90 yen, according to the report. The greenback
bought 81.87 yen today.  “For the dollar to stabilize or even to rally, investors
need to be convinced of the case for additional long-term
investments in the U.S.,” the Goldman analysts wrote. “With
unemployment still high, fiscal consolidation looming and
continued weakness in the real estate sector, the growth outlook
remains less compelling in the U.S. than in many other regions
or countries.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at his first news
conference in April that the economy still requires monetary
support. Policy makers have kept their target for overnight
lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008
to sustain the expansion. Central bank rates are 1.25 percent in
 Europe , 1 percent in Canada, 0.5 percent in the U.K. and 4.75
percent in Australia.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.76 percent this year, compared
with 1.63 percent in Europe and 9.59 percent in  China , according
to the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington .  U.S. unemployment has been more than 8 percent since
February 2009. President Barack Obama and lawmakers are debating
how to cut spending, raising concern the economy will suffer as
government support wanes.  ‘Affordable’ Prices  The dollar has been able to maintain its buying power,
Carlson wrote in his report.  “In my travels around the globe, I have seen that despite
some recent inflation, prices for everything from goods to
gasoline to hotel rooms remain affordable for people in the
U.S.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to
2.32 percentage points from 2.67 percentage points in April.  Last month’s figure was the most in three years. The
average over the past decade is 2.10 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  