-- 
FIFA’s Bin Hammam Says Bribe Probe Should Be Extended to President Blatter

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-26T18:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/fifa-s-bin-hammam-says-bribe-probe-should-be-extended-to-president-blatter.html
FIFA presidential candidate Mohamed  Bin Hammam , who’s facing a bribes probe ordered by soccer’s
governing body, said the investigation should be extended to
include incumbent president  Sepp Blatter .  Hammam and Blatter are opponents in the race for the
presidency, with the vote due to take place June 1.  Bin Hammam is accused by FIFA of offering $40,000 to
Caribbean soccer officials as part of his pitch to take over the
post, two people familiar with the situation said. He’s denied
wrongdoing.  The head of soccer in  Asia , Bin Hammam is alleged to have
offered about $2 million in cash to delegates at a meeting in
Trinidad as funds for “football development,” said the people,
who asked for anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
comment publicly on the case.  In an e-mailed statement today, Bin Hammam said he’s asked
for Blatter to be included in the probe because -- as part of
the evidence provided to FIFA -- there were statements
suggesting the FIFA president “was informed of, and did not
oppose” the alleged payments.  “The timing of the accusations so close to the election of
FIFA president on June 1, 2011, suggests that they are part of a
plan to damage Mr. Bin Hammam and force him to withdraw as a
candidate for the FIFA presidency,” he said in the statement.  Blatter’s U.K.-based communications adviser, Brian
Alexander, declined to comment on Bin Hammam’s statement.  Blatter, in a column earlier today on the Inside World
Football website, said the charges made against Bin Hammam and
Jack Warner, who oversees the sport in the Caribbean, “brought
him no joy.”  He said claims that the entire matter was somehow
masterminded by him were “ludicrous and completely
reprehensible.”  Warner has also denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 