-- 
Finra Fines Credit Suisse, Bank of America Over RMBS Errors

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/finra-fines-credit-suisse-bank-of-america-over-securitizations.html
Credit Suisse Group Inc. will pay
$4.5 million and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit will
pay $3 million to resolve Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority claims that they misrepresented delinquency data in
issuing residential subprime mortgage securitizations.  Credit Suisse Securities failed to inform clients of
misrepresentations on 21 subprime RMBS it underwrote and sold in
2006, Washington-based Finra said in a statement today. In a
separate case, Merrill Lynch negligently misrepresented
delinquency rates for 61 subprime RMBS, though it corrected the
errors on its website in June 2007, Finra said.  “Firms must provide accurate information about the
products they offer,” Finra enforcement chief Brad Bennett said
in the statement. “Credit Suisse and Merrill Lynch failed to
monitor and supervise the reporting of historical delinquency
rates, depriving investors of information essential to assessing
the profitability of mortgage-backed investments.”  The two companies agreed to resolve the claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Issuers of subprime RMBS are required to disclose
historical performance information for past securitizations that
contain  mortgage loans  similar to those being offered to
investors, Finra said. Because there are different standards for
calculating delinquencies, issuers are required to disclose the
specific method they used, the brokerage regulator said.  Problem ‘Corrected’  “We are pleased to resolve this matter, which pre-dated
Bank of America’s acquisition of Merrill Lynch,” said  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender, which bought the brokerage in 2009. “Merrill Lynch
identified this problem and corrected it by September 2007.”  Steven Vames, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to
comment on the fine.  “Credit Suisse failed to take adequate steps to review and
correct the inaccurate static pool information,” according to
the agreement the firm signed with Finra.  For six of the securitizations from Credit Suisse and eight
from Merrill Lynch, Finra said the errors “were significant
enough” to affect investor assessments.  The agreement between Finra and Zurich-based Credit Suisse
said the bank’s outside servicer of the 21 securitizations “had
provided inaccurate delinquency data” between January and
September of 2006. The data was “variously underreporting and
overreporting delinquencies for different securitizations within
this period,” according to the letter, which was posted on
Finra’s website.  Bank of America’s agreement with Finra also said that the
Merrill Lynch errors both understated and overstated
delinquencies in various mortgage pools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 