-- 
For Republicans, Senate Freshman Portman Is Senior on U.S. Economic Issues

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-26T16:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/for-republicans-house-freshman-portman-is-senior-on-u-s-economic-issues.html
Jon Huntsman Jr. stopped in last week
on his way to New Hampshire.  Mitt Romney , Tim Pawlenty and  Newt Gingrich  have all paid visits.  As Republicans position themselves for a 2012 presidential
run, many have turned for counsel to  Rob Portman  of Ohio, a
freshman senator whose experience in previous posts, including
head of the White House budget office, makes him a sought-after
adviser.  After less than a half-year as the junior senator from
Ohio, Portman, 55, has become an unofficial point man for his
party on economic issues, a trusted voice for presidential
hopefuls and lawmakers on Capitol Hill on how to draw contrasts
with President  Barack Obama  and Democrats on an issue pivotal in
the 2012 elections.  In a chamber where power derives chiefly from seniority,
Portman is an anomaly: a first-termer who commands more respect
and wields more clout than some longer-serving colleagues. He’s
a seasoned pragmatist in a congressional class better known for
Tea Party-supported political neophytes who wear their
inexperience in Washington as a badge of honor.  As many leading Republicans talk about austerity and steep
budget cuts, Portman is telling his party it must also focus on
economic growth and jobs, or risk alienating voters.  Grow the Economy  “Every time we talk about deficit and debt, we have to be
sure we’re letting people know that this does impact the economy
today and the aspirations for future generations, and I think
that’s critical to solving the  budget crisis . In other words,
we’ve got to grow the economy to solve this, in addition to the
budget restraints,” Portman said in an interview at the
Capitol. “If we don’t talk about it in those terms, I believe
we will end up losing the debate.”  He has also staked out a central -- if informal -- role in
negotiations between Republicans and Democrats to rein in the
nation’s $14 trillion-plus debt, pressing for a compromise that
could pair entitlement cuts and tax increases when most in his
party publicly refuse to consider any tax boost.  Portman said earlier this month that while Republicans
“have our own preferences, we need to keep everything on the
table,” a message he has reprised in closed-door meetings with
his colleagues, according to aides familiar with the sessions.  ‘Important Player’  Huntsman, the former Utah governor and U.S. ambassador to
 China , became the latest Republican weighing a presidential bid
to seek out Portman when he visited him May 17. He followed
former Governor Romney of  Massachusetts , who has a presidential
exploratory committee, and former Governor Pawlenty of  Minnesota 
and former U.S. House Speaker Gingrich of  Georgia , both of whom
have announced presidential bids.  “Senator Portman could be a very important player in the
2012 presidential election, either as a surrogate, an organizer
or even as a vice presidential nominee,” said political
scientist John C. Green of the University of Akron.  Portman, a Cincinnati native, worked at his father’s
forklift dealership, Portman Equipment Co. A graduate of
Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, and the University
of Michigan Law School in Ann Arbor, he came to Washington as an
international trade lawyer.  He was President George H.W. Bush’s top lobbyist on  Capitol
Hill  and won election to the House in 1993 with the aid of a
radio ad by then-first lady Barbara Bush. Portman quit after six
terms to serve as President  George W. Bush ’s top U.S. trade
official, then took over the  Office of Management and Budget  in
2006.  ‘Trust of Many’  “Rob is a freshman senator, but he’s not really a freshman
in the sense that he’s experienced, he’s known many of us, he
knows how this place works and he has the trust of many of his
colleagues coming in,” said Senator Joe Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent who caucuses with Democrats.  Lieberman has teamed with Portman on trade legislation and
sees him as an ally even though they have been rivals. When
Republican Dick Cheney was preparing for the 2000 campaign’s
vice presidential debate, it was Portman who played the role of
Lieberman -- the Democratic nominee -- in a mock forum.  While the soft-spoken Portman is a close Bush family friend
and a reliable conservative vote in Congress, he has a record of
reaching across the political aisle. In the House, he paired
with Representative Ben Cardin of  Maryland , now also a senator,
on legislation to expand tax-free pension savings.  The two serve on the  Senate Budget Committee , where Cardin
said he doesn’t give Portman many pointers. “He’s a former
budget director -- he should be giving me advice about this
stuff,” Cardin said.  Tough Negotiator  Republicans who worked alongside Portman in George W.
Bush’s administration said while his style allowed for
bipartisan dealmaking, Portman was a tough negotiator who
pressed for fiscal restraint.  “He’s not one who tends to compromise for the sake of
compromise. He was dogged,” said Joshua Bolten, the White House
chief of staff when Portman led the budget office.  Portman was known to hand out green eyeshades to reward
aides for noteworthy accomplishments. He gave Bush one at a
White House meeting where Portman recommended the president set
a balanced budget as his fiscal target, Bolten recalled.  “He always had that friendly demeanor” while also being
“very determined, very tough and insistent when he needed to
be,” Bolten said.  Other new Republican senators see Portman as a resource on
economic issues, particularly deficits and long-term debt.
“He’s just a go-to guy,” said Senator Kelly Ayotte of  New
Hampshire .  Jobs Proposal  When his Republican colleagues went home in February for
constituent meetings, many carried 8½-by-3½ cards in their
breast pockets outlining Portman’s jobs proposal, a centerpiece
of his 2010 campaign. The plan became the model for Senate
Republicans’ jobs agenda, calling for overhauling the  tax code ,
reducing the federal debt and cutting health-care and energy
costs, as well as ratifying trade pacts. Portman said he’s sent
copies to any prospective Republican presidential candidate for
whom he has an e-mail address.  “The economy will be the key issue, and I think the
president is vulnerable on that issue if Republicans can
properly outline an alternative,” he said. Republicans “need
to do a better job of laying out the alternative vision.”  Leaders tapped Portman to carry their jobs message to the
White House May 12, when he was one of the senators chosen to
speak at a closed-door meeting with Obama.  Ohio  Unemployment  His focus fits Ohio, a state hit hard by the U.S. recession
that ended in June 2009. Its  unemployment rate  reached 10
percent in April 2009 and didn’t return to single digits until
August 2010. The national jobless rate was 10 percent only once
during that period, in October 2009. The state had an 8.6
unemployment rate last month, lower than the nation’s 9 percent.  Portman won his Senate seat in November over Democrat Lee Fisher, 57 percent to 39 percent. Portman raised $16.5 million
to Fisher’s $6.4 million. Employees of Cincinnati-based American
Financial Group Inc. and their families were Portman’s biggest
source of donations, giving him more than $125,000.  His first day as a senator was no ordinary affair. Supreme
Court Justice  Samuel Alito  gave Portman a ceremonial oath of
office at a reception that drew Vice President Joe Biden, Senate
Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , former Vice
President Dan Quayle and several former Cabinet members.  His pedigree and standing in Ohio, often a key state in
presidential elections, could make him an attractive running
mate for the Republican 2012 nominee, political scientist Green
said. Asked about that prospect, Portman replied: “No.”  “I feel fortunate to have the opportunity to be” in the
Senate, he said. “I’ve been here, what? Four-and-a-half
months?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  