-- 
Ford Sees Sales Surge With New Diabetes-to-Heart Dashboard: Cars

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ford-sees-sales-surge-with-new-diabetes-to-heart-dashboard-cars.html
The black Ford Explorer had a warning
for the test driver at the lab in Dearborn, Michigan, last week:
“It is important for you to recheck your blood glucose now.”  The driver’s blood-sugar reading was 81 milligrams per
deciliter at 6:32 a.m., the robotic female voice said in the
prototype demonstration. When he replied that it has fallen to
71, close to where he can have lightheadedness or blurry vision,
the car instructed him to take some glucose tablets and check
again after 30 minutes. Then it signs off: “Have a nice
drive.”  For  Ford Motor Co. (F) , medical monitoring is the next key to a
burst of car sales. About 10,000  baby boomers  turn 65 every day
and 26 million Americans have diabetes. Besides checking blood-
sugar, Ford has developed a car seat to check the driver’s heart
rate that could warn of an impending heart attack, and new
features may track breathing patterns for asthmatics or pollen
counts for allergy sufferers and recommend remedies.  “The car is more than just a car,” said Paul Mascarenas,
Ford’s chief technology officer. “People spend almost an entire
week a year on the road and that’s expected to increase. The car
is a private space for conducting personal business. We see
health and wellness as a core area.”  The features Ford is researching may help boost the prices
it can charge for cars. They may be added in one to five years
to Ford’s Sync software, the voice-activated communication
system it developed with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and offers on most
models. Sync, together with limited supplies and higher quality,
helped boost Ford’s average prices $4,100 from two years ago.  GM’s OnStar  General Motors Co. (GM)  also has begun offering emergency
health-care instruction through its OnStar communication system,
said Vijay Iyer, a spokesman.  About 78 percent of U.S. consumers are interested in mobile
health solutions, Ford said, citing a survey by  Harris
Interactive  and CTIA-The Wireless Association. Ford said  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s App store now has more than 17,000 health applications.  “The whole concept of monitoring the driver from a medical
perspective is a booming potential area,” said Bryan Reimer, a
research scientist in the AgeLab at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in Cambridge.  Hayley Schreiter, a 19-year-old diabetic, said she’d
welcome a way to check her blood sugar while driving. The pre-
nursing student at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison  has
experienced a disorienting blood-sugar crash behind the wheel
and the difficulty of finding the food she needed in an
unfamiliar part of town.  ‘Pretty Amazing’  “It could potentially prevent a fatal accident if my blood
sugar went too low while I was driving, which is pretty
amazing,” Schreiter said.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, said it is
conducting the research with glucose-monitoring device maker
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ; WellDoc Inc., a provider of integrated  health
services , and SDI Health, creators of the allergy website
www.pollen.com.  A Bluetooth connection through the driver’s mobile phone
could transmit blood-sugar levels from a Medtronic body monitor
to the dashboard, Ford said. Sync also can connect with mobile-
phone applications like the WellDoc glucose-level coaching
demonstrated in the Explorer on May 18. Using information on  air
quality  and pollen count, the car’s navigation system could
direct the driver to the healthiest, smog-free route, Ford said.  In  Germany , Ford worked with Rheinisch-Westfalische
Technische Hochschule Aachen University to develop a seat with
six sensors that detect electrical impulses from the driver’s
heart. Data from the seats could be transmitted to medical
experts or onboard computer software that can warn the driver of
heart problems in real time, Ford said.  Reduce Stress  The car might also intervene to reduce stress that is
elevating the driver’s heart rate, said Gary Strumolo, Ford’s
manager of health and wellness research.  “It might change the music in your car,” Strumolo said.
“If the driver is stressed, it might not be the best time to
get a phone call, so the car could intercept that and send it
directly to voicemail.”  Ford didn’t say when the heart-monitoring seats may reach
production. The mobile applications for allergy sufferers may be
on the road within a year, Mascarenas said. Connecting Ford cars
to Medtronic glucose monitors may take three to five years, said
Alan Hall, a Ford spokesman.  GM a year ago introduced “First Assist,” a service on its
OnStar system that allows drivers to push a red button in the
car and reach a live attendant trained in emergency response.
The feature augments a previous system in which OnStar
attendants contact emergency responders after a crash.  Mobile Emergency Room  “Instead of just being a comforting voice, we now have
advisers who can provide medical instruction just as someone in
an emergency room would,” said Stefan Cross, an OnStar
spokesman. “So if a driver is having a heart attack, they can
push the red emergency button and an adviser could coach the
passenger through how to administer CPR or chest compressions.”  Such scenarios may become more common as the number of U.S.
residents aged 65 or older is expected to more than double to
88.5 million by 2050, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In
 Europe , people older than 65 will make up 30 percent of the
population by 2050, Ford said.  “The idea of bringing wellness into the car is something
we’ve all been talking about,” said MIT’s Reimer. “Biometrics
could play an integral role in the future of driving.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 