-- 
Former Nasdaq Manager Johnson Pleads Guilty to U.S. Insider Trading Scheme

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/former-nasdaq-manager-johnson-pleads-guilty-to-u-s-insider-trading-scheme.html
Former  Nasdaq  Stock Market Managing
Director  Donald Johnson  pleaded guilty to using information
gleaned from his position with the exchange to engage in  insider
trading , the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Johnson, 56, pleaded guilty to one count of  securities
fraud , according to papers filed in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. He admitted he bought and sold shares of five Nasdaq-
listed companies based on inside information from 2006 to 2009.  He often made the trades from his work computer at Nasdaq,
according to a lawsuit filed at the same time in federal court
in  Manhattan  by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Mr. Johnson was a fox in a henhouse,” Assistant Attorney
General Lanny Breuer said yesterday in a statement. “Nasdaq-
listed companies entrusted him with their sensitive, nonpublic
information so that he could provide them with analyses about
their stock. He then used that very information to cheat the
system and make an illegal profit.”  Johnson, a former managing director at Nasdaq’s market
intelligence desk in  New York , admitted making more than
$640,000 from the illegal trades. Among the shares he traded was
 United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  based on inside information about test
results for the drug Viveta, now called Tyvaso, and about the
approval of the drug, prosecutors said.  Stock in Index  In the case of Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc.,
Johnson bet the stock would rise when the public learned it
would be included in the Nasdaq-100, he admitted in his plea.  Companies would contact the market intelligence desk before
“some sort of event,” such as poor earnings or a change in
leadership structure, and the desk would predict the impact on
trading, Breuer said on a conference call with reporters.  “My client chose to accept responsibility today for his
actions,” Johnson’s lawyer, Jonathan Simms, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “Those who know Mr. Johnson will agree that
these charges are in no way indicative of his overall
character.”  Johnson faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison at
his sentencing, scheduled for Aug. 12. The plea deal didn’t
include an agreement on what sentence the government will ask
the judge to impose, Simms said.  Wife’s Account  Johnson used a brokerage account in his wife’s name to
conceal the illicit trades, the Justice Department said. Other
securities he traded based on inside information were Central
Garden and Pet Co., Digene Corp., Idexx Laboratories Inc. and
 Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. (PPDI) , according to the
government.  “We’re fully cooperating with the authorities,” said
Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, who declined to
comment further.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. exchange operator, is
one of only two venues in the country for public companies to
list their shares. Those companies often supply the exchange
with confidential financial information, such as earnings
reports, which Johnson handled.  Nasdaq OMX, based in New York, opened its market
intelligence desk in 2002, offering companies analysis of their
stocks’ trading and market statistics and information. Nasdaq
OMX got about 19 percent of its first-quarter revenue from its
global listing services unit, which includes annual fees charged
to companies it lists.  The case is U.S. v. Johnson, 11-254, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  