-- 
Foxtel Offers $2 Billion for Malone’s Austar to Expand in Rural Australia

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-05-26T07:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/foxtel-offers-2-billion-to-buy-australian-subscription-tv-operator-austar.html
Foxtel,  Australia ’s largest pay-TV
operator, agreed to buy billionaire  John Malone ’s  Austar United
Communications Ltd. (AUN)  for A$1.9 billion ($2 billion) in cash to
expand in the nation’s rural areas.  The A$1.52-a-share bid is “appropriate,” Sydney-based
Austar said in a filing today. The offer, which is 20 percent
higher than yesterday’s closing price, is subject to antitrust
approval  The purchase would help Foxtel, which focuses on
metropolitan areas, access Austar’s viewers in smaller cities
such as Ballarat and Albury to increase its audience by 46
percent. The bid is the 15th deal announced in the Australian
media industry during the past 12 months, according to Bloomberg
data, as the nation’s media tycoons seek to capitalize on a
rebound in advertising spending.  “Tying the two together is an efficient and sensible
outcome which would streamline the business operations for
both,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at
White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney. “Austar and Foxtel have
been operating in conjunction with one another for some time,
with a similar offering into slightly different geographies.”  Foxtel is half owned by Telstra Corp., Australia’s largest
phone carrier, with 25 percent stakes held by  Rupert Murdoch ’s
 News Corp. (NWSA)  and  James Packer ’s  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ) 
Austar is controlled by Malone’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , which owns
a 54 percent stake.  Austar shares gained 7.9 percent to A$1.365 at the 4:10
p.m. market close in Sydney. The stock has gained 21 percent
since the companies first disclosed they were in talks on March
2. Telstra rose 0.3 cent to A$3 and Consolidated Media added 2.2
percent to A$2.84.  Regulatory Clearance  After including assumed debt, the deal is valued at A$2.6
billion and is priced at 10.6 times Austar’s earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. That compares with
the 10.4 times earnings average of Australian media deals in the
past 12 months, according to Bloomberg data.  A completion of the offer, which would form a TV
broadcaster with 2.4 million subscribers in a nation with a
 population  of 22.6 million, would result in the second-biggest
purchase in Australia’s  media industry  in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foxtel is being advised by UBS AG, while Austar hired
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty. Credit Suisse Group AG
is advising Telstra.  Antitrust Approval  The agreement may be reviewed to ensure it doesn’t violate
Australia’s antitrust laws, the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission said in March. Getting approval may depend
on whether regulators view Foxtel as part of the whole
Australian media industry or just within the pay-television
industry, according to analyst Mark McDonnell.  “It’s a very rational proposal for something that has
really just been a territory split,” said McDonnell, an analyst
at BBY Ltd. in Sydney, who has a “buy” rating on Austar’s
stock. “It’s always hard to second-guess regulators and it
comes down to how they view the market.”  The surge in deals is being partly driven by the recovery
in advertising, with the nation’s market likely to expand 6.5
percent this year, led by 17 percent growth in Internet spending
and a 7 percent increase in TV expenditures, according to
estimates in January from Morgan Stanley. Overall spending rose
10 percent in 2010 after shrinking the previous year, according
to the company.  Media Tycoons  The Foxtel move comes after Packer and fellow Australian
billionaires  Kerry Stokes  and Gina Rinehart announced media
deals to capitalize on the recovery in advertising spending.  Stokes, whose Seven Group Holdings Ltd. has a 24 percent
stake in Consolidated Media, led the biggest deal this year.
Last month, he completed the creation of Seven West Media Ltd.
in a A$2 billion deal that united the nation’s top-rated TV
network and more than 25 magazines and Perth’s sole daily
newspaper.  Rinehart, Australia’s richest person, has bought 10 percent
of  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  Packer teamed up with  Lachlan Murdoch  to each buy 8.9 percent of Sydney-based Ten, the
nation’s third most-watched commercial broadcaster.  Fairfax
Media Ltd. (FXJ) , Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher, this
month announced plans to sell its radio unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  