-- 
France Watches EDF Power Supply as Drought Lowers Rivers

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-26T14:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/france-watches-edf-power-supply-as-drought-lowers-rivers-1-.html
France  has stepped up monitoring
power supply because a drought that has lowered river waters
needed to produce hydroelectricity and cool Electricite de
France SA’s nuclear reactors.  A working group to keep watch on electricity demand and
supply has been activated “due to the extraordinarily dry
conditions affecting France,” French Industry Minister Eric
Besson said in a statement.  “This is not a safety issue,” according to the minister.
Production at atomic plants can be lowered or stopped if river
water levels drop by too much or their temperatures rise too
high and a halted reactor “doesn’t need much coolant.”  EDF,  Europe ’s biggest power generator, operates France’s 58
nuclear reactors that provide about three quarters of the
country’s power needs. Most require river water for operations,
prompting the utility and the country’s nuclear safety watchdog
to step up monitoring. France had its second-hottest April since
1900 and one of the driest since 1953, according to the
 Agriculture Ministry .  EDF’s operations at nuclear reactors using river water for
coolant are dictated in part by environmental rules, which can
be modified in the case of concerns about power supply and
demand, Besson said.  The current dry spell, which has prompted water
restrictions in 42 of France’s 96 mainland departments, hasn’t
had an impact on nuclear output, EDF spokeswoman Jill Coulombez
said by telephone today. “We are vigilant,” she said.  Seaside Plants  Measures being taken by the utility include the
“limitation of summer outages in seaside nuclear plants,” EDF
said in a  presentation  of first-quarter sales. The utility will
limit planned maintenance at 14 nuclear reactors near the
 English Channel  as the dry spring reduces river water for
cooling inland plants along the Loire and Rhone rivers.  The reactors that rely on seawater for cooling include
Gravelines, Penly, Paluel and Flamanville. Blayais, inland from
the Atlantic Ocean along the Gironde River, is considered less
vulnerable to the dry conditions.  EDF schedules planned refueling and maintenance sometimes
years in advance to coincide with a greater need for base
nuclear power during cold winter months and hot summer months.
The utility was forced to reduce output at some riverside
reactors during a 2003 heat wave that left 14,000 people dead.  Dry conditions lowered EDF’s hydroelectric power production
by 2.1 terawatt-hours last quarter, EDF said in a May 12
 statement . France gets about 20 percent of its power capacity
from running water through turbines. EDF is the country’s
biggest dam operator followed by GDF Suez SA.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  