-- 
France, Russia Partner in $2.8 Billion Olympic Skiing Project

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-26T10:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/france-russia-partner-in-2-8-billion-olympic-skiing-project.html
France  and Russia agreed to
collaborate in an investment program to build ski resorts in the
North Caucasus for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.  Caisse des Depots et Consignations, the French state-owned
bank, will partner with Russia’s state-run North Caucasus
Resorts Co. to attract investors from both countries, according
to a joint statement by Presidents  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Dmitry Medvedev  at the Group of Eight summit in Deauville, France.  The capital of the joint venture will be 2 billion euros
($2.84 billion), NSRC Chairman Akhmed Bilalov, who is also vice
president of the Russian Olympic Committee, said in an interview
with Ekho Moskvy radio on May 24. The statement today didn’t
give details of the planned investments.  Russia  is seeking foreign partners for a $15 billion
complex of ski resorts in the North Caucasus that Medvedev said
will help fight terrorism by creating job.  “It will be a quasi-state company,” Bilalov said in the
radio interview of the Franco-Russian joint venture. “They are
ready to invest money in these projects if there are guarantees
of security and force majeure.”  The mainly Muslim North Caucasus area includes Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan, three of the poorest and most corrupt
regions of Russia. Nearby Sochi, in addition to hosting the
Olympics, will also host some of the soccer games in the 2018
 World Cup , which Russia will stage for the first time.  Russia has suffered a series of terrorist attacks in recent
years. A suicide bombing claimed by Islamic militants at
Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport, the busiest air hub in Russia,
killed at least 37 people on Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Deauville, France, via the Moscow newsroom +7-
   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  