-- 
France Strikes Deal to Sell Four Mistral Warships to Russia

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-26T16:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/france-strikes-deal-to-sell-four-mistral-warships-to-russia-2-.html
France  reached a deal on the sale to
 Russia  of four helicopter carriers in the first major Russian
purchase of military hardware from a NATO country.  “We have reached a final agreement on the contract to
acquire Mistral aircraft carriers,” Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said today after talks with his French counterpart,
 Nicolas Sarkozy , at the Group of Eight summit in Deauville,
northern France.  Two of the warships are to be built in France and two in
Russia, Sarkozy said. “We decided everything: price, technology
transfers and the calendar,” he said, adding that the final
contract for the command-and-control Mistral-class vessels will
be signed next month during a visit to Paris by Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Some of Russia’s ex-Soviet neighbors including Georgia and
the Baltic countries have expressed concern the ships could be
used against them. Russia and U.S.-allied Georgia fought a five-
day war in August 2008.  France’s state-owned military contractor  DCNS  and the
 shipbuilder STX  will build the two ships with OAO United
Shipbuilding Corp. of Russia. The sale may total about 1.37
billion euros ($1.94 billion), the Russian state-run news
service RIA Novosti reported Dec. 30. Russia’s share in building
the first Mistral will be 20 percent and as much as 40 percent
for the second, RIA said.  The  Mistral  is a 200-meter (656-foot) ship, capable of
carrying as many as 700 combat troops, 16 helicopters and 60
armored vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Deauville, France at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Deauville, France via the Moscow newsroom at +7-
   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  