-- 
French Barley Cut Starts With ‘Very Bad’ Yields, Agritel Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-26T10:39:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/french-barley-cut-starts-with-very-bad-yields-agritel-says.html
France ’s barley harvest started
yesterday in the southwest of the country, and indications are
for a “very bad” crop, with drought reducing yields by half in
the worst cases, Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said.  “It’s clear that it’s really very bad, what’s been cut so
far,” Nicolas Pinchon, an analyst at Agritel, said in a phone
interview today. “We can’t generalize. It’s the earliest crops,
so also those that suffered most.”  Farmers in the Charente department harvested between 3 and
4 metric tons a hectare (2.47 acres) yesterday, compared with
normal yields for the region of 5.5 to 6 tons a hectare,
according to Pinchon.  France had its second-hottest April since 1900 and one of
the driest since 1953, according to the  Agriculture Ministry .
Local authorities in Charente started imposing limits on water
use as early as April 10, ahead of other French regions,
according to the  Environment Ministry .  Malting barley for November delivery has risen 25 percent
on NYSE Liffe in Paris this month to 338.50 euros ($479) a ton.  “In the worst cases, the yield has been divided by two
compared to last year,” Pinchon said. “It’s rather bad.”  La Rochelle, to the west of the Charente department,
received 5.6 millimeters (0.22 inch) of rain so far in May,
less than a tenth of the normal value of 59 millimeters,
according to forecaster  Meteo France .  The French barley harvest started about three weeks
ahead of the usual schedule as drought and heat stressed the
crop, Pinchon said.  France produced 10.2 million tons of barley last year,
according to crops office FranceAgriMer. The region of Poitou-
Charentes, which includes the Charente department, accounted
for 4.4 percent of the harvest, crops office data shows.  The French wheat harvest, the European Union’s biggest, is
estimated to start around June 15, also ahead of the normal
harvesting schedule, according to Pinchon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 