-- 
Fukushima Station Considered as Site for Nuclear Graveyard

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-05-26T06:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/fukushima-may-become-graveyard-for-radioactive-waste-from-crippled-plant.html
Japan ’s atomic energy specialists are
discussing a plan to make the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant a
storage site for radioactive waste from the crippled station run
by Tokyo Electric Power Co.  The Atomic Energy Society of Japan is studying the
proposal, which would cost tens of billions of dollars, Muneo
Morokuzu, a professor of energy and environmental public policy
at the  University of Tokyo , said in an interview yesterday. The
society makes policy recommendations to the government.  “We are involved in intense talks on the cleanup of the
Dai-Ichi plant and construction of nuclear waste storage
facilities at the site is one option,” said Morokuzu.  Radiation leaks from the three reactor meltdowns at
Fukushima rank the accident on the same scale as the Chernobyl
disaster in 1986. The 20-kilometer exclusion zone around
Fukushima has forced the evacuation of 50,000 households,
extermination of livestock and disposal of crops, drawing
comparisons with the Ukraine plant.  Areas up to 30 kilometers from Chernobyl remain “a dead
zone,”  Mykola Kulinich , Ukraine’s ambassador to Japan, said in
 Tokyo  on April 26, the 25th anniversary of the disaster.  Waste Proposal  Tokyo Electric shares have plunged 85 percent since the day
before the March 11 earthquake and tsunami hit the Fukushima
plant. The stock today rose 2.2 percent to 322 yen in Tokyo.  Local authorities in Fukushima, 220 kilometers (137 miles)
north of Tokyo, aren’t aware of a proposal to make the Dai-Ichi
station a nuclear waste storage site, said Hisashi Katayose, an
official at the prefectural government’s disaster task force. He
declined to comment.  Building storage for radioactive waste at Fukushima could
take at least 10 years, said Morokuzu, one of 50 people on a
cleanup panel that includes observers from Tokyo Electric and
the Trade Ministry. Tokyo Electric would need five years to
complete decontamination of the reactors, which includes removal
of hydrogen to prevent explosions, he said.  Japan’s three storage facilities for highly radioactive
waste are at Rokkasho, at the northern tip of the country’s
largest island of Honshu, and a nearby site at Sekinehama. The
third site is at Tokaimura in Ibaraki prefecture, near Tokyo.  Intermediary Use  As the sites are for intermediary use, the nation is still
searching for a deep underground storage site for the waste,
according to the  World Nuclear Association . The selection is due
to be completed by 2025 and become operational from 2035, the
London-based association says.  About 90 percent of the world’s 270,000 tons in used
nuclear fuel is stored at reactor sites, mostly in ponds of
seven meters deep, such as those exposed at the Fukushima site
when hydrogen explosions blew the roofs off reactor buildings.  “Intensive discussion is needed before reaching any
conclusion on what to do with the Fukushima site,” said Tetsuo
Ito, the head of the Atomic Energy Research Institute at Kinki
University in western Japan. “This is one that the government
should take responsibility for and make the final decision.”  In the past two weeks, the utility known as Tepco has said
fuel rods in reactors 1, 2 and 3 had almost complete meltdowns.
That matches U.S. assessments in the early days of the crisis
that indicated damage to the station was more severe than Tepco
officials suggested.  Melted Rods  “Most of the fuel rods melted and damage to the cores is
most severe in the No. 1 reactor, followed by the No. 3 and then
No. 2,” spokesman Junichi Matsumoto said in Tokyo May 24.  The utility on April 17 set out a so-called road map to end
the crisis in six to nine months. Tepco said it expects to
achieve a sustained drop in radiation levels at the plant within
three months, followed by a cold shutdown, where core reactor
temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius.  “We have yet to determine how to deal with the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant site, or how to store reactor parts after
decommissioning,” Megumi Iwashita, a spokeswoman for the
company said by telephone. “Tepco will determine at the right
time taking the government’s advice.”  Waste Disposal  The disposal of high-level waste is more complicated since
it needs to be solidified into borosilicate glass and placed
inside heavy stainless steel cylinders about 1.3 meters high,
the World Nuclear Association said. The casks are then usually
transferred to interim storage sites before a long-term
underground repository is built.  Besides Japan,  Russia ,  Belgium ,  China  and the U.S. are
working on plans to build final storage sites, though progress
is slow. Belgium will not begin construction until 2035,
according to the association. China expects to select a site by
2020, while France and Russia are still investigating areas.  The U.S. plan to build a nuclear waste repository at Yucca
Mountain, in  Nevada , in 2002 was overturned by President  Barack Obama , whose administration terminated the project’s funding
this year.  This leaves the U.S. with the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
in  New Mexico , which began work in 1999 storing defense-related
nuclear waste 2,150 feet below the surface. The facility has a
10,000-year regulatory period, according to the U.S. Department
of Energy website.  Three Mile Island  For cleaning up Fukushima, Japan’s disaster has more
similarities to the accident at the Three Mile Island reactor in
the U.S. in 1979, not Chernobyl, Morokuzu said. Three Mile
Island is in a decommissioning process, while Chernobyl was
entombed in concrete and steel.  Three Mile Island had a partial meltdown of a  reactor ,
causing the most serious nuclear plant accident in the U.S.
Removal of fuel was completed in 1990 and the plant will be
decommissioned when the license for an operational reactor at
the site expires in 2034.  Japan’s efforts to find other places to store high-level
nuclear waste included offering 2 trillion yen ($17 billion)
over 60 years to the town of Toyo on Shikoku island to accept a
facility. The proposal in 2007 was backed by Mayor Yasuoki
Tashima in his re-election bid. He lost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
undefined
undefined
-0- May/26/ :36 GMT 