-- 
G-8 Chiefs Say Strengthening Economies to Prompt Focus Shift to Debt Cuts

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-27T13:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/g-8-calls-commodity-price-surge-a-threat-to-growth-pledges-deficit-cuts.html
Group of Eight leaders said a
strengthening global economy will pave the way to cuts in the
debt built up during the recession that followed the 2008
financial crisis.  Europe  vowed to fight its fiscal woes with
“determination,” while President Barack Obama promised a
“clear and credible” U.S. deficit-reduction strategy. Japan
was allowed to put off savings measures until its economy
rebounds from the March earthquake and tsunami.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a statement after a two-day
summit in Deauville, France. Without mapping out binding
targets, the leaders pledged to “remain focused on the action
required to enhance the sustainability of public finances.”  The harshest economic crisis since the Great Depression
drove debt in the U.S., Japan and the 17-nation euro region past
the mark of 90 percent of gross domestic product that economists
 Kenneth Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart  say can weigh on long-term
growth prospects.  Echoing that assessment, the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  on May 25 warned that deepening
holes in public finances may be a drag on the recovery. It
predicted growth of 4.2 percent in the world economy this year
and 4.6 percent in 2012.  ‘Downside Risks’  “Downside risks remain, and internal and external
imbalances are still a concern,” the G-8 said. “The sharp
increase in commodity prices and their excessive volatility pose
a significant headwind to the recovery.”  With unemployment at 9 percent in the U.S. and 9.9 percent
in the euro area, leaders of the G-8 -- the U.S., Japan,
Germany, U.K., France,  Italy ,  Canada  and  Russia  -- spiced the
final version with more references to growth and  job creation .  The statement made clear that the wider Group of 20 --
including developing countries such as China, India and  Brazil  -
- has become the principal forum for steering the world economy.
The next G-20 get-together is in November in Cannes, France.  That meeting, also to be hosted by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , will try to work out an international radar system that
warns of imbalances involving current accounts and budgets, as
well as currency misalignments that threaten world growth.  Oil Forecasts  Oil prices  reached a 31-month high of $114.83 on May 2 as
the recovery boosted fuel demand and the war in  Libya  cut supply
by 1.5 million barrels a day, according to economists Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Oil has since dropped to $100.58.  Goldman’s economists now expect oil prices to touch $140 a
barrel by the end of 2012, raising an earlier forecast of $120 a
barrel, the bank said in a research note yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained about 5.5
percent so far this year, while the Europe’s Stoxx 600 is up
about 0.5 percent. The global expansion has helped spur the euro
as demand for the dollar’s haven status waned. The euro rose 0.4
percent this week, bringing its 2011 gain to 6.2 percent.  Fiscal woes loomed over the discussions, with Europe
preparing a second aid package to save  Greece  from default and
the OECD forecasting debt of 107 percent of GDP in the U.S. and
218.7 percent in  Japan  by the end of 2012.  Greek Paradox  Europe’s chiefs said they would need more time to solve the
Greek debt crisis as the leaders noted the strength of the euro
even amid investor concerns that Greece may be headed for
default, said European diplomats who briefed reporters today on
condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  “The  euro zone  is stable, growth has picked up quite
nicely,” Sarkozy told reporters after the meeting. “It’s a
paradox to talk about the problems of the euro when the euro has
never been that strong. That strength can sometime be a problem
for exports,” he said.  The G-8 statement called for a “clear and credible medium-
term fiscal consolidation framework” from Obama, who is
bargaining with Congress over long-term deficit cuts as part of
plans to raise the legal debt limit from $14.294 trillion.
Deficit cuts will be “consistent with considerations of job
creation and economic growth,” according to language added in
overnight.  Obama told fellow leaders that the  U.S. budget deficit 
limited the country’s ability to act as the engine of the global
economy, the European diplomats said.  Merkel’s Belt-Tightening  Within the rich world,  Germany  has spearheaded appeals for
deficit reduction. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in
Deauville that belt-tightening is needed “not just for us now
but for coming generations and we must always have that in
mind.”  Japan, however, got more breathing room to spend its
economy out of the slump triggered by the magnitude-9 earthquake
and tsunami that killed about 23,000 people and unleashed the
world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  “In Japan, while providing resources for the
reconstruction after the disaster, the authorities will also
address the issue of sustainability of public finances,” the
statement said.  G-8 leaders also made another pledge to dismantle
commercial barriers under the World Trade Organization’s Doha
talks that remain unfinished business after almost a decade.
That stalemate is the source of “great concern,” the text
said.  A free-trade pact would “spur the international economy,”
Sarkozy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Deauville,  France  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  