-- 
Geithner Praises Lagarde’s Abilities Without Endorsing Campaign to Run IMF

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/geithner-praises-lagarde-s-abilities-without-endorsing-campaign-to-run-imf.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  praised French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde ’s
qualifications to head the International Monetary Fund while
refraining from endorsing her candidacy.  Lagarde, who announced her bid yesterday, “is an
exceptionally capable person, an excellent mix of financial
economic knowledge, talent and the kind of political skill you
need to navigate this context,” Geithner said at an event in
Washington. A second candidate, Mexican central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens, is also “very talented,” he said.  Lagarde would succeed countryman Dominique Strauss-Kahn and
become the first woman to lead the Washington-based lender to
nations since its founding in 1945. She now has the backing of
Europe’s main economies and, according to her government, China.  Nobel-prize winning economist  Robert Mundell  said Lagarde
could help repair the damage done to the fund by the arrest of
Strauss-Kahn on charges of sexual assault and attempted rape.  “She’s made a tremendous impression,” Mundell, a member
of the faculty at Columbia University and an adviser to the IMF,
said on the Bloomberg Radio program, the “Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “What the IMF needs right now, in backing up
from the fiasco recently, is someone who can lead strongly.”  Carstens, a former IMF deputy managing director, remains
the Mexican government’s choice for the IMF even after Lagarde
announced her candidacy, Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said.  Mexico’s Case  “They are both strong, credible candidates,” Cordero said
in Paris after a meeting with Lagarde. “We agreed that what the
IMF needs is an open, transparent, merit-based process.”  The IMF executive directors representing Brazil, Russia,
India,  China  and  South Africa  have protested the presumption
that the fund’s next chief once again be a European while
failing to unite around an alternative to Lagarde.  By tradition, the head of the IMF has always been a
European, while the World Bank president has been a U.S. citizen.
Countries from the European Union hold about 31 percent of the
votes at the agency and the U.S. almost 17 percent.  “Being a European should not be a plus and it shouldn’t be
a minus,” Lagarde said at a press conference in Paris yesterday.
“I am not arguing for my candidacy because I am a European.”  President Barack Obama and fellow Group of Eight leaders
plan to convene today in the French resort of Deauville, where
the succession at the IMF is likely to be discussed.  Poland,  Greece   Poland and Greece joined the list of those backing Lagarde.  “Minister Lagarde’s candidacy is very good, it’s difficult
to imagine a better one, and it has the full support of the
Polish government,” PAP newswire cited Jacek Rostowski, the
Polish finance minister, as saying yesterday.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  called
Lagarde is “an excellent candidate.” Papaconstantinou’s
government is struggling to avert a default on its debt even
after receiving a bailout financed in part by the IMF.  Carstens, meanwhile, won the support Uruguay’s central bank
president, Mario Bergara.  Lagarde, 55, has a 90 percent chance of becoming the IMF’s
11th managing director and its fifth from France, according to
Dublin-based odds-maker  Intrade.com . The 187-member IMF aims to
pick a successor to Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, little more
than a month after he resigned following his arrest in  New York .  A lawyer who practiced in the U.S. before entering French
government in 2005, Lagarde would bring frontline experience of
the sovereign-debt crisis as Greece’s debt woes threaten to
spark another round of contagion across the euro region.  Euro Slides  The euro yesterday slumped to its lowest level against the
Swiss franc since the currency’s introduction in 1999 on concern
that  Europe  has yet to contain the debt crisis. It closed at
$1.2293 late in New York after reaching as low as $1.2271.  The U.S. will probably reserve its backing for Lagarde
until it’s clear she has the broad support of IMF membership,
said  Edwin Truman , a former official at both the U.S. Treasury
Department and the Federal Reserve who is now a senior fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.  While the fund’s executive board has pledged to act
transparently and make an appointment based on merit, European
leaders have moved swiftly to support Lagarde, who has collected
endorsements from U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne,  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and  Jose Barroso , the European Commission president.  China is also “favorable” on the prospect of Lagarde
leading the IMF, French government spokesman  Francois Baroin 
said this week. Chinese officials haven’t publicly commented on
specific candidates.  The IMF provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and accounts for one-third of the euro-region’s
bailout packages. Its next chief will be at the center of
debates on determining an escape route for the euro out of the
debt crisis, which still threatens to push Greece, Ireland and
Portugal into default and raised concern about the currency’s
longevity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 