-- 
Genting Shares Rise After Profit Trebles on Singapore Casino

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-05-27T09:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/genting-profit-trebles-as-singapore-u-k-casino-takings-jump.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
casino operator by market value, rose in  Kuala Lumpur  trading
after its first-quarter profit more than trebled, bolstered by
higher takings at its  Singapore  gambling resort and Malaysian
plantations business.  Net income for the three months ended March 31 jumped 255
percent to 824.2 million ringgit ($271 million), or 22.14 sen a
share, from 232.4 million, or 6.29 sen, a year earlier, the
company said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange late
yesterday. Revenue climbed 57 percent to 4.9 billion ringgit.  Genting, which operates a hilltop casino in Malaysia, is
benefiting from overseas expansion after the company’s Singapore
unit attracted more customers to its Resorts World Sentosa theme
park that opened in February 2010. Its  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) 
unit in September won a license to install slot-machine-style
terminals at  New York ’s Aqueduct Racetrack.  “The results were ahead of expectations,” Yee Mei Hui, a
Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn.,
wrote in a report today. “Earnings will pick up with Resorts
World Sentosa’s continued ramp-up,” she said. Genting has
“multiple growth engines.”  Yee raised her share price estimate to 15 ringgit from
14.30 ringgit, maintaining a “buy” rating on the stock.  Record Volumes  Genting climbed 1.1 percent to 11.22 ringgit at the 5 p.m.
close in Kuala Lumpur trading, its highest level since May 19,
outpacing the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index’s 0.5
percent gain. Genting has surged 68 percent over the past year.
The company’s Genting Malaysia Bhd. unit rose 2.8 percent to
3.62 ringgit today.  “Resorts World Singapore has been able to attract record
volumes of overseas visitors to their resort and Universal
Studios Singapore continues to be a major draw for the young and
not-so-young from around the region,” Kuala Lumpur-based
Genting said. The Singapore casino’s VIP business “continues to
be a major contributor to gaming revenue,” it said.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , which owns one of Singapore’s only
two casinos, turned to a first-quarter profit of S$305.4 million
($246 million) from a loss of S$396.3 million a year earlier,
according to a company statement on May 12. Singapore overturned
a 40-year ban on casinos in 2005 to spur economic growth.  The $4.7 billion Singapore casino resort includes
attractions such as Universal Studios Singapore on the southern
Sentosa Island. The company plans to open a marine museum, water
park and two hotels to drive further growth. Second-phase
expansion could face delays, it yesterday said.  Revenue from the group’s U.K. casino operations also rose
over the period, while falling on home turf in Malaysia due to
lower volume and higher payouts to premium players, it said.  The Genting group has expanded into businesses that include
power generation and palm oil to cushion swings in casino
takings.  The plantations division saw revenue rise on higher palm-
 oil prices . Revenue from power also rose, though future earnings
may be affected by higher coal prices, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  