-- 
German State of North Rhine-Westphalia Says Inflation Slowed

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-26T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/german-state-of-north-rhine-westphalia-says-inflation-slowed.html
Inflation in the German state of
North Rhine-Westphalia slowed in May after crude- oil prices 
retreated from a 2 1/2 year high.  The inflation rate fell to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent in
April, the state’s statistics office in Dusseldorf said today.
Economists forecast German inflation, calculated using a
harmonized European method, to remain at 2.7 percent, the median
of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. That report,
based on data from six states, is due tomorrow.  Oil prices have dropped 11 percent this month after
breaching $114 a barrel in April, the highest since September
2008. European Central Bank officials have signaled they will
keep raising borrowing costs to curb price pressures in the euro
region after increasing the benchmark interest rate to 1.25
percent last month from a record low of 1 percent.  “Energy costs finally retreated, allowing inflation to
step on the brake for a while,” said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Still, this isn’t an
all clear for monetary policy.  Core inflation  is creeping higher
and if the trend continues, the ECB won’t like it at all.”  In North Rhine-Westphalia, inflation excluding heating oil
and fuel rose 1.9 percent in May from a year earlier. Consumer
prices dropped 0.1 percent from April, when they rose 0.3
percent. Economists expect German consumer prices to increase
0.1 percent from the previous month, the Bloomberg survey shows.  ECB Rates  VCI, the main association of German chemical companies, on
May 17 raised its forecast for production, sales and prices this
year in the industry, on increasing global demand.  “We have to avoid commodity-price increases becoming
entrenched in longer-term inflation expectations, which could
have second-round effects on wages and prices,” ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said today. “We are carefully monitoring
the situation and we stand ready to do whatever is necessary to
fulfill our mandate.”  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.8 percent last month,
the highest since October 2008. The European Union’s statistics
office in  Luxembourg  will release this month’s data on May 31.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the ECB to raise its
main lending rate to 1.75 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  