-- 
German 10-Year Yield Drops Below 3%; IMF May Withhold Greece’s Bailout Aid

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-26T16:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/german-government-bonds-advance-as-stocks-rise-damping-demand-for-safety.html
German  government bonds  rallied a
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the
 International Monetary Fund  may not release its portion of aid
for Greece next month, boosting demand for the safest assets.  The price gains pushed the yield on the 10-year bund below
3 percent for the first time in four months, while the two-year
note yield slipped to a two-month low. Juncker told a conference
in Luxembourg he didn’t think the IMF, European Union and
 European Central Bank  were confident Greece could honor its debt
commitments over the next 12 months, one of the “rules”
governing whether aid funds would be released. Greek, Spanish
and Portuguese bonds held gains.  “Definitely this would be a further step towards the
worsening of the crisis if the IMF were not to support the Greek
program for the time being,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-
rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “This is the reason
behind the bid in the bund market. It’s simply once again a hit
in the back and we’re risk off for the moment.”  The 10-year bund yield fell five basis points to 3 percent
as of 4:44 p.m. in London. It reached 2.99 percent earlier, the
lowest since Jan. 12. The 3.25 percent security due 2021 rose
0.465, or 4.65 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,413) face amount, to
102.180. Two-year yields were also five basis points lower, at
1.61 percent, the lowest since March 18.  Relative Safety  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said. “I don’t think that the
troika will come to the conclusion that this is given,” he
said, referring to the IMF, EU and ECB.  Investors have favored the relative safety of German debt
this quarter as the euro-region’s sovereign-debt crisis
threatens to worsen, sending yields on the debt of  Greece ,
Portugal and Ireland to record highs.  German government bonds have handed investors a return of
2.1 percent since the end of March, trimming this year’s loss to
0.3 percent, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek
debt has lost 14 percent this year, Irish debt 9.1 percent and
Portuguese bonds 15 percent. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent.  Greek bonds stayed higher after Juncker’s comments, with
the 10-year yields falling 35 basis points to 16.38 percent. The
spread between Greek 10-year debt and similar-maturity German
bunds narrowed 29 basis points to 1,338 basis points, or 13.38
percentage points.  Chinese Purchases  Two-year Greek yields declined by 91 basis points to 25.11
percent, reversing a 76 basis-point surge to 26.78 percent at
the market’s open. Spanish 10-year bond yields dropped six basis
points to 5.30 percent, while Portuguese 10-year yields fell 11
basis points to 9.62 percent.  China  may account for a “strong proportion” of demand for
Portuguese bailout bonds when the European Financial
Stabilization Mechanism rescue fund begins selling them in June,
Klaus Regling, chief executive officer of the European Financial
Stability Facility, was quoted by the Financial Times as saying
yesterday.  Gains in so-called peripheral euro-nation debt today are
occurring “principally on the back of the FT article that China
is looking at purchasing” the bonds said  Richard McGuire , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “We would still caution against the feel-good factor.”  Asian Investors  Investors from  Asia  and the Middle East bought 23 percent
of the 4.75 billion euros of five-year notes sold yesterday to
help fund  Portugal ’s bailout, the European Commission said. The
sale was the second in two days enabling the fund to complete
its announced transactions for the second quarter, the EC said.  Following the sales, disbursements to Ireland and Portugal
will be made next week.  “I believe  Europe  has found the right response to reshape
the supervisory architecture, to strengthen economic governance
and to set up a permanent crisis mechanism in one comprehensive
approach,” Regling said today at a conference in Luxembourg,
adding that the risk of contagion in the 17-member bloc had been
contained.  IMF European Director Antonio Borges said the fund is in
talks with the Greek government on their fiscal program and a
decision on the next tranche of aid will be made once the review
is completed.  ‘Normal Procedure’  “We have a mission in Greece right now, negotiating with
the government on the terms of the normal review of the program,
so a decision will be made when they conclude their work,”
Borges told reporters at a conference in Paris today. “This is
the normal procedure of the IMF.”  Former ECB Chief Economist Otmar Issing said Greece will
probably be unable to meet its obligations as the euro region’s
most indebted nation is “insolvent.” While it is “not
physically impossible” for Greece to honor its obligations,
repayment is unlikely, he said today at a press conference
hosted by Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen.  “I’m skeptical about Greece,” said Issing, who joined the
ECB a year before the euro’s inception in 1999 and stayed there
until 2006. “Greece is not just illiquid, it’s insolvent.”  After paying 417 million euros of debt due on May 31,
Greece needs to repay 4.025 billion euros maturing in July, as
well as 8.715 billion euros of debt due in August, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Mediterranean nation faces
redemptions that total more than 49 billion euros by March next
year, before taking interest payments into account.  Italian Sales  Italian 10-year bonds gained for a third day, reducing
yields by two basis points to 4.71 percent. The Bank of  Italy 
said the government sold 8 billion euros of 183-day Treasury
bills at an average yield of 1.657 percent. Investors bid for
1.70 times the amount of securities on offer, up from a so-
called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.43 at the previous auction of
similar-maturity debt on April 26, which was allotted at 1.659
percent.  Italy is scheduled to sell up to 1.5 billion euros of
index-linked securities maturing in 2021 tomorrow.  Irish 10-year bond yields were five basis points higher at
11.04 percent, after earlier reaching a euro-era record 11.07
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  