-- 
German Power Little Changed; Merkel Seeks Global Nuclear Checks

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/german-power-little-changed-merkel-seeks-global-nuclear-checks.html
German electricity for next year was
little changed after rising yesterday from near its lowest in
more than two weeks.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called for global
checks on nuclear reactors.  Baseload power for 2012 slid 15 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
58.40 euros ($76.79) at 6:17 p.m. Berlin time, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg. Baseload electricity is
delivered around the clock.  The region’s benchmark contract has dropped since it closed
at 60.55 euros on April 4, the highest since June 2009, as
Germany shut reactors for a safety review after the Japanese
nuclear disaster. The country has 17 nuclear reactors and Merkel
today called for a global check of atomic plants led by the
Group of Eight countries.  “We have to keep in mind that the safe use of nuclear
energy can’t be guaranteed through national decision-making
alone,” she told lawmakers in  Germany ’s lower house of
parliament in Berlin today. “We need safety standard checks
also at international level.”  Merkel will discuss nuclear safety today and tomorrow at a
G8 meeting, she said.  Switzerland  yesterday decided to phase out
its reactors when the last one is retired in 2034.  Crude slid after trading at its highest in two weeks
earlier today. Brent for July settlement fell as much as 0.7
percent to $114.10 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Crude affects the cost of natural gas and coal, used
at power stations to generate electricity.  Hard coal for next-year delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp was unchanged at $126.50 a metric ton. The fuel
accounted for about a fifth of Germany’s power last year.
Germany also produces electricity from lignite, or brown coal,
natural gas, wind and solar plants.  Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers including  GFI
Group Inc. (GFIG) , ICAP Plc, Spectron Group Ltd., Tradition Financial
Services and Tullet Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  