-- 
Google ‘Very Positive’ About Mobile Internet in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T04:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/google-very-positive-about-mobile-internet-content-in-china.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is “very positive”
about prospects for mobile content in China and believes the
country has a unique role to play in developing the market,  John Liu , Google’s head of sales in China, said today.  “China is a part of the global Internet market that, with
the size of its customer base and its level of development,
you’ve got to treat China seriously,” Liu said at a technology
conference in Beijing. “China will play a unique role in
developing mobile technology and we’re very positive about the
future of the mobile Internet in China.”  Google must rely on revenue from customers for display
advertising and export marketing in  China , the world’s largest
Internet market by users, after shutting its search engine there
following a dispute with the government over censorship. The
exit has allowed rival Baidu Inc. to dominate the local search
market.  Google has yet to receive a license in China for its map
business under a new licensing system introduced last May. The
regulations required applications for licenses be made by March
31 to avoid “administrative actions” that will be taken by
July 1. China’s State Bureau of Surveying and Mapping has
pledged to close sites that fail to comply.  Liu declined to comment on the state of the application for
a map license when approached by reporters after his
presentation.  China renewed Google’s Internet-service license in July
through 2012 after the  Mountain View , California-based company
stopped automatically redirecting users of its Chinese service
to an unfiltered Hong Kong site.  Baidu aims to boost its share of the mobile-search market
to match its share of searches made on personal computers, Baidu
Vice President Shen Haoyu told the same conference today,
without supplying figures for market share.  “Our market share on cell phone search will be the same as
PC,” Shen said. “We are not there yet, but our share is
growing, and growing very fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  