-- 
Google Shows Mobile Payment, Coupon Service to Expand in Ads

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-26T21:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/google-unveils-mobile-payment-service-to-expand-in-advertising-coupons.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled two services to
let consumers pay merchants and download coupons with a tap of
their mobile phones, as the Internet search giant seeks to
expand in the growing market for mobile advertising.  Google is partnering with  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  to let customers pay and receive coupons on the go using
their handsets, the company said today at an event in  New York .
The system, based on a technology called  near field
communication , will be available first on the Nexus S handset,
which uses Google’s Android software, and later on other phones.  The new services will help Google compete for retail-
marketing dollars that now flow to daily deal sites such as
Groupon Inc., in-store display advertisers, business directories
and newspapers. They will also help the company capture more
information about consumers’ shopping behavior off the Internet,
building on its knowledge of consumers’ online-buying habits.  “For Google, it is about advertising and enabling
commerce,” said  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless analyst
in Issaquah,  Washington . “Google wants to become the personal
concierge for the consumers.” More than 96 percent of Google’s
$29.3 billion in sales last year came from search advertising.  Google said it expects to receive revenue from delivering
ads and offers to handsets, and won’t make money off of
payments. The payment service, called Google Wallet, and the
related Google Offers service will be free to consumers.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , fell $1.54 to
$518.13 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have lost 13 percent this year.  NXP Semiconductor NV (NXPI) , the
provider of NFC chips for the Nexus S, added $1.33 to $28.55.
Mastercard rose $7.62 to $282.10 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Almost Ready  Google Wallet will be available in  San Francisco  and New
York this summer. Google Offers, integrated with the Google
Wallet and offering coupons and discounts, will be available in
the same markets, and also in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “It won’t be a long trial,” Fared Adib, a senior vice
president at Sprint, said in an interview. “You trial things
when they are nearly done and ready to go out.”  Sprint said most of its phones will have NFC technology
eventually. Stephanie Tilenius, a Google executive, said 50
percent of phones sold in the U.S. will have NFC by 2014.  Other Google partners include First Data Corp. and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   New York, San Francisco  Google is teaming up with retailers including fast-food
chain Subway Restaurants, Macy’s Inc., and American Eagle
Outfitters Inc. to let customers pay for products and redeem
coupons with their phones. The services will work at retailers
with terminals that accept Mastercard PayPass transactions.  Many merchants’ existing cash registers will have to be
updated to work with the services. That could mean extra
business for payment-systems providers like VeriFone Systems
Inc. Douglas Bergeron, Verifone’s chief executive officer, said
broad adoption of mobile-wallet services like Google’s could add
$100 million to $150 million to his company’s annual revenue.  “We are in the wallets business now,” Bergeron said in an
interview.  Coupon Service  Users of Google Offers will be able to download coupons by
tapping their NFC-equipped phones on display ads, and the
service will guide them to the nearest retailer where they can
be redeemed.  “The most immediate impact will be felt in retail, but
then can spread across every consumer-facing enterprise that
accepts on-premise payments -- travel, entertainment,” Sharma
said.  U.S. mobile-coupon spending may rise to $6.53 billion in
2014 from $370 million in 2010, according to  Borrell Associates
Inc . The wallet may eventually include users’ drivers’ licenses,
concert tickets and hotel room keys, Tilenius said.  The new services also may accelerate consumer adoption of
Google’s Android operating system, Sharma said. The software was
 used in  36 percent of smartphones shipped globally in the first
quarter, according to research firm Gartner Inc. That made
Android No. 1 ahead of Nokia Oyj’s Symbian and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS.  Apple also plans to introduce NFC features in its iPhone
and iPad tablet, Richard Doherty, director of consulting firm
Envisioneering Group., said in January. Nokia and its software
partner  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are working on NFC functionality, too.  In the U.S., Google kick-started adoption of NFC features
last fall, with a service called  Hotpot  in Portland, Oregon.
Vendors such as  Voodoo Doughnut  have put special tags on their
doors that can be tapped with an enabled phone to give users
access to reviews, menus and directions.  ISIS, Apple  Users of Google Wallet will be able to use any  credit card 
to deposit money onto a digital Google prepaid card contained
within their phones. Credit-card networks hope mobile wallets
like Google’s will help them boost revenue.  “This is part of a broader strategy that Mastercard has
been working on to use mobile phones as a platform to displace
cash and checks around the world,” said Chris McWilton,
president of U.S. markets for Mastercard. “Mastercard believes
an open system, at the end of the day, is the way to make mobile
payments ubiquitous around the world.”  In NFC-based mobile payments and marketing services, Google
will square off against wireless carriers, other handset makers
and financial institutions like  Visa Inc. (V)  that are promoting
their own mobile wallets and discount offers.  ISIS , a joint venture of  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  and T-
Mobile USA, plans to introduce a similar service in two cities,
including Salt Lake City, in early 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  