-- 
Google Leads Investment in Social-Networking Game Startup Kabam

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-26T09:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/google-leads-investment-in-social-networking-game-startup-kabam.html
Kabam Inc. , the maker of Facebook
games such as “Kingdoms of Camelot,” is getting $85 million in
a financing round led by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s venture arm, helping the
startup expand in  Asia , hire developers and make acquisitions.  The investment, co-led by  Pinnacle Ventures , values Kabam
at about $500 million, according to two people with knowledge of
the deal who asked not to be named because the valuation is
private. The  Redwood City , California-based company has raised
$125 million since it was founded in 2006.  Kabam lets users play its games for free on Facebook,
similar to the approach Zynga Inc. has used to reach a
multibillion-dollar valuation. Both companies make money by
charging for virtual items -- a market that’s expected to more
than double to $20.3 billion in 2014, from $9.3 billion last
year, according to  ThinkEquity LLC . The difference with Kabam:
It’s targeting so-called hard-core gamers, who spend hours
pursuing complex adventures, often on video-game consoles.  “We’ve created hard-core games that have a very distinctly
social flavor,” Kabam  Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Chou said
in an interview. “Compared to buying the latest console game
and having to pay upfront at a retail store, they pay only if we
deliver them entertainment value.”  The latest investment also includes financing from
Performance Equity Management LLC and SK Telecom Ventures, a
unit of  South Korea ’s largest mobile-phone company. Kabam’s
earlier investors -- Intel Capital, Canaan Partners and Redpoint
Ventures -- also contributed to the round. Chou, 31, declined to
comment on the valuation.  Formerly Watercooler  Started five years ago as Watercooler, the company changed
its name to Kabam in 2010, when it shifted its business from
sports and media to social games. The size of its workforce has
jumped to 400 from 25 early last year.  In February, Kabam signed a lease for 25,000 square feet of
 office space  in downtown  San Francisco , where the company aims
to hire at least 150 people.  Kabam has a roster of four games -- “Dragons of
Atlantis,” “Kingdoms of Camelot,” “Glory of  Rome ” and
“Global Warfare” -- with five more expected by the end of the
year. Each game lets users play with their friends on Facebook
and other social networks.  In terms of customers, Kabam is a fraction the size of San
Francisco-based Zynga. Kabam has 7.2 million monthly active
users, compared with 248 million for Zynga, the biggest U.S.
social game company, according to research firm  AppData.com .  ‘Dragons of Atlantis’  Kabam’s most popular application is “Dragons of
Atlantis,” which it acquired in October with the purchase of
game developer WonderHill. That game has 4 million users, while
“CityVille,” Zynga’s top application, has 90 million.  Kabam’s business relies on converting a higher percentage
of players into paying users and having them spend more money
within the games. It’s attracting consumers who have been major
players of action titles, such as  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s
“Call of Duty” and “World of Warcraft.”  “Kabam focuses on a different niche than your traditional
social-gaming players,” said Joe Kraus, a partner at  Google
Ventures  in  Mountain View ,  California , who is a new member of
Kabam’s board. “Traditional social-gaming companies focus on
more casual games and more lightly engaged players.”  ‘Steroid Injection’  Purchases within games range from $1 to about $50, Chou
said. The virtual goods let players build their armies faster
and acquire more powerful weapons. One tool allows players to
strengthen their forces for a 24-hour period, or as Chou
describes it, provide a brief “steroid injection.” The company
uses Web data to estimate the kinds of items each user would
want and how much they would be willing to pay.  In addition to hiring game developers in San Francisco,
Kabam is planning to bolster its presence in Asia, with help
from SK Telecom. Social games have taken off there, promoted by
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s biggest Internet company, which
has captured 29 percent of that country’s online games market.  Kabam is also in the process of building a  data center  in
 Las Vegas  and hiring the necessary people to manage the
bandwidth required for streaming 3-D games and running
applications that have thousands of people playing
simultaneously.  “It requires a world-class team,” Chou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  