-- 
Google Says Demand Surges for Video Advertising on Web Network

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-26T20:22:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/google-says-demand-surges-for-video-advertising-on-partner-website-network.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it has doubled the
number of video ads that it places on partner sites in the past
year, a sign it’s making headway in a push to expand display
advertising.  Demand for video ads also has boosted Google’s AdMob
network, which targets applications and websites on mobile
devices. Requests for the spots have grown an average of more
than 70 percent month to month since July, the company said.  Google, which traditionally has gleaned much of its video
advertising from its YouTube unit, is aiming to benefit from new
online ad formats to sustain sales growth as it competes with
rivals such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Facebook Inc. for user attention
and marketing dollars. Spending on video ads may grow 39 percent
in the U.S. this year, while the overall online ad market should
grow 11 percent, according to research firm  EMarketer Inc.   “The audience has fragmented,” said Mike Steib, director
of video advertising at Google, the world’s biggest Internet-
search company. “It is harder and harder for an advertiser to
reach their audience as effectively and as fully as they have in
the past unless they embrace video advertising across all kind
of devices and across all kinds of content channels.”  Testing Video Ads  Mountain View , California-based Google, whose display-ad
network serves more than 2 million outside websites, has been
bulking up its services that let customers advertise using video
clips. In March, it began testing some videos on its advertising
exchange, yet another vehicle for display advertising that acts
as a general marketplace for publishers and marketers.  “Video gets inside people’s heads,” said David Hallerman,
an analyst at New York-based EMarketer. “Brand marketers want
it because they can tell a story better.”  The company also has been pushing into video on its
traditional search-based advertising platform. In March, the
company rolled out a new video format for ads on online-query
results that gives users a bigger player for watching clips.  While early adopters included Hollywood studios, which used
the service to show off movie trailers, Google is attracting
more interest from industries such as autos, technology and
consumer packaged-goods.  “We’ve now got a variety of video formats that provide a
valuable experience for users and advertisers alike,” Dennis Woodside, president of the Americas region at Google, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We’re seeing tremendous growth across a
range of sectors.”  Google shares fell $1.54 to $518.13 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have dropped 13 percent
this year.  Clicking Through  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the Swedish automaker, used video ads on mobile
phones for two campaigns at the end of last year and the
beginning of 2011, according to Jared Hopfer, associate director
of mobile marketing at  Mobext , part of France-based advertising
agency Havas Media. The video popped up when users accessed
applications on their smartphones, he said.  Users were given the option of clicking through to learn
more about the product or find dealers. That kind of engagement
was two to three times higher than ads that aren’t video, he
said.  “In all mediums, video is one of the more interesting and
often effective advertising vehicles,” Hopfer said. “In video,
you’re dealing with sound and motion, where static advertising
is not as lively. So it’s a lot easier to evoke emotion for a
brand through a video.”  Faster Connections  The proliferation of online videos has conditioned
consumers to watch advertising clips, driven by faster Internet
connections on desktops and smartphones, Google’s Steib said.
Advertisers that want to reach users who are watching less
television need to market online, he said.  “For advertisers, online video has to be a part of the
overall online media mix,” he said. “People who are watching
video online are much more likely to have broadband, much more
likely to have a computer, much more likely to have a high-end
cell phone -- which all means they’re more likely to have higher
income, higher level of education. They tend to be a little bit
younger.”  While video ads may have advantages over other formats,
they’re also pricier, EMarketer’s Hallerman said. A video in the
place of a display ad might cost $10 per thousand impressions,
while a static ad on some sites might be $2, he said.  Video’s Novelty  And the novelty of videos may start to wear off with users
as they become more prevalent, Hallerman said. Even with the
recent surge, video ads made up 5.5 percent of overall U.S.
online ad spending last year, and will be less than 7 percent
this year, EMarketer estimates.  “As there is more video used in banners and search, the
more people will ignore them,” Hallerman said. Television, the
other major video format, can make it more difficult for users
to ignore commercials, he said.  Still, the overall growth in video ads makes it a format
that Google must focus on, said Whit Andrews, an analyst with
Gartner Inc. in Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts .  “If you’re going to go after brand, and if you’re going to
go after mood, and if you’re going to go after awareness, video
is increasingly critical,” Andrews said. “Advertising is
Google’s core business. Anything that matters in advertising is
something that Google is going to pursue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  