-- 
Greece ‘Cheated’ to Join Euro; Sanctions Since Were Too Soft, Issing Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/greece-cheated-to-join-euro-sanctions-since-were-too-soft-issing-says.html
Greece  was only able to join the euro
through deception and the currency bloc’s leaders have been
“too polite” ever since to deploy adequate sanctions that
could have averted the region’s debt crisis, former European
Central Bank Chief Economist Otmar Issing said.  “When I worked for the ECB, I suffered every time
countries didn’t meet the criteria,” Issing, 75, said in an
interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “Greece cheated to get in,
and it’s difficult to know how we should deal with cheaters.”  Issing, who joined the ECB a year before the euro’s
inception in 1999 and stayed there until 2006, warned yesterday
that Greece will probably be unable to honor its debts as it
grapples with insolvency. The country’s repayment ability
remains questionable even after the government endorsed an
accelerated asset-sale plan and a package of budget cuts
necessary to draw a fifth tranche of its bailout, he said.  Issing said he blames an absence of adequate sanctions for
the currency bloc’s current condition, which he called
“critical” at an event yesterday hosted by Nykredit A/S.  “There should have been better monitoring, better scrutiny
and more sanctioning,” he said in the interview. “This crisis
wasn’t unavoidable.”  The cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a
record this week and the yield on the nation’s 2-year and 10-
year bonds increased the most since the euro was introduced in
1999. Yields on Greek 10-year bonds have more than doubled since
the country obtained a 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout
from the European Union, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
ECB just over a year ago.  IMF Doubts  The country may not be able to draw on a fifth tranche of
the IMF portion of its loan, according to Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers.  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said yesterday at a conference
in Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given.”  According to Nobel prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman ,
there’s a 50 percent chance Greece will need to exit the euro,
as its debt burden becomes unsustainable. The country’s
bondholders risk “significant” losses, he said at the same
press conference yesterday.  Greece has no plans to leave the euro,  George Petalotis , a
spokesman for the Greek government, said at a May 25 press
conference. Juncker said yesterday that so-called
“reprofiling” of Greece’s debt would be a “last step of a
whole set of measures Greece will have to take.”  Budget Deceptions  Doubts about Greece’s fiscal responsibility gained ground
after the government of Costas Karamanlis in 2004 disclosed that
its socialist predecessor had cheated on its euro-entry exam in
2000. The country was able to enter the currency bloc after
claiming its deficit was less than 1 percent of gross domestic
product, well within the bloc’s 3 percent threshold.  European Commission reports have since revealed Greece’s
budget hasn’t been within the 3 percent limit a single year
since its accession.  Greece went unpunished except for being told by the EU to
tighten up its bookkeeping. At the same time, proposals to
strengthen  Eurostat , the bloc’s statistics watchdog, foundered
on national opposition.  Germany  and  France  helped ease the rules when they forced
through the relaxation of the anti-debt “stability pact” in
2005 after three years of deficits above the threshold.  Design Flaws  “I was never euro-phoric,” Issing said at yesterday’s
press conference. “I was among many economists in Germany
warning against premature entry into the monetary union and
against too many countries.”  The commission this month estimated Greece’s 2011 budget
shortfall will be 9.5 percent on debt of 158 percent of gross
domestic product, more than twice the EU’s limit of 60 percent.
Its debt burden will continue to swell to 166 percent in 2012
without policy changes, according to the commission.  The currency blocs “rules were not observed,” Issing said
at a speech yesterday. “There are flaws in the design.” The
euro will survive, “but I would not bet on all 17 countries,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  