-- 
Greece Starts Sale of Hellenic Telecom Stake to Germany’s Deutsche Telekom

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-26T17:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/greece-starts-sale-of-hellenic-telecom-stake-to-germany-s-deutsche-telekom.html
Greece  started the sale of a stake in
former phone monopoly  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization
SA (HTO)  to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  as part of its 50 billion-euro ($70
billion) asset sale program to reduce debt.  The Greek operator rose 4.8 percent in Athens trading.
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  sent a letter to
Deutsche Telekom’s management “regarding the further
privatization” of the company, also known as OTE, according to
an e-mailed statement from the ministry. Papaconstantinou
requested “that process be initiated in the context of the
shareholder agreement,” the statement said.  The Greek government, which owns 20 percent of OTE, said
May 23 that it may sell all of its holding in the former phone
monopoly by the end of the second quarter to help reduce the
largest debt ratio in the European Union. It has an option to
sell 10 percent to Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom, which already
owns a 30 percent stake and consolidates OTE under a shareholder
agreement.  Deutsche Telekom spokeswoman Anna Bischof said in an
emailed statement that the German company had received the
letter in which the government said it wanted to discuss the
sale process for OTE. The letter doesn’t constitute the
exercise of the put-option, she said.  OTE’s shares rose 32 cents to 7 euros, valuing the company
at 3.4 billion euros ($4.8 billion.)  OME-OTE , the umbrella group for unions at the Greek
company, said today that it would hold a series of walkouts to
protest the state “retreating” from OTE. A three-hour walkout
is scheduled for June 2, with a 24-hour strike called for June 9
and again on June 15.  The Greek operator saw the steepest annual loss in sales
among all of Deutsche Telekom’s national units in the first
quarter as phone-line users and mobile customers defected amid
the country’s economic slump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  