-- 
Greece Is Insolvent, Unlikely to Honor Debt Payments, Issing, Krugman Say

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-26T12:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/greece-insolvent-former-ecb-economist-issing-says-correct-.html
Greece  will probably be unable to
meet its obligations as the euro region’s most-indebted nation
is insolvent, according to former European Central Bank Chief
Economist Otmar Issing.  While it is “not physically impossible” for Greece to
honor its obligations, repayment is unlikely, Issing, 75, said
at a press conference hosted by Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen
today. The region’s debt crisis, which has also forced Ireland
and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, has left the euro in a
“critical” condition, Issing said.  “I’m skeptical about Greece,” said Issing, who joined the
ECB a year before the euro’s inception in 1999 and stayed there
until 2006. “Greece is not just illiquid, it’s insolvent.”  The Greek government this week endorsed an accelerated
asset-sale plan and a package of budget cuts in an effort to
meet requirements for a fifth tranche under its bailout accords
with the European Union, the Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund  and the ECB. That may not be enough to quell
speculation the country will be forced to restructure its debts,
according to economists including Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman .  “It’s basically inconceivable that there won’t be some
significant losses on present value for bondholders” of Greek,
Portuguese and Irish debt, Krugman, 58, said at the same press
conference today. While “ Spain  may be able to tough it out,”
it’s “extremely” unlikely Greece will be able to honor its
debts, he said.  50% Risk  “I would put 50 percent odds on Greece being booted out of
the euro, not so much through deliberate policy as through
contingency of events,” Krugman said. The country may face a
banking crisis, exacerbated by the ECB’s refusal to “maintain”
loans to the country’s banks, he said. That could lead to a
Greek exit from the euro, he said.  The euro traded at 1.4184 per dollar at 1:39 p.m. in
 London , paring gains after having traded as high as 1.4196.  There’s a 1 percent risk of a “domino effect” where other
countries, including Spain and  Italy , would have to follow
Greece out of the euro area, Krugman said, calling it “the
nightmare scenario.”  The cost to insure Greek debt against default rose to a
record this week and the yield on the nation’s 2-year and 10-
year debt climbed the most since the euro’s 1999 introduction.  “By any reasonable estimate, the euro-zone isn’t an
optimal currency area,” said Krugman.  Europe  lacks “very high
labor mobility,” and “fiscal integration,” which are criteria
needed for a joint currency, he said.  According to Issing, who said he was “never euro-phoric”
and was among economists in  Germany  “warning against premature
entry into the monetary union and against too many countries,”
the currency union can’t be allowed to fail.  “Once it has started, it must not fail,” he said. “It
would be a political and economic disaster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  