-- 
Einhorn Is in Talks to Buy $200 Million Minority Stake in Baseball’s Mets

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-26T18:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/greenlight-s-einhorn-says-he-s-in-talks-to-purchase-share-of-new-york-mets.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. President
 David Einhorn  is in exclusive negotiations to buy a minority
stake in the  New York Mets  for $200 million.  Einhorn said on a media conference call that he wouldn’t
have a hand in operating the money-losing Major League Baseball
franchise. The Mets, in a statement, described Einhorn as a
“preferred partner” and said a final agreement is expected by
late June. Any sale would require approval from Major League
Baseball.  “This is something of great personal interest,” said
Einhorn, 42, who grew up in  New Jersey  as a Mets fan. “The
Wilpons remain in control of the team. That’s the way everyone
should view it. I look forward to working with them.”  Fred Wilpon , the Mets chairman and chief executive officer,
said in a statement that Einhorn’s investment “immediately
improves” the franchise’s financial position. The Mets’ owners
are attempting to pay off debts and resolve a $1 billion lawsuit
by the trustee representing people who lost money in the  Ponzi
scheme  run by Bernard L. Madoff.  The Mets are carrying $427 million in debt and could lose
as much as $70 million this year, Wilpon told Sports Illustrated
in a  story this month .  “David’s intelligence, integrity and success in both
business and civic affairs provides us with another perspective
in evaluating what is best for this organization and our fans,”
Wilpon said. “We welcome his input.”  Personal Investment  New York-based Greenlight Capital manages $7.8 billion in
assets. Einhorn said his partnership with the Mets is a personal
investment unrelated to funds managed at Greenlight.  Einhorn said he lived in New Jersey until he was 7 years
old and in 1975 dressed up in a homemade Mets’ jersey for
Halloween. He then moved to  Milwaukee , where he was “eventually
won over” by the Brewers and one of his closest friends lived
next door to Bud Selig, now  Major League Baseball  commissioner.  “If we hit it really, really far, it would go into the
Seligs’s yard and it would be a home run,” Einhorn said. “So
the Seligs have been familiar to me for a long time.”  Einhorn said baseball remains one of his passions. He now
lives in Westchester County, New York, where he has coached his
daughter’s recreational league team, and yesterday ended his
presentation at the Ira Sohn investment conference with the
words, “Go Mets.”  Einhorn said the opportunity to become a part owner of the
Mets is “exciting beyond my wildest childhood dreams.” He said
he considers this a long-term investment and isn’t worried about
the team’s financial situation.  ‘Improve Fortunes’  “I can’t say I have any particular concerns in this
area,” said Einhorn, who declined to disclose specifics about
his agreement. “I do expect financial fortunes of the team to
improve over time.”  Trustee Irving Picard, who is liquidating Madoff’s
business, is seeking to recover $295 million in alleged phony
profits made by Sterling Equities Inc., the team ownership group
that Wilpon and Mets co-owner Saul Katz set up, and as much as
$700 million in principal. Wilpon and Katz have said they were
duped by Madoff and are seeking to move the suit to district
court from  bankruptcy court , today asking a federal judge in
New York whether Picard has a right to sue them.  The team was valued at $747 million when Forbes magazine
released its annual list of franchises in March. That’s a drop
of 13 percent from last year’s valuation by Forbes, which said
the Mets had a negative operating income of $6.2 million in
2010. The Mets needed an emergency loan of $25 million from MLB
last November.  Minority Share  The financial challenges led Wilpon to announce in January
that the Mets had hired  Steve Greenberg , a managing director at
Allen & Co., to seek investors for a 25 percent stake in the
club. The owners later said they would sell up to 49 percent and
Sports Illustrated reported that 36 candidates sought
information about a possible stake. Einhorn said he contacted
the Mets’ investment bankers after a newspaper story in January
that the team wanted to sell a minority interest.  “From the very first meeting with Fred, we just hit it
off,” said Einhorn, adding he wasn’t interested in owning a
stake in SportsNet  New York , the franchise’s television network.
“I explained what my interest was as a baseball fan. It’s been
a very smooth, productive relationship.”  Mets’ Struggles  The Mets have struggled on the field and in the stands in
recent seasons. Attendance has slumped at 3-year-old Citi Field,
which cost $800 million to build, and the Mets haven’t made the
playoffs since 2006 even with a combined payroll surpassed only
by the  New York Yankees  and  Boston Red Sox .  The Mets’ attendance has dropped to 28,565 this season,
down from 38,941 during their inaugural 2009 season at 41,800-
seat Citi Field. New York has had a losing record the past two
seasons and is 23-25 this year, 6 1/2 games behind the
 Philadelphia Phillies  in the National League’s East division.  Wilpon criticized the only three players in the Mets’
starting lineup who have been All-Stars -- third baseman  David Wright , outfielder  Carlos Beltran  and shortstop  Jose Reyes  -- in
a New Yorker magazine story this week. Wilpon, who bought the
Mets with Katz in 2002 for $391 million, apologized to them days
later.  “Baseball is a tough sport,” Einhorn said. “Over time,
there’s going to be losing seasons and tough seasons, winning
seasons and hopefully championship seasons. I hope to experience
all of those.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  