-- 
Gross Says Savers at a Disadvantage for Years: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-26T17:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/gross-says-savers-to-be-at-disadvantage-for-years-on-low-rates-tom-keene.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
investors may be at a disadvantage for as long as 15 years as
the U.S. keeps borrowing rates low to reduce its debt burden.  “Savers are being disadvantaged” when compared with
debtors, Gross said during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “What
policy makers are trying to do is rebalance this imbalance, in
terms of too much debt and too attractive rates on savings. It’s
basically called financial repression. We call it pocket
picking.”  Bond holders are being hurt by low policy rates -- a
Federal Reserve funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.
-- and the increasingly negative real yields they cause as
inflation accelerates, which erodes the value of fixed-payments
for savers, according to Gross. This is taking place as the
government reaps the gains of low rates, which reduce the cost
of servicing its debt.  The difference between the yields on Treasury 10-year notes
and the rate of inflation, known as the real yield, turned
negative this month for the first time since the end of 2008,
when Fed policy makers cut interest rates to a record low and
embarked on a series of policy measures that peaked with its
program of bond buying that has been dubbed quantitative easing,
or QE.  Budget Deficit  This year’s federal budget deficit is projected to reach $1.5
trillion, or 9.8 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the Congressional Budget Office.  Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had minus 4
percent of its assets in government-related debt last month. It
can have a so-called negative position by using derivatives,
futures or by shorting. Shorting is borrowing and selling an
asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it back after
its price has fallen.  Gross , 67, said investors should seek alternatives to U.S.
bonds, including developing or emerging-market debt at higher
yields denominated in non-dollar currencies. Canadian and German
government debt, as well as U.S. corporate securities, are
attractive alternatives, Gross reiterated today.  Earlier this month, Gross said that the firm has a short
position in short-term LIBOR bank-related swaps, one component
of the government related category that also comprises agency
bonds, interest-rate swaps, Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, Treasury futures and options and corporate
securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Total Return Fund  Cash and equivalents, the largest component of the fund,
rose to 37 percent of holdings in April from 31 percent.
Mortgage bonds declined to 24 percent from 28 percent, the
Newport Beach, California-based company said on its  website 
earlier this month.  The  Total Return Fund  returned 7.83 percent in the past
year, beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 0.65 percent in the past
month, better than about 19 percent of its competitors. Pimco is
a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  