-- 
Michigan University Elevates Men’s, Women’s Lacrosse Teams to Varsity

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/michigan-university-elevates-men-s-women-s-lacrosse-teams-to-varsity.html
The  University of Michigan  is
elevating lacrosse to varsity status, becoming the first school
in a major conference to upgrade the sport since Notre Dame in
1980.  The men, who have had a club lacrosse team since 1940, will
begin National Collegiate Athletic Association varsity
competition against schools such as Johns Hopkins University and
Duke University in 2011-12. The women will challenge other
varsity teams starting in the 2012-13 academic year.  The  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based school is starting a national
search for coaches for the teams. The athletic department will
fund 12.6 scholarships for men and 12 for women.  “The men’s program is further developed based on their
history of success in the club-varsity system. We plan to build
upon that success at the next level,” Athletic Director Dave Brandon said in a news release. “Our women’s program will
require more time to build, but I am confident within a
reasonable time frame we will become competitive nationally in
women’s lacrosse.”  The NCAA’s lacrosse tournaments end this weekend.  Virginia ,
Denver, Maryland and Duke are competing in Baltimore for the
men’s championship; Maryland, Duke,  North Carolina  and
Northwestern are playing in Stony Brook,  New York , for the
women’s title.  Michigan  becomes the third Big Ten conference school with
men’s varsity lacrosse, joining Ohio State University and Penn
State University.  The men’s club team finished this season 18-1 under coach
John Paul, who has directed the Wolverines for 14 seasons.
Michigan won Men’s Collegiate Lacrosse Association national
championships in 2008, 2009 and 2010 before losing in the
semifinals this year to Arizona State University.  The women’s club team went 15-6 this season under coach Jen
Dunbar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  