-- 
Microsoft Supports Higher App Prices for Windows Phone 7

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-05-26T13:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/microsoft-aims-to-support-higher-window-phone-app-pricing.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will support higher
prices on mobile-phone applications from outside developers to
encourage better products, rather than embracing the free or 99-
cent apps common in other companies’ stores.  “I’d rather developers sell fewer than a million downloads
and get to a million dollars,” Brandon Watson, director of an
apps developer program for Microsoft, said in a press briefing
in Helsinki. “If we can support a higher price point that’s good
for developers.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  adopted Windows Phone 7 as its primary smartphone
platform in February, saying that it will give the Finnish phone
company and its developers more opportunities to produce
distinctive products than  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, which was also
considered. Microsoft on May 24 announced handset agreements
with Acer Inc., Fujitsu Ltd., and ZTE Corp., as well as 500
features to be added in the fall release of Windows Phone 7.  “Nokia expands distribution quite a bit, including  China ,
 India ,  Russia  -- it’s very important to have a marketplace in
those countries where developers can sell local apps,” Watson
said in an interview. “China is going to be very, very big.”  Nokia intends to release its first Windows phones in the
fourth quarter, Watson said, adding that he was reiterating
guidance from Nokia’s smartphones chief, Jo Harlow. Along with
the handsets, Nokia will open its own app store for Windows
Phone and is working with Microsoft to convince the thousands of
developers for its Symbian software to write for Windows Phone
as well, he said.  Different Look  “It will look slightly different on the phone from the one
that’s for all the other vendors, and they will have more
control over the merchandising,” he said. “Nokia’s invested
tons of money around building apps, so one of my main jobs right
now is ensuring that we don’t lose a single developer to Android
or iOS,” he added, referring to Apple Inc.’s mobile-phone
operating system.  Further features beyond those already introduced, such as
face-recognition software and voice dictation for messages, will
be announced in the coming weeks for the fall release, code-
named Mango, Watson said.  “We announced most of the major stuff, but there are more
delighters coming,” he said at the briefing, which took place
at an event for app developers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  