-- 
Microsoft Is Said to Plan Preview of Windows Tablet Software

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-26T20:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/microsoft-is-said-to-plan-preview-of-windows-software-for-tablet-computers.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will preview its
Windows operating system designed for tablet computers in
demonstrations planned for next week, according to three people
with knowledge of the company’s plans.  The company will showcase the software’s touch-screen
interface running on hardware with an  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Tegra chip,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plans
are confidential. Windows President Steven Sinofsky is scheduled
to present at the All Things D conference, while Vice President
Steve Guggenheimer will address the Computex show in Taipei.  Microsoft is rushing to adapt Windows to better support
devices that can compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, which dominates
the tablet market. The new operating system won’t be out until
next year, people familiar with the plans said in March. Still,
the company is eager to show it is moving forward, seeking to
generate demand among computer makers and chip suppliers.  Nvidia’s Tegra microprocessor is based on the  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  technology that dominates the smartphone market. ARM-based
chips are also used in the iPad and tablets that run  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Mark Martin, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment. The company’s shares rose 48 cents, or 2 percent, to
$24.67 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Nvidia gained 46 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $18.82.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer said
earlier this week that machines with the new operating system,
which he referred to as Windows 8, would be released in 2012.  ‘In a Race’  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , later retracted
the comments, claiming they were a misstatement. The company is
scrambling to expand Windows to computing devices such as phones
and tablets, Ballmer said in a speech in  New Delhi  today.  “We are in a race,” he said. “We are not doing that
badly, frankly. We are doing pretty well in that race. But the
race is on to continue to push Windows to a variety of new form
factors.”  Apple sold 4.69 million iPads in the most recent quarter,
for a total of 19.5 million since the device’s April 2010
release. If the next version of Windows does come out on tablets
in 2012, Apple will likely be selling its third generation of
iPad hardware by then, according to Michael Gartenberg, an
analyst at researcher Gartner Inc.  While Microsoft works on the new Windows software, sales in
the operating-system business are taking a hit as some consumers
choose iPads instead of less-expensive netbook computers that
run Windows.  PC Shipments Slip  Consumer personal-computer shipments dropped 8 percent in
the quarter, Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said
last month. Sales of netbooks plunged 40 percent, partially
because of defections to tablet computers, he said.  That helped make last quarter the second in a row in which
Windows revenue fell short of analyst estimates.  The demonstration may be a boon to Nvidia, a maker of
graphics processors for PCs, which is trying to break into the
market for tablet computer chips with Tegra. Most tablets are
now built with mobile-phone processors made by  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose processors lead in PCs, has been unable
to parlay that dominance into design wins in phones and tablets.  Technology website  WinRumors  reported earlier that
Microsoft will demonstrate the tablet software design at  All
Things D , which is being held in Rancho Palos Verdes,
 California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  