-- 
Tiger Moms Take Apple’s Hometown as Asians Lead Growth in U.S.

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-05-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/tiger-moms-take-apple-s-hometown-as-asians-lead-growth-in-u-s-diversity.html
Anjali Kausar spotted just a handful
of fellow Indian immigrants in 2004 when she sent her oldest son
to a Cupertino Union School District science camp in
California’s Silicon Valley. Last February, when she dropped off
her youngest son, half the campers came from Indian families.  Asians grew faster than any race in the U.S. from 2000 to
2010, rising to 4.8 percent of the country’s 309 million
residents, with Indians outpacing Chinese and all other Asian
groups, according to  census  data. Cupertino, home to technology
icon  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , is at the forefront of that explosion as
Indians have surged 199 percent, many of them drawn by the
public-education system and high-technology jobs.  “We’ve all been attracted to the schools there,” said
Kausar, 42, a trustee for the district who lives in Saratoga.
“It’s in the heart of Silicon Valley, and a lot of us work in
the industry there. And we would like to live where we work.”  The expanding ethnic diversity of Cupertino is a reflection
of the increasing might of emerging-market countries such as
India and  China , which grew the most last year among the world’s
biggest economies.  “If you’re a 15-year-old Indian, you want to go to
university and take a software degree because that’s the road to
riches,” said Nicholas Bloom, an economics professor at
 Stanford University  in  Palo Alto , California.  ‘Out of India’  “It’s also the route out of India,” Bloom said in a May
20 telephone interview. “If you want to work in America, one of
the best options is to become an elite programmer and move to
the U.S.”  Nationwide, the Asian population rose by 43.3 percent to
14.7 million in 2010 from 10.2 million in 2000, more than four
times the total U.S. rate of 9.7 percent, according to census
data. Asian Indians jumped 69.4 percent to 2.8 million from 1.7
million. The largest ethnic group, Hispanics, grew 43 percent
and now accounts for 16.3 percent of U.S. residents.  The increase in the Asian population also was evident
beyond California, with the highest growth rates in  Nevada ,
 North Dakota  and  Arizona . Asians continued to migrate outside
coastal cities and large urban centers to fast-growing Sunbelt
suburbs, according to a Bloomberg analysis of the census data.  In  Alabama , manufacturing is driving the growth of the
Korean population, which expanded by 102.1 percent to 8,320,
spurred by the 2005 opening of a  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  plant in
Montgomery, the state capital. Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest
carmaker, posted almost 100 Korean managers at the plant, said
Robert Burns, a spokesman for Hyundai Motor Manufacturing
Alabama.  Sweet Home Alabama  The plant has drawn about 30 Korean suppliers to set up
shop in Montgomery with Korean management teams, Burns said in a
May 25 telephone interview. The  population growth  is
transforming the community, the site of civil rights protests in
the 1950s and ‘60s and the heart of the Bible Belt.  “As you drive around town you will now see, on a variety
of churches, signs in the Korean language to advertise that they
have a Korean service,” Burns said.  In Cupertino, the population shift mirrors a Silicon Valley
trend as technology companies unable to find enough skilled
workers in the U.S. are drawing talent from  Asia .  Their demand for foreign-born workers comes as California’s
unemployment rate sits above the 9.0 percent national rate at
11.9 percent in April, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  Skilled Workers Needed  “There’s a lack of the skilled workforce that they need
here domestically,” said Emily Lam, senior director of federal
issues and health care at the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, a
San Jose-based public policy  trade group  representing more than
345 companies.  Three companies were responsible for most of the hiring of
temporary skilled workers through so-called H-1B visas in
Cupertino in fiscal 2009.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  filed 418
applications for hiring H-1B workers, Apple submitted 316 and
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  170 out of a total of 1,071 filed for companies
with employees in Cupertino, according to the  Labor Department .  “From a company’s point of view, you want the best and the
brightest,” Lam said. “And if most of your applicant pool is
foreign born, then you’re going to need visas in order to hire
them.”  Rachel Decker, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-
based Hewlett-Packard, the biggest personal-computer maker, and
Cris Paden, a spokesman for Symantec, the world’s largest maker
of security software based in  Mountain View , California,
declined to comment on their H-1B hiring. Apple spokeswoman
Kristin Huguet also declined to comment.  Science Degrees  Those born in  India  represented 48 percent of H-1B
petitions approved in fiscal 2009, the largest amount of
beneficiaries, according to a  report  by the U.S. Department of
 Homeland Security . Half the graduates in the U.S. with advanced
degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics are
foreign born, Lam said.  Their numbers are transforming Cupertino, the backyard of
Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad tablet computer and the
world’s most valuable technology company. In the last decade,
Indian businesses have sprung up around the city, and the annual
Diwali Festival of Lights, a four-day celebration in India, has
become a staple in the community since 2003.  Indians there increased to 13,179 in 2010 from 4,408 in
2000, driving the fastest growth rate among  California  cities
that are majority Asian, census data show. Whites decreased to
17,085 from 24,181 in a city that now has 58,302 residents.  Communities Transformed  California has gone from having four Asian-majority cities
with a population of more than 50,000 in 2000 to 10 in 2010. The
growth has transformed the makeup of classrooms. Asians,
including Asian Indians, represent 70 percent of classrooms in
the Cupertino Union School District, said Kausar, the school
district trustee.  Some white parents now consider the public schools too
academically rigorous and are opting to enroll their kids in
private schools, she said.  “What I hear from people is they think they’re too
pressured,” Kausar said in a May 12 telephone interview. “They
feel that it is too much focus on academics and not on the whole
child.”  The demanding nature of the education system appeals to
many immigrant parents.  “Indians coming from India, they’re told that Cupertino
has the best schools,” said Mahesh Nihalani, 61, the first
Indian to run for a seat on Cupertino’s city council in 2009.
His two adult sons attended Cupertino schools.  Elite Schools  While 15-year-olds in the U.S. ranked 25th among peers from
34 countries on a math assessment released in December,
Cupertino-area schools consistently rank among the best in
California.  The school district, which includes 20 elementary schools
and five middle schools in Cupertino and five other Silicon
Valley cities, had the state’s ninth-highest academic
performance index, in 2010, according to California  Department
of Education data .  The large number of Indians drawn by those schools is
reshaping the community. The California Cricket Academy started
in Cupertino in 2003. Its newest playing facility at the
Cupertino Library grounds is the only international-level pitch
in Northern California, said Ajay Athavale, the academy’s
president.  ‘Passionate About Cricket’  “Indians are very passionate about cricket,” Athavale
said in a May 17 telephone interview. “India just won the  World
Cup , so people want their kids to learn how to play to continue
the tradition in the  United States .”  The increase also is reflected in the area’s real-estate
market. About 20 percent to 25 percent of Cupertino homes sold
in March were bought by South Asians, a group that includes
Indians and Pakistanis, at an average price of more than $1.2
million, said Tim Cornwell, a principal at the Concord Group in
 San Francisco , which researches the impact of demographics on
the real-estate market.  “The groups that are moving into this market are extremely
affluent,” Cornwell said. “They may want cricket fields, but
we’re talking about people who are affording $1.2 million
houses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  