-- 
IMF Sees $160 Billion Funding Need in Mideast, North Africa

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-26T20:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/imf-sees-160-billion-funding-need-in-middle-east-north-africa.html
Oil-importing nations in the Middle
East and North Africa will require more than $160 billion in
external funding through 2013, the  International Monetary Fund 
said.  In a report prepared for the Group of Eight nations summit
being held today and tomorrow in Deauville,  France , the IMF
proposed granting loans as part of global efforts to help
countries in the region strengthen their economies after the
surge in pro-democracy movements there.  While investors can fund much of the need and the countries
themselves should lead the economic transformation, “over the
next two to three years there is a need to rebuild confidence,”
the IMF’s Middle East director Masood Ahmed told journalists in
Deauville. “Our role is to provide support early and use that
as a catalyst to give private investors confidence.”  G-8 leaders pledged their “strong support” for the pro-
democracy movements sweeping the Middle East and North Africa,
stopping short of announcing specific aid for  Egypt  and Tunisia.
The  World Bank  earlier this week said it plans to provide as
much as $6 billion for the two countries, where popular revolts
toppled their leaders earlier this year.  The IMF has set aside $35 billion to help the region and is
already in talks with Egypt about providing financing. Egypt
will need between $9 billion and $12 billion in external
financing in the year through June 2012, Ahmed said.  Overhauling Economies  One of the goals in overhauling the economies is to make
them more socially equitable to address the needs of people who
overturned their governments in recent years and to create as
many as 75 million jobs as  population growth  expands the labor
market.  In the region as a whole, the economies have been “managed
in a prudent way and indebtedness is low” so lending makes
sense, Ahmed said. “The issue for these economies is to move to
faster growth and a growth model that has more acceptance by the
population.”  Morocco,  Tunisia , Egypt, Syria, Lebanon and Jordan were
included in the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Deauville, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net . 