-- 
IMF May Withhold Greek Aid: Juncker

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-26T16:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/imf-may-withhold-greek-aid-juncker.html
Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said the  International
Monetary Fund  may withhold aid for Greece as questions mount
about how the country can avoid default next year.  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said today at a conference in
Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said.  Officials from the European Union, the IMF and the  European
Central Bank  will complete their review of Greece’s progress in
meeting the bailout terms next week. While the terms of  Greece ’s
rescue last year assumed it will be able to tap the market for
financing in 2012, that’s looking unlikely as its bonds slide.
That puts Greece at risk of default, increasing the risk tied to
any further disbursement of IMF funds.  “It’s important at the IMF that we put our money in when
we have worked with a country to take steps to close the gap and
when we’re seeing that other financing is available,” said
 Caroline Atkinson , an IMF spokeswoman. “That is how we maintain
the safety of our members’ money.”  The euro fell almost 1 percent after Juncker’s comments,
dropping as low as $1.4068.  Funding Gap  Failure to return to the market next year could force
Greece to ask other euro region governments for further bailout
funds, potentially angering voters from  Germany  to  Finland .
While Greece is due to keep receiving aid next year, it won’t be
enough to plug its funding gap.  “It is not clear exactly why Juncker is making these
comments at this time,” said David Mackie, London-based chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase. “Juncker may be trying to
put pressure on other Euro-area finance ministers to come to an
agreement quickly on the terms of Greece’s access to the EFSF
next year.”  The recommendation of the so-called troika of the EU, IMF
and ECB is needed before the fifth bailout payment can be
distributed and as a condition for further aid being considered
by the EU. The IMF is due to contribute 3.3 billion euros of the
June payment.  One year after a 110 billion-euro bailout that aimed to
stem the spread of the region’s debt crisis, Greece remains shut
out of financial markets and Portugal and Ireland have followed
in needing rescues. EU leaders are considering new loans and a
voluntary extension of bond repayments for Greece, which is due
to sell 27 billion euros of bonds next year under the bailout.  Maintaining Safety  The yield on the country’s 10-year bond fell 35 basis
points today to 16.38 percent. That’s still close to a euro-era
record of 17 percent on May 23 and is more than twice the level
as at the time of the bailout. Greece’s two-year bond yields
more than 25 percent.  “The IMF always plays hardball in this respect, in so far
that tranches of money are always in return for structural
reforms. Juncker’s just driving home that point,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “The authorities are looking for Greece to do more and
will continue to press that point.”  This week Prime MinisterGeorge Papandreou’s government
presented an additional 6 billion euros in budget cuts for this
year and unveiled a plan to speed asset sales. The commitments
were demanded by the EU and the IMF in order to approve the June
payment and by EU leaders who insisted on more action from
Greece before contemplating additional aid.  German bonds extended their advance after Juncker’s remarks
with the yield on the country’s 10-year bond falling five basis
points to 2.998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  