-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise as Corporate Profits Overshadow Economic Data

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-26T20:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/index-futures-advance-before-gdp-report-microsoft-netapp-shares-rise.html
U.S. stocks gained a second day as
higher-than-estimated corporate profits at companies including
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  overshadowed data showing the economy grew at a
slower rate than forecast and jobless claims unexpectedly rose.  Tiffany, the second-largest luxury jewelry retailer,
advanced 8.6 percent after raising its full-year earnings
forecast as profit beat estimates.  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  rallied 6.9
percent as the data-management company forecast earnings that
topped projections.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  rose 2 percent as Greenlight
Capital Inc. President  David Einhorn  called for the company’s
board to replace Chief Executive Officer Steve Ballmer, saying
the company suffers from “Charlie Brown management.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4 percent to
1,325.69 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
increased 8.10 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,402.76. Both
benchmark gauges yesterday snapped a three-day decline.  “The bright side is that there’s a clear dichotomy between
the health of corporate America and the economy,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $53 billion. “We’ve
softened somewhat. Still, profits remain good and there’s M&A
activity. That tells me that we’re not going to see a huge move
in stocks in either direction.”  The  S&P 500  fell 2.8 percent from an almost three-year high
on April 29 amid concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and weaker-
than-forecast economic data. Still, the benchmark gauge is up
5.4 percent from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus
measures and higher-than-forecast corporate profits.  GDP Report  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a smaller gain in
 consumer spending  than previously calculated. The revised rise
in gross domestic product was the same as estimated last month
and compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the prior quarter,
Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 2.2 percent
increase.  More Americans unexpectedly filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is
struggling to gain momentum. Jobless claims increased by 10,000
to 424,000, Labor Department figures showed. The median estimate
of economists was for a drop to 404,000.  Earlier today, stocks extended declines after Luxembourg’s
Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said the  International Monetary Fund  may not release
its portion of a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion) aid payment to
Greece next month.  ‘Troika’  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said today at a conference in
Luxembourg. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said, using the term to
describe a team of inspectors from the European Union, the IMF
and  European Central Bank .  Tiffany increased 8.6 percent to $76.04. The jeweler raised
its full-year forecast as sales did better in  Japan  than
expected after the earthquake.  NetApp rose 6.9 percent to $55.31. The data-management
company forecast adjusted earnings of as much as 57 cents a
share for the first quarter, compared with the average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 50 cents a share.  Microsoft Rallies  Microsoft rose the most in the Dow, adding 2 percent to
$24.67. Shares of the world’s biggest software maker are
“statistically” cheap, Mario Gabelli, chairman of Gamco
Investors Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg TV.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  retreated 1 to $43.70 after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut the largest U.S. drugstore chain from its
“conviction buy” list.  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  declined 2.8 percent to $31.44. The discount
retailer forecast second-quarter earnings of 38 cents to 48
cents a share, falling short of the average analyst estimate of
52 cents, according to Bloomberg data.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its year-end forecast for
the S&P 500 to 1,450 from 1,500 and reduced its 2012 earnings
projection, citing weakening economic estimates. S&P 500
companies will post combined profit of $104 a share next year,
compared with Goldman Sachs’s prior estimate of $106, according
to  David Kostin , the New York-based equity strategist. He
maintained his 2011 earnings forecast for the S&P 500 of $96 a
share.  ‘Lowered GDP Growth’  “Our adjustments reflect a combination of developments
including recently lowered GDP growth estimates by our
economists in the U.S. and Asia and a significant increase in
our Brent oil price forecast,” Kostin wrote today in a note to
clients.  Companies in the S&P 500 that raised dividends for at least
25 years are beating the benchmark gauge, reversing a trend
started in August when the  Federal Reserve  signaled additional
economic stimulus.  The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index is again beating the
S&P 500 after an almost six-month period of underperformance.
Since the middle of February, the index of dividend payers rose
3.1 percent through yesterday and the S&P 500 fell 0.9 percent.
The ratio between the two gauges rebounded to 0.41 from a one-
year low of 0.39 on Feb. 14. It had fallen from a record of 0.42
on Aug. 26 through mid-February. During that period, the
“aristocrats” surged 18 percent as a group, trailing a 27
percent gain for the S&P 500.  “Once the Fed signaled QE2, we had a resumption of the
risk rally,” said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of
BlackRock Inc., which oversees $3.65 trillion as the world’s
largest asset manager. “Now that we’re coming to an end of QE2
and there’s concern about a slower pace of economic growth,
investors are turning more defensive. These more stable, higher-
dividend paying companies are the beneficiaries of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  