-- 
India Close to Allowing Access for Wal-Mart, Carrefour

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-05-27T11:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/india-close-to-access-deal-for-wal-mart-carrefour-superstores.html
India  will announce new rules for
foreign investment in retail by April 2012, paving the way for
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to open
stores, Junior Trade Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said.  “We are much further down the process than people think,”
Scindia, 40, said in an interview at his office in New Delhi
yesterday, before the report was issued. “I think it is a huge
opportunity” for India.  Indian law limits foreign retail investment to ownership of
wholesale stores or 51 percent holdings in single-brand shops.
The government prohibition is meant to protect local store
owners in the second-fastest growing major economy.  Wal-Mart and Carrefour, the world’s biggest retailers, have
set up wholesale stores in the South Asian nation of 1.2 billion
people to develop their supply chains and gain a foothold in the
market. The companies have made a “good start” helping farmers
gain access to better technology and earn more money from the
sale of their produce, Scindia said.  A government panel on inflation issued a report that
recommends easing a law that prohibits non-Indian companies from
operating multi-brand outlets, it said in a release today.
Allowing foreign investment in multi-brand retail may help
moderate food prices, said  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser
in the  finance ministry , who sits on the panel. Food inflation
averaged 16 percent in last fiscal year after the late arrival
of rains disrupted supply.  Attractive Retail Market  India is the third-most attractive retail market for global
retailers among the 30 largest emerging markets, U.S. consulting
group AT Kearney said in a  June report . The growing middle
class, expanding economy and increasingly brand-conscious
population will help push retail sales up by 35 percent over the
next three years, the consultant said.  “There are not too many large untapped retail markets
left, so foreign retailers are watching this decision closely
because it is a tremendous opportunity,” said Narayanan
Ramaswamy, executive director at  KPMG  in Chennai, who advises
retail companies. He predicts the government will open the
industry gradually, first lifting the cap on foreign investment
to 26 percent. “It is a question of when rather than if,” he
said.  Economic Growth  Retail sales in India may swell to $785 billion in 2015
from $396 billion in 2011 on economic growth, rising salaries
and expansion of organized retail, Business Monitor
International said in a report on May 6. India’s $1.3 trillion
economy has expanded at an average 8.6 percent a year from 2006
through 2011, government data show.  The nation’s trade ministry invited views on the matter
from local and foreign retailers and industry groups in July
last year. In March, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee, who must
approve the rule change, said in March that a decision to allow
foreign investment in multi-brand retail would need more
consensus among political parties and industry stakeholders.  “Are we moving as fast as we would like to? The answer
there is probably no,” Scindia said. “It is very important in
a democracy and a coalition government when you take your path
forward, it is done in a consensus.”  Bharti Walmart Pvt., the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company’s joint venture with Bharti Enterprises Pvt., operates
six wholesale stores in India. Carrefour opened its first such
store in December.  The companies argue they can improve the quality of the
local supply chain if restrictions are relaxed. About 40 percent
of India’s fruit and vegetables rot before they can be sold
because of a lack of cold-storage facilities and poor transport
infrastructure, according to government figures.  “The government hasn’t done much in terms of economic
reforms so if they go ahead with this then it could be the
defining economic reform of its second term,” said R.K. Gupta,
managing director of Taurus Asset Management Ltd. in  New Delhi .
“The rise in food inflation has strengthened the argument that
the government needs to open up retail to improve the back-end
supply chain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  