-- 
Minerva Climbs After Saying Funds May Bid 120.5 Pence a Share for Company

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-05-26T16:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/minerva-shares-climb-after-it-says-funds-may-purchase-property-company.html
Minerva Plc (MNR) , the second-largest
developer in the City of London financial district, rose the
most in four months after saying a group of funds may make a
cash offer of 120.5 pence a share for the whole company.  Minerva gained 15 percent to 113.75 pence in London
trading, the most since Jan. 17. Funds advised by Area Property
Partners (U.K.) Ltd. and a subsidiary of DV4 Ltd. may make a bid
for the company, London-based Minerva said today. The offer
would value Minerva at about 194 million pounds ($316 million).  “The level and cash nature of the possible offer are such
that it is in its shareholders’ interests to progress matters,”
the company said in the statement. The offer will be made
through a new company called Jupiter Properties 2011 U.K. Ltd.,
according to the statement.  Minerva has been the subject of takeover talk for almost
three years. KiFin, the investment vehicle of Nathan Kirsh,
abandoned a 50 pence-a-share bid for Minerva in January 2010
after failing to win support from the developer’s shareholders.
That followed an unsuccessful attempt by Dubai’s Limitless LLC
to purchase Minerva in 2008. Two of Minerva’s office
developments, the Walbrook and St. Botolphs, are in the City of
 London  financial district.  The possible offer is 21 percent higher than the closing
price yesterday and 54 percent more than the price on Jan. 13,
the day before Minerva announced it was in talks, the company
said.  Minerva said it has had talks with banks on the possibility
of amending debt terms in case of an offer. There is no
certainty that any offer will be made.  Area Property Partners manages more than $11 billion of
equity and has overseen the investment of 19 real estate funds
totaling more than $30 billion, according to the statement.
Delancy has 15 years experience and has been involved in more
than $50 billion of deals, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  