-- 
Japan Ends 25 Months of Deflation in Victory Marred by Quake-Led Recession

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-27T09:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/inflation-hits-japan-for-the-first-time-in-more-than-two-years-after-quake.html
Japan ’s policy makers, striving for
more than two years to end deflation, refrained from calling a
victory after prices rose in April, with an economic recession
damping the nation’s outlook.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food rose an annual 0.6
percent, the first gain since 2008, the statistics bureau said.
Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  indicated today’s data don’t
signal sustained gains. Japan’s challenges were highlighted by
Fitch Ratings cutting its sovereign-rating outlook, citing the
risk of rising debt on post-earthquake reconstruction.  The  Bank of Japan  is poised to keep its monetary stimulus,
contrasting with counterparts from  China  to  India  that are
tightening policy to stem inflation. Prices climbed in Japan
after global energy and food costs rose and retailers suffered
product shortages in the aftermath of a record earthquake and
tsunami that caused the economy to shrink in the first quarter.  “The BOJ will probably add stimulus if it sees more signs
of weakening demand,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP
Paribas in Tokyo. “If you strip out energy and food costs,
consumer prices are basically flat now.”  The increase in consumer prices in April, the first since
2008, matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
25 economists.  Retail Sales  Retail sales fell 4.8 percent from a year earlier in April,
the Trade Ministry said in a separate report released today,
underscoring the impact on consumers from the March disaster.
The drop reinforces forecasts for gross domestic product to
shrink for a third straight quarter in the three months to June.  Government bonds  rose, with 10-year yields falling to 1.125
percent after the report, from 1.15 percent late yesterday, in a
sign investors don’t see inflation taking hold of the world’s
third-largest economy. They were little changed at 1.120 percent
as of 4:26 p.m. in  Tokyo . A gauge of the outlook for consumer
prices over the coming seven years, derived from the gap in
yields between regular bonds and inflation-linked securities,
indicates average annual declines of 0.26 percent.  “A price gain in April isn’t likely to alter expectations
that the BOJ will ease policy,” Maiko Noguchi, an economist at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in Tokyo, said before today’s
reports. “It’ll take time for Japan’s consumer prices to show
solid and sustainable gains, which we probably won’t see until
next year.”  Shirakawa’s Pledge  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa this week repeated the bank’s
readiness to take more action if needed. His board discussed the
potential need to expand an emergency-lending program to quake-
stricken lenders on April 28. The board left its key lending
rate near zero and other policy tools unchanged at that meeting
as well as at this month’s gathering.  “We can’t say Japan’s experiencing inflation with a 0.6
percent increase” in core consumer prices, Yosano told
reporters in Tokyo today.  Meantime,  Fitch Ratings  said in its statement today that
Japan’s economy is at risk of companies considering relocating
outside the nation in the aftermath of the March catastrophe,
“leading to a greater permanent loss of output.” Fitch, which
revised the outlook for its AA- long-term local-currency rating
for Japan to negative from stable, urged policy makers to put
forward a “more credible” debt consolidation plan.  Oil Costs  Part of the increase in the cost of living in April stemmed
from the advance in global commodities. Crude  oil prices  have
climbed 20 percent in the past six months, contributing to
inflation that’s prompted countries from  Thailand  to China to
raise borrowing costs.  Nisshin Foods Inc. this week announced a plan to raise
prices of flour and pasta from July after the government
increased wheat prices by 18 percent in April. The commodity has
appreciated 40 percent in value this past year.  Rising costs of daily necessities “are spurring concerns
that price hikes may further dampen consumption,” which has
already slumped in the wake of the March 11 disaster, said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  A temporary shortage of consumer products after the quake
also contributed to April’s price gains, said  Kyohei Morita ,
chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo. Even so, “price
increases triggered by supply constrains will be temporary,” he
said.  Tuition Waiver  Core prices also rose in April because the effect of a
waiver that makes public high-school tuition free adopted in
same month last year, which pushed down consumer prices, wore
off. Prices may be depressed later this year when the government
rebases the index, meaning that an increase in April won’t
affect the bank’s inclination to loosen policy, said Daiwa’s
Noguchi.  BOJ board members predicted last month core prices will
probably rise 0.7 percent in the year to March 2012, higher than
from their January forecast of 0.3 percent. The bank said the
predictions don’t reflect the effect of a calculation method
rebasing which will “highly likely” push down inflation rates.  The board members said they consider price increases of up
to 2 percent as stable, with their median at about 1 percent.
The bank has pledged to keep policy accommodative until it can
expect stable prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  