-- 
LinkedIn Cynics Unable to Short Social Network’s Stock Can Now Use Options

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-27T20:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/linkedin-pessimists-can-now-use-options.html
Investors unable to short sell
LinkedIn Corp., which just completed the hottest U.S. stock
offering since at least 2006, can start betting against the
shares using options today.  LinkedIn, the first social-media company to go public in
the U.S., traded for 31 times annual sales on May 19. While
investors such as Gamco Investors Inc.’s Lawrence Haverty said
the stock is overvalued, bears have borrowed 65 percent of the
shares available for shorting, making it hard to wager against,
according to New York-based Data Explorers. The average for
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies is 8.2 percent, and only
five stocks in the measure have higher figures.  The options are giving traders another way to profit from
declines in  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn. The shares
have jumped 96 percent since the initial public offering, which
was priced at $45. The cost to borrow LinkedIn stock to short
them is rated a 10 by Data Explorers, the most-expensive level
on the research firm’s scale.  “Since the cost of shorting the shares is so much, that’s
the route people are going to take,”  Patrick Mortimer , director
of options trading at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in  New Hope ,
 Pennsylvania , said of the equity derivatives. “They’re going to
be coming after puts, and market makers are going to be raising
their offers.”  Doubling Growth  Surging demand for social-media stock and a comeback in
venture-capital IPOs propelled LinkedIn to a high of $122.70 in
its first day of trading from an initial price of $45. With a
market value of $8.26 billion yesterday, the company must boost
revenue by 144 percent a year, twice its growth rate since 2009,
to bring its price-sales ratio in line with the Dow Jones
Internet Service Index by 2013, Bloomberg data show.  The stock rose 2.3 percent to $88.32 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
June $75 puts were the most-active options, with 1,408 traded,
and cost $2.35. June $65 puts and June $80 puts were the next-
most-traded contracts.  LinkedIn is worth $30 to $35 based on a forecast for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $104 million in 2012, Haverty said this week. The shares have
been driven higher by scarcity that won’t last, said Haverty,
Kevin Shacknofsky of Alpine  Mutual Funds  and Brian Barish of
Cambiar Investors LLC.  Supply, Demand  LinkedIn sold 7.84 million shares on May 18. Trading volume
the next day was 3.8 times higher than that amount, the biggest
difference between supply and demand in at least five years for
an IPO of a U.S.-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  About 18 percent of LinkedIn’s shares available for trading
are on loan, according to Data Explorers. That compares with an
average of 2.9 percent for the  S&P 500 , the data show. LinkedIn
would be the ninth-most-shorted stock in the index if it were in
the benchmark measure of U.S. equities.  “The short-selling data is showing us that there are
people who couldn’t wait for the options market to start trading
LinkedIn before they initiated their bet against the company,”
said Will Duff Gordon, a senior research analyst at Data
Explorers, in an interview in New York. “If you think
something’s overvalued, then the quicker you bet against it the
better, even if the stock is hard to borrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  