-- 
Intermune to Start European Sales of Lung Drug in September

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-26T21:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/intermune-to-start-european-sales-of-lung-drug-in-september-2-.html
Intermune Inc. (ITMN) , which won European
approval Feb. 28 for Esbriet, will start selling the lung-
disease drug in September in  Germany  and in other parts of
Europe next year, Chief Executive Officer Dan Welch said.  While Intermune isn’t currently in discussions about
selling itself, Welch said he would be surprised if other
companies didn’t see Esbriet’s “tremendous” value.  “Esbriet is an asset that we at Intermune place high value
on,” Welch said today in an interview. “I would be surprised
if other companies didn’t see it similarly.”  The drug may reach $1 billion in sales in Europe by about
2015 and similar revenue in the U.S. by about 2018,  Howard Liang , a Boston-based analyst for Leerink Swann & Co., said
today in a telephone interview. Bloomberg News reported April 27
that the Brisbane, California-based company was working with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to find a buyer, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified because the discussions were private.  Welch declined to offer a sales estimate or to predict when
the company, which has lost $793 million since its founding in
1998, will become profitable. Liang, who rates the stock
“outperform,” said Intermune may be able to turn a profit
about 2014.  Intermune declined $1.24, or 3.3 percent, to $36.31 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Exchange composite trading.
The company’s shares have lost less than 1 percent so far this
year.  Lung Disease  Esbriet was approved in  Europe  to treat mild to moderate
 idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , a lung disease that robs patients
of their ability to breathe and leads to death. The company aims
to complete a 500-patient clinical trial of the drug in time to
win U.S. approval by the end of June 2014, Welch said.  Food and Drug Administration officials told the company the
trial must show improvement in patients’ breathing capacity and
“supportive evidence” that the drug may extend patients’ lives
in order to gain clearance, Welch said.  In a 52-week study and a separate 72-week clinical trial of
patients at mild to moderate stages of the disease, 5 percent of
those taking Esbriet died, compared with 8 percent taking
placebos, Welch said.  The studies didn’t have enough patients or last long enough
to reveal major differences in mortality rates, Welch said.  Esbriet has a number of key advantages that will help it
get to “a very exciting blockbuster-type level,” Welch said.  ‘Robustly Priced’  “It’s the first drug of its kind approved for a uniform
deadly disease,” he said. It has few side effects, won’t face
competition from other drugs for at least four years in Europe
and will be “robustly priced,” he said.  The price in Europe may be similar to that of Tracleer from
 Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  of Allschwil,  Switzerland , which treats a lung
condition known as pulmonary arterial hypertension, said Jim Goff, an Intermune spokesman. Tracleer sells for $40,000 to
$45,000 per year in Europe, Goff said.  Intermune will roll out the drug country by country in
Europe because each nation must approve pricing levels, Welch
said. The company will hire 125 employees and build a marketing
organization in Europe, he said.  Intermune’s only approved drug in the U.S. is Actimmune,
used for the treatment of severe, malignant osteoporosis and
chronic granulomatous disease, a rare inherited immune system
disease. It had 2010 sales of $20 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 