-- 
Internet Chiefs Want G-8 Leaders to Provide Universal Access

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-26T20:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/internet-chiefs-want-g-8-leaders-to-provide-universal-access-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  was among the Internet company executives calling on
Group of Eight leaders to boost investment in telecommunications
networks and avoid hampering growth through regulation.  Governments should set a goal of universal access to high-
speed Internet services, the executives told reporters in
Deauville, France, before meeting G-8 leaders. The heads of the
world’s largest economies should also seek to solve problems
linked to privacy, piracy, pornography, copyrights and security
through technological innovation, the executives said.  “Yes, there has to be regulation, but up to a point,”
 Maurice Levy , chief executive officer of French advertising
company  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , said at the press conference, also
attended by Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and  Rakuten
Inc. (4755)  Chief Executive Hiroshi Mikitani. “It’ll take long
discussions based on good collaboration and technological tools
to find this point.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  directed Levy to set up
the panel of Internet executives to meet with G-8 leaders as
they explore the Internet as one of the summit’s main themes.
Sarkozy told the  e-G8 Forum  on May 24 that the Internet needs
government involvement to reach its full potential for linking
people and boosting economic growth. He didn’t reiterate past
comments about the need to better protect copyrights and making
Internet companies pay more taxes in the countries in which they
operate.  ‘Force for Good’  “The Internet is the greatest force for good in the
world,” Google’s Schmidt said. “We should not have premature
regulation ahead of innovation. There are technical solutions to
these problems. Sarkozy sent a strong message he’d like to work
with us on these issues.”  The G-8 heads of government issued a statement that called
the Internet “the public arena of our time, a lever of economic
development and an instrument for political liberty and
emancipation.”  The statement made no mention of how to tax Internet
companies, nor on how to pay for infrastructure investments. On
the issue of copyrights, it said “we are committed to
identifying ways of facilitating greater access and openness to
knowledge, education and culture, including by encouraging
continued innovation in legal on-line trade in goods and
content, that are respectful of intellectual property rights.”  Government Role  It said governments should create a “favorable,
transparent, stable and predictable environment” for Internet
companies.  On the question of investment, Google’s Schmidt said
governments shouldn’t charge telecommunication companies
excessively high prices for bandwidth, saying the higher costs
will be passed on to customers, holding back economic growth.  “Telcos face huge investment needs because use is
exploding,”  France  Telecom SA Chief Executive Stephane Richard
said at the press conference. “With these growth rates,
bandwidth is going to become a scarce resource. We are going to
need to come up with smarter pricing systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Deauville, France, at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  