-- 
Italian Business Confidence Declines This Month as Recovery Loses Pace

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-05-26T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/italian-business-confidence-declines-this-month-as-recovery-loses-pace.html
Business confidence in  Italy  fell
this month as the recovery in the euro region’s third-biggest
economy lost momentum.  The manufacturing-sentiment index declined to 101.3 from a
revised 102.6 in April, the national statistics institute Istat
said in  Rome  today. Economists predicted a reading of 102.7,
according to the median of 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Italy’s credit-rating outlook was lowered on May 21 to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
nation’s slowing economic growth and “diminished” prospects
for reducing debt. Italy is struggling to recover from its worst
slump since World War II, with gross domestic product expanding
0.1 percent in the first quarter compared with 0.8 percent in
the euro region as a whole.  As slowing global demand limited export growth and  consumer
spending  remained weak, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s
government last month cut its forecast for economic growth in
2011 to 1.1 percent from a previous estimate of 1.3 percent.  Still, industrial production increased for a second month
in March, Istat said on May 10. Output may quicken in the rest
of 2011 as exports more than offset weak consumer spending, the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  said in a
report published last month. Italian growth won’t regain its
pre-recession level for at least another two years, the OECD
added in a separate study on May 9.  Italian new-car registrations fell 2.2 percent last month
on a yearly basis, the Transportation Ministry said on May 2.
That was less than the 28.8 percent decline in March. Sales by
 Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, dropped 15 percent, less
than the 32 percent decrease in the previous month.  Consumer confidence  rebounded from the lowest in more than
two years in May as households said they were less concerned
about the growth outlook, Istat said this week.  Istat originally reported the business-sentiment index at
103 in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  