-- 
J&J Will Seek FDA Approval by 2013 for Alzheimer’s Drug

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-26T20:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/j-j-plans-to-file-for-u-s-bapineuzumab-approval-in-2012-2013.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will seek U.S.
regulatory approval of the experimental Alzheimer’s treatment
bapineuzumab in 2012 or 2013, sticking with efforts to treat a
disease where other drugmakers have failed.  J&J sees bapineuzumab as the “cornerstone” of its efforts
to treat the brain-wasting disease, Husseini Manji, J&J’s global
therapeutic area head for neuroscience, said at a company
conference today. The drug has reduced the growth of plaques in
the brain thought tied to the disease, Manji said at the meeting
in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , where J&J is based.  At least a dozen potential treatments designed to slow or
stop the plaques from forming have failed in mid- to late-stage
testing since 2003. Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said in
August it was suspending development of one such drug. Manji
said J&J is moving ahead with trials of bapineuzumab, which the
company shares with New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   “We continue to remain optimistic that bapineuzumab will
be the first treatment” to change the course of the disease
instead of merely slowing symptoms, he told investors and
analysts at the meeting. “We hope to bear the fruits of these
investments.”  The drug was linked to a side effect similar to swelling of
the brain when given at high doses in study results released
last year. The effects were temporary and ended when patients
were taken off the therapy, Manji said.  2012 Results  The first results from four clinical trials of the
treatment are due in mid-2012, he said.  Johnson & Johnson fell 21 cents to $65.51 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Pfizer rose 12 cents
to $20.90. Pfizer is the world’s biggest seller of health-care
products by annual sales, followed by J&J.  J&J expects a U.S. Food and Drug Administration panel to
consider data later this year on Xarelto, an experimental blood
thinner to prevent strokes shared with Bayer AG of Leverkusen,
 Germany , said Martin Fitchet, head of J&J’s cardiovascular
research.  The agency will probably rule on the drug’s use in patients
with atrial fibrillation, an irregular heartbeat that can lead
to stroke, by the end of this year, he said at the conference.
Another application, to market Xarelto to prevent blood clots in
immobilized patients in the hospital, may be delayed past 2011
because of study data that suggested the medicine may raise the
risk of bleeding, Fitchet said.  The agency may rule on a third use for the drug, in
orthopedic-surgery patients, in July, said Ernie Knewitz, a J&J
spokesman, in an interview. The medicine is also called
rivaroxaban.  ‘Multibillions’  Bapineuzumab, if successful, “could yield multi-billions
of dollars in sales given the high unmet need in Alzheimer’s
disease,” said Jami Rubin, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst
in  New York , in a May 11 note to clients. “Drug development in
Alzheimer’s disease has also proven to be very risky given the
high failure rate” of experimental treatments, she said.  J&J gained its share in the drug with its 2009 purchase of
an 18 percent stake in Dublin-based Elan Corp. for $1 billion.
Alzheimer’s affects 5.4 million people in the U.S., and sales of
currently approved drugs reached $7 billion last year, Manji
said.  The side effects and mixed results in past trials give
reason to be skeptical about the drug’s prospects and likely
mean additional trials will be needed, said  Michael Weinstein , a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst based in New York, in a note to
clients today.  ‘Noteworthy’ Confidence  “Yet, the company’s internal enthusiasm and confidence is
noteworthy,” he said.  J&J remains confident in the drug after a re-analysis of
the data and evidence that bapineuzumab reduces proteins in the
brain tied to Alzheimer’s, said Paul Stoffels, J&J’s worldwide
co-chairman for pharmaceuticals, in a news conference after the
meeting.  Bapineuzumab may have “the most potential” of any of
J&J’s experimental drugs nearing approval, said Sheri McCoy,
vice chairman of the company’s executive committee.  “The science is new and evolving so there’s more risk in
that, but at the same time, we have the opportunity” to affect
millions of patients, she said.  The company’s pharmaceuticals division expects to seek
approvals for 11 new products and expand approved uses for more
than 30 existing drugs between 2011 and 2015, J&J said in a
statement today.  Prescription drugs accounted for 36 percent of last year’s
$61.6 billion in revenue for J&J, which also sells consumer
products such as Tylenol and Rolaids and medical devices
including heart stents, artificial hips and surgical sutures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 