-- 
Japan Should Stop Building Skyscrapers After Quake, Mori Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-05-26T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/japan-should-stop-building-skyscrapers-after-quake-mori-says.html
Japan  needs to stop building
skyscrapers after the March earthquake traumatized office
workers and residents in tall buildings, said billionaire Akira Mori, the president of Mori Trust Co.  “People realized that it’s difficult to live and work in
high-rise buildings after this earthquake,” said Mori, who
heads the country’s second-biggest privately held developer.
“The buildings themselves are fine, but they swayed back and
forth greatly. Some people got dizzy and that experience will
probably leave a scar in their mind.”  Mori, Japan’s third-richest person, said the government
should consider setting a standard height for new buildings at
about 100 meters (328 feet), a level for so-called base-
isolation systems that shift and reduce the energy of quakes to
work best. An increase in tenants’ preference for  office space 
on lower floors may also make taller buildings less attractive,
he said.  Developers such as  Mitsui Fudosan Co. , Japan’s largest real
estate company, have been erecting taller buildings and
reclaiming land to utilize space in Tokyo since the postwar
economic boom gathered pace in the late 1960s. That led to so-
called pencil buildings, which sit on a small plot of land
disproportionate to the building’s height.  “Instead of constructing pencil buildings, it’s better to
jointly work with other real estate owners and developers to
redevelopment larger projects,” said Mori. “That way, we can
increase the value of real estate.”  Tallest in Japan  The Landmark Tower in Yokohama, a city south of  Tokyo , is
Japan’s tallest building at 296 meters and 58th in the world,
according to the Chicago-based Council on Tall Buildings and
Urban Habitat. The 73-story building was developed by Mitsubishi
Estate Co., the nation’s second-biggest developer, and completed
in 1993. The world’s tallest building is the 828-meter Burj
Khalifa in Dubai.  The tallest building in central Tokyo, which includes the
city’s five main wards, is the 248-meter Midtown Tower built by
Mitsui Fudosan. The  Tokyo Sky Tree , a broadcasting tower, will
be the tallest structure in Japan at 634 meters when it is
completed in December.  Tokyo suffered little damage to its buildings in the March
11 magnitude-9 earthquake, Japan’s strongest. The nation has two
magnitude-6.8 or larger earthquakes on average a year, according
to the  Japan Meteorological Agency .  Even so, about 30 percent of 2,568 buildings in Japan are
higher than 100 meters, or about 20 to 25 stories tall,
according to estimates from Architectural Institute of Japan.  Chuo ward, in central Tokyo, in 1998 set a height limit for
the Ginza commercial area at 56 meters to make it easier for
redevelopment in the area.  Wider Floors  Wider floor space would make up for the loss in area if
buildings were shorter, Mori said. The Japanese government in
May last year set  guidelines  to increase the competitiveness of
major cities by utilizing public land such as closing narrow
streets and gathering fragmented plots of land for redevelopment.  Minato ward in central Tokyo, where Mori owns about 22
buildings, is expected to draw a zoning plan within a few months,
providing an opportunity for Mori to voice his opinion, he said.
The area includes Tokyo’s Toranomon Pastoral Hotel that Mori
bought in 2007 for a record 231 billion yen ($2.82 billion).  The redevelopment of about 5,000 tsubo of land where the
hotel is located may be taller than 100 meters, depending on the
government’s zoning plan, said Mori, whose company also owns the
37-story Marunouchi Trust Tower Main, where the Shangri-La Hotel
is, by Tokyo station. One tsubo, a standard measure of property
area in Japan, is 3.3 square meters, or 35.5 square feet.  The biggest closely held developer in Japan is Mori
Building Co., owned by Minoru Mori, Akira Mori’s brother.  Building Higher  A  law  introduced in 2002 in Japan relaxed height
restriction by allowing developers to construct taller buildings
in business districts by borrowing assumed air space in nearby
areas. Office supply in Tokyo doubled to 607,143 tsubo the
following year, according to Miki Shoji Co., a privately held
office brokerage company.  “Developers have focused on high-rise buildings up until
recently,” said Takeshi Yoshida, executive director at Mori, in
the interview. “It’s hard to say about profitability of those
buildings now, with some tenants preferring space on lower
floors after the earthquake.”  Global Trend  The trend toward lower buildings is taking hold overseas.
In  London , Commercial Estates Group Ltd., a privately held
developer, said it will review a plan to build a 63-story
property adjacent to  Canary Wharf . Hammerson Plc, a real estate
investment trust that owns seven London office buildings, in
January abandoned its design for a 32-story tower and block in
the City in favor of a 15-floor office complex.  The 36-story  Kasumigaseki Building , completed by Mitsui
Fudosan in 1968, was one of the first high-rise office buildings
in Tokyo, at 147 meters, according to the company’s website.  The March 11 temblor and subsequent tsunami crippled Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s nuclear plants, forcing the utility to
introduce rolling blackouts that stopped elevators, making it
harder for residents and office workers on higher floors.  “It’s time to rethink Japan’s focus on growth since the
war,” said Mori, ranked by  Forbes  magazine in March as the
world’s 143rd richest person with an estimated family fortune of
$6.8 billion. “I don’t see the point of going higher and
higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  