-- 
Japan to Tackle Debt After Disaster Reconstruction, G-8 Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-26T14:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/japan-to-tackle-debt-after-disaster-reconstruction-g-8-says.html
Japan  will begin tackling its public
debt after the country rebuilds from this year’s earthquake and
tsunami, Group of Eight leaders said.  “In Japan, while providing resources for the
reconstruction after the disaster, the authorities will also
address the issue of sustainability of public finances,”
according to a draft statement prepared for G-8 leaders meeting
today in Deauville, France.  The comments underline the twin concerns about Japan, which
is coping with the aftermath of a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami that killed about 23,000 people at a time when
government debt amounts to more than two years of annual output.
The Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation  and
Development urged Japan to set out a medium-term deficit-
reduction plan in a report released yesterday.  “It is important to finance reconstruction spending by
shifting expenditures and increasing revenues,” the OECD said
in its annual Economic Outlook. “A detailed and credible
fiscal-consolidation program, including tax increases and
spending cuts large enough to achieve the government’s target
for stabilizing the public debt ratio by 2020 is a priority.”  Japan’s debt load will be 212.7 percent of GDP at the end
of this year and 218.7 percent in 2012, and its economy will
shrink 0.9 percent this year before recovering with 2.2 percent
growth in 2012, the OECD said.  “There’s a time and place to fix everything and it is well
known that countries cannot put their fiscal affairs in order in
the middle of a recession,” said  Chris Rupkey , an economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  New York . The “G-8 is giving
Japan a little wiggle room.”  The language in today’s draft statement is in line with
world leaders’ practice of recognizing Japan’s special situation
as the major world economy with the most debt.  “Recognizing the circumstances of Japan, we welcome the
Japanese government’s fiscal consolidation plan announced
recently with their growth strategy,” Group of 20 leaders said
in a statement in Toronto last June.  Japan’s annual gross domestic product was $5.07 trillion
last year, compared with $4.99 trillion for  China  and $14.1
trillion for the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Neuger in Deauville,  France  at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Deauville, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  