-- 
Kamal Group of India Plans to Invest $213 Million in Tanzanian Steel Mill

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-05-26T12:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/kamal-group-of-india-plans-to-invest-213-million-in-tanzanian-steel-mill.html
Kamal Group  of  India  plans to spend
327 billion shillings ($213 million) establishing a steel mill
in Tanzania, Indian High Commissioner Kocheril Velayudhan
Bhagirath said.  The facility will have the capacity to produce 700,000
metric tons of metal a year and will be the biggest in East
Africa, Bhagirath said in an interview today in  Dar es Salaam ,
the commercial capital. The investment is part of a package of
accords being announced by Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ,
who is scheduled to arrive in the country later today for a two-
day state visit.  India is boosting economic ties with Africa amid
competition from  China , its regional rival, whose trade with the
continent totalled $106.8 billion in 2008, according to
 Consultancy Africa Intelligence ’s website. Trade between India
and  Africa  currently stands at $50 billion, according to the
African Union.  “We are mainly investing in the services industry, while
China specializes in infrastructure development and mining,”
Bhagirath said. “We are complementing each other in African
development cooperation.”  India’s financial interests in Tanzania currently total
about $1.4 billion and that amount may grow by more than $400
million next year, including the investment by Kamal, he said.  Embassy Construction  Singh is expected to announce plans to build a larger
embassy in Tanzania to facilitate increasing economic and
immigration activities. “We currently issue 100 visas of entry
to India daily, so we need a bigger facility,” Bhagirath said.  Tanzania’s Health Ministry will also sign an agreement with
 Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. (APHS)  to establish a specialty
hospital in Dar es Salaam.  “Land has already been identified,” Bhagirath said.
“Tanzania’s government will put up the building, while Apollo
will bring in management. The hospital, to be up in 24 months,
will have an investment cost of about $150 million.”  About 20 percent of the visas India issues in Tanzania are
for medical tourists, according to Bhagirath. “Most of the
treatment they seek for will be available at the Apollo Hospital
in Tanzania,” he said.  India is also expected to sign an agreement with Tanzania
tomorrow on information communication technology. Installations
will be made at the Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology to
enable electronic education and telemedicine, Bhagirath said.  Singh arrives in Tanzania after attending the Africa-India
summit in  Ethiopia  earlier this week, where he announced that
India will offer a $5 billion  credit line  over the next three
years to help finance economic development on the continent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  