-- 
Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for May (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-05-26T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-may-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity was largely unchanged in
May, following rapid growth in recent months. Producers・
expectations diminished slightly, but were still solid overall.
Price indexes eased this month, with fewer firms raising selling
prices and some slowdown in materials price increases.  The month-over-month composite index was 1 in May, down from 14
in April and 27 in March (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The composite
index is an average of the production, new orders, employment,
supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Growth in factory activity eased at both durable and non-durable
goods producing plants. Most other month-over-month indicators
also fell in May, with some moving into negative territory. The
production index decreased from 17 to -2, and the shipments, new
orders, and order backlog indexes also declined for the second
straight month. By contrast, the employment index eased but
remained well above zero, and the new orders for exports index
inched slightly higher. The raw materials inventory index fell
further from 7 to 1, while the finished goods inventory index
edged up.  Growth in most year-over-year factory indexes moderated from the
previous survey. The composite year-over-year index eased
slightly from 31 to 30, and the production, new orders,
shipments, and order backlog indexes also fell modestly in May.
The employment index was unchanged at 25, still at its second-
highest level since early 2007. The capital expenditures index
rebounded from 4 to 14, while the new orders for exports index
edged down somewhat. Both inventory indexes increased after
falling the previous month.  Future factory indexes eased marginally, but continued to show
fairly solid readings. The future composite index decreased from
20 to 13, and the future production, shipments, new orders, and
order backlog indexes also slowed. The future employment index
eased somewhat, and the future capital expenditures index also
moved slightly lower. In contrast, the future new orders for
exports index rebounded from 12 to 17. The future raw materials
inventory index decreased from 15 to 3, and the future finished
goods index also slowed.  Price indexes fell in May, with a slight decrease in raw
materials price indexes and some moderation in selling prices,
but remained well above zero. The month-over-month raw materials
price index plunged from 70 to 54, and the finished goods price
index also edged lower. The year-over-year finished goods price
index eased slightly, and the raw materials price index fell
somewhat. The future raw materials price index dropped for the
second straight month, and the future finished goods price index
also decreased, indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost
increases through to customers.  This month痴 survey included special questions about wage and
benefit cost pressures. On expected wage increases per employee
(excluding overtime and variable pay), about 20 percent of firms
will have no increase in 2011 relative to 2010, while about 40
percent will have raises of less than 2.5 percent and 40 percent
will have raises over 2.5 percent. On expected benefits per
employee (employer contribution only), about 25 percent estimate
the increase from 2010 to 2011 to exceed 5 percent, and another
30 percent expect increases in excess of 2.5 percent. 