-- 
Kennedy Airport Terror-Plot Suspect Found Guilty in Failed Bombing Attack

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-26T22:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/kennedy-airport-terror-plot-suspect-found-guilty-in-failed-bombing-attack.html
A  New York  terrorism suspect was
found guilty of participating in a failed plot to blow up
 John F. Kennedy International Airport .  Kareem Ibrahim, 65, of Trinidad, was convicted today by a
federal jury in  Brooklyn , New York. Prosecutors accused Ibrahim
of joining the plan in May 2007 and of convincing the plotters
to seek financial and logistical assistance from  Iran . The
scheme was foiled in its planning stages with the aid of a
government informant who infiltrated the group and recorded its
conversations.  “The defendant in this case was caught red-handed,
captured on tape committing the very crimes with which he is
charged,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Marshall Miller told jurors
in his closing argument on May 24. “Kareem Ibrahim agreed to
join the plot to attack JFK Airport.”  The attacks, hatched by  Russell Defreitas , a former cargo
worker at the airport, were designed to blow up fuel lines and
tanks and, ultimately, “the whole of Kennedy,” Defreitas said
in a recorded conversation. Three men, including Defreitas, have
already been sentenced in the case. Ibrahim’s trial, presided
over by U.S. District Judge Dora Irizarry, began with opening
statements May 10.  Ibrahim, an imam and leader of the Shiite Muslim community
in  Trinidad and Tobago , is scheduled to be sentenced on Oct. 21.
He faces life in prison.  Other Plotters  “We’re going to be thinking about the appropriateness of
an appeal,” Michael Hueston, a lawyer for Ibrahim, said after
the verdict.  Defreitas, 67, a U.S. citizen and native of  Guyana , and
 Abdul Kadir , 59, a former member of Guyana’s parliament, were
sentenced to life in prison after a jury convicted them in
August. Abdel Nur, 61, a Guyanese citizen who pleaded guilty on
the eve of last year’s trial, was sentenced to 15 years. The
informant, Steven Francis, testified at both trials.  Ibrahim, who was slated to be tried last year with the
others, was granted a separate proceeding due to a medical
condition.  “I just went along and hoped it would fizzle out,”
Ibrahim testified at his trial on May 23. “It wasn’t my
intention to further the plot.”  Become Martyrs  Ibrahim admitted on cross-examination that he told
Defreitas they would have to blow up the airport’s control tower
and that the attackers must be prepared to become martyrs by
dying while carrying out the plan.  The plot members sought support from Abu Bakr, leader of
the group Jamaat Al Muslimeen, or JAM, which had staged a 1990
coup attempt in Trinidad that resulted in two dozen deaths,
according to prosecutors.  They hoped to get help either from JAM directly or by JAM
introducing them to Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, according to
prosecutors. Shukrijumah is wanted in connection with possible
terrorist threats against the U.S. and is a member of al-Qaeda,
the Muslim terrorist group formerly led by  Osama bin Laden ,
according to court papers.  Ibrahim convinced the JFK plotters to approach
revolutionary leaders in Iran instead of using JAM because Bakr
had recently been criminally charged in Trinidad, according to
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
Brooklyn.  Kadir, who was a friend of Ibrahim, was arrested on a plane
en route to Iran.  ‘Right Hands’  Defreitas, in a meeting with Ibrahim present, compared the
scheme to the Sept. 11 attacks, and said, “Even the Twin Towers
can’t touch it,” according to the complaint. “This can destroy
the economy of America for some time if it falls into the right
hands.”  “In pursuit of a radical terrorist agenda, bent on the
destruction of John F. Kennedy Airport and the murder of
innocent civilians, Imam  Kareem Ibrahim  abandoned the true
tenets of his religion,” Lynch, the federal prosecutor, said in
a statement today.  The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 