-- 
Kenya’s Reduced Rainfall Curbs Farming, Hydropower Output in March to May

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-26T13:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/kenya-s-reduced-rainfall-curbs-farming-hydropower-output-in-march-to-may.html
Kenya , the world’s biggest black-tea
exporter, said rainfall in the three months through May was
“highly depressed and poorly distributed,” curbing agricultural
production and hydropower output.  The so-called long rains that began in March were also
characterised by “late onset” in some parts of the East African
country, the Kenya Meteorological Department said in an e-mailed
statement today from Nairobi, the capital.  “The poor rainfall performance impacted negatively on the
agricultural and pastoral activities in various parts of the
country,” it said. “The water levels in the hydroelectric power-
generation dams also went down following the generally poor
rainfall performance in the catchment areas.”  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, relies on agriculture
to generate a quarter of its total economic output. On May 24,
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecast for the
country to as low as 5 percent from an April estimate of 5.7
percent. The economy grew 5 percent in 2010.  Tea production fell 21 percent to 163 million kilograms
(359 million pounds) in the four months through April from a
year earlier because of bad weather, the Tea Board of Kenya said
on May 23.  “Lower production compared to the same period of last year
was largely attributed to depressed and poorly distributed
rainfall occasioned by La Nina weather phenomenon,” it said.  La Nina, which brings dry weather to East Africa, results
from a cooling of the surface of the  Pacific Ocean  that reduces
moisture in the atmosphere.  The climate outlook for the June to August period is for
“near normal” rainfall in the western highlands of Kenya, while
precipitation in the Central Rift Valley will be “generally
depressed” as the central highlands experience cool and drizzly
conditions, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 