-- 
Kenya Shilling Rallies to Two-Week High on Central Bank Mop Up, Bond Sale

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-26T11:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/kenya-shilling-rallies-to-two-week-high-on-central-bank-mop-up-bond-sale.html
Kenya ’s shilling rallied to the
strongest level in more than two weeks against the dollar as the
central bank sold repurchase agreements to curb supply of the
local currency to contain price growth.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 1.1 percent to 85.30 per dollar and traded 1 percent
up at 85.43 at 1:08 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A close at
this level will be the strongest since May 10.  The Central Bank of Kenya sold 55 million shillings
($644,000) of so-called repos at 5.75 percent, the 12th trading
session in which it conducts the transactions. The bank sold
repos “in keeping with the stance of monetary tightening aimed
at containing surges in inflationary pressure” it said in a
statement on its Bloomberg page today. Yesterday, it sold 1.8
billion shillings of 2-, 10- and 20-year bonds, with yields
rising on all the debt.  “The mop-up, together with the sale of treasury bonds has
curbed supply, providing relief to the local unit,” Wilson
Mutai, a dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said in
a phone interview today.  Inflation quickened for the sixth straight month in April
to 12.05 percent in April, the highest in two years and above
the government’s 5 percent target, as food and fuel prices rose.
Accelerating economic growth has led to demand-driven inflation
and the central bank should keep taking out cash from the
economy to prevent price pressures from spreading, Domenico
Fanizza, the International Monetary Fund’s mission chief for
Kenya, said on May 24.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  