-- 
HKMA Asks Banks to Hold Capital Stress Tests, Ming Pao Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-26T03:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/hkma-asks-hong-kong-banks-to-hold-capital-stress-tests-ming-pao-says.html
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority
asked banks to conduct stress tests on capital outflow scenarios
and submit reports within a month,  Ming Pao  Daily News reported,
citing unidentified bank officials.  Capital inflows since October 2008 have reached HK$1.3
Trillion ($167 billion), the city’s de-facto central bank said
in a letter to the lenders this week, according to the  Chinese-
language Hong Kong newspaper . Banks should review what the
impact on their businesses would be if half of the total inflows
were withdrawn from the city in the next six months to 12 months,
the report said.  HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said this week that some
banks may slow lending as their expectations for deposit and
loan growth were “quite aggressive.” Local lenders may be
requested to set aside more reserves to “better absorb the
impact of bad debts,” K. C. Chan, secretary for financial
services and the Treasury, said on May 18.  “The HKMA requires banks to conduct stress tests under
different scenarios from time to time and this is one of the
common supervisory tools,” the regulator said in a written
reply to a Bloomberg News inquiry. “The HKMA has been closely
monitoring bank’s credit growth over the past few months, and is
having ongoing discussions with banks on their business plans
and funding strategies.”  Hong Kong  dollar lending has been growing faster than
deposits, pushing the local currency loan-to-deposit ratio for
the city’s banks to 81.7 percent by the end of March from 71
percent in early 2010, the HKMA said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  