-- 
Hong Kong Banks Told to Hold Stress Tests Assuming $89 Billion in Outflows

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-05-27T05:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/hkma-asks-banks-to-conduct-stress-tests-on-outflows-correct-.html
Hong Kong  ordered banks to conduct
stress tests assuming customer withdrawals of as much as $89
billion over the next year, adding to signs of concern that
lenders’ balance sheets have grown too fast.  Banks should assume that half of the HK$1.38 trillion
($177 billion) of customer deposits in local and foreign
currencies added since late 2008 will flow out in six to 12
months, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in an e-mailed
reply to written questions from Bloomberg News yesterday.  Capital may flow out of Hong Kong once the U.S. starts
raising  interest rates , HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said
last month. The de facto central bank has said it’s in talks
with lenders about slowing credit growth amid concern funding
may tighten and cause property prices to slump after they
surged more than 50 percent in the past two years.  “The potential problem is that liquidity is tightening
in the banking sector,” Paul Lee, an analyst in Hong Kong at
Haitong International Securities Group, said by telephone.
“When the U.S. ends its quantitative easing, monetary policy
and global liquidity will tighten, and this may cause more
fund outflows in Hong Kong.”  Best-Performing Currency  Renminbi deposits in the city tripled to a record 451
billion yuan ($69 billion) in the last two quarters amid
forecasts the mainland’s currency will be the best performer
among so-called BRIC nations this year. The  Hong Kong dollar 
has been pegged to the greenback since 1983.  Housing prices in Hong Kong have surged more than 50
percent in the past two years as buyers from  China  were
attracted by the city’s relatively low rates and weaker
currency. The government in November increased property
transaction taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid
public protests over living costs.  Measures to curb speculative investments led to a 37
percent drop in Hong Kong’s new mortgage loan approvals from
March to HK$27.6 billion in April, the HKMA said May 23.  Bank loans have also grown faster than deposits, pushing
the local-currency loan-to-deposit ratio to 81.7 percent at
the end of March, up from 71 percent early last year, the
authority said this month.  Rising Funding Costs  “At smaller banks, the loan-to-deposit ratio is
probably between 90 to 100 percent so the worry is that
smaller banks would have to embark on a potential liquidity
chase,” Ismael Pili, head of Asia bank research at Macquarie
Capital, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Funding cost
will go higher, and margins at these banks would come off.”  The monetary authority’s Chan this week said he was
talking to banks with “quite aggressive” loan growth
expectations. The central bank also plans to adopt more
measures to stabilize the industry if needed.  The stress tests are a preventive measure as the HKMA
seeks to prevent potential problems in the banking sector,
Lee said.  “The magnitude and pace of deposit outflows are
assumptions used for the purpose of stress testing,” the
HKMA said in its e-mail. “We have made it clear to banks
that it is not the HKMA’s forecast or estimate that such a
scenario will actually happen.”  Bank credit expanded at an annual rate of 26 percent in
the first two months of this year, the HKMA said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  