-- 
Knights of Columbus Targets BofA Foreclosure Actions in Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-26T22:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/knights-of-columbus-target-bofa-mortgage-servicing-in-lawsuit.html
Knights of Columbus , a charitable
organization and an investor in mortgage-backed securities, is
seeking a court order to learn more about foreclosure practices
by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest  U.S. bank .  Bank of America, which services mortgage loans on behalf of
investors, may be acting for its own benefit, Knights of
Columbus said in a lawsuit filed today in  New York  State Supreme
Court. The bank also may be harming borrowers whose loans were
pooled and sold, and “undermining efforts to restore economic
prosperity to the country,” the group said.  Mortgage services have come under government scrutiny over
their foreclosure and servicing practices. State officials this
week told the five largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of
America, that they may face lawsuits seeking $17 billion if they
don’t settle a nationwide investigation, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be named because the
talks are private.  Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff accused Bank of
America of breaking state law, while Connecticut Attorney
General George Jepsen said the bank failed to fix “well-
documented” problems in its mortgage-servicing business,
according to letters released by their offices yesterday.  Pooled Loans  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank isn’t named as a
defendant in the Knights of Columbus lawsuit. It acts as
servicer for loans that were pooled and sold as mortgage-backed
securities, collecting payments from borrowers on behalf of
investors and foreclosing when borrowers default.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of the America,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on today’s suit.  Knights of Columbus requested the court order in a lawsuit
against  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  that seeks an accounting
of two trusts that hold mortgage loans. Knights of Columbus owns
mortgage securities in the two trusts, for which Bank of New
York is the trustee, according to the complaint.  The complaint doesn’t assert any claims against Bank of New
York or seek damages, Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank,
said in an e-mailed statement.  An accounting is necessary to learn of losses to investors
stemming from failures by Bank of America to promptly pursue
valid foreclosures and sell homes it has seized, Knights of
Columbus said. The group also said investors have no assurance
that fees and costs associated with so-called robo-signing are
being borne by Bank of America or being passed on to investors.  Robo-Signing  Robo-signing is the practice by bank representatives of
signing foreclosure paperwork without verify the information in
the documents. Expenses include attorneys’ fees for fixing
paperwork and defending government investigations into mortgage-
servicing practices, and any resulting settlements, according to
the complaint.  Knights of Columbus, established in 1882 as a fraternal
benefit society whose members are Roman Catholic men, has
donated more than $1.36 billion to charity during the past
decade, according to its website.  Bank of America rose 8 cents to $11.46 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Bank of New York Mellon gained 8
cents to $27.47.  The case is Knights of Columbus v. Bank of New York Mellon,
651442-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 