-- 
Korea Aerospace Signs Deal to Sell Trainer Jets to Indonesia

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-05-26T07:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/korea-aerospace-selling-jets-to-indonesia.html
Korea  Aerospace Industries Ltd., the
country’s largest plane maker, signed a $400 million deal to
sell 16 T-50 trainer jets to Indonesia, marking South Korea’s
first export of the aircraft.  Korea Aerospace will deliver the jets to the Indonesian air
force by 2013 to replace the country’s aging fleet, the Sacheon,
South Korea-based company said late yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The deal will help Korea Aerospace sell the plane to
Israel, Poland and the U.S., according to the statement.  The contract makes South Korea the first country in  Asia  to
export supersonic jets, whose market has been dominated by the
U.S., the U.K.,  Russia ,  France  and Sweden, the company said. The
deal comes as Korea Aerospace, whose shareholders include
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , prepares an initial public offering in Seoul.  “Korea is relatively a new and small player in this
industry and this could be a good reference for the upcoming
deals,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$29 billion. “This kind of deal is definitely helpful for the
company’s planned share sale.”  Korea Aerospace was approved to list its 97.5 million
shares on the Korea Exchange, the nation’s bourse operator said
today in an e-mailed statement without saying how much it seeks
to raise. The company and its shareholders may raise more than
800 billion won ($734 million) in the IPO, South Korea’s Edaily
reported today without saying where it got the information.  Lockheed Martin  South Korea was given exclusive negotiation rights in April
after its T-50 trainers beat out Russia’s Yak-130 and the Czech
Republic’s L-159, the statement said.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s biggest defense company, provides the jet’s avionics
systems, flight control systems and wings. The engines are made
by  General Electric Co. (GE)   South Korea will transfer technology to Indonesia as part
of the agreement, according to the statement. Korea Aerospace
sold its KT-1 propeller training aircraft to Indonesia in 2001.
Indonesia last year also joined a South Korean project to
develop KF-X fighter jets, contributing 20 percent of
development costs.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  agreed with his
Indonesian counterpart, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, to study the
possibility of jointly manufacturing weapons including tanks and
submarines during his visit to Bali in December. The country is
Indonesia’s fifth-largest trading partner.  Arms exports from  South Korea  reached a record $1.2 billion
in 2009 and the country aims to boost annual overseas sales of
weapons to $4 billion and expand total production to $10 billion
in 2020.  Regional Power  South Korea “is nearly a first world nation and it feels
that building and exporting arms is an expression of its
determination to become a respected regional power,” said
Richard Bitzinger, a senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School
of International Studies in  Singapore . “There might be a fit
when it comes to marrying Korea’s defense industry with those of
other equally ambitious wannabe arms producers. The problem is
whether Korea has the technological critical mass to be able to
lead such projects.”  The military build-up comes as the country faces increasing
threats from  North Korea , which fired artillery onto a South
Korean island in November, killing four people, in the first
shelling of South Korean soil since their 1950-53 war.  Kim Jong Il’s regime is also blamed for torpedoing a South
Korean warship in March that claimed the lives of 46 sailors.
The Korean peninsula remains in a technical state of war since
the conflict ended in a cease-fire, not a peace treaty.  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest carmaker and Samsung
Techwin Co. each owns a 21 percent stake in Korea Aerospace,
whose shareholders also include state-run Korea Finance Corp.
Korea Aerospace, which reported net income of 78.8 billion won
in 2010, said on Sept. 29 it aims to list shares in June.  Woori Investment & Securities Co. and Hyundai Securities Co.
are managing the share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  