-- 
N2EX May Start First U.K. Power Spark, Gas Auctions in 2011

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-26T11:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/n2ex-may-start-first-u-k-power-spark-gas-auctions-in-2011-1-.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Nord Pool
Spot AS’s N2EX exchange in the U.K. may start daily auctions of
natural gas and spark spreads, or simultaneous power sales and
fuel purchases, earlier than planned.  The two auctions had been planned to start at the turn of
the year and would complement the exchange’s day-ahead power
auction that began in January, Geir Reigstad, a senior vice
president at  Nasdaq  OMX in Oslo, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. The spark auction would be the country’s first.  Nasdaq and Nord Pool won a 2008 competition held by
Britain’s  Power Trading Forum , whose members include Merrill
Lynch & Co. and  Barclays Capital , to help design a market to
boost trade of U.K. electricity. It beat offers from European
Energy Exchange AG, continental  Europe ’s biggest energy-trading
platform, and ICE Futures Europe, the biggest U.K. gas market.  “N2EX’s market council said they will accelerate the
process to start the auctions,” Reigstad said. The market
council is an advisory body made up of members of the exchange.  The Power Trading Forum’s plan included starting the three
auctions in the U.K., Reigstad said. These prices would create a
reference to build a futures market based on the spark-spread
index, he said.  Credible Reference  Total Gas & Power Ltd. and BP Gas Marketing Ltd. became
members of N2EX this month, joining companies including Barclays
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., RWE AG, EON AG and Electricite de
 France  SA. Physical buyers and sellers of natural gas, as well
as power, will be needed to create a credible reference price,
Reigstad said.  “There must be a number of sellers and buyers in the
market,” Reigstad said. “We will have enough members on board
to get the proper indexes.”  Low liquidity for future U.K. power contracts has been
blamed for stifling competition and blocking new companies from
entering the market. Liquidity can be measured by comparing the
amount of electricity bought and sold with a country’s
consumption. In Germany, 9.4 times electricity demand was traded
last year, London-based consultant Prospex Research Ltd. said
this month. The same number for the U.K. was 3.6 times
consumption.  RWE, EON and EDF are among companies that generate and
supply electricity in the U.K. Most trading is done via brokers
such as Spectron Group Ltd. and GFI Group Inc. rather than on
exchanges. Sparks trades are the most popular for power.  European Auctions  APX-Endex Holding BV started April 1 a daily auction of
U.K. power as part of so-called market coupling with Europe via
a 1,000-megawatt cable that links the country to the
Netherlands. Market coupling helps ensure power flows toward the
higher-priced market. APX’s auction closes after N2EX’s, at
about the same time as sales on continental Europe.  The timing of N2EX’s three auctions may need to be brought
in line with the rest of the region to help the European Union’s
plan to create a single market, Reigstad said. This involves
coupling across markets including those in France,  Germany , and
the Nordic region.  “This three-legged auction is quite complicated,”
Reigstad said. “We can’t solve all the problems at one time.
First we solve the problem of having three auctions all going
simultaneously. When that is working we have to see how it will
work in the future should all auctions have to take place at the
same time.”  Power auctions in Europe sometimes have to be repeated when
there are issues with cables that connect the markets, Reigstad
said. That may mean all three of the U.K. auctions would have to
be re-run.  The exchange and market council is working out how the
auctions might work in a European context, he said. “If the
market decides there should be one time for all the power
auctions in Europe then the auctions for natural gas and spark
spreads might be complicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net  