-- 
Nasdaq ‘Maniacally Focused’ on Its Business, CEO Greifeld Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-26T19:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/nasdaq-maniacally-focused-on-its-business-ceo-greifeld-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Greifeld  told shareholders today that he is
focused on the exchange’s business plan after he dropped a bid
for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  earlier this month.  “We will continue to be maniacally focused on executing
our business plan and at the same time ensuring that we are
strategically positioned for emerging growth opportunities,”
Greifeld said at the annual shareholder meeting in New York
today. “We are certainly focused on our plans every day.”  Nasdaq OMX withdrew its unsolicited offer for NYSE
Euronext, the exchange operator that agreed to sell itself to
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , after the U.S. Department of
Justice threatened to block the bid. Nasdaq OMX is being left
out of a wave of exchange deals that includes TMX Group Inc. and
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)  Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., said May 17 that
Greifeld may look for another partner.  “Certainly we are disappointed with the outcome, but we
felt we owed it to our shareholders and our customers to
consider this proposal and ultimately pursue it,” Greifeld said
today of the NYSE Euronext bid, which was made in conjunction
with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta’s ICE offered $11.3 billion to buy
NYSE Euronext and split the company between them. Their
unsolicited bid came two months after the New York Stock
Exchange operator said it agreed to merge with  Deutsche Boerse 
in a $9.5 billion all-stock transaction. NYSE Euronext’s board
twice rejected their offer on grounds it would lead to too much
debt and more regulatory hurdles.  LSE’s Rally  While NYSE Euronext shares plunged the day Nasdaq OMX and
ICE withdrew their bid, LSE’s stock surged the most in more than
a year. Investors speculated Greifeld would consider making
another bid for the bourse, as Nasdaq OMX had already made three
previous attempts.  Nasdaq OMX may also be considering an offer for
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,  Europe ’s largest clearing house,
according to Fox Business Network, which cited people with
knowledge of the matter. Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq
OMX, declined to comment.  At today’s meeting, Greifeld touted the company’s
performance and new initiatives, including a U.K. power futures
market, this year. The exchange operator posted first-quarter
earnings on April 20 that met the average analyst estimate,
boosted by derivatives trading and share repurchases.  “We have reaffirmed our leadership position as a
pioneering global exchange and made significant game-changing
advances in an increasingly competitive financial market
place,” Greifeld said today. “Our business continues to be
very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 