-- 
NFL, Dallas Cowboys Owner Jones Seek Dismissal of Super Bowl Ticket Suit

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-05-27T01:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/nfl-dallas-cowboys-owner-seek-dismissal-of-fans-super-bowl-ticket-suit.html
The  National Football League  and
Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  asked a judge to dismiss a
lawsuit over Super Bowl XLV tickets, saying reimbursement offers
to displaced ticketholders were legally adequate.  “These offers were made to be accommodating to the NFL’s
valued fans, but in fact, they exceed the amount to which any of
the ticketholders is entitled,” lawyers for the NFL and Jones
said in a court filing today.  The lawsuit, filed on Feb. 8, two days after the game, was
brought by fans who were either moved to new seats, delayed in
being seated or made to watch the game on video screens because
some temporary seats at  Cowboys Stadium  weren’t ready by
kickoff. Other fans said they were given seats with obstructed
views of the field or video board after being promised better
tickets.  The fans, seeking to represent other ticketholders in a
class-action, or group suit, accuse the league and Jones of
breach of contract, breach of faith and fair dealing, fraud,
deceit and concealment and negligent misrepresentation.  Fans suffered damages exceeding $5 million, including the
cost of their tickets and travel-related expenses, according to
the lawsuit.  Lawyers for the league and Jones said in an earlier filing
that they offered to pay 3,296 fans a total of $4.5 million to
$9.3 million.  “The motion filed by the NFL is nothing more than a Hail
Mary pass,” Michael Avenatti, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview. “Unfortunately for them, it is going to
land on the ground.”  About 475 fans weren’t seated and watched the game on video
screens. Another 2,821 fans were relocated to new seats, or were
delayed outside the stadium, according to court papers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  