-- 
No Sex in the City as London Cleans Up Before 2012 Olympics

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-05-27T11:15:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/no-sex-in-the-city-as-london-cleans-up-ahead-of-2012-olympics.html
London prostitution, strip tease
bars, canal boats and the homeless are being cleared away as the
U.K.’s capital prepares to host the 2012  Olympic Games .  Serious Crime Directorate 9, a unit of the Metropolitan
Police, conducted 127 brothel raids since it was formed in April
2010, according to police data. The City of London Corp., which
governs the capital’s main financial center, voted on May 5 not
to grant sexual entertainment licenses to clubs and pubs.  Houseboat residents near the Olympic development site in
east London say British Waterways is attempting to “cleanse”
the area, said Nick Brown, legal officer for the National Bargee
Travellers Association.  “It is sad that it took the hosting of the Olympics for
London to really begin to take action against commercial sexual
exploitation and the proliferation of the multibillion pound sex
industry,” said Anna Van Heeswijk at  Object , a women’s rights
group.  Chinese factories cut production to reduce smog for the
2008 Beijing Olympics, while  Athens  in 2004 evicted Romany
families from their homes near the Olympic stadium,  Amnesty
International  said at the time. The original route of the
marathon in London was to take runners through the borough of
Tower Hamlets, one of the poorest boroughs in the city.  Deprived East  London’s Olympic bid beat competition from Paris,  New York ,
Moscow and  Madrid  in July 2005 after persuading the
 International Olympic Committee  that the event would regenerate
the city’s East End. The games will be held in the borough of
Newham, the sixth-most deprived district in  England  out of more
than 350 assessed, according to the 2007  Indices of Multiple
Deprivation  by the Department for Communities and Local
Government.  The Metropolitan Police’s human exploitation and organized
crime command, has conducted 127 brothel raids since it was
formed on April 1, 2010. Before the unit was formed police
carried out 70 brothel visits, or raids, between January to
August 2010 in the five boroughs closest to where the games will
take place, according to data from the Met. There were a further
20 raids in Westminster and 13 in Camden -- two boroughs that
may house many visitors during the event.  That compares with 29 raids over the same period in the 25
remaining boroughs of London, the data show. A spokeswoman for
the police force said figures for the first quarter weren’t
available.  Eros Centre  When Berlin was preparing to host the 2006  World Cup  as
many as 60,000 women were expected to fall into sex trafficking,
according to a Council of  Europe  parliamentary assembly report.
The city took a different approach. A 3,000-square-meter sex
complex called the  Eros Centre  with 650 “service boxes” was
built near Berlin’s Olympiastadion, according to the April 2006
report.  “No one coming for the Olympics will be the slightest bit
bothered bumping into a lap-dancing bar,” Peter Stringfellow,
70, who runs two London lap-dancing clubs, said in a telephone
interview. “You can’t have moral objections, you start that and
you start banning a lot of things. Hypocrisy is a wonderful
thing.”  Spearmint Rhino Ventures U.K. Ltd., which runs six lap-
dancing clubs in Britain according to its website, didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  British Waterways, which manages 2,200 miles of canals and
rivers, plans to impose mooring rules that may increase the cost
of living on canal boats on the River Lee from about 600 pounds
($979) to 7,000 pounds a year.  Canal Boats  “It is absolutely despicable,” Brown said in a phone
interview. “It is a wholesale deportation of the area, social
cleansing. There is no question that the Olympics have played a
part in that. They want the live-a-board boaters gone by the
time of the Olympics because of the visual impact.”  Congestion on the River Lee and elsewhere on the canal
network is an issue “with or without the Olympics” and the
authority has invited boat owners to travel to  London  for the
games, British Waterways spokesman Jonathan Ludford said.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in February 2009 he would
end sleeping on the streets of London by 2012. The U.K. faces a
housing shortfall of 1 million homes by 2015, with London worst
hit, according to property broker Savills Plc.  On the Streets  “The Olympics has given a greater focus on improving
activity for rough-sleepers and that’s a good thing,” said
Howard Sinclair, chief executive officer of  Broadway , a London-
based charity for the homeless. A total 3,673 people were seen
sleeping on the street in London in the year ended March 31 with
more than a third aged 35 or under, according to Broadway data
on its website. That compared with 3,472 in the prior year.  Those sleeping on the streets are being harassed more
frequently as local authorities give in to political pressure
ahead of the Olympics, said Richard Burdett, the editor-in-chief
of  The Pavement , a magazine for the homeless.  “The worry for any target to solve homelessness,
particularly the Mayor of London’s aim to end rough sleeping by
2012, is that as the date approaches boroughs and organizations
are apt to consider coercion to move long-term rough sleepers
off the street,” Burdett said by e-mail. “We blame the
escalation in the harassment of rough sleepers on political
pressure in the run up to the Olympics.”  Olympic Visitors  The cost of staging the games is estimated at 9.3 billion-
pounds ($15 billion) and includes building five permanent
stadiums including the centerpiece Olympic Stadium and  Aquatics
Centre , according the London 2012 website. About 320,000
visitors will come to London in the six weeks encompassing the
Olympics and Paralympics, according to a study by the
consultancy group Oxford Economics.  Adrian Bassett, a spokesman for The London Organising
Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, declined to
comment.  The games may contribute as much as 1.5 billion pounds to
London’s tourism between 2007 and 2017, according to the city’s
official tourism agency  Visit London .  The revival of London’s East End is long overdue after the
economic collapse of the docks in the late 1970s, said Labour
Party lawmaker and employment spokesman Stephen Timms, who’s
lived in East Ham since 1978.  “East London has been the poor part of London for a
hundred years or more, so it’s certainly been a long wait for
this,” said Timms, 55, who was stabbed in the stomach last year
while meeting his constituents at an east London community
center. “The impact is going to be permanent and very
striking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .
Colm Heatley in Belfast News at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  