-- 
Nokia Gets Partial Review of ITC Patent Case Against Apple

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-26T23:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/nokia-wins-partial-review-of-itc-patent-case-against-apple-1-.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, won a partial review of the U.S. International
Trade Commission patent case it lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in March.  Infringement claims against Apple over two of the five
patents decided on by an ITC judge will be reviewed by the full
six-member commission. The ITC will let stand the rest of the
finding that Apple didn’t violate three other Nokia patents,
according to a  notice  by the Washington-based agency today.  The ITC said it would focus the review on the meaning of
specific terms in two patents. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia is
seeking to block U.S. imports of the iPhone, one of two cases it
lodged against Cupertino, California-based Apple with the ITC.  One of the patents under review relates to a way to improve
the quality of speakers and antennas while keeping them small.
The other is for reducing the space and energy consumed by
having a camera on the phone, according to the complaint.  The two mobile-phone makers have been in litigation since
October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Apple of
infringing patents and demanding royalties on the millions of
iPhones sold since the device’s introduction in 2007. The
Finnish handset maker said in March it has 46 patents asserted
against Apple in civil lawsuits and ITC complaints.  At stake is the global market for portable devices, where
Apple reaped more than $38 billion in sales for the iPhone, iPod
and iPad during its financial year ended in September. That
compares with about 28.8 billion euros ($40.5 billion) for
Nokia’s devices and services businesses in the same period.  Apple Claims  Apple has its own claims against Nokia before the ITC,
which has the power to halt imports of products that violate
U.S. patents, and in federal court. Its ITC claims were split
into two cases, with results expected June 24 and Aug. 5. Apple
also has pending allegations in civil court accusing Nokia of
trying to strong-arm Apple into providing access to proprietary
iPhone technology.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Officials with Nokia didn’t immediately return messages seeking
comment.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices,
Including  Mobile Phones , Portable Music Players and Computers,
337-701, and the newer Nokia case is In the Matter of Certain
Electronic Devices, Including Mobile Phones, Mobile Tablets,
Portable Music Players and Computers, 337-771, both U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  Apple’s cases are In the Matter of Mobile Communications
and Computer Devices, 337-704 and In the Matter Of Certain
Personal Data and Mobile Communications Devices and Related
Software, 337-710.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  