-- 
North Korea’s Kim Ends China Trip With Pledge to Purge Weapons

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-05-26T13:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/north-korea-s-kim-ends-china-trip-with-pledge-to-purge-weapons.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  ended
a six-day visit to learn about China’s economic growth by saying
his country is still committed to eliminating its nuclear
weapons through negotiations.  Chinese President Hu Jintao held talks with Kim yesterday
about nuclear security and economic cooperation between the two
countries, the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported.
Kim arrived in China by train on May 20 and returned to North
 Korea  today.  The two governments agreed that their interests converge in
the “adherence to the goal of denuclearization on the whole
Korean peninsula, peaceful settlement of the issue through
dialogue, including the resumption of the six-party talks and
the elimination of obstructive elements,” KCNA said.  Six-party talks on  North Korea ’s nuclear-weapons program,
hosted by China and also involving  Japan ,  South Korea ,  Russia 
and the U.S., haven’t convened since December 2008. The country
won’t give up the program without some kind of security
guarantee from the U.S., former President Jimmy Carter said
during a visit to North Korea last month.  Kim’s third trip to his main ally and benefactor in the
past year may have been aimed at extracting more aid and trade
to shore up an economy beset by international sanctions aimed at
halting the regime’s nuclear-weapons program, crop failures and
livestock disease. China’s gross domestic product jumped 14-fold
in the three decades since it began experiments with market-
oriented reforms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘New Situation’  “It is the requirement of a new period and new situation
to strengthen the unity between the two parties and countries,”
KCNA cited Hu as saying. Chinese officials took Kim on tours of
agricultural, industrial and technology centers, according to
the report.  North Korea’s trade with  China  jumped 30 percent last year
even after the  United Nations  stepped up sanctions following its
second nuclear test in May 2009, according to China’s  Commerce
Ministry .  Kim, 69, made his trip as a U.S. delegation visited North
Korea to survey the country’s food shortages. Kim last visited
China in August, a month before his youngest son, Kim Jong Un,
was appointed to the second-highest military post within the
ruling Workers’ Party of Korea. The August trip was the elder
Kim’s second to China in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  