-- 
To Fix Health Care, First Reward Failure

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-05-26T01:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/to-fix-health-care-first-reward-failure.html
Tim Harford has an unusual fear about
government failure. He’s not worried that the government fails
too often. He’s worried that it doesn’t fail often enough. The
British economist is the author of the compelling new
book,"Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure."  In it, he warns that "we face a difficult challenge.The
more complex and elusive our problems are,the more effective
trial and error" -- which is to say, failing and learning
from those failures -- "becomes, relative to the alternatives.
Yet it is an approach that runs counter to our instincts, and to
the way in which traditional organizations work."  Health-care costs prove his point perfectly. Few policy
problems are more confounding than the inexorable rise in
health-care spending. It threatens the economy even as the
health-care system fails at its basic task of making us
healthier. But the only way to fix it runs counter to both our
instincts and our political system: we need to allow ourselves
to fail -- often, enthusiastically and, above all,
constructively.  When you hear the words "health-care costs," it’s good to
apply a quick mental auto-correct. What people really mean are
"sick-person costs." When 5 percent of patients account for
50 percent of spending, you’re not talking about the costs that
most Americans with health-care insurance rack up over the
course of a year. You’re talking about the costs racked up by  a
tiny fraction who suffer from serious health conditions.  Overpaying for Care  If you travel internationally, you’ll see that other
countries have come up with fairly simple ways to keep those
costs down. One option, which every other developed nation
employs, is to simply use the blunt force of government
purchasing power to set low prices. That’s how you get American
seniors heading to  Canada  to purchase American-made
pharmaceuticals at a steep discount. Wal-Mart has nothing on
those guys. But it’s not just the Canadians. And it’s not just
drug costs. A 2007 McKinsey & Co. Inc. study surveyed a range of
health-care delivery systems and concluded, after making
adjustments for purchasing power, that we were overpaying for
health-care services and products to the tune of $500 billion a
year. That’s about 20 percent of our total annual health-care
spending.  Our system doesn’t allow Medicare to strike those sorts of
bargains. On the health side, if Medicare doesn’t pay enough,
doctors can opt out of the program. On the political side,
legislators are reluctant to impose deep cuts on their good
friends and campaign contributors in the medical industry. When
Congress passed the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit in 2003,
for instance, it explicitly prohibited Medicare from bargaining
for better prices on drugs.  The Ryan Plan  Another option is to price people out of care. This is
essentially the solution proposed by Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin . The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that if
Ryan’s plan is enacted, in 20 years seniors will pay an average
of 70 percent of their insurance costs,compared with about 30
percent under the current system. But Ryan’s plan appears dead.  So what’s left is finding savings in the health-care system
itself. And there are opportunities there. The best estimates
suggest that between one-fifth and one-third of all care is
wasted. But figuring out which treatments are helping and which
are hurting is easier said than done. Reforming health-care
provider pay so that care gets better, instead of
simply stingier, is tricky. Upgrading our health care
information infrastructure has been a decades-long battle. In
effect, we’ve been failing at these tasks.  Pilot Projects  But we have not been failing in the right way.
Encouragingly, the Affordable Care Act might change that.
There’s the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, whose
job is to generate pilot and demonstration projects that might
help us learn to do things differently, and better. There’s the
clunkily named Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute,
which is tasked with compiling evidence on the effectiveness of
various treatments, and when and how they’re best used. And
there’s the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a group of
experts empowered to take the best of these experiments and
replicate them through the Medicare system.Taken together, those
agencies could do a lot of constructive failing and a bit of
real succeeding, too.  The only question is whether we’ll let them. In a two-party
political system, one party is often better off if the customers
are very, very unhappy. In fact, the minority party’s route to
majority status is to keep the customers unhappy, which means
contributing to failures and then obstructing the governing
party’s efforts to fix them.  Failure’s Cost  Identifying, preserving and highlighting policy failures is
a great way to win an election. But from a policy perspective,
it’s a bad way for the government to fail. It makes the
governing party overly averse to policy risks and leaves the
political system incapable of learning from mistakes.  "Any politician knows he can have 50 policies going well
and one failure," Harford tells me from his hotel room in
 Seattle , "and that failure will dominate the next campaign. So
the politician is just desperate to avoid provable failure."
That means politicians won’t discover the kinds of successes
that emerge from constructive failures.  So when it comes to health care costs, politicians who fear
failure -- or exploit it for political gain -- should ask
themselves what, exactly, they think the alternative is. If
we can’t learn to fail well, then we’re going to -- well, fail.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein at  wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  