-- 
OECD Gives Companies Guidance on Trade in Conflict Minerals

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-05-26T11:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/oecd-gives-companies-guidance-on-trade-in-conflict-minerals-1-.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development passed new guidance for companies
involved in the so-called “conflict minerals” trade in
countries like  Democratic Republic of Congo .  The guidance offers a non-binding code of conduct that more
than 40 countries have agreed to promote, the Paris-based
organization said in an e-mailed statement. Mineral buyers such
as Traxys SA, Malaysia Smelting Corp. and Amalgamated Metals Plc
have cut or halted purchases from Central Africa in the face of
accusations that the trade supports conflict in the region.  The new rules will clarify how companies can work in
conflict zones by managing risks in their supply chains, Lahra
Liberti, OECD adviser on international law, said in a separate
e-mailed statement. “The guidance is designed to foster private
sector engagement in sustainable sourcing practices that nurture
revenue-generating trade in clean minerals.”  The OECD passed the guidance yesterday along with new human
rights guidelines that address environmental and labor
standards, bribery and extortion, the OECD statement said. The
organization will also put in place a “tougher process” to
mediate complaints against companies who are suspected of
violating the guidelines.  Under Scrutiny  Companies buying minerals from Central Africa have come
under scrutiny in recent years as armed groups in eastern Congo
continue to support themselves through the mineral trade,
fuelling a conflict that has persisted for more than 15 years.  “We’ll see how these principals are implemented on the
ground, but the fear is that they will cause companies not to
come to Congo because the guidelines can’t be enforced 100
percent in post-conflict zones,” Emmanuel Ndimubanzi, head of
the Mines Division in eastern Congo’s North Kivu province, said
by phone yesterday from Goma, the provincial capital.  A boycott of Central African minerals would be “an unhappy
outcome” that the organization is trying to avoid, Liberti
said. The guidance incorporates “the flexibility to allow trade
to continue,” while promoting responsible sourcing of minerals,
she said.  Some companies involved in the mineral trade in Central
Africa have already agreed to implement the guidance, Liberti
said by phone today from Paris, without naming them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 