-- 
Crude Heads for Weekly Gain; JPMorgan Sees OPEC Quota Increase

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-05-27T11:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-signs-of-slowing-u-s-economic-expansion.html
Oil headed for a weekly gain in  New
York  on speculation that the global economic recovery will
sustain demand for fuel.  Crude rose as much as 0.8 percent after Group of Eight
leaders said the world economy is gaining strength and as a
weakening dollar boosted the appeal of commodities. Futures
narrowed their gains after a report showed European confidence
in the economy weakened for a third straight month in May. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may raise output
quotas to meet global demand, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “High commodity prices are starting to take their toll on
growth,”  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at
Credit Agricole SA, wrote in a report today. “Oil demand data
is weak, in particular for gasoline demand.”  Crude for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $100.48 a barrel, up 25 cents, at 12:35 p.m. London time,
after rising as much as 80 cents to $101.03. Futures yesterday
fell $1.09 to $100.23, the lowest settlement since May 24.
Prices are up 1 percent this week and 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was up 8 cents at $115.13 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday rose 12 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $115.05,
the highest closing price since May 10.  U.S. GDP Growth  New York futures slumped yesterday after a report showed
U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.8 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, slower than the 2.2 percent estimated
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. U.S. jobless claims
unexpectedly rose last week.  The dollar fell 0.6 percent to
$1.4231 against the euro today, before a report that may show
growth in U.S. consumer spending slowed.  “The dollar selloff is pushing commodities higher,” said
Andrew Johnston, a London-based commodities trader at One
Financial Markets.  Group of Eight leaders, meeting at a two-day summit that
ends today in Deauville,  France , said a strengthening global
economy will pave the way to cuts in the debt built up in the
recession that followed the 2008 financial crisis.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” according to a draft statement prepared
for the leaders.  OPEC is likely to increase production quotas to 27 million
to 27.5 million barrels a day when it meets in Vienna June 8,
JPMorgan said in a report e-mailed today.  Price Forecasts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its 12-month prediction
for  Brent crude  to $130 a barrel from $107, analysts led by
 Jeffrey Currie  said in a report on May 23. Barclays’ Sen said
yesterday its $102-a-barrel forecast for this year “may yet
turn out to be conservative,” partly because of concerns about
supply from non-OPEC members.  Crude may rise next week after Goldman and Morgan Stanley
increased their price projections, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Fourteen of 36 analysts, or 39 percent, forecast oil
will climb through June 3. Twelve respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted prices will decline and 10 estimated little change.
Last week, 42 percent of respondents said futures would gain.  Brent has advanced 21 percent this year as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya, Iran and  Syria . Hundreds of Yemeni
families fled gun battles in the capital and the U.S. State
Department urged Americans to leave the country while commercial
transportation is available.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at 
 Rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  