-- 
Olsen Twins Use Made-in-America Hook to Lure Wealthy Shoppers

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/olsen-twins-lure-wealthy-shoppers-with-made-in-america.html
The Made-in-America label has
undergone a deluxe makeover. Everyone from Brooks Brothers to
the Olsen twins is using it to hawk luxury goods, a tactic made
popular by blue-collar brands such as Levi Strauss & Co. and
Chrysler Corp.  Menswear maker Joseph Abboud has a “Made in USA” banner
on his website with a link to footage of the Massachusetts
factory that crafts his suits. Brooks Brothers has factories
from  New York  to  North Carolina , and The Row, the luxury fashion
line from Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen, manufactures most of its
clothes in America’s biggest cities.  “There is a customer that appreciates that the product is
made in the  United States  and is willing to pay for the
difference,” Brooks Brothers Chief Executive Officer Claudio Del Vecchio said in an interview. While Brooks Brothers made few
goods in the U.S. 10 years ago, today a “large percentage” is
American-made, he said.  The U.S.’s reputation for quality is benefiting upscale
labels as more Americans question where their goods come from,
and how their buying affects the economy, said Pam Danziger,
president of Unity Marketing Inc.  “Made in America feeds into the values proposition,” she
said. “They are voting with their money not just for U.S. jobs,
but for a way of life. In 2007, they were on a spending jag --
they weren’t thinking about things like this.”  Shopper Surveys  Now that they are, luxury-goods makers in the U.S., the
largest market, stand to profit: Almost two-thirds of wealthy
consumers say they try to buy American when they can. Global
spending on luxury apparel, accessories, watches, jewelry,
perfume and other products may climb to 185 billion euros 
(about $260 billion) in 2011 from 172 billion euros last year,
excluding currency moves, Bain & Co. said May 3 in a report.  More than three-quarters of affluent consumers surveyed
this year by American Express Publishing and the Harrison Group,
a luxury research firm, said they like brands made in America,
up 5 percentage points from 2008. Sixty-five percent say they
try to buy U.S. products whenever possible, a 3-point gain.  Among more than 1,300 affluent shoppers surveyed by Unity
in April, the U.S. ranked highest on an index measuring the
quality of its luxury goods manufacturing, scoring 267 compared
with an average of 100, the Stevens, Pennsylvania-based firm
said. That topped Italy and  France , home to Salvatore Ferragamo
Italia SpA and  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, respectively.  Blue-collar goods have a history of using patriotism to
attract U.S. consumers. Denim makers such as Levi Strauss have
harked back to Wild West origins, while Chrysler, which has used
the slogan “Imported from  Detroit ,” created TV ads urging
prospective buyers to remember their American roots.  Self-Made  The self-made nature of much of America’s wealth may be one
of the reasons the pitch is so appealing, says Andrew Sacks,
head of of New York luxury ad firm Agency Sacks.  “There is a built-in inherent interest among those
successful people to do whatever they can do to help,” Sacks
said. Recent increases in labor costs in  China , a sagging
greenback and stalling U.S. economic growth probably will lead
to more American manufacturing, he said.  Take Enfield, Connecticut-based Brooks Brothers. Almost all
its suits are made in its factory in Haverhill,  Massachusetts ,
while made-to-measure shirts and Black Fleece shirts are put
together in Garland, North Carolina. The price on an American
Brooks Brothers shirt is as much as $150, or 70 percent more
than one made in  Malaysia .  Fashion Fans  The Olsens’ women’s label, New York-based The Row, uses
factories in its home city and  Los Angeles  to make fashions such
as its $250 white T-shirts and $2,350 short dresses. The brand
has found favor with the likes of First Lady  Michelle Obama  and
actress Julianne Moore, as well as with critics: The former
“Full House” child stars got a nomination this year for a new
talent award by the Council of Fashion Designers of America.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  has moved past its Northeast home turf and
into the South by expanding its manufacturing base to Lexington,
 Kentucky . The New York-based company makes 60 percent of its
jewelry itself, all of it in the U.S., compared with 20 percent
15 years ago, according to Mark Aaron, a company spokesman.  The Made-in-America mystique isn’t a requisite for success:
Most of  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ’s goods are made outside the
country, and  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker,
manufactures a small portion of its goods in the U.S.  Still, says Brooks Brothers’ Del Vecchio, making things in
America is about more than just the label: It’s about having the
goods to back it up.  “The quality is really the reason,” he said. “It gives
us better control of the product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  