-- 
Oltchim Seeks to Buy Petrom Refinery Before Privatization

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-05-26T16:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/oltchim-seeks-to-buy-petrom-refinery-before-privatization-1-.html
Oltchim SA has made an offer to buy
 OMV Petrom SA (SNP) ’s Arpechim refinery as Romania attempts to
increase the company’s appeal before selling its stake in the
PVC maker.  Oltchim is seeking to get cheaper raw materials for its
petrochemical operations and boost investors’ interest in the
chemical company before its privatization, Chief Executive
Officer Constantin Roibu said by phone today.  The company aims to conclude the deal before the government
sells its majority stake in loss-making Oltchim by the end of
the year, Deputy Economy Minister Karoly Borbely said in an
interview.  Petrom, Romania’s largest oil and gas company, said in
March that it will permanently close Arpechim and convert the
site into a crude oil and fuel storage facility after it failed
to find a buyer for the outdated refinery. Oltchim already
bought Petrom’s petrochemical assets at the Arpechim refinery
last year for 13 million euros ($19 million) and an undisclosed
amount of debt restructuring.  “We hope Petrom will respond to our offer in a reasonable
time frame,” Roibu said. “We are willing to pay cash for the
refinery and this could be a great opportunity, as we would
become a fully integrated company, more interesting for
investors wanting to buy the government’s majority stake.”  Oltchim, which is based in Ramnicu-Valcea in southern
 Romania  and has reported annual losses since 2007, would reduce
raw materials costs by as much as 35 million euros a year after
the refinery purchase, according to the CEO.  Romania is trying to sell its 55 percent stake in Oltchim
by the end of this year, as it aims to cut costs with
unprofitable companies to meet budget pledges to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, the  Economy
Ministry  said on May 13.  Dan Pazara, a spokesman for Petrom, declined to comment on
the offer when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  