-- 
On the Economy, Egypt’s New Leaders Should Follow Mubarak

-- B y   S t e v e n   A .   C o o k
-- 
2011-05-26T19:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/on-the-economy-egypt-s-new-leaders-should-follow-mubarak.html
Egypt ’s military rulers have just
announced plans to put  Hosni Mubarak , the former president, on
trial for conspiring to kill unarmed protesters during the
uprising that unseated him in February. This may help those who
are now in charge appease a still-restless citizenry that wants
to make a break with the past.  But Egypt’s leaders must ensure the prosecution of Mubarak
does not distract from the need to address the country’s bigger
problem: its increasingly dire economic condition.  Since Mubarak’s fall, the Egyptian economy has contracted 7
percent, and its foreign currency reserves are still shrinking.
Economic growth may slow to 1 percent this year, the lowest
level since 1992, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Complicating matters, the government has opened
investigations into graft and corruption on the part of many
business leaders in Egypt, and this has slowed commercial and
financial ventures almost to a halt. Meanwhile, continued
discontent among the people -- manifest in sectarian fighting,
lawlessness and continued protests -- have spooked foreign
investors.  Egypt’s new rulers -- the military leaders now in charge
and, more important, the people the voters choose in the
parliamentary elections scheduled for September and the
subsequent presidential election -- must move as quickly as they
can to jump start the economy and lure back foreign investment.
The U.S. and other wealthy countries can help encourage this
process. But mainly it will require that the new Egypt continue,
rather than break with, the economic approach taken by the
Mubarak regime.  Economic Reform  The former Egyptian government began pursuing economic
reform with determination in 2003-04. It floated the Egyptian
pound, slashed corporate and personal income taxes, reduced
import tariffs, cut bureaucratic red tape, sold state-owned
banks and took other steps to enhance the business climate and
instill confidence in foreign investors.  These measures were generally successful. Even though high
unemployment and underemployment persisted, Egypt’s debt was
diminished and its gross domestic product, per capita income and
levels of foreign investment all improved in the latter half of
the 2000s.  Causes of Corruption  Undoubtedly, the initiatives hurt many of the country’s
poor. Privatization of industries such as textiles and concrete
led to a loss of jobs and the benefits that go with them. To
many Egyptians it seemed that the rich were getting richer and
the poor were getting poorer -- at an alarming rate. But the
only evidence for this perception was anecdotal. In fact, in
Egypt, unlike most other countries that have experienced sudden
growth, the gap between rich and poor did not grow any wider,
 World Bank  figures indicated.  When the new economic decision makers sit down to work
after the Egyptian elections, they will need to acknowledge that
the Mubarak reforms were mainly positive -- and that the changes
themselves did not unleash a wave of graft and corruption among
businessmen and political power brokers, as many Egyptians
believe. Rather, the thievery was a function of the perverse
political and legal order that existed under Mubarak.  The new leaders of Egypt should continue to sell state-
owned enterprises, respect laws and regulations that have helped
to open the economy to foreign investment and reduce the
subsidies on basic goods that have contributed to the country’s
considerable indebtedness.  The U.S. Can Help  Most importantly, the Egyptians must move to stamp out the
corruption that made the crony capitalism of the late Mubarak
years possible. This means giving parliament oversight on
 government spending , empowering central auditing authorities,
requiring that political leaders disclose their sources of
income, and strictly regulating the use of state assets for
personal gain.  The U.S. and  Europe  can help. President  Barack Obama 
acknowledged as much in his speech last week when he said
"successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of
growth and broad-based prosperity." He proposed creating
enterprise funds to invest in Egypt and  Tunisia ; an initiative
to push American and European trade and investment in the Middle
East and North Africa; and government guarantees worth $2
billion to encourage private American investment in the Middle
East. He also said the U.S. should relieve as much as $1 billion
in Egyptian government debt.  Debt Relief  Clearly, Obama sees how essential economic stability in
Egypt -- home to a quarter of the Arab world’s population -- is
to the future of the Middle East. It’s important that he push
Congress to honor his call for Egyptian debt relief. It would be
even better if he were to forgive Egypt’s entire $3.6 billion
debt to the U.S. Because of the poor state of the Egyptian
economy, the country’s debt is worth only about 14 cents on the
dollar anyway, so the real cost to American taxpayers of writing
off the whole amount would be only about $500 million.  By doing this, the U.S. could signal to its partners in the
Group of 20 that they, too, should waive some of Egypt’s debt.
That would give officials in Cairo some breathing room to
reinforce Mubarak’s economic reforms -- and resist the
temptation to bow to political expediency by ending them.  (Steven A. Cook, a senior fellow for Middle Eastern studies at
the  Council on Foreign Relations , is the author of the
forthcoming "The Struggle for Egypt: From Nasser to Tahrir
Square." The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Steven A. Cook at  scook@cfr.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  