-- 
London Mining in Talks With Glencore on Ore Sales, CEO Says

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-26T11:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/london-mining-in-talks-with-glencore-on-ore-sales-ceo-says-1-.html
London Mining Plc (LOND) , studying a $2.2
billion  iron ore  mine expansion in  Sierra Leone , said it’s in
talks with Glencore International Plc to extend sales of the
steelmaking raw material from its Marampa deposit.  “They would like to extend their off-take rights to more
of our production, which is in line with their strategy to grow
their presence in the iron ore market,” Graeme Hossie, chief
executive officer of the London-based company, said in a phone
interview from the city.  Glencore agreed to a five-year sales accord for ore from
the first stage of the mine in January. Prices for iron ore
delivered to China, the world’s biggest buyer, have jumped 21
percent in the past year. The first shipment from the $199
million mine, which has a production capacity of 3.6 million
metric tons a year, is expected in October, Hossie said today.  London Mining’s agreement with Glencore covered all output
from the initial production phase and an option for the next
stage, the company said in a statement today. Glencore is also
interested in buying ore from the expanded project, Hossie said.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  Glencore, the world’s largest listed commodity trader,
bought five shipments of iron ore from Ferrous Resources Ltd. in
 Brazil , Andre Simao, Ferrous chief financial officer, said last
week. Glencore agreed to buy cargoes totaling 750,000 tons to be
delivered to China between April and August, he said.  Greenland Project  London Mining rose 0.5 percent to 400 pence at 12:04 p.m.
in London trading, giving it a market value of 456 million
pounds ($744 million). The company is also progressing talks for
a strategic investment partner at its planned $2 billion Isua
iron ore project in Greenland, Hossie said.  Glencore agreed in January to buy 9.5 million so-called wet
tons from Marampa’s initial phase. The companies settled on pre-
payments of as much as $27 million, London Mining said.  The spot price of iron ore delivered to Tianjin port in
 China  declined 0.6 percent to $173 a ton yesterday, according to
The Steel Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 