-- 
Moon Has More Water Than Previously Thought in Challenge to View of Origin

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-26T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/moon-has-more-water-than-previously-thought-in-challenge-to-view-of-origin.html
The  moon  has more water than
scientists once thought, casting doubt on theories of its
creation, according to a study.  Scientists measured seven samples of magma trapped as
“ melt inclusions ,” within crystals, according to a paper in
the journal Science. The water content of the lunar magma was
100 times higher than previous studies have suggested.  Lower quantities of water and volatile compounds on the
moon, when compared with the Earth and other inner planets of
the solar system, have long been taken as evidence the moon
formed during a giant impact that had enough energy to create
seas of magma, according to the Carnegie Institution’s  Erik
Hauri , the study’s lead author. Today’s finding challenges that
view, he said.  “If our samples are representative of the entire moon,
this is basically the best way to calculate how much water’s on
the moon,” Hauri said. “And what are the chances that the
first seven samples look like Earth?”  The findings suggest that the impact from a  Mars-sized body 
that formed the moon was either much hotter or much cooler than
previously thought. If the moon impact was cooler, then some
material including water wasn’t molten and was locked in the
lunar interior.  If there was more energy, then the rocks boiled and created
a temporary atmosphere, Hauri said. While the atmosphere would
have been dense and short-lived, it might have allowed the
still-forming Earth and moon to exchange water.  “The presence of water tells you how much potential it has
to sustain life,” Hauri said.  Rocket Crash  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration
discovered water on the moon by crashing a Centaur rocket into a
crater called Cabeus. At the time, scientists involved in the
discovery suggested the water was left by impacts from meteors
or comets. This study may mean that some of the ice came from
eruptions from the moon’s interior.  In addition, the  Cabeus  impact suggested there were 1
billion gallons of water on the moon. Today’s study indicates
that there may be 1 billion Cabeus craters’ worth of water,
Hauri said. The method could be expanded to study water content
on other planets, Hauri said.  The melt inclusions, which are used to estimate water
content on Earth, were discovered in a sample by Thomas
Weinreich, an undergraduate at  Brown University . The melt
inclusions are about the size of a human hair.  The research was sponsored by  NASA  and the Carnegie
Institution for Science, which is based in Washington D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 