-- 
OPEC to Boost Exports 1.6% on Western Demand, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-26T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/opec-to-boost-exports-1-6-on-western-demand-oil-movements-says.html
OPEC will raise exports by 1.6
percent through to the middle of June as refiners in the U.S.
and  Europe  boost operating rates to meet summer demand for
gasoline, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of global supplies, will ship 23.11
million barrels a day in the four weeks to June 11, up from
22.74 million barrels a day in the period to May 14, the
consultant said today in a report. The data exclude Ecuador and
Angola.  Brent crude  traded at $114 a barrel in  London  today.  “There are signs of an increase in westbound sailings from
the Gulf,” said Roy Mason, Oil Movements’ founder, said by
phone from Halifax,  England . “It’s a seasonal recovery in crude
demand, quite a big one. Demand is going up, and it’s going up
in the west. It can only be Saudi crude.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including from
non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will be 2 percent higher at
17.79 million barrels a day in the period, the report shows.  Crude on board tankers will average 474.7 million barrels
in the four weeks, up 1.6 percent from 467.29 million barrels in
the period to May 14, Oil Movements said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the group’s quota
system. The organization is next due to meet on June 8 in
Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  