-- 
Oprah, American Girls and Other Binge Dreamers: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-05-26T23:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/oprah-american-girls-and-other-binge-dreamers-virginia-postrel.html
In her 25 years hosting her eponymous
show,  Oprah Winfrey  changed lives, most notably her own, but she
did not change American culture. Rather, she revived and
extended an old American phenomenon: the tradition of middlebrow
self-improvement that many observers assumed had died in the
anti-authority turmoil of the 1960s. While anything but radical,
this achievement was nonetheless remarkable.  To understand its significance, positive and negative,
consider two other media institutions that also debuted in 1986.
The first is  Spy magazine , defunct since 1998. Enormously
influential, particularly in New York media circles, Spy
pioneered the snobby, snarky cynicism that many writers under 50
still equate with sophistication. Spy did change the culture.  Both Spy and  "The Oprah Winfrey Show"  sold gossip and
personal stories. Both made their audiences feel like members of
a club of superior people. Both were self-congratulatory. But
the bases for their self-congratulation were, of course, very
different. Spy and its audience prided themselves on being
wised-up, clever and edgy; Oprah and her audience on being
empathetic, optimistic and resilient. If "Oprah" was about
uplift, Spy was about putting people in their place.  Winfrey was one of the magazine’s earliest targets. A
profile in Spy’s third issue mocked her weight, her “poodlish
starlet’s existence,” her exuberance and her frank yearning to
be rich and famous. Calling her a “binge dreamer,” author Bill
Zehme compared her to the delusional, self-dramatizing Norma
Desmond of "Sunset Boulevard."  Creating a Mogul  This young woman, “capaciously built, black and extremely
noisy,” had actually told him, “I certainly intend to be the
richest black woman in America. I intend to be a mogul.” She
thought she had “a higher calling” and deemed herself
“profoundly effective.” She owned multiple fur coats and an
$800,000 high-rise condo. Her crassness was surpassed only by
her absurdity.  Oprah was the antithesis of everything Spy stood for: a
ridiculous striver with a poor girl’s lust for luxury and no
apparent sense of irony. In 1986, she was also only 32 and not
yet mature, either as a person or as a talk-show host.  Her defining moment came about a decade later, when she
made the risky strategic decision not to continue the race to
the trashy bottom against hosts like Ricki Lake and Jerry Springer. In her new incarnation, Winfrey abandoned skinheads
and family feuds for books and good deeds. Embracing her
identity as the latest avatar of all-American self-improvement,
she inspired viewers with guests who had triumphed over
adversity. She encouraged fans to read sometimes-challenging
literary novels.  Earnest, Middlebrow Wholesomeness  Spy, in response, called her a “spunky pudgeball” and
declared her book club one of the 100 most irritating
developments of 1997. What Spy found loathsome wasn’t the tawdry
side of talk shows. It was Oprah’s earnest, middlebrow
wholesomeness.  Though scorned by hip Manhattanites, that ethos turned out
to have a huge and lucrative market, particularly among female
 baby boomers . Witness not only the fabled Oprah Effect but the
other great media debut of 1986: the  American Girl  dolls and
their accompanying line of books. Over the past 25 years, almost
20 million American Girl dolls, which retail for about $100
each, and more than 135 million American Girl books have been
sold. In 1998, Mattel acquired the company for $700 million.
Publisher’s Weekly calls it a “publishing powerhouse.”  Every resourceful, ambitious, empathetic American Girl
would be right at home on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" -- where, in
fact, the dolls all appeared during a 2007 episode. “I love the
stories of inspiration and how the dolls overcame obstacles and
the girls were smart and creative and resourceful and clever,”
said a mother. As Winfrey went behind the scenes at American
Girl headquarters, a marketing executive assured moms at home
that “there are enormously powerful life lessons and stories
that are embedded in these innocent little books.”  Smart-Girl Culture  The books teach girls to stand up for what they believe, to
help friends in trouble, to treat everyone with compassion and
respect, to study and learn, and to take initiative. If these
lessons sound like nothing new, that’s the point. American Girl
is the late-20th-century manifestation of smart-girl culture.
It’s the racially sensitive, environmentally conscious, post-
feminist successor to Louisa May Alcott and Nancy Drew. (Molly,
the World War II–era character, reads Nancy Drew books and even
solves a mystery of her own.) Like Oprah, American Girl is
earnest, old-fashioned and fantastically successful.  Limits of Optimism  It’s also fiction designed for children. And therein lies
the problem with middlebrow self-improvement, Oprah-style. Yes,
compared to the vicious negativity of Spy, Winfrey’s relentless
optimism -- her affirmation that every person and every
situation can be redeemed -- is refreshing. But you don’t have
to be a snarky cynic to recognize its limits. Should we really
find Elie Wiesel’s bleak "Night" an uplifting read? Treat
Auschwitz as a learning experience? Seriously?  Oprah-ism doesn’t foster nuance or critical thinking. Yet
even at its most philosophically ridiculous, it does manifest a
singular, and characteristically American, virtue: It moves
forward. The past, it affirms, is over and cannot be changed.
What matters now is what happens next.  And so, having proved herself a realist after all, the
binge dreamer moves on.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column: 
 vpostrel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net  