-- 
Toronto-Dominion, CIBC Profits Miss Estimates as Trading Revenue Falls

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-26T20:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/toronto-dominion-cibc-profits-miss-estimates-on-fall-in-trading-revenue.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce posted second-quarter profits that
missed analysts’ estimates as lending margins narrowed and
trading declined.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest bank, said net
income rose 13 percent to C$1.33 billion ($1.36 billion), or
C$1.46 a share. CIBC, the fifth-biggest bank, said profit rose
2.7 percent to C$678 million, or C$1.60 a share.  National Bank
of Canada (NA)  reported profit climbed 13 percent to C$295 million,
or C$1.48 a share, topping analysts’ estimates.  The Canadian lenders, part of the world’s soundest banking
system according to the  World Economic Forum , reported narrower
net interest margins as competition for loans and mortgages
increased. Fees from trading bonds and derivatives also plunged.  “It’s continued competitive pressures, particularly in an
environment where we’re seeing loan growth start to tail off,”
said  Craig Fehr , a bank analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis . “Banks are competing for a smaller pool of new loans,
and as a result that’s going to compress the margins.”  Excluding some items, Toronto-Dominion earned C$1.59 a
share, below the C$1.61-a-share average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. CIBC said profit was C$1.75 a share
excluding items, missing the C$1.80-a-share average estimate of
17 analysts.  Toronto-Dominion  Toronto-Dominion fell C$1.27, or 1.5 percent, to C$84.02 at
4:16 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. CIBC shares
fell C$3.30, or 3.9 percent, to C$81.15, the biggest one-day
decline in almost 11 months. National Bank fell 17 cents to
C$80.70.  Toronto-Dominion said the margins, the difference between
what it charges for loans and pays in deposits, at its Canadian
consumer bank narrowed to 2.78 percent from 2.92 percent.  The lender also said  investment-banking  profit fell 18
percent to C$180 million because of lower revenue from equity
derivatives and fixed-income products. It was the fourth
straight quarterly profit decline for the unit.  “You’re seeing the wholesale business starting to
normalize, and that process has been going on for a little while
now,” Toronto-Dominion Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston
said today in a telephone interview. “We saw more difficult
trading in the quarter, more difficult markets.”  Toronto-Dominion and CIBC had lower profits from investment
banking, as a decline in trading eroded earnings. CIBC’s total
trading revenue plunged 60 percent to C$91 million, while
Toronto-Dominion said trading-related income fell 24 percent to
C$304 million.  Asset Management  Domestic consumer banking profit climbed 11 percent at
Toronto-Dominion to C$847 million, the unit’s second-best
quarter, while U.S. consumer banking earnings rose 24 percent to
C$303 million. The bank closed its purchase of Chrysler
Financial Corp. in April for $6.3 billion, helping it increase
U.S. loan originations.  Asset management, which includes the bank’s stake in  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , climbed 24 percent to C$207 million as
assets under management increased.  “Global wealth was a bright spot,” said  Brad Smith , an
analyst at Stonecap Securities in Toronto.  Canadian Imperial’s net interest margin narrowed to 1.7
percent from 1.84 percent a year earlier. The Toronto-based bank
said profit rose on lower provisions for loan losses and higher
consumer lending. The lender had C$194 million in loan-loss
provisions, down from C$316 million a year earlier. Revenue fell
1.1 percent to C$2.89 billion.  CIBC  Consumer-banking profit rose 14 percent to C$553 million in
the quarter, from C$487 million a year earlier. Canadian
Imperial in September set a C$3 billion annual target from its
 consumer lending  business in three years.  The consumer lending unit is “expected to face slower
growth in demand for mortgages and household credit, and modest
improvements in demand for business credit,” CIBC said in the
statement.  The CIBC World Markets investment-banking unit profit fell
to C$112 million, from C$189 million a year earlier as trading
income slumped. CIBC also posted a C$70 million pretax loss tied
to a structured credit business it’s winding down.  National Bank, the best-performing Canadian bank stock this
year, boosted its dividend for the second time in three
quarters. The lender increased its quarterly payout 5 cents to
71 cents a share, matching the estimate of Bloomberg Dividend
Forecasts.  National Bank  Consumer-banking profit climbed 10 percent to C$149
million, led by personal and commercial lending. Wealth
management rose 48 percent to C$43 million. Financial markets
profit, which includes investment banking, climbed 22 percent to
C$146 million.  Separately, the bank agreed to buy Wellington West Holdings
Inc. for C$273 million in cash and stock to expand its asset-
management business.  “This complements and reaches the targets we had set with
regards of diversification,” National Bank Chief Financial
Officer Patricia Curadeau-Grou said today in a telephone
interview. “With the additional scale and diversity they bring,
we should be able to piggyback on their advantages and apply
those to our own network.”  Bank of Montreal yesterday beat analysts’ estimates after
posting profit of C$800 million, a 7.5 percent increase from a
year ago.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the largest lender, reports tomorrow,
followed by Bank of Nova Scotia on May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 