-- 
Toshiba Rebounds From Crisis on Ipad Demand

-- B y   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 
2011-05-26T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/toshiba-rebounds-from-nuclear-crisis-on-ipad-chip-panel-demand.html
After Japan’s record earthquake and
tsunami on March 11, few companies in the country were in worse
shape than  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   The maker of semiconductors, computers, and televisions is
also Japan’s largest maker of nuclear  power plants , and with the
Fukushima crisis putting that industry in peril, Toshiba’s share
price plunged 27 percent in the week after the disaster, making
it the second-worst performer on the benchmark Nikkei index.
Since then, the stock has rebounded, gaining 17 percent since
March 18. On May 10, Tokyo-based Toshiba said profit for the
year would climb to a record 140 billion yen ($1.7 billion).  Toshiba can thank  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  for its recovery, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May
30 issue. The Japanese company is the world’s second-largest
producer of Nand flash chips and a major supplier for Apple’s
iPad, and its plants in central and southern  Japan  making those
chips were largely unaffected by the March disaster. Toshiba
Mobile Display, a fully owned subsidiary, also makes small LCD
panels for products including the iPhone.  “The expansion of Nand and small-panel demand from
smartphones and tablets will help support a longer profit
recovery for Toshiba,” CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets analysts
Christian Dinwoodie and Nanako Imazu wrote in a May 12 report.  Chips and displays aren’t the only products contributing to
Toshiba’s revival. The company ranks fifth among the world’s PC
vendors, and while industry leaders such as Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Acer Inc. and Dell Inc. struggle with falling shipments,
Toshiba’s computer business, led by its Portege laptops, is on
something of a roll.  PC Shipments  Toshiba’s PC shipments grew 5.3 percent worldwide in the
first quarter, according to data from market research company
Gartner Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Of the top-five PC
vendors, only Lenovo Group Ltd. grew faster than Toshiba while
shipments from HP, Acer, and Dell shrank. The Japanese company
did even better in the U.S., where shipments jumped 10.9 percent,
second only to Apple’s 18.9 percent.  Post-tsunami spending in Japan could give Toshiba a further
boost. Fumio Muraoka, corporate senior executive vice president,
told reporters on May 9 that the company expects to benefit from
reconstruction demand for TVs, refrigerators, and air
conditioners in the current fiscal year. Toshiba also sees
demand growth in businesses such as water treatment systems and
electrical substations in the region hardest hit by the disaster.  Profit Margins  For all its strength, Toshiba’s semiconductor business has
lower profit margins than those of South Korean rivals, largely
because the strong yen makes Japan a more expensive place to
operate chip-making facilities.  Toshiba is also struggling in some of its other businesses.
It lags behind market leaders Western Digital Corp. and Seagate
Technology Plc in disc drives, and while it is strong in Nand
flash, it is weak in specialized semiconductors such as logic
chips.  The non-Nand business “has been bleeding the last couple
of years,” said  David Rubenstein , an analyst in  Tokyo  at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd. “They need to buckle down and cut
costs,” he said, by outsourcing production to foundries and
selling low-margin businesses.  Another concern is the future of the nuclear business. For
now, the company can count on a backlog of orders from  China ,
but with the future of nuclear power uncertain, Toshiba is
making moves into other energy sectors. On May 10, it signed a
preliminary deal with Charlotte, North Carolina-based clean-
energy company  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  to develop thermal and solar
technologies.  It is also trying to enter the fast-growing market for
smart-grid equipment for electricity networks. On May 19,
Toshiba announced a $2.3 billion deal to buy Landis&Gyr AG, a
Swiss electronic-metering company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley in New York at 
 jaley@bloomberg.net  