-- 
House Lawmakers Push for Repeal of Contractor Tax This Year

-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-26T19:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/house-subcommittee-urges-bipartisan-repeal-of-contractor-tax.html
A House subcommittee will press for
the repeal of a law requiring the government to withhold taxes
from payments to contractors before year’s end, saying a
bipartisan consensus has formed against a “bad idea.”  “This is unlikely to be stand-alone legislation,” said
Representative Earl Blumenauer, an Oregon Democrat on the House
Ways and Means Committee, in an interview today. “With this
legislation being shovel ready, there will be vehicles and it
can be dropped in any time. I’m optimistic that this will be
done this year.”  Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican on the
Ways and Means Committee,  proposed repeal  of a law enacted in
2006 to reduce tax cheating that requires federal, state and
many local governments to withhold 3 percent from payments to
contractors. The repeal bill hasn’t advanced. Republican
Senators David Vitter of  Louisiana  and  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts  also have introduced bills to repeal the
withholding to contractors.  The law is opposed by some state government officials and
defense contractors including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) , who say it would require vendors to increase what
they charge to government agencies. The  Department of Defense 
has said it would cost $9 billion to update financial management
systems for implementing the withholding, including costs to
contractors.  The  Internal Revenue Service  said earlier this month it
would delay the law’s effective date by one year to payments
made after Dec. 31, 2012.  The Obama administration supports the
delay. Congress already had put off the start date for
withholding from 2011 as part of the 2009  American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act .  ‘Coalition Building’  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who heads
the Ways and Means Committee, has “indicated his support” to
advance the bill in his committee, Herger said in testimony to a
House Small Business Committee panel on contracting and
workforce at a hearing in  Washington  today.  Passage of a repeal law “has no timeline” because of the
busy Ways and Means committee schedule, Herger said, adding that
his proposal is in a “coalition building” stage. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the Professional Services Council, a
contractors’ industry group, support the legislation.  Also backing the repeal effort is Democratic Representative
Gerald Connolly, whose northern Virginia district received $5.46
billion in federal contracts last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Herger’s bill hasn’t advanced, in part because of
uncertainty over offsetting its cost. A 2009 congressional
estimate pegged the 10-year cost of a repeal of the withholding
rule at $10.9 billion in lost  tax revenue .  The U.S. Government Accountability Office said in 2007 that
federal contractors owed more than $3.3 billion in taxes. It
released a  report  this week showing federal agencies paid $24
billion in federal stimulus funds to contractors and grantees
that owed $757 million in back taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nishad Majmudar in Washington at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cary O’Reilly at   caryoreilly@bloomberg.net . 