-- 
Consumer Choice Can Save U.S. Health Care

-- B y   P a u l   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-26T00:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/how-consumer-choice-can-save-health-care.html
(This op-ed article by Paul Ryan, the
Republican vice-presidential candidate, was originally published 
by Bloomberg View on May 26, 2011.)  The failure of politicians in  Washington  to address the
crisis in Medicare is putting the health security of Americans at
risk.  The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed a budget
that advances a plan to save Medicare for today’s senior
citizens and strengthen it for future generations. But instead
of seeing an opportunity for bipartisan action, President  Barack Obama  and his party have seized it as a chance to play politics
with the health of our nation. The Democrats’ dishonest
characterization of this plan before the special Congressional
election in  New York  State on May 24 was just the latest
example.  Here are the facts. Medicare is a critical program that
helps people age 65 or older achieve health security. But it’s
headed for a painful collapse. Independent experts and leaders
in both parties agree that if we do nothing, Medicare will
exhaust its  trust fund  in nine years, putting enormous pressure
on the  federal budget  as health-care costs continue to rise.
Unless we act, we’re moving toward a debt-fueled economic
crisis, harsh cuts that affect today’s seniors and enormous tax
increases that diminish the dreams of the next generation.  We can save Medicare, but we have to reform it so that it
delivers the high quality we expect, at a price we can afford.  Skyrocketing Costs  If we don’t get skyrocketing health-care costs under
control, we have no hope of containing  government spending  and
averting a debt crisis. Health spending per person increases by
almost 9 percent every year. As a result, total expenditure for
health care has gone from consuming 5 percent of our economy in
1960 to almost 20 percent today.  Medicare is a top driver of these unsustainable costs. More
than 75 percent of Medicare recipients -- that is, 35 million
people -- receive what’s called the fee-for-service insurance
plan. This means that Medicare reimburses doctors and hospitals
for seniors’ health-care services.  This system leads to higher costs and lower quality for two
reasons: First, the patient is disconnected from the cost. Fifty
years ago, Americans spent a lot less on health care than they
do today, but the share they paid for directly was much larger.
In 1960, patients paid for about half of their own health-care
costs. Today, that share is down to just 12 percent, with the
rest paid for indirectly, through third parties such as
Medicare.  We all pay for Medicare with our tax dollars, and Medicare
patients also pay premiums, but someone else pays the actual
bills -- and so the true cost of care is hidden. When we pay
directly for something, and we know how much it costs, we have a
strong incentive to demand the best value. In health care, we
don’t. Is it any wonder that the costs keep rising?  No Competition  The second reason costs are going up and quality is going
down is that fee-for-service Medicare insurance has no
competition: It pays doctors and hospitals even if the quality
of the care they provide is poor and the cost is high.  That means doctors and hospitals have had little financial
incentive to deliver the best care to patients at the lowest
price. Their incentive instead has been to structure their
business so that every aspect of care requires many services,
even if some are duplicative or might not be any more effective
than a course of care that used fewer services.  There is broad agreement that this has led to rising costs.
The disagreement is over what to do about it.  President’s Strategy  One of President Obama’s strategies is to let a panel of 15
unelected officials decide how much Medicare will pay doctors
and which services it will cover. This panel was created by the
health-care law enacted last year, and the president recently
gave a speech in which he argued that these officials should be
given the power to cut hundreds of billions of dollars from
Medicare for current seniors.  This approach is centered on the power of government price
controls. Other supposed cost-saving aspects of the president’s
plan, such as bundled payments, speak to the same misguided
faith in government’s ability to successfully control costs
where it has failed so often in the past. Price controls
encourage more consumption of a good or service as its price is
artificially lowered by the government.  There is a better approach: The budget the House recently
passed saves Medicare, period.  First, the House plan protects today’s seniors from any
disruptions. Our budget ensures no changes for those who are now
55 or older.  Second, our plan provides real reform to save and
strengthen Medicare for current taxpayers, so that it is there
for them when they retire. Rather than putting the government in
charge, our plan provides financial support to help future
Medicare patients pay for the insurance plan that works best for
them and their families. Patients will have the freedom to
choose from a list of guaranteed coverage options -- the same
kind of system members of Congress enjoy today.  We also ensure that lower-income seniors and those with
more health risks will receive greater support, while healthy
seniors with more resources receive less.  Consumers in Charge  Our reforms will stop the relentless increase in our
health-care costs. Some take issue with this claim, arguing that
the reforms in our budget merely cap the government’s cost
exposure but lack a true cost-containment mechanism. Critics who
say our budget would leave seniors paying more are ignoring the
fundamental laws of economics. In stark contrast to reducing
reimbursements to providers and denying benefits to patients,
our plan relies on the best cost controls ever devised: consumer
choice and competition. When providers are forced to compete for
patients’ business, they will look to lower the costs and
increase the quality of their services -- the way it always
works when the consumer is in charge.  The urgent need to reform Medicare and the president’s
misguided response have left us with a profound question: Who
should be making health-care decisions for you and your family?  A panel of officials in Washington? Or you?  ( Paul Ryan  represents  Wisconsin ’s First Congressional
District and serves as chairman of the House Budget Committee.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to keep the  South China
Sea  from blowing up; Peter R. Orszag on a  budget wonk’s  view of
Ryan;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Romney’s  transformative running mate 
choice;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Ryan’s congressional mentor ; William
D. Cohan on  Bain Capital’s corporate wreckage ;  Rick Burton  on
how the  U.S. tried to appease  the  International Olympic
Committee ; Adam Kirsch on  what Henry Adams would say  about
 Sheldon Adelson . Find more about Romney’s vice-presidential pick
on  the Ticker blog .  To contact the author of this column:
Paul Ryan at  http://paulryan.house.gov/Contact/Email.htm   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  