-- 
Lloyds Banking Said to Rule Out Sale of Scottish Widows Unit

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-05-26T14:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/lloyds-banking-is-said-to-rule-out-sale-of-scottish-widows-insurance-unit.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  has ruled
out a sale of its Scottish Widows insurance unit as part of a
review of the business, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  The London-based bank is examining its strategy following
Antonio Horta-Osorio’s appointment as chief executive officer on
March 1. Analysts including Evolution Securities Ltd.’s Arturo de Frias have said this might include the sale of Edinburgh-
based Scottish Widows.  British banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
have been reassessing their operations as regulators demand
higher capital holdings in the wake of the 2008 U.K. banking
crisis. Horta-Osorio, 47, will unveil the review’s conclusions
to investors on June 30.  Lloyds this month hired Toby Strauss, CEO of Aviva Plc’s
U.K. life insurance business, as group director for insurance.
Strauss takes over from Archie Kane, who is retiring, and will
join Lloyds on Oct. 3, becoming responsible for running the
bank’s life and pensions unit as well as overseeing the
insurance division.  Scottish Widows , founded in 1815, was bought by Lloyds 11
years ago and now employs about 3,500 people. The company has
assets under management of 122 billion pounds ($200 billion).  Lloyds has sold assets including its Bank of Scotland
Integrated Finance investment unit and cut about 27,500 jobs
since its 20 billion-pound taxpayer-funded rescue. The bank
plans to shrink its balance sheet by 200 billion pounds by 2014.  Ross Keany, a Lloyds spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch at   gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  