-- 
Pakistan to Use ‘All Means’ to Fight Militants After Strike on Navy Base

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-26T07:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/pakistan-to-use-all-means-to-fight-militants-after-strike-on-navy-base.html
Pakistan  said that it will use all
its resources to eradicate “terrorist hideouts” as the
government and army face criticism over security failures
following this week’s militant attack on a naval base.  “Security, defense and law enforcement agencies will be
authorized to use all means necessary to eliminate terrorists
and militants,” the government said in a statement late
yesterday after a meeting of the defense committee that is
headed by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  and includes army
and intelligence chiefs.  The U.S. military says its war against the Taliban in
 Afghanistan  is hindered by Pakistan’s failure to shut down
militant havens in the mountainous border district of North
Waziristan. The statement didn’t mention the areas where
Pakistan will be more aggressively confronting guerrillas.  American officials say Pakistan’s intelligence agency
maintains ties to guerrillas based in North Waziristan.  A raid by members of Pakistan’s  Taliban movement  May 23 on
an airbase in Karachi, the country’s biggest city, destroyed
some of the country’s newest surveillance planes and heightened
concern that the military is unable to guard its own assets,
including nuclear weapons.  “We have an effective command and control system for
ensuring the safety and security of our nuclear weapons and
related systems,” Gilani said in remarks before the meeting,
according to a separate statement issued by his office. “These
arrangements conform with the highest international standards
and practices followed by other nuclear-weapon states.”  Bin Laden Killing  The Pakistan military’s failure on May 2 to detect the
entry of U.S. helicopter-borne commandos as they flew 150
kilometers (90 miles) into the country to kill al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden in the town of Abbottabad, 50 kilometers north
of Islamabad, drew criticism from opposition leaders.  General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani made only the second
appearance by a Pakistani army chief before a civilian
government’s Parliament to explain the military’s inability to
expose bin Laden’s hideout or track the American force that
killed him in a town close to the capital.  Army offensives against the local Taliban movement and
allied guerrillas in other tribal districts, including South
Waziristan and the Swat Valley, have triggered retaliatory
attacks that the government says have killed thousands of
Pakistani citizens and security personnel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  