-- 
Pegas Nonwovens Net Income Falls on Polymer Prices, Taxes

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-05-26T07:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/pegas-nonwovens-net-income-falls-on-polymer-prices-taxes-1-.html
Pegas Nonwovens SA (PEGAS) , the Czech maker
of special textiles used in hygiene products and health care,
said first-quarter net income fell 16.5 percent on currency
swings, higher income tax and raw material costs.  Profit for the first three months was 6.4 million euros
($9.1 million), compared with 7.7 million euros a year ago, the
Znojmo, Czech Republic-based company said in a regulatory filing
today. Revenue rose 19.2 percent to 41 million euros.  The results are “positive,” considering the fact that
prices of polymers reached all-time high record levels, Pegas
said. The second quarter will continue to be affected by
development of raw material prices, the company said.  The producer of non-woven fabrics plans to open a new
 production line  in the third quarter in Znojmo-Primetice,
southeastern Czech Republic. It’s also considering investment
outside  Europe  and is eying potential takeover opportunities.  Pegas is registering “signs of stabilization” and the
rise in polymer prices should not continue throughout the year,
the company said. It reiterated its 2011 forecast for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to rise
between 2 percent and 7 percent on year.  Gains from currency swings in the first quarter declined 49
percent to 2.2 million euros from a year ago, the company said.
Income tax expense in the period increased 79 percent to 1.2
million euros, Pegas said.  Founded in 1990, Pegas makes non-woven fabrics mainly for
hygienic products, construction and medical industries. The
company operates two plants with eight production lines in the
 Czech Republic , supplying some 70,000 tons of non-woven textiles
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  