-- 
Pemex $1.25 Billion Offering Swells Sales to 11-Month High: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-26T22:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/pemex-1-25-billion-offering-swells-sales-to-11-month-high-mexico-credit.html
Oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos ’s
first overseas bond sale this year is pushing Mexican corporate
offerings to an 11-month high.  Companies based in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
raised $3.1 billion in May, the biggest monthly total since
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Latin American
companies have issued $9.1 billion of bonds abroad this month,
the most since October. Pemex, as the region’s largest oil
producer is known, sold $1.25 billion of 30-year bonds to yield
6.56 percent yesterday.  Mexican companies are stepping up debt sales as growing
demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets drives
borrowing costs to a three-month low. The average yield on
Mexican corporate dollar bonds fell to 6.10 percent last week,
the lowest since Jan. 28, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “People are looking at the world and realizing it could be
a good time to lock in relatively low costs,” Anne Milne, an
emerging-market corporate credit analyst at Bank of America
Corp., said in a telephone interview from New York. “There
might be concern that there might be more turbulence down the
road.”  Pemex’s bonds yield 90 basis points, or 0.90 percentage
point, more than Mexican government notes due in 2040, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The state-controlled company may
sell about $2 billion in the U.S. market and $1 billion in
 Europe  by June, Chief Financial Officer Ignacio Quesada told
reporters May 4.  CFE Offering  Pemex, based in Mexico City, said in an e-mailed statement
that it plans to use the money it raised in yesterday’s sale to
fund investments and refinance debt. A company official, who
asked not to be named in accordance with company policy,
declined to comment further.  Comision Federal de Electricidad, the state-owned utility,
sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds to yield 180 basis points more
than U.S. Treasuries on May 18, the second-biggest Mexican debt
offering abroad this month.  Investor demand for Mexican debt is increasing as the
country’s economy expands at the fastest pace in a decade and
policy makers keep inflation in check, according to  Jerome Booth , who helps manage about $47 billion of emerging-market
assets as co-founder and head of research at Ashmore Investment
Management.  The economy grew 5.4 percent last year, the most since
2000. Annual inflation was 3.36 percent in April, holding near a
five-year low of 3.04 percent reached in March.  ‘Under Control’  “You have an environment where inflation is well under
control,” Booth said in a telephone interview from  London .
“The economy is reasonably stable, well run.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points
to 147, according to JPMorgan.  The peso was little changed at 11.6682 per dollar, putting
its gain this year at 5.8 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years climbed four basis points to 106, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  While Mexican borrowers boosted offerings this month, sales
this year are down from the same period in 2010. Overseas
issuance has totaled $8.8 billion this year, compared with $14.2
billion in the first five months of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Pretty Weak’  Pemex is seeking to take advantage of investor demand for
its debt after reporting first-quarter profit that almost
tripled, said Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at  Scotia Capital 
in Mexico City.  Net income rose to 4.21 billion pesos from 1.44 billion
pesos in the year-earlier period, the company said in a
statement on May 2.  Mexican corporate issuance this year “has been pretty
weak,” Espinosa said in a telephone interview. “Given that the
first quarter was a very good report for Pemex, they want to
take advantage of those good numbers to continue picking up
cheap money. That doesn’t mean it’s a sign that there are going
to be a lot of sales.”  Demand for Mexican corporate debt is building as investors
bet the yield premium the securities offer will narrow,
according to Ashmore’s Booth.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican corporate
debt instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 78 basis points in the
past year to 298, according to JPMorgan.  “People are not buying Mexican corporates just because
they want to sit on the coupon but because they expect spreads
to narrow further,” Ashmore’s Booth said. “That is part of the
attraction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  