-- 
Perennial Said to Raise $630 Million Selling IPO Stock at Low End of Range

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-05-26T00:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/perennial-said-to-raise-630-million-selling-ipo-stock-at-low-end-of-range.html
Perennial  China  Retail Trust raised
S$784 million ($630 million) in an initial public offering that
was postponed in March because of stock market volatility, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  The Singapore-based business trust is selling 1.1 billion
units at S$0.70 apiece, the bottom end of a range marketed to
investors, the person said, requesting anonymity because the
pricing hasn’t been publicly announced. Perennial, which owns
Chinese malls, had marketed the units at S$0.70 to S$0.76.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell to a two-month low
yesterday as Greece’s debt crisis intensified, Japan’s economy
contracted, and disappointing U.S. economic data fueled concern
about the global recovery. In Singapore, Hutchison Port Holdings
Trust, which completed  Southeast Asia ’s biggest IPO in March,
has fallen to almost 10 percent below its offer price.  Perennial China is managed by Pua Seck Guan, former chief
executive officer of the manager of CapitaMall Trust,
Singapore’s first property trust. CapitaMall shares posted
a record decline in September 2008 after Pua’s resignation.  The IPO includes five properties in Shenyang, Foshan and
Chengdu, the company said in a prospectus filed last week.
Perennial plans to use the funds raised to develop malls in
China, and said investors in the offering will benefit from
retail sales growth in the country.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are arranging the sale.
The units are scheduled to start trading on June 8.  Perennial’s offering brings the value of stock sold in
 Singapore  IPOs this year to about $7 billion, with Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust accounting for $5.5 billion of the total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  