-- 
Philippine Inflation May Hit 5.5% This Month, Tetangco Says

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-05-26T11:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/philippine-inflation-may-hit-5-5-this-month-tetangco-says-1-.html
Philippine inflation may exceed five
percent for the first time in more than two years, boosted by
higher costs of transport and school items, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said.  Consumer prices this month may increase in a range of 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent from a year earlier, Tetangco said in a
mobile phone text message. “We have recently seen some easing
in the price of oil in the international market but there
continues to be risks of volatilities,” the governor said.  Inflation of 4.5 percent in April was the most in a year
and price gains in May at the top-end of Tetangco’s forecast
will be the fastest pace since March 2009, based on Bloomberg
data. Storms that damaged crops may pose supply risks, he said.  Price gains may peak this quarter or “shortly after,”
Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said today. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas, which raised its overnight borrowing rate by a
quarter-of-a-percentage point each in the March 24 and May 5
meetings to 4.5 percent, will monitor developments to ensure
that stance for monetary policy “remains appropriate,”
Tetangco said. The next policy meeting is on June 16.  Gross domestic product growth may have slowed to 5.4
percent last quarter, according to a median estimate of
economists before a May 30 report.  Oil traded above $100 per barrel since yesterday after
falling to a three-month low last week. The peso has gained 0.9
percent so far this year, based on Tullett Prebon Plc prices.  Authorities will look at the inflation outlook and
expectations, as well as “financial-market developments
including the yield curve” in the next policy meeting,
Guinigundo said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  