-- 
Pitt Joins Dinosaurs in Malick’s ‘Tree’; Mike Tyson’s Rap: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-26T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/pitt-joins-dinosaurs-in-malick-s-tree-mike-tyson-s-rap-film.html
The highlight of Terrence Malick’s
“ The Tree of Life ” is an 18-minute montage of galloping
dinosaurs, exploding volcanoes, floating amoebas, majestic
rainbows, wriggling jellyfish and a giant meteor hurtling
through space. Not a single person or human voice interrupts the
kaleidoscopic flow.  It’s a perfect reflection of Malick’s eccentric filmmaking
style, one that emphasizes mood and images over plot and drama.  Malick has a painter’s eye and a philosopher’s mind. In
movies such as “Days of Heaven” and “The New World,”
characters take a backseat to nature and story lines zigzag like
a car sliding on ice.  “The Tree of Life,” only his fifth feature in 38 years,
may be his most elusive and beautiful. It’s ostensibly about a
1950s Midwestern family: a stern father ( Brad Pitt ), a gentle
mother (Jessica Chastain) and their three boys. What it’s really
about, though, is the mystery of life.  Malick uses the parents as symbols of nature’s brutal force
and the soothing balm of spirituality. While that’s a worthy
subject to explore, the film’s amorphous structure makes it hard
to concentrate on anything except the glorious pictures Malick
has created with the help of special-effects whiz Douglas Trumbull.  Humans simply aren’t that important in “Tree of Life.”
Pitt’s striving, crew-cut dad and Chastain’s red-headed Earth
Mother are more concepts than flesh-and-blood people. And  Sean Penn , who plays the haunted, grownup version of the eldest son,
is barely noticeable in his ephemeral scenes.  The film is narrated by several characters in whispering
voices and is often accompanied by a choral soundtrack that
underscores the metaphysical tone.  It was greeted by cheers and boos at the recent  Cannes Film
Festival . I’m sure audiences everywhere will be just as divided.  “The Tree of Life,” from Fox Searchlight, opens tomorrow
in  New York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: **1/2  ‘The Hangover’  Even orange juice can’t cure “ The Hangover: Part II ,” the
sequel to the 2009 blockbuster about a raucous bachelor party in
 Las Vegas .  The follow-up uses the same formula as the original -- the
guys wake up in a trashed hotel room after a crazy night of
partying and can’t remember how they got there -- but it can’t
duplicate the comic shock and awe of the first one.  The original left me exhausted from laughter. This one left
me exhausted from boredom.  In “Part II,” Phil (Bradley Cooper), Alan (Zach
Galifianakis), Doug (Justin Bartha) and Stu (Ed Helms) travel to
 Thailand  for Stu’s wedding. Following a campfire celebration at
a luxurious resort, they wake up in a seedy room in Bangkok,
where they encounter a cigarette-smoking monkey, a wheelchair-
bound Buddhist monk and a transsexual stripper.  Tyson Raps  Even Galifianakis, the breakout star of Part I,
is a letdown. His character, a lonely goofball who lives with
his parents and is always making inappropriate remarks, still
has the funniest lines. But that’s only compared with the rest
of the lame dialogue.  The only reason to stay around for the end is another cameo
by  Mike Tyson , who reprises his role as the world’s worst
singer. Iron Mike’s rap about Bangkok may give you a hangover-
worthy headache.  “The Hangover: Part II,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures ,
opens today across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 