-- 
Platinum Surplus Seen Jumping Eightfold After Japan Quake Cuts Car Output

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-05-26T07:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/platinum-surplus-seen-jumping-eightfold-after-japan-quake-cuts-car-output.html
The global platinum surplus may jump
eightfold after  Japan ’s worst earthquake slashed car production,
reducing the country’s demand to the lowest level in 28 years,
said the nation’s top refiner.  Supply will probably outpace demand by as much as five
metric tons this year, compared with a surplus of 600 kilograms
last year, Shinya Kitaoka, trading section chief at  Tanaka
Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K. , said in an interview. The world palladium
shortage may be cut by half, he said.  The surge in supply may curb an advance in platinum prices
that climbed 18 percent in the past year. Palladium soared 71
percent. Both metals are used for pollution-control devices in
cars and automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor
Co. reduced production after the temblor and tsunami devastated
northern Japan on March 11. The country represents 15 percent of
world platinum demand, according to  Johnson Matthey Plc. (JMAT)   “The drop in auto production volumes is certainly not
bullish for the two metals,” said  Michael Widmer , head of
metals research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London  and
the most accurate platinum forecaster tracked by Bloomberg over
eight quarters. He predicts an average price of $1,838 an ounce
this year, down from an estimate of $2,000 before the quake.  World platinum use for auto-catalysts accounts for 40
percent of demand, according to Johnson Matthey. In Japan,
platinum use in the sector accounts for 47 percent of demand.  ETFs  Investors expanded their platinum holdings in funds faster
than for any other precious metal this year, in a bet that
mining companies digging as deep as 1.4 miles underground will
fail to meet record consumption. Assets in exchange-traded
products rose 12 percent to 42.2 tons, valued at $2.4 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on May 25.  Platinum for immediate delivery increased 0.3 percent to
$1,785.65 an ounce today and palladium was down 0.1 percent at
$749.08 an ounce.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the world’s biggest producer,
said May 19 platinum should average $2,000 this year after the
South African rand appreciated, potentially creating a shortage
as higher mining costs discourage producers. About 76 percent of
platinum comes from  South Africa , according to Johnson Matthey.  ‘Zero Demand’  “There’s been almost zero demand” for platinum from
domestic automakers since the earthquake, Kitaoka said on May 24.
The disaster may reduce demand from the domestic car industry by
at least 20 percent this year, he said.  Toyota, Honda Motor and Nissan Motor Co. halted output
after the earthquake and tsunami damaged factories and knocked
out power plants, causing a shortage of parts and electricity.
The closures cut demand for platinum-group metals by about
90,000 ounces so far, equal to about 0.5 percent of combined
annual usage, Barclays said April 15. Consumption will be
deferred rather than lost, it said. Tanaka Kikinzoku’s estimate
of the surplus this year is equivalent to about 161,000 ounces.  Platinum demand in Japan may slump to around 30 tons this
year from 35.9 tons last year estimated by Johnson Matthey,
Kitaoka said. That would be the lowest since 1983, according to
Johnson Matthey  data . World demand would be close to supply this
year after the surplus narrowed to 20,000 ounces in 2010 from
635,000 ounces in 2009, the London-based refiner said May 16.  Auto Sales  Auto sales in Japan dropped in April for the eighth
straight month after the quake cut output and a government
subsidy program ended. Sales of cars, trucks and buses,
excluding minicars, fell 51 percent from a year earlier to a
record-low 108,824 vehicles, the  Japan Automobile Dealers
Association  said May 2. In March, sales dropped 37 percent.  “Our base case is still that auto production will
normalize later this year,” said Widmer. “It is also worth
noting that with declines in Japanese car production, there is
scope for non-Japanese brands to expand sales.” Toyota, Japan’s
biggest carmaker, said on May 11 global output will begin
recovering in June, earlier than the company’s forecast.  Palladium demand may outstrip supply by seven tons to eight
tons in 2011, less than the shortage of 15.2 tons last year,
Kitaoka said. In Japan, demand may drop 10 percent from last
year’s 45.9 tons estimated by Johnson Matthey, he said.  The shortage will lessen because of declining Japanese
demand for car pollution-control devices after the disaster,
slowing demand for jewelry in  China  and from exchange-traded
funds amid rising scrap supply and continued sales by  Russia ,
the biggest producer, Kitaoka said.  Catalytic-converter use in automobiles accounts for 57
percent of global palladium demand, according to Johnson Matthey.
In Japan, the sector accounts for 55 percent of demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  