-- 
Prepaid Cards Help Banks Replace Lost Debit, Credit Fee Revenue

-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 
2011-05-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/prepaid-cards-help-banks-replace-lost-debit-credit-fee-revenue.html
Gus Artiles used to wait anxiously
for the mail carrier on Friday afternoons, hoping his California
state disability insurance check would arrive before his bank
closed for the day.  Artiles, 54, doesn’t worry about the mail anymore. By
Friday morning,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  automatically loads his
funds onto a prepaid card, which Artiles uses to buy groceries
and gas like a regular debit card.  “It’s a beautiful thing,” said Artiles, who lives in  Los
Angeles . “It’s more convenient, and you get your money a lot
faster.”  Artiles is one of almost 2 million people taking part in
“one of the largest prepaid programs on the planet,” said
William M. Sheedy, the head of  Visa Inc. (V) ’s Americas group,
referring to California’s effort to use prepaid cards for
 unemployment benefits , disability insurance and paid family
leave programs.  Demand from states, the federal government as well as
employers is helping power the prepaid card market,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its May 30 issue. Consumers used prepaid
cards in transactions totaling $65 billion last year, compared
with $48 billion in 2009, according to the Nilson Report, an
industry newsletter based in Carpinteria,  California . That would
have generated about $1 billion in transaction fees for card
issuers, according to Sanjay Sakhrani, an analyst at investment
bank Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. Banks are looking for ways to
replace the $25 billion in projected lost revenue that recent
credit and debit-card reforms may cost them, according to  Boston
Consulting Group .  Growth Opportunity  While the prepaid market includes cards sold directly to
consumers in drugstores and other retail outlets, large banks see
issuing cards for government benefits and employers’ payrolls as
a growth opportunity. Using cards instead of cutting and mailing
checks can trim costs by 75 percent, said Tim Wall, head of
prepaid sales at New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We’re just at the beginning of many of our government
clients moving from paper to a paperless environment,” said
Margaret A. Scopelianos, a treasury services executive at
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.  Banks collect two types of fees from prepaid and debit
cards. They get money from the payment networks that charge
retailers so-called swipe fees when consumers use the cards to
make a purchase. While financial reform may cap such fees for
debit-card transactions, Congress didn’t limit them for most
prepaid cards. That exemption will be a “positive thing” for the
prepaid market, said Citigroup’s Wall. Banks also may charge
users for actions such as making multiple ATM withdrawals, using
a non-network ATM, or overdrafts, just as they do with debit
cards.  Negotiating Lower Fees  Because of the project’s scale, California was able to
negotiate a program with almost no fees for consumers, something
that was “paramount” after learning other states had less
favorable deals, said Loree Levy, a spokeswoman for the
California Employment Development Department.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s prepaid cards for  Michigan ’s unemployment insurance
program charge $1.50 for each denied transaction, for example,
and U.S. Bancorp’s cards in  Ohio  charge $17 for each overdraft.  The cards can help the estimated 60 million Americans who
don’t regularly use bank accounts and instead depend on costlier
check-cashing services and payday loans, consumer advocates have
said. Fees can add up quickly for lower-income users. Earlier
this month, the  National Consumer Law Center  graded all 40
states that use prepaid cards for unemployment compensation, and
found 13 particularly “problematic” programs with high fees in
states such as Connecticut, Colorado and  Illinois .  ‘Joint Principles’  Consumers Union , the National Consumer Law Center and the
prepaid industry’s trade organization, the Electronic Payroll
Coalition, recently issued a set of 10 “joint principles” for
prepaid payroll card fees. The industry said increased consumer
pressure, combined with more competition, means “fees are
dropping and becoming more simplified in their structure,” says
Brian Triplett, San Francisco-based Visa’s head of prepaid
products.  The number of workers receiving prepaid payroll cards from
their employers will double to 5.4 million by 2014, according to
estimates by Aite Group, a market research firm. The federal
government is embracing the approach. The Treasury Department
conducted a pilot program this year to issue tax refunds on
prepaid cards. Social Security recipients starting this month
must choose between direct deposit or prepaid cards from
Comerica Bank, and paper checks for new recipients will no
longer be used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Weise in  New York  at 
 kweise@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Gelman at   egelman3@bloomberg.net . 