-- 
Qaddafi Said to Seek Night Refuge in Hospitals

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-26T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/qaddafi-is-said-to-seek-refuge-at-night-in-tripoli-s-hospitals.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is
shuttling between Tripoli’s hospitals to elude nighttime raids
by NATO jets, a European government official said.  Qaddafi is moving between the hospitals because he knows
North Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft won’t bomb them, the
official said, citing intelligence on the ground. He declined to
be named because the information is not in the public domain.  Senior commanders in Qaddafi’s forces have also stopped
using mobile phones because of concerns that their conversations
are being intercepted by French, British and U.S. intelligence,
limiting the regime’s top ranks from communicating effectively,
the official said. The intelligence has been gleaned over the
past week, he said.  Allied forces have intensified their attacks on the Qaddafi
regime this week, and President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  vowed two days ago to step up the
pressure on him. NATO said May 20 its increased air campaign in
support of anti-Qaddafi rebels has “effectively” pushed the
Libyan leader into hiding. British ministers have given approval
in principle to deploy Apache attack helicopters, a U.K.
official said yesterday.  Survived Attack  Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan Foreign
Ministry, said in a May 1 news conference that Qaddafi and his
wife survived an attack that killed his son and grandchildren
late on April 30. Since then, there is increasing evidence that
Qaddafi fears for his life, the European official said.  Qaddafi is staying no longer than one night in any
hospital, the official said. He said the Libyan leader’s
behavior also indicates he’s concerned that senior supporters in
his military and government may turn against him.  Obama appealed two days ago for patience in the effort to
remove Qaddafi from power and said allied leaders won’t set a
timeline for completing military operations. The U.S. and its
allies are making “enormous progress” and won’t let up until the
Libyan leader is deposed, Obama said in  London . He ruled out
putting troops on the ground there.  Britain will deploy helicopters based on a warship in the
 Mediterranean Sea  to join similar French aircraft in raids on
Libyan targets, the U.K. official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Deauville, France, at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  