-- 
Trade Votes Needed in U.S. Congress by August, Hatch Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-26T16:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/trade-votes-needed-in-u-s-congress-by-august-hatch-says-1-.html
Pending free-trade agreements with
Colombia, Panama and  South Korea  must be voted on in Congress
quickly, or risk never being approved, said Senator  Orrin Hatch ,
a Utah Republican.  “If we do not have an opportunity to vote on these
agreements this summer, I am afraid we never will,” Hatch, the
top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said today at a
hearing on the Korean deal.  Hatch and Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, are split
on the issue now delaying these pacts: renewing trade adjustment
assistance for workers who lose their jobs because of overseas
competition. Baucus said aid for service workers, which was put
in place in 2009 and expired in February, must be extended as
part of a package of measures to approve the trade pacts.  “Either they all pass, or none of them pass,” Baucus, the
panel’s chairman, said today. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, said he wants the worker aid approved by Congress and
signed into law before any votes on the free-trade pacts.  Hatch questioned the worker aid, adding that the merits
aside, “we don’t have the votes to do this.”  “One of the reasons I don’t think this will pass, is they
want $7.2 billion at a time when this country is basically
broke,” Hatch said. “Why hold up three agreements that are
beneficial to the American worker?”  Meanwhile, senators such as Massachusetts Democrat  John Kerry  said that delaying approval of the South Korean accord may
give competitors on  Europe  a leg up on U.S. exporters.  “The longer we delay the harder it is to retain our
competitive advantage,” Deputy U.S. Trade Representative
Demetrios Marantis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  