-- 
Rat Balloons Used in Union Protests Allowed by Labor Board

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-26T23:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/rat-balloons-used-in-union-protests-allowed-by-labor-board-1-.html
Inflatable rats displayed by labor
unions outside a company’s offices are a legal form of protest,
the U.S. National Labor Relations Board ruled in a case that
will expand the scope of worker protests.  The NLRB, which mediates disputes between unions and
companies, decided that rat balloons at a company’s suppliers or
customers, not just the facilities of the business they are
protesting, isn’t coercive, according to a statement.  The board ruled 3-1 after a federal court in 2007 reversed
a decision from the previous year that a Florida union’s mock
funeral, using a person dressed as the Grim Reaper, outside an
acute-care hospital was unlawfully coercive. The court sent the
case back to the board, with orders to review issues including
balloon displays as a protest symbol.  The board, controlled by a majority appointed by President
 Barack Obama , is faulted by Republicans for pro-labor decisions
on organizing efforts and worker rights. Republican lawmakers
are protesting the board’s decision to file a union-retaliation
complaint in April against Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)   Chairman Wilma Liebman and board members  Craig Becker  and
Mark Pearce found that balloons aren’t confrontational conduct,
unlike picketing. Nor was the display coercive, the board found.
Union agents at the display didn’t shout, impede access to the
business, or interfere with hospital operations, according to a
statement by the NLRB.  Symbolic Rat  The “rat balloon itself was symbolic,” the majority
wrote.  The issue of secondary boycotts, targeting suppliers and
customers of the business being protested, is being followed by
employers and labor lawyers. Business groups say expanded
protest rights show the board favoring unions. Labor leaders say
the NLRB has restored the mandate to protect workers after pro-
management slant under President  George W. Bush .  “The board is taking startlingly aggressive positions
aimed at augmenting union power,” Peter Schaumber, a former
board chairman appointed by Bush and now a labor consultant,
said in an interview last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  