-- 
Treasuries Rally on European Debt Turmoil, Slower U.S. Growth, Auction Bid

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-26T21:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/treasuries-remain-higher-after-u-s-sells-29-billion-in-seven-year-notes.html
Treasury 10-year note yields fell to
the lowest level this year on concern the  International Monetary
Fund  may withhold aid for Greece next month and as a U.S. report
showed the nation’s economic growth is losing momentum.  The refuge appeal of government debt helped boost demand at
the $29 billion offering of seven-year notes to the highest
level since the U.S. resumed selling the securities in 2009.
Yesterday’s sale of five-year notes attracted the strongest
demand in almost 17 years.  “The European situation has heated up again,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one
of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate in U.S. debt
offerings. “Guys are feeling you’re in for a pretty heated
debate and better safe than sorry, so they’re piling into
Treasuries and trying to ride it out.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.06 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The 3.125 percent
security maturing in May 2021 gained 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 18/32.  The 10-year note yield touched 3.05, the lowest level since
Dec. 7. The yield on the current seven-year note slid nine basis
points to 2.36 percent, also the lowest since Dec. 7. A one-
point increase in the 30-year bond pushed the yield down to 4.22
percent.  At today’s auction, the securities drew a yield of 2.429
percent, compared with the average forecast of 2.448 percent in
a Bloomberg News survey of nine primary dealers.  Auction Demand  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with amount of securities offered, was 3.24, the
highest level since February 2009, the beginning of records on
the data for this maturity.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 47.6 percent of the notes, compared
with 39.1 percent at the April 28 offering and an average of
49.6 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 13 percent of the
securities, compared with an average of 7.7 percent at the past
10 offerings.  The offering is the last of three note auctions this week
totaling $99 billion. The government’s $35 billion auction of
five-year securities yesterday drew the highest bid-to-cover
ratio since 1994, while demand at the sale of the same amount of
two-year debt on May 24 was the strongest since January.  Gross on ‘Repression’  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors may be at a
disadvantage for as long as 15 years as the U.S. keeps borrowing
rates low to reduce its debt burden.  “It’s basically called financial repression,” Gross said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “We call it pocket picking.”  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and the
annual rate of inflation, known as the real yield, turned
negative this month for the first time since the end of 2008,
when the  Federal Reserve  cut its target rate for overnight
lending to zero to 0.25 percent.  Interest-rate futures indicated a 12 percent chance that
the Fed will raise its target lending rate by December, down
from a 24 percent probability a month ago. The central bank
bought $6 billion of  U.S. debt  due from May 2015 to November
2016 today to sustain the economic recovery under a $600 billion
program ending in June.  Treasuries rose earlier today after reports showed U.S.
economic growth in the first quarter was slower than analysts
forecast and initial jobless claims unexpectedly rose last week.  Slower U.S. Growth  America’s gross domestic product grew at 1.8 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, Commerce Department figures showed.
The gain was the same as estimated last month and compared with
a 3.1 percent increase in the prior quarter. The median forecast
of 82 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a revised
2.2 percent gain.  Initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased by 10,000 to
424,000 in the week ended May 21, the Labor Department reported.
The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a drop to 404,000.  Bonds extended gains after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of euro-area finance ministers, said
the IMF may not release its portion of aid for Greece next
month. A team of inspectors from the European Union, the IMF and
the  European Central Bank , known as the troika, is due to
complete a review of Greece’s progress in meeting bailout terms
next week.  Juncker on IMF  “There are specific IMF rules, and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Juncker said today at a conference in
Luxembourg.  “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said.  Policy makers are seeking ways to restore investor
confidence on concern  Greece  won’t be able to repay its debt
after last year’s 110 billion euro ($155 billion) bailout.  A debt restructuring by Greece is “necessary and
unavoidable,” and warnings by the ECB that it can’t be done
“are dangerous,” the economist  Nouriel Roubini  told reporters
at a seminar in Bucharest,  Romania .  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends that  trading  of Treasuries halt tomorrow in the U.S.
at 2 p.m. New York time before Memorial Day. Financial markets
there will be closed for the holiday May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  