-- 
That Recession Forecast? Yield Curve Says No Way: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-05-26T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/recession-forecasts-yield-curve-says-no-way-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Green shoots are proliferating in
gardens across America, but for some forecasters it already
looks like the end of summer. A few are even hinting at
 recession  by year-end. That’s highly unlikely.  While black swans have gained a new cachet following the
prices-can’t-fall-nationwide housing bust and the financial
meltdown it triggered, the most important leading indicator, the
yield curve, is saying there will be no recession anytime soon.  With the  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark rate at zero to 0.25
percent and the 10-year Treasury note yielding 3.06 percent, the
spread between the two interest rates is among the widest in
history. It’s the reverse configuration, an inverted yield curve
with short rates above long rates, that augurs recession.  The spread -- or the "term structure of interest rates," as
it’s known in academic circles -- isn’t some mystical talisman
with omniscient powers. It derives its prognosticating ability
from the simple fact that one rate is artificially pegged by the
central bank while the other is determined by the market. Their
relationship encapsulates the stance of monetary policy.  When the yield curve is steep, as it is now, it’s an
inducement for banks to expand their balance sheets -- borrow
short, lend long -- and increase the  money supply . That bank
credit isn’t growing now owes more to the hangover from a period
of excess leverage and new-found religion on lending standards
than any restrictive policy on the part of the Fed.  In a similar situation in the early 1990s, following
another real-estate-driven banking crisis, it took years for
financial institutions to start lending again.  The Curve Inverts  The time to worry about recession is when the Fed raises
the funds rate to the point where the yield curve inverts.
Within a year or two, it’s curtains for the economy.  The yield curve is one of 10 components of the Index of
Leading Economic Indicators. It wasn’t added to the LEI in 1996
on a random role of the dice. It’s in there because it has
proved to be a reliable predictor of the economy.  Not only that. Historically the yield curve has been the
first of the leading indicators to signal a turn in the business
cycle, according to economists at the Conference Board, the
keeper of the LEI.  The typical lead time is 15 to 16 months at the business
cycle peak and nine months at the trough, according to Ataman
Ozyildirim, associate director of the U.S. and global indicators
program at the Conference Board. With the spread currently about
300 basis points and the Fed in no hurry to raise short-term
rates, recession isn’t in the cards.  In the most recent business cycle, the fed funds rate first
rose above the 10-year Treasury yield in June 2006. The
recession started in December 2007, which gave doubters 18
months to protest that "this time is different" before an
inverted yield curve proved them wrong again.  Something Different  "This time," the reason -- and there’s always some
explanation why the spread means something different this time -
- was the "global savings glut," which was directed to U.S.
Treasuries and depressed long-term rates.  This time wasn’t different. And it has never been different
for the past seven recessions, starting with the one in 1969-70.
Yet every time the curve inverts, especially if the economy
appears to be cruising along, economists refuse to believe the
message, arguing, for example, that changes in the structure of
the economy might change the relationship between the yield
curve and economic activity.  Haven’t I seen the proliferation of weak economic
indicators in the past few weeks? What about the debt crisis
roiling  Europe  and central banks in emerging-market countries
that are raising  interest rates  to curtail inflation? How about
all the foreclosed homes that banks will eventually dump on an
already depressed market? Commodities have rolled over, stock
markets are shaky and the yield curve is nothing more than two
points connected by a line.  Zero Benchmark Rate  Yes, I’ve seen or read all of the above. And I’ll still
take the two points connected by a line over all the coincident
readings on the economy’s health.  The Fed’s benchmark rate is at zero, providing a powerful
incentive to arbitrage the yield curve, reach for higher returns
and party until the central bank threatens to take the punch
bowl away.  A $15 trillion economy doesn’t turn on a dime. Listening to
the commentary, you’d think that one day inflation is ready to
take off and the next the economy is struggling to stay afloat.  In the real world, things don’t change that quickly. The
past seven expansions lasted 71 months, on average. The current
one is not quite two years old. And by some metrics, it has yet
to get going.  So if you think the  U.S. economy  is headed into recession
in a matter of months, then I have some Greek debt to sell you.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net . 