-- 
Republicans to Hone Medicare Pitch After New York Loss in House Contest

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-26T18:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/republicans-to-hone-medicare-pitch-after-new-york-election-loss.html
Republicans are vowing to prevent the
2012 election from becoming a referendum on their proposal to
privatize Medicare after a New York Democrat who opposed the
plan won a vacant U.S. House seat.  Democrat Kathy Hochul scored an upset in a traditionally
Republican western New York district in a May 24 special
election after hammering opponent Jane Corwin for endorsing the
Medicare plan approved in April by almost all  House Republicans .  “We knew that the first person that threw something on the
table was going to get the living crap beat out of them” and
“we might be beat up in the elections in the future,”
Republican Representative Mike Simpson of  Idaho  said in an
interview. “But you got to be willing to take that if you want
to reform the system.”  All but four House Republicans voted last month for Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s proposal containing the Medicare
plan. It would replace the current system with a subsidy to help
senior citizens buy private health insurance, starting with
those who turn 65 in 2022. In the Senate yesterday, five
Republicans joined Democrats in opposing the proposal when it
failed on a procedural vote.  In her campaign, Hochul, 52, said the Republican plan would
shortchange senior citizens while preserving tax cuts for
“millionaires and billionaires.” Republicans say they are
ready to respond to this argument.  ‘Epic Battle’  “It’s going to be a hard sell,” said Republican
Representative Tom Rooney, whose  Florida constituency  has one of
the five oldest populations of the 435 congressional districts.
The 2012 election fight over Medicare will “be an epic battle
in politicking,” he said.  Rooney, first elected in 2008, said he will continue
holding town-hall meetings with constituents to explain the plan
and give voters a chance to vent.  “If I don’t do that, I could very well lose my election,”
Rooney said. “We all know we are putting our neck on the line.”  Simpson said the Republican “counterattack” will be that
Republicans, not Democrats, are trying to save Medicare from
insolvency.  Democrats will continue to say “‘you’re ending Medicare as
we know it.’ That’s true, we are ending Medicare as you know
it,” Simpson said. “We are trying to take it from insolvent to
solvent because if it stays where it is, it’s not going to be
there for anybody.”  ‘Small Part’  House Speaker  John Boehner  stressed that message today
after saying that a “small part of the reason” Corwin lost her
race “clearly had to do with Medicare.”  “The only plan out there to preserve and protect Medicare
for current and future retirees is the plan that we put
forward,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters. “The
Democrats have no plan, which is going to lead to bankruptcy”
and benefit cuts, he said.  Under the plan proposed by Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican,
participants in a privatized Medicare would pay a higher
percentage of their health-care costs than under the current
system, the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates. Medicare
trustees have estimated that without changes to the program, it
won’t be able to pay full benefits starting in 2024. Democrats
say they can preserve Medicare by creating savings without
turning it over to private insurers.  Public Opinion  Polls showing public opposition to privatizing Medicare
have put Republicans on the defensive in the aftermath of their
gain of 63 House seats in last year’s midterm elections, which
gave them control of the chamber. In a March 4-7 Bloomberg
National Poll, a Medicare voucher plan was opposed by 54 percent
of respondents compared with 40 percent supporting it.  “It’s not a good place to be politically right now,” said
Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, a Maryland
Democrat. “I don’t know how they back off, they are so far out
there on the record.”  Alan Abramowitz , a political scientist at Emory University
in Atlanta, said that even before this week’s New York vote,
“Republican party leaders and officeholders were becoming
increasingly nervous about the public reaction to the Ryan
plan.”  ‘Obamacare’ Focus  “We can expect to see them try to shift the focus from the
Ryan plan itself to the risks posed by ‘Obamacare’ to
Medicare,” Abramowitz said, referring to the health-care
overhaul enacted last year when Democrats controlled both
congressional chambers.  Ryan released a five-minute  video  yesterday in which he
offered a tutorial on the financial problems facing Medicare.  Medicare is “headed for a painful collapse,” he said in
the video. “We can save Medicare, but we have to reform it so
that it delivers the high quality we expect at a price we can
afford.”  Abramowitz said Ryan’s video emphasized a description of
the problem, signaling a shift away from the details of his
plan.  Last year, Medicare trustees projected that the savings
from President Barack Obama’s 2010 health-care law would
postpone the program’s insolvency from 2017 to 2029. That date
was revised earlier this month by the trustees.  Top Priority  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday that his party has made securing Medicare’s
future a top priority. Provisions of the health-care overhaul
will produce savings to extend the program’s life, he said,
including $166 million in savings on  prescription drugs  this
year.  “These are the kind of changes we need to make -- get rid
of the fat, fraud, waste and abuse and strengthen Medicare while
preserving our promise to seniors,” Reid told reporters.  Republicans are already preparing their strategy on
Medicare, said Rooney, who was among 20 lawmakers who met with
Ryan and other Republican leaders the day of Hochul’s election
victory to hone their arguments.  The party can prevail “by playing offense and stating the
choice: doing something or doing nothing, which means bankruptcy
and cuts in current benefits for current beneficiaries,” said
Pennsylvania Republican Representative Charlie Dent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at +1-
   jarowle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  