-- 
Republican Senators Question Geithner on Debt-Limit Deadline

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-26T17:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/republican-senators-question-geithner-on-debt-limit-deadline.html
A group of Republican senators sent a
letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  questioning his
warning of a possible default if Congress doesn’t raise the U.S.
debt ceiling by an August deadline.  The 17 Republicans, including  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina 
and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, accused Geithner of ignoring
some methods he could use to forestall a default of government
obligations to bondholders, including cutting federal programs.  “We believe it is irresponsible and harmful for you to sow
the seeds of doubt in the market regarding the full faith and
credit of the United States and ask that you set the record
straight -- that you will use all available Treasury funds
necessary to prevent default while Congress addresses the
looming debt crisis,” the senators wrote in a letter dated May
23 and released by DeMint today.  Geithner  told  Congress in a May 2 letter that lawmakers
need to act by Aug. 2, almost a month later than he previously
estimated. Delaying action “risks a loss of confidence” and a
U.S. default would have a “catastrophic economic effect,” he
wrote.  Republicans in both chambers are demanding large spending
cuts in exchange for an increase in the debt limit. Vice
President  Joe Biden  is leading bipartisan talks with six
lawmakers geared toward drafting an accord. The group is meeting
in the Capitol today.  Some of the Republicans who signed the letter to Geithner
have previously said he is trying to stampede Congress into
approving the boost by warning of a crisis they reject as
exaggerated.  ‘Enforcement Mechanism’  In the letter, they referred to the debt-ceiling deadline
as a “budget enforcement mechanism.”  It’s time to “address the looming fiscal crisis, cut
spending, reform entitlements, implement spending caps, and pass
a balanced budget constitutional amendment before considering
any increase in the federal debt ceiling,” they wrote. “These
are the contours of the debate before the American people this
spring and summer.”  Other Republican senators who signed the letter include
 Mike Lee  of Utah,  Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin, Tom Coburn of
Oklahoma, Mike Johanns of Nebraska and Orrin Hatch of Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  