-- 
Republicans Ponder Plan for 20% Small-Business Tax Deduction

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-26T22:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/republicans-edge-away-from-tax-deduction.html
Republicans in the U.S. House aren’t
rushing to embrace a small-business tax break included in their
campaign platform last year.  The  proposal , which would provide a 20 percent deduction
for companies with 500 or fewer employees, wasn’t included in a
jobs plan released today by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican.  The spending plan that  House Republicans  passed in
April included language giving lawmakers budgetary room to
advance the concept. Republican leaders haven’t introduced
separate legislation to enact it.  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, said he wanted to consider the idea as part of
a broader overhaul of the tax code. Without ruling out a special
deduction for small businesses, he called for a rewrite of the
tax code to lower rates and eliminate special tax breaks.  “We will incorporate tax relief for small business in our
fundamental tax reform package that will be comprehensive,”
Camp, a Michigan Republican, said today in  Washington  when asked
about the omission of the small-business proposal. “What we’re
looking at is having as low a rate as possible with as few
exceptions, deductions, provisions, tax expenditures,
preferences that we can have in the bill for simplicity, for
certainty.”  The proposal in the 2010 campaign pledge was based on
legislation Camp wrote that would provide a 20 percent deduction
for two years.  Capital Infusion  “This will provide entrepreneurs with a much-needed
infusion of capital for investment and new hiring,” the pledge
said.  As written last year, the $25 billion tax break wouldn’t
have applied to income from banking, insurance, professional
sports teams, golf courses and country clubs, massage parlors,
hot-tub and suntan facilities, gambling and animal-racing
properties and the adult-film industry.  The deduction’s omission from the Republican jobs plan
doesn’t mean it has been abandoned, said Brad Dayspring, a
spokesman for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican. Dayspring, in an e-mail, deferred to Camp on details
of how it would be incorporated into a  tax-code  overhaul.  Echoing previous statements by Camp, the jobs plan calls
for top rates of 25 percent for corporations and individuals,
down from the current 35 percent.  Territorial System  The plan also calls for the U.S. to switch to a territorial
tax system in which the government would exempt from taxation
most profits earned outside the country. The U.S. now taxes
profits earned outside the U.S. when the money is brought home,
after allowing credits for taxes paid to other governments.  Camp said he wanted to consider the status of profits
currently held overseas as part of his broader bill. Other
Republicans, including Cantor and Representative Kevin Brady of
 Texas , want a one-time holiday on repatriated profits. They are
supported by companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Camp, who has been holding hearings and closed-door
bipartisan meetings on the tax code said he didn’t have a
“specific timeline” for proposing an overhaul measure.  “We’re continuing to work on it, but I’m not putting out a
particular timeline,” he said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said yesterday that the
administration would focus more on corporate taxation after the
current debate over raising the national debt limit is finished.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  