-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Weaker U.S. Dollar Boosts Oil, Metals

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-27T15:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/riocan-royal-bank-of-canada-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose, extending a
weekly gain, as a weaker  U.S. dollar  and speculation the global
economy is improving boosted the prices of metals and crude oil.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,  Canada ’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, advanced 3 percent after Group of Eight leaders said
the recovery is gaining momentum.  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s
fourth-largest precious-metals company by market value,
increased 1.5 percent as the U.S. dollar slipped after U.S.
consumer spending lagged behind most economists’ forecasts.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest bank, dropped 2.5
percent after its second-quarter profit trailed the average
analyst estimate by 8.4 percent, excluding certain items.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 59.18
points, or 0.4 percent, to 13,835.08 at 10:52 a.m. in Toronto.  The stock benchmark gained 3 percent from May 13 to
yesterday and is set for its biggest two-week advance since Feb.
4. Raw-materials and energy companies climbed as analysts at
banks including Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said commodity prices are likely to
rebound. Those industries make up 48 percent of Canadian stocks
by market value.  “The global recovery is gaining strength and is becoming
more self-sustained,” G-8 leaders said in a draft statement
from Deauville,  France , where they are meeting.  Oil,  Natural Gas   Crude oil advanced, and natural gas surged as much as 4
percent as meteorologists forecast above-normal temperatures for
the eastern and central U.S.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
increased 0.9 percent to C$41.48.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , the
country’s fifth-biggest energy company, climbed 2 percent to
C$36.18 for a fifth-straight gain. Bonavista Energy Corp., which
produces oil and gas in western Canada, rallied 2.3 percent to
C$29.19.  Base-metal and coal producers rose as copper futures headed
for a third-straight weekly gain.  Teck advanced 3 percent to C$50.60.  Sherritt International
Corp. (S) , which mines coal, nickel and cobalt, surged 4.1 percent
to C$7.05. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which is developing a copper and
gold mine in  Mongolia  with Rio Tinto Group, increased 3.9
percent to C$25.10.  Precious-metals companies climbed as the U.S. dollar
retreated against all 16 other major currencies.  Kinross, Barrick  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s third-largest gold producer,
rose 2.8 percent to C$15.44 for a ninth-straight gain, the
longest streak since at least 1993.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
world’s biggest producer of the metal, gained 1 percent to
C$46.68. Silver Wheaton advanced 1.5 percent to C$35.83.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest company by market value, fell
2.8 percent to C$57.50 after saying earnings from  investment
banking  declined. Yesterday, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce reported profit that lagged behind
their average analyst estimates.  Earlier today, Royal Bank slumped as much as 3 percent in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading, the most in five months.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  dropped 0.8
percent to C$42.34 after  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc., said product delays, lower sales or margins and
reduced support from carrier partners may hurt the company in
the next six to 12 months. Misek made the remarks in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  