-- 
Rod Blagojevich, on Stand, Denies Charges in Chicago Trial

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-27T00:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/rod-blagojevich-takes-witness-stand-in-second-chicago-corruption-trial.html
Rod Blagojevich , the ex-Illinois
governor on trial for the second time for alleged political
corruption, denied some of the charges against him in a day of
testimony sprinkled with celebrity references.  Blagojevich, 54, took the witness stand for the first time
in either trial, fulfilling repeated promises he made in media
interviews to tell his side of the story since his 2008 arrest
on charges he tried to trade President Barack Obama’s Illinois
U.S. Senate seat for campaign contributions and personal favors.  “I’m Rod Blagojevich. I used to be your governor,” he
said when asked by defense lawyer Aaron Goldstein to introduce
himself to the jury. “I am here today to tell you the truth.”  The twice-elected Democrat is accused of 10 wire-fraud
counts plus charges of attempted extortion and extortion
conspiracy, a conviction for any one of which could result in a
20-year prison sentence. He’s also accused of bribery.  He mounted no defense in his first trial last year, which
ended with his conviction on a single count of lying to federal
agents. Jurors deadlocked on 23 other charges.  Prosecutors have since dropped two racketeering-related
counts and a wire-fraud charge.  The crime of knowingly making false statements to
government agents, for which last year’s jury found him guilty,
carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison. Blagojevich
hasn’t been sentenced in that case.  Strayed Off Topic  Blagojevich repeatedly strayed off topic when answering
defense lawyer Goldstein’s queries, prompting objections from
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reid Schar  and an admonishment to his
lawyer from U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel.  “I urge you, Mr. Goldstein, for the benefit of your
client, ask questions quickly,” the judge said.  Blagojevich also laced his responses with references to
celebrities including actors Michael Landon, Dyan Cannon and
Farrah Fawcett, real-estate developer  Donald Trump , talk show
host Regis Philbin and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  He denied prosecutors allegations that he attempted to
“shake down” one-time U.S. Representative and current Chicago
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  and suburban race track owner John Johnston
for campaign contributions in exchange for official acts.  He also denied a claim made at the trial yesterday by U.S.
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. of  Chicago , a defense witness
who, on cross-examination by prosecutors, claimed Blagojevich
had once demanded a $25,000 campaign contribution from him.  State Job  Jackson told the court that after he’d declined to make the
donation, his wife, Sandi was passed over for a state job. When
the governor and congressman next saw each other, Blagojevich
said, “You should have given me that $25,000,” Jackson
testified.  Johnston, according to the U.S., was solicited by former
Blagojevich aide and friend Lon Monk for a $100,000 campaign
contribution in exchange for the governor’s signing of 2008
legislation to divert casino revenues to the horse racing
industry.  “Did you ever shake down Johnny Johnston?” Goldstein
asked.  “No,” Blagojevich replied.  Johnston collaborated on a 2002 fundraiser for Blagojevich,
held at Yankee Stadium in  New York  with Trump, Philbin and the
team’s late owner,  George Steinbrenner  in attendance.  Chicago Upbringing  Blagojevich also denied withholding a $2 million grant to a
school in then-Congressman Emanuel’s Chicago district, as
leverage to compel the mayor’s brother and Hollywood agent, Ari Emanuel, to hold a campaign fundraiser.  Blagojevich spent much of the morning telling jurors about
his upbringing in a five-room Chicago apartment where he lived
with his father Rade, mother Millie and older brother Robert.  He said he’d dreamed of being a professional baseball
player, yet in his sole 20-game Little League season, he had one
hit in 12 times at bat, compiling an .083 batting average.  “The coach would exile me to right field because that’s
where the fewest balls were hit,” the former governor said.
That didn’t dissuade him from trying out, unsuccessfully, for
his high school team.  After high school, he worked on the Alaska pipeline, a fact
Blagojevich said he’d shared with Palin when the two met about a
week before his arrest in 2008.  ‘Propensity to Dream’  “I picked up my dad’s propensity to dream,” Blagojevich
said, his voice catching as he added that his father died in
1989 and didn’t live to see his son elected to public office.  His mother, who died in 1999, saw her son start his
political career.  “Like most mothers, she would have preferred I was in
another business,” Blagojevich said.  Blagojevich said he graduated from  Northwestern University ,
in the Chicago suburb of Evanston, with a degree in history.  After college, Blagojevich took jobs including pizza
delivery and working for the Helene Curtis Industries Inc.
cosmetics company, which gave him free shampoo. He then attended
law school at  Pepperdine University  in Malibu,  California .  He described his first year in law school as “almost
catastrophic,” and said he was put on academic probation.
Distractions, including seeing Landon, Cannon and Fawcett
training at his local health club, made for an atmosphere that
“was not that conducive to studying law.”  When Goldstein asked him to explain his pompadour
hairstyle, Blagojevich said it was “a remnant of the 1970s
disco culture, a time in which “a hairbrush is an extension of
your right hand.”  “That hasn’t changed,” Blagojevich said.  His testimony is set to continue tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 