-- 
Rousseff Says She May Veto Brazil Bill Forgiving Logging

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-26T17:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/rousseff-says-she-may-veto-brazil-bill-forgiving-logging-1-.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
said she may veto part of a bill approved by the lower house
that pardons loggers and farmers who illegally deforested land,
including parts of the Amazon rain forest.  Speaking to reporters in Brasilia, Rousseff said she
opposes the amnesty granted by the lower house to loggers, and
will work with the Senate to alter the law.  “I have the prerogative to veto it,” Rousseff said. “If
I judge that anything is damaging the country, I’ll veto it.”  Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon jumped almost sixfold
in March and April from the same period last year, led by the
destruction of trees in Mato Grosso, the country’s biggest
soybean-producing state. Environmentalists have been fighting
farm groups to block the bill since it was introduced in 2009.
If senators amend the bill, it will return to the lower house
before being sent to Rousseff for her signature.  The legislation, which alters parts of  Brazil ’s 1965
forestry code, contradicts Brazil’s pledge at a 2009 climate-
change summit in Copenhagen to slow the pace of deforestation in
the Amazon and reduce  carbon emissions , the head of  Greenpeace’s 
Brazilian forest preservation campaign Marcio Astrini said
yesterday.  “I don’t know if Dilma supports the bill, but I know that
this bill is against Dilma’s pledges to control emissions and
reduce deforestation,” Astrini said in an interview yesterday.  Beef, Soybeans  Brazil is the world’s biggest beef exporter and has the
largest soybean crop after the U.S. Soy output will increase 7.2
percent this year to 73.7 million tons, the  Agriculture Ministry 
said this month. Mato Grosso, which produced 27 percent of
Brazil’s last soybean harvest, will boost production 8.8 percent
to 20.4 million tons, according to ministry figures.  Environment activists Jose Claudio Ribeiro da Silva and
Maria do Espirito Santo were killed in an ambush May 24 morning
by gunmen in Nova Ipixuna, Para state. The couple protested
against illegal extraction of wood in the region. Rousseff has
asked the federal police to take over the case.  Under amendments to the bill, which was approved by the
house in a 410-63 vote, state governments would have the
authority to determine which parts of their land owners need to
preserve or recover. The legislation also prevents the
government from fining farmers who cleared parts of the Amazon,
a national preservation zone.  Deforestation in the world’s largest rain forest increased
in March and April to 593 square kilometers (229 square miles),
about the size of Toronto, from 103.5 square kilometers in the
same period last year, the National Institute for Space Research
said May 18. In January and February, 19.2 square kilometers of
forest were destroyed.  Tropical forests are disappearing at a rate of about 13
million hectares (32 million acres) each year, or an area the
size of  Greece , according to a  United Nations Environment
Program  report published May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  