-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Rise Following U.S. Stocks

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-26T21:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-rise-following-u-s-stocks.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained after U.S. corporate profits exceeded forecasts,
outweighing concern that economic growth is slowing.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
advanced 0.4 percent yesterday, signaling the Micex Index may
rebound in Moscow trading today. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, the
country’s biggest oil producer, rose 0.4 percent while those on
OAO Lukoil, the second-largest, added 0.6 percent. Futures on
OAO Gazprom, the world’s top gas producer, climbed 0.5 percent.  “Russia’s economy is much more exposed to global trends
than is the case for other big emerging markets,”  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at UralSib Securities in Moscow, said via e-
mail. “The stock market reflects that and usually amplifies
either the optimism or pessimism in markets such as  Wall
Street .”  U.S. stocks rose for a second day as higher corporate
profits at companies including Tiffany & Co. overshadowed data
showing the economy grew at a slower rate than forecast while
jobless claims unexpectedly rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,325.69 at 4 p.m. in New York after earlier retreating as much
as 0.5 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.1
percent to 12,402.76. Both benchmark gauges snapped a three-day
drop.  U.S. Economy   The U.S. economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a smaller gain in
 consumer spending  than previously calculated. The revised
increase in gross domestic product was the same as estimated
last month and compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the prior
quarter, Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 2.2
percent increase.  More Americans unexpectedly filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is
struggling to gain momentum.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.6 percent. Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs declined
0.3 percent.  The 30-stock, ruble-denominated Micex Index dropped 0.6
percent to 1,606.21 yesterday, snapping two days of gains.
Lukoil dropped 1 percent. OAO Novatek, the country’s biggest
non-state gas company, retreated 1.3 percent. OAO
Surgutneftegas, an oil producer, declined 2 percent.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,818.36.  Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter and produces
metals including gold, silver, copper, nickel, palladium and
aluminum. Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of the
economic output.  Crude oil for July delivery fell $1.09, or 1.1 percent, to
settle at $100.23 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.
Prices have increased 40 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  