-- 
Russia Urges Mandatory Nuclear Safety Rules After Japan Accident

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-26T16:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/russia-urges-mandatory-nuclear-safety-rules-after-japan-accident.html
Russia  called for nuclear safety
rules to be tightened and made mandatory at an international
level after the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic plant.  “There is no alternative but to strengthen these rules,”
Nikolai Spassky, deputy head of Russia’s Rosatom Corp. holding,
told reporters today during the Group of Eight summit in
Deauville, France. “All countries which are developing a
nuclear industry have to recognize this.”  Other G-8 nations, including France, the U.S. and Japan,
support Russia’s proposal, said Spassky. The world’s major
powers now have to convince other countries that are building
power plants to accept stringent controls, he said.  “With the newcomers, it will require a serious amount of
persuasion,” said Spassky.  G-8 leaders urged a “periodic review of safety
assessments” by all nuclear countries in light of the lessons
learned from Fukushima, according to a draft statement prepared
for the summit.  European Union members  have already committed to
conducting so-called stress tests on nuclear plants to assess
their safety.  “The European criteria used in the stress tests being
carried out by EU members will be a benchmark,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at the summit.  In a reference to German plans to speed the exit from
atomic power, the draft included a recognition of “different
approaches” to the contribution of nuclear to a country’s
energy mix, “including the phasing in or the phasing out” of
plants.  The nuclear crisis at Fukushima, where three reactors went
into meltdown after the March earthquake and tsunami, was the
worst since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster in the former  Soviet
Union .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Deauville, France, via the Moscow newsroom at
   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  