-- 
South China Sea Oil Rush Risks Clashes as U.S. Emboldens Vietnam on Claims

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-27T11:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/s-china-sea-oil-rush-risks-clashes-as-u-s-emboldens-vietnam.html
Vietnam and the Philippines are
pushing forward oil and gas exploration projects in areas of the
South  China  Sea claimed by China, sparking a fresh clash in one
of the world’s busiest shipping corridors.  State-owned PetroVietnam’s partner  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) 
aims to begin drilling next year in a separate block that China
awarded to a U.S. rival and has protected with gunboats. Ricky Carandang, a spokesman for President Benigno Aquino, said the
Philippines plans to exploit a field in an area of the sea where
Chinese patrol boats harassed a survey vessel in March.  The neighbors of China, which has  Asia ’s largest military,
were emboldened after the U.S.  asserted interest  in the waters
last year, said James A. Lyons Jr., a former U.S. Pacific Fleet
commander. A surge in crude prices to near $100 a barrel also
spurred Vietnam and the Philippines to pursue the oil needed to
meet economic growth targets of at least 7 percent this year.  “With the economic situation in the Philippines and
 Vietnam , the exploration for oil and gas makes good economic
sense,” said Lyons, who led the Pacific Fleet from 1985 to 1987
and is now president of  Lion Associates LLC , a Warrenton,
Virgina-based business advisory company. “They depend on the
 United States  to provide the overarching security umbrella.”  Cut Cables  Vietnam protested to China over an incident yesterday in
which it says three Chinese vessels cut the survey cables of a
ship belonging to Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, more commonly known
as PetroVietnam. The confrontation occurred inside lot 148, 120
nautical miles off the coast of Phu Yen province, the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs in Hanoi said in a faxed statement. Lot 148
is also claimed by China.  China asserts “indisputable sovereignty” over  most  of the
 South China Sea , including oil and gas fields more than three
times further from its coast than they are from Vietnam.
Exploration in waters under China’s jurisdiction infringes its
“sovereignty and interests and is illegal,” the Foreign
Ministry in Beijing said May 12.  Maritime disputes may be discussed at an annual security
forum in  Singapore  starting June 3 that will include a speech
from Chinese Defense Minister Liang Guanglie. At last year’s
event, Defense Secretary Robert Gates said the U.S. opposed
efforts to “intimidate” companies operating in the sea.  The Philippines  protested  April 5 to the  United Nations 
that a Chinese  map  laying out its claims had “no basis under
international law.” Taiwan,  Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and Brunei also
have overlapping claims with China.  ‘Legitimate Licenses’  Talisman,  Canada ’s third-largest oil company by market
value, will start exploratory drilling about 1,000 kilometers
(625 miles) from China’s Hainan island, located off its southern
coast, after a seismic program this year, according to a
 corporate presentation  on its website this month. The Calgary-
based company is partnered with Hanoi-based PetroVietnam.  “We have what we believe are legitimate licenses,” John Manzoni, Talisman’s chief executive officer, said in a May 4
interview. The company plans to push ahead “at a normal pace.”  Talisman’s blocks 133 and 134, about 300 kilometers from
Vietnam, are known as WAB-21 in China -- which in 1992 awarded
Crestone Energy Corp. the site, now owned by Houston-based
 Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR)   China “did indicate it was very concerning to them and
that they would intervene in some way,” Harvest CEO James Edmiston said in response to questions about Talisman’s license
in an August interview.  Ordered to Leave  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans an exploratory well off Vietnam
this year, Mark W. Albers, a senior vice president, said in a
March 9 meeting with analysts. The Irving, Texas-based company
is developing Block 119, state-run Vietnam News reported March
31, without saying where it got the information. Part of the
site sits in waters claimed by China.  Details of exploration programs are confidential, Exxon
Mobil spokesman Patrick McGinn said by e-mail.  Two Chinese patrol boats in March ordered a ship doing
seismic work for  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  to leave an area near disputed
waters about 250 kilometers west of the Philippines’ island of
Palawan, Philippines Army Lieutenant General Juancho Sabban said
at the time. The Chinese left the area after two military
aircraft were deployed, he said.  The contract area for Chertsey, U.K.-based Forum Energy
lies in waters China, Vietnam and the Philippines agreed to
explore jointly in an arrangement that lapsed in 2008. Majority
owned by Manila-based  Philex Mining Corp. (PX) , Forum plans to drill
wells there, it said in a March 15 statement.  The field the Philippines plans to exploit is a “very
important” part of Aquino’s plan to cut oil imports, spokesman
Carandang said by phone May 16.  ‘Not Bullied’  American policy makers have put forward the U.S., which has
defense treaties with the  Philippines  and  Thailand  and
guarantees Taiwan’s security, as a counterbalance to China. More
than half of the world’s merchant fleet by tonnage passes
through the South China Sea each year, according to
 GlobalSecurity.org , a research group in Alexandria, Virginia.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  declared a “national
interest in the freedom of navigation and unimpeded lawful
commerce” in the waters at a regional meeting in Hanoi in
October.  That statement gave Southeast Asian nations “a little more
confidence,” said Michael Green, a former Asia specialist at
the U.S. National Security Council who is now at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington . “It took
somebody to say ‘we’re not going to be bullied.’”  China’s Shrinking Reserves  The U.S. navy has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since World
War II. China has bolstered its forces over the past decade,
procuring nuclear-powered submarines and developing an aircraft
carrier, according to a Defense Department report in August.  In a 1988 skirmish over the Spratly islands, China  killed 
more than 70 Vietnamese troops and sank several ships, according
to the U.S.  Energy Information Administration . In 1994, Chinese
warships were sent to stop Vietnamese drilling.  Chinese studies cited by the EIA suggest the waters sit
atop more than 14 times BP Plc estimates of the country’s oil
reserves and 10 times those for gas. China’s oil reserves have
shrunk almost 40 percent since 2001 as the economy expanded 10.5
percent a year on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vietnam’s domestic gas demand is  set to triple  by 2025,
according to World Bank estimates. The Philippines plans to
boost hydrocarbon reserves by 40 percent in the next two decades
to reduce its almost total reliance on imports, according to a
department of energy  plan .  ‘Tough Political Decision’  Going it alone may be a negotiating tactic, said Marshall Mays, director of Emerging Alpha in  Hong Kong . China and its
neighbors are likely “working on the assumption that a
negotiated split of revenues” will be agreed, he said.  The 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  has
made little progress in negotiating a binding code of conduct
for the sea with China since 2002.  “By agreeing to a joint exploration you ipso facto
recognize the legitimacy of the claims of the other countries,”
said Ralf Emmers, a professor at the  S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies  in Singapore. “That’s a very tough
political decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  