-- 
SAT Test Demanding Teen Information Prompts Regulator Query

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-05-27T21:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/sat-test-owner-to-face-query-on-teen-privacy-from-lawmakers.html
U.S. Representatives Ed Markey and
 Joe Barton  asked the  College Board , owner of the SAT college
entrance exam, to explain how it collects and stores data from
students as the government seeks to bolster teen privacy laws.  Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Barton, a Republican
from  Texas , requested the same information from College Board
competitor  ACT Inc. , including disclosure and privacy policies,
in letters to the nonprofit organizations today. Copies of the
letters were posted on Markey’s  website .  Both companies collect data from millions of teenagers
annually as they register for SAT and ACT tests and then sell
their names and personal information to colleges, which use them
in direct marketing to potential applicants. While Markey and
Barton introduced a bill this month to expand a children’s
online privacy law to teenagers, the proposal doesn’t cover
nonprofit companies, such as the  College Board  and ACT.  “There should be some kind of regulatory control over what
even a nonprofit can be culling from students,” said Pam Dixon,
executive director of the World Privacy Forum, a nonprofit
public interest research group in Cardiff by the Sea,
 California .  Letter’s Questions  The letters include 12 groups of questions and asked for a
response by June 16. The College Board and ACT were asked
whether they make students aware that the information collected
doesn’t affect the chances of getting into college and about how
secure the data storage is. The congressmen also ask about the
sale of the information and who is buying the data.  “ACT has the greatest respect for students and we follow
industry standard security measures to protect their privacy,”
Scott Gomer, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The company is reviewing the congressmen’s letter and will
respond in a timely manner, Gomer said. ACT’s  privacy policy  is
available on its website, he said.  “Protecting the privacy and security of the students who
participate in College Board programs has always been a top
priority for our organization,” Kathleen Steinberg, a
spokeswoman for the College Board, said yesterday. She declined
to make further comment today.  ‘Less Than Voluntary’  The College Board’s  database  of student names includes
about 5.1 million with e-mail addresses. The New York-based
company had $63 million in revenue from its business that
includes name-selling in the year ended June 2010. Iowa City,
Iowa-based ACT took in $7.5 million in revenue from its
Educational Opportunity Service for the most recent year, which
ended in August, the company said. It has a database of 2.4
million names of high school sophomores, juniors and seniors.  “Given the kids’ ages and the setting in which the data is
collected, there are elements that read as less than voluntary
because these tests are usually required to get into college,”
said Dixon. In 2009, she testified before a joint congressional
subcommittee about data collection.  Markey and Barton’s proposed bill  would establish new
protections for 13- to 17-year-olds. Among the safeguards, the
legislation would prohibit online commercial companies from
using personal information of teens for targeted marketing
purposes, as well as limit collection of their personal and
geographic information.  ‘Golden Halo’  The Federal Trade Commission’s 1998  Children’s Online
Privacy Protection Act  prohibits personal information of
children 12 and under from being collected online without
“verifiable parental consent.” The proposed legislation ought
to include new authority for the FTC to regulate data-collection
practices of nonprofit groups that target teens for commercial-
like purposes, such as selling names to colleges, said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy,
a nonprofit consumer-protection advocacy group in  Washington .  “The Markey-Barton bill is focused on commercial
businesses, even though many of these same disturbing practices
are being conducted in a widespread fashion by nonprofit
organizations,” Chester said. “Nonprofit organizations operate
under a golden halo effect.”  The Education Department is trying to change its own
privacy regulations under the Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act, known as  FERPA , to expand sharing of educational
records of kindergarten to 12th graders. The testing companies’
data collection isn’t covered under FERPA.  33 Cents a Name  More than 90 percent of students who take the  SAT  register
online, said the College Board’s Steinberg. The same percentage
register online for ACT tests, said Ed Colby, a spokesman for
that company. Students are asked to “opt in” to the search
service to let schools and scholarship programs provide
materials. They can also opt out. Students aren’t told their
names will be sold and their parents aren’t asked for
permission.  The College Board and ACT sell student names and
information to colleges at 33 cents a name, according to the
companies. About 1,100 colleges and universities use the College
Board’s  Student Search Service , Jennifer Topiel, another College
Board spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Colleges perform searches based on bands of test scores to
create lists of prospective applicants. They can search on
criteria such as self-reported grades, ethnicity and religion,
generated by the survey questions asked of the students.  ‘Deer in the Headlights’  Universities buy names from the College Board and ACT
because they cannot obtain academic records directly from high
schools without student and parental consent, said Joel Reidenberg, a law professor who directs the  Center on Law and
Information Policy  at  Fordham University  in New York.  “The College Board and ACT exploit their role as
gatekeepers to college access and use that role to obtain
consent from minors to sell their information,” Reidenberg said.
“High schoolers are like deer in the headlights against a very
sophisticated marketing industry. Parents have no idea and the
law does not protect the students’ privacy. It should.”  While the College Board’s 39-year-old Student Search
Service has increased its volume by about 20 percent over the
past decade, it doesn’t release the total number of names sold
annually, spokeswoman Topiel said. ACT didn’t disclose how many
names it sells annually from its service, which started in 1970.  Both companies have public charity status because they
typically get more than a third of their support from membership
fees, contributions and gross receipts from activities related
to their exempt functions, according to tax filings.  Executive Pay  ACT had revenue of $238 million in its most recent tax
filing for the year ended August 2009. Richard Ferguson, who
retired as chief executive officer last year, had pay of about
$735,000, including about $85,000 in additional compensation
from ACT and related organizations, according to the filing.  Gaston Caperton, president of the College Board, had
earnings in the year ended June 2010 of $1.27 million, of which
$509,000 was deferred compensation, according to a filing. He
also got an estimated $45,500 from the company and related
organizations. The College Board reported total revenue of
$659.8 million in the period.  Parents should be asked for consent when their children are
answering personal questions on the surveys, said Anthony
Terrasse, whose son Weston received direct-marketing mail from
about three dozen colleges.  “Would they answer more questions if their parents were
supervising them and give out information that a lot of people
still want to keep private?” said Terrasse, a plastic surgeon in
 Lake Forest ,  Illinois .  Happy Birthday  Weston Terrasse, who plans to enter the  University of Notre
Dame  in  South Bend ,  Indiana , in August, began hearing from
colleges in his sophomore year of high school after he scored in
the 99th percentile on preliminary SAT and ACT tests. He got
mail from schools such as  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire ;  Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina ; and
 Princeton University  in Princeton,  New Jersey . He applied to all
and was rejected, he said in an interview.  Even now that his college search is finished, he is still
hearing from schools. On his 18th birthday earlier this month,
Terrasse got an e-mail from the  University of Arizona  in Tucson
wishing him well. The message said he was added to an e-mail
list after contacting the school.  “It’s a little concerning that they might know some
information,” said Terrasse, who said he never contacted the
school nor applied there.  Opt In, Opt Out  The  University of Arizona  has been sending birthday e-mails
for about two years, Kasey Urquidez, the dean of admissions,
said in a telephone interview. “We don’t feel it is anything out
of line.”  The university buys about 100,000 names from sources
including the College Board and ACT, and spends at least
$170,000 annually for paper brochures and booklets and buying
the names, Urquidez said. Students receive e-mails after opting
into College Board and ACT services, she said, even though the
language in the e-mail Terrasse received made it appear he had
requested it.  While prospective names are deleted each year, Urquidez
didn’t know of protocols required for deleting personal
information such as birthdates.  “I know we have very tight security across the board and
people are watching the information constantly to make sure it’s
not compromised,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York    jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 