-- 
HSBC, Goldman Held $335 Million of Libya State Funds, Global Witness Says

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-26T06:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/hsbc-goldman-held-335-million-of-libya-funds.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are among banks that held funds for Muammar Qaddafi’s
government investment fund, according to U.K. advocacy group
Global Witness.  HSBC held $292.7 million across 10 accounts and Goldman
Sachs had almost $44 million in four accounts as of June 30,
2010, according to a document on the Libyan Investment Authority
posted on London-based  Global Witness’s website . The banks
refused to confirm if they hold the funds, the group said.  The Libyan state fund lost 4.5 percent in market value from
the previous quarter, with total assets dropping to $53.3
billion, according to the report. Qaddafi has retained control
of the fund as he resists U.S.-supported attempts to unseat him.  “These are the Libyan people’s assets and they have a
right to share in them,” Gavin Hayman, a director at  Global
Witness , said from Hong Kong today. The advocacy group is
confident about the authenticity of the document and has
independently verified it, he said.  Governments should force banks and investment managers to
disclose the state-owned funds they manage, Global Witness said.
The group, founded in 1993, campaigns against natural resource-
related corruption and environmental and human rights abuses in
countries from Cambodia to Angola. It has more than 60 employees
in London and  Washington , according to its website.  Derivatives Plunge  Investments in equity derivatives with a book cost of
almost $1.25 billion plunged 98 percent in market value to $19.9
million as of June 30, according to the report on the state fund.
The Libyan Investment Authority’s deposits amounted to $19.8
billion, and it held $5.23 billion in shares and $3.39 billion
in bonds.  About $3.9 billion was invested in structured products with
 hedge funds  and investment banks, including more than $1 billion
at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and $171.5 million at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the document shows.  Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment. A Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
Societe Generale, who declined to be identified citing company
policy, said the bank can’t comment on specific clients or
transactions. Andrew Donohoe, a spokesman for JPMorgan in Sydney,
declined to comment.  “Our duty of confidentiality means we cannot comment on
any individuals or companies, even to confirm or deny they are
clients or customers,” Vinh Tran, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman
for HSBC, said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  