-- 
Scene Last Night: Offit, Ackman, Harvard Hillel, ’Agile City’

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-26T15:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/scene-last-night-offit-ackman-schreiber-harvard-hillel-agile-city-.html
William Ackman  said he found  Harvard
College  “a pretty WASPy place.”  “So what did I do? I joined the crew team to meet some
other Jewish kids.”  The chief executive officer of Pershing Square Capital
Management LP gave a rather intimate biography last night --
beginning with his circumcision, ending with marrying a Jewish
girl (to his parent’s delight) -- as the keynote speaker of the
Hillel Renaissance Award dinner.  Ackman was a chairman of the event, held at  Manhattan ’s
Pierre Hotel, along with others including Jeffrey Aronson, co-
founder of Centerbridge Partners LP and Brian Schreiber, AIG
executive vice president, treasury and capital markets. Guests
included Robert Harteveldt, global head of leveraged finance at
Jefferies Group Inc., and Leonard Feinstein, co-chairman of  Bed
Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)   The event honored Morris Offit, chairman of Offit Capital
Advisors LLC, and raised $1.75 million for Hillel: The
Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, which funds activities at
more than 550 college campuses.  Growing up in Chappaqua, New York, Ackman said he ate many
helpings of bagels and lox, chopped liver, pot roast and Chinese
food. There was also “spin the bottle” at the after-party for
his bar mitzvah.  At Harvard, he took a seminar on ethnicity taught by Martin
Peretz, which led him to write a paper, “Scaling the Ivy Wall:
The Jewish and Asian Experience in Harvard Admissions.”  “What’s fascinating about the university is that
controlling the admission policy at an important university has
an impact on the world,” Ackman said. “I made the argument
that Michael Chang would never have won the French Open if
Harvard hadn’t changed their admission policies.”  ‘Home Away From Home’  As for Shabbat dinners, the food at Harvard Hillel was much
better than on the rest of campus, he recalled. “I didn’t make
it there every Friday night but there was a connection. It was a
home away from home.”  The dinner last night was also homey, featuring chicken and
chocolate-chip cookies. Asked about Shabbat dinners on college
campuses today, Hillel executive directors reported innovation.  At  Brown University , student athletes gather for Shabbat
dinners on Thursday nights, as their sports schedules usually
send them off-campus on Shabbat.  At the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , when
NCAA finals fell on a Friday students held their Shabbat
services early and watched the games together.  “In North Carolina, Judaism is a religion, and basketball
is the religion,” said Ari Gauss, Hillel’s executive director
for the state.  James Russell Book  With  BookExpo America  in town -- one of the largest
gatherings of publishers in the country -- it has been a week
filled with book parties. Last night Bloomberg News celebrated
“The Agile City: Building Well-Being and Wealth in an Era of
 Climate Change ,” by James Russell, the U.S. architecture
columnist for the global news service. The book is published by
the nonprofit  Island Press .  The event was hosted by Manuela Hoelterhoff, executive
editor of Muse, Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. In a
slide-show presentation, Russell detailed projects that are
shining examples of reducing  carbon emissions : a parking garage
in Amsterdam has room for 5,000 bicycles; a building on the Yale
campus features a long, narrow shape to harness passing breezes
for ventilation.  Conservation of energy in the built environment “is low-
hanging fruit,” Russell said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 