-- 
SeatGeek Crunches Data to Help Sports, Music Fans Duck Scalpers

-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 
2011-05-26T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/seatgeek-crunches-numbers-to-help-sports-music-fans-avoid-price-gouging.html
Tickets to see the Milwaukee Brewers
play at home on a Wednesday night -- ideally for the last game
of a series -- may be the best deal in  Major League Baseball .  That’s the perfect combination of factors that leads to a
bargain, according to two-year-old startup  SeatGeek .  The number-crunching website aggregates sports and
entertainment tickets available on resale sites such as  StubHub ,
then mixes together millions of data points, some algorithms and
an easy-to-use interface to help fans find the best deal.  The process of buying tickets on the secondary market can
be maddening, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May 30
issue. Fly-by-night vendors and a lingering air of
illegality -- sidewalk scalping is still against the law in many
states, while online reselling isn’t -- make it hard to know
whom to trust, while price gougers make it tough to find a good
deal.  Resellers change ticket prices seemingly at random in a way
that maximizes their revenue and assumes “many consumers are
not strategic,” said Andrew T. Sweeting, a  Duke University 
economics professor.  Primary ticket sellers are getting in on the act, too, with
 Ticketmaster , sports teams and event promoters experimenting
with variable pricing.  “It’s kind of overwhelming, the malice people have toward
ticketing,” said SeatGeek Co-Founder Jack Groetzinger. “They
constantly feel like they are getting ripped off.”  Groetzinger and his co-founder, Russell D’Souza, both 26,
came up with the idea for SeatGeek in 2008 and started the site
a year later.  Celtics,  Red Sox   The former fraternity brothers were living in  Boston  and
wanted to see the Red Sox and the Celtics play. Tickets for both
teams are scarce and the college buddies were “overwhelmed by
the bad experience of buying online,” Groetzinger recalls.  They ended up spending hours bouncing among different
reseller sites, waiting to find the best prices. Data, they
thought, might bring transparency to the black hole of
ticketing.  Sites such as  Kayak  and  Orbitz  have long aggregated and
helped buyers sort through airline deals. A startup called
Farecast used historical data to predict changes in  air travel 
ticket prices starting in 2006. In 2008 it was bought by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which uses the technology in its  Bing  search
engine.  Tricky Market  Groetzinger and D’Souza quickly learned that making sense
out of event tickets is trickier than in air travel. While every
coach ticket on an airplane is more or less the same, seats for
events can vary greatly.  Searches on their site yield a list of most of the
available aftermarket tickets displayed on a large dynamic map
of the venue. Overlaid on the map is SeatGeek’s key feature: a
“Deal Score” that rates each ticket.  A big green dot over a seat means it’s a bargain; a small
red dot, not so much. Want to see  Taylor Swift  in Hartford,
 Connecticut , on June 22? The $90 seat in Row V of the nosebleed
section is a great value, as are the $195 tickets in front of
the stage.  Glancing at the map, users quickly understand that “there
are still good deals to be found,” said D’Souza.  The color-coded dots are powered by SeatGeek algorithms
that take into account such elements as how far a seat is from
home plate or the angle of a view to the stage, and what
Groetzinger calls the “irrational premium” fans put on sitting
in the first row of a section.  Win-Loss Record  Equally important is how the price compares with historical
data for similar concerts and seats at the venue. For sports
events, SeatGeek takes into account a team’s win-loss record,
how far the game is into a season and even  weather forecasts .  SeatGeek’s main rival,  FanSnap , uses a simpler formula to
create a short list of top deals for each event instead of
evaluating every available ticket.  “If it’s not worthy, it does not get listed,” said
FanSnap spokesman Christian Anderson.  Tom Davis, who co-founded a similar startup that closed
last year after a co-founder passed away, said that at one point
about a dozen sites tried to aggregate event tickets. Now,
“aside from SeatGeek, a lot of them have just frozen in time,”
he said.  SeatGeek doesn’t sell tickets directly. It links to the
seller’s site, like StubHub or  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   The sites then pay
SeatGeek a commission of 9 percent to 10 percent of each
transaction.  $2.3 Million Funding  SeatGeek, which refused to discuss its revenue, said the
average customer buys 2.5 tickets totaling $250 to $300. It has
raised $2.3 million in funding and has 12 people on staff -- its
corner of a shared office in  Manhattan  is overflowing.  “It sounds ridiculous, but I think we have about
18 million tickets on SeatGeek at any given time,” said
D’Souza.  The founders say their data analytics have been so well-
received that at one point they planned on selling the
information back to resellers, who wanted to use it to price
tickets more strategically. SeatGeek shelved that idea.  “It’s a little tricky to play both sides,” Groetzinger
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Weise in New York  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Kelly at   jkelly101@bloomberg.net . 