-- 
SEC Whistle Blowers, Sweden ‘Bail-In’, Oil Manipulation Suit: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-26T12:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/sec-whistle-blowers-sweden-s-bail-in-recontrust-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will let corporate whistle-blowers collect as much as
30 percent of penalties when they report financial wrongdoing,
even when they bypass companies’ internal complaint systems.  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 yesterday in Washington to
establish a whistle-blower program to “reward individuals who
provide the agency with high-quality tips that lead to
successful enforcement actions.” The program, part of the SEC’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, expands a bounty system
that was previously limited to  insider-trading  cases.  Companies had asked the SEC to require whistle-blowers to
report problems though internal compliance programs before going
to the agency. While rejecting that approach, the SEC increased
incentives for internal complaints by permitting bounties for
people whose tips are passed on to the agency and expanding the
time whistle-blowers can maintain their place in line at the SEC
while reporting to the company first.  Dodd-Frank called for the SEC to establish the expanded
bounty system, which has been active since the regulatory
overhaul was enacted in July. The commission proposed the
program in a unanimous vote on Nov. 3.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, below.  For video of the SEC meeting, click here.  Compliance Policy  Sweden FSA Wants Bail-In to Be Priority in Crises, Frisell Says  Sweden’s financial regulator wants the government to make
senior bank creditor losses a priority in insolvencies as the
largest Nordic economy redesigns its crisis-handling tools.  Sweden wants to emulate bail-in rules first tested in
Denmark even as banks warn the model may raise funding costs.
The Feb. 6 failure of regional Danish lender Amagerbanken A/S
forced a 41 percent loss on unsecured senior bonds, setting a
European Union precedent amid a region-wide debate on burden
sharing. Moody’s Investors Service has since downgraded
Denmark’s biggest banks twice as it factors out the likelihood
of state support. The rating company has also warned Denmark’s
lenders face a long-term rise in funding costs.  Sweden’s government has said its financial crisis committee
will finish its proposals in August next year at the latest.  A push for tougher bank insolvency rules marks Sweden’s
latest step to impose some of the world’s harshest financial
regulatory standards. Finance Minister Anders Borg and Riksbank
Governor Stefan Ingves have both said they want Sweden to target
tougher capital requirements than those set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision and enforce the rules earlier.  For more, click here.  BofA Unit’s Utah Foreclosures Illegal, State Says in Letter  A  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  unit conducting home foreclosures
in Utah is violating the law, the state’s attorney general said.  ReconTrust Co. isn’t meeting requirements for carrying out
foreclosures in the state, Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff
said in a letter to Bank of America Chief Executive Officer
Brian Moynihan. The letter, dated May 19, was released yesterday
by Shurtleff’s office.  Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a phone message and an e-mail seeking
comment.  The focus on ReconTrust comes as federal officials and
 attorneys general  in all 50 states are scrutinizing how the
largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of America, handle
home loans and conduct foreclosures.  New York  Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  is investigating banks’ mortgage
securitization, and California Attorney General Kamala Harris
has announced a mortgage fraud task force.  Earlier this year, Shurtleff raised the same allegations
against ReconTrust in a homeowner’s lawsuit against the company.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.S. Comptroller Proposes Limits on Pre-empting State Laws  The  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  issued a
proposed rule that would require subsidiaries of national banks
to follow state consumer protection laws.  The OCC’s notice of proposed rulemaking, required by the
Dodd-Frank Act, would require the agency to consult with the new
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  prior to making the
decision to pre-empt some state consumer laws.  Some congressional Democrats and consumer advocates have
pushed for tighter curbs on the OCC’s power to pre-empt state
banking laws for national banks. A compromise agreement reached
in Congress during negotiations over Dodd-Frank allowed the OCC
to retain much of its pre-emption authority.  The OCC will recognize the authority of state attorneys
general to enforce any non-preempted state laws against
nationally chartered banks, the rule said. The rule will be
published in the Federal Register today and calls for a 30-day
comment period, the OCC said yesterday in a press release.  German Lenders Said Likely to Pass New Round of EU Stress Tests  All 13 German lenders tested in the second round of
European Union stress tests are likely to pass after boosting
and converting capital and shifting risky assets into bad banks,
three people familiar with the process said.  The lenders have passed the examinations based on
preliminary results from data handed in by the individual
companies to regulators, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Preliminary
results of the stress tests have been submitted by lenders to
the  European Banking Authority , and are being analyzed, said
Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for the EBA.  The data is subject to a “rigorous peer review validation
and quality assurance process” by experts from the EBA,
European Central Bank and national regulators, Congiu said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “The process is on-going and no
country can be sure of the outcome of the exercise before the
actual publication of the results” in June, she said.  The 90 European banks tested are expected to maintain a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under scenarios
that include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011 as well as a 15
percent drop in European equity markets.  Die Zeit newspaper reported earlier that all 13 German
lenders passed the stress tests, citing unidentified people from
the financial industry.  Italy’s 5 Biggest Banks Need EU11.4 Billion to Meet Basel Rule  Italy’s five biggest banks will need 11.4 billion euros
($16 billion) in capital to reach a 7 percent common-equity
target under so-called Basel III rules, according to research
institute  Prometeia .  The calculation is based on the banks’ results last year
and the rights offerings approved so far, Prometeia said
yesterday at a Milan presentation. The gap will decrease to 5.3
billion euros if saving shares would be converted to common
stock and if  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s 3 billion euros of cashes bonds are
renegotiated and then considered as core capital.  Italian lenders are boosting capital reserves before the
implementation of new rules requested by central bankers to
avert a repeat of the financial crisis.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI) ,
and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  have asked investors for a total of 10.5
billion euros this year to strengthen finances. UniCredit, the
No. 1 bank in the country, is the only lender facing stress
tests that is not asking for money from investors.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will force
lenders to have common equity equal to at least 7 percent of
assets, weighted according to their risk, including a 2.5
percent buffer to withstand future stress. Lenders will have as
long as eight years to comply in full with the requirements.  Barclays Among Banks Breaking Privacy Rules, Consumer Group Says  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and six other lenders are
suspected of breaking rules on protecting customer data a total
of more than 500 times in one year, the U.K. consumer rights
group Which? said.  Complaints filed through August 2010 with Britain’s privacy
watchdog, the  Information Commissioner’s Office , include claims
that banks failed to give customers copies of data held on them,
failed to follow security rules and gave data to third parties,
the consumer group said yesterday in a statement.  The customer rights group said the problem could be much
worse, since 87 percent of U.K. citizens haven’t heard of the
privacy watchdog and therefore can’t file complaints.  Elizabeth Holloway, a spokeswoman for London-based
Barclays, said the figures supplied by Which? are too high
because about half of the complaints were found to not be
violations.  For more, click here.  SEC Said to Investigate Fifth Third Hybrids for Insider Trading  U.S. regulators are examining whether investors made
illegal trades in  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB) ’s trust preferred
securities after the volume of transactions spiked 54-fold
before the bank said it would redeem the instruments, a person
with knowledge of the inquiry said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking for
evidence of insider trading prior to a May 18 announcement by
the bank that it would redeem the investments for less than
market value, the person said, asking not to be named because
the investigation isn’t public. Cincinnati-based Fifth Third
said separately that it will compensate investors who bought the
so-called TruPS in the two-days before the redemption offer.  Cathy Quel, a spokeswoman for Fifth Third, didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment and Rich Rosen in the investor relations
department, didn’t immediately return a call left at his office
after regular business hours.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment.  Fifth Third released a regulatory filing May 18 saying it
would repurchase the shares. Nasdaq Stock Market halted trading
in the hybrids about 4 minutes after the regulatory filing was
issued, according to its  records .  Fifth Third informed Wilmington Capital, trustee for the
securities, on May 16 of its intention to redeem the securities,
spokeswoman Debra DeCourcy said in a May 23 e-mailed statement
in response to questions from Bloomberg News. Fifth Third
released a regulatory filing with the SEC and a news release two
days after notifying Wilmington Capital.  The company is “voluntarily taking this step” and regrets
any “inadvertent harm” that may have been caused as a result
of the notification process involved in this redemption, Fifth
Third said in a statement.  For more, click here.  Courts  Billionaire Fredriksen Says Oil Manipulation Suit ‘Rubbish’  The lawsuit against Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and Parnon
Energy Inc. by the U.S. futures regulator for oil-market
manipulation is “rubbish,” billionaire  John Fredriksen  said.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission yesterday filed a
complaint against two traders, James T. Dyer and Nicholas J.
Wildgoose, and their employers Parnon and Arcadia, claiming the
alleged scheme generated $50 million in unlawful profits and
pushed crude oil prices higher nationwide. Parnon and Arcadia,
affiliated companies, are subsidiaries of Farahead Holdings,
which is indirectly controlled by trusts set up by Fredriksen.  “This came as a surprise to me, I wasn’t aware of it,”
Fredriksen said in an interview outside Oslo yesterday. “Those
who work with buying and selling oil, that’s how they operate
all of them. It’s completely normal.”  In the lawsuit filed May 24 in U.S. District Court of New
York, the CFTC said the traders, who had no commercial need for
crude oil, made the “economically irrational” move of holding
their physical position to lull the market into believing that
the oil had been stored or put to commercial use, with “the
secret intent to surprise the market later” by dumping their
position and driving prices back down.  The traders then used derivatives to sell short, driving
the price down and generating profits on their short position,
according to the complaint.  The suit is the first anti-manipulation case filed or
settled by the CFTC since April 29, 2010, according to the
agency.  Morgan Crucible Wins Dismissal of U.K. Civil Claims Over Cartel  Morgan Crucible Co., the maker of carbon materials for
medical and transportation equipment, won its dismissal from a
U.K. lawsuit filed by Deutsche Bahn AG and 30 other European
rail companies over a defunct graphite cartel.  The price-fixing, which lasted from 1988 to 1999, caused
customers to pay too much for graphite-based goods used for
transferring electricity in train motors. While Windsor,
England-based Morgan Crucible won immunity from EU fines by
being the first to cooperate, its former Chief Executive Officer
Ian Norris was sentenced to 18 months in prison in a parallel
U.S. case.  One of the rail companies’ lawyers, Lianne Craig of
 Hausfeld & Co. LLP , declined to comment when reached yesterday
by phone.  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal ( London ).  Interviews/Speeches  World Needs ‘A New IMF,’ Chile President Sebastian Pinera Says  Chilean President Sebastian Pinera called for an overhaul
of leadership at the  International Monetary Fund .  “The world has changed so much since” the IMF’s
inception, Pinera said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Paris. “We need a new IMF and for that we need
new leadership,” he said.  Chile hasn’t made a decision on who to support as a
candidate to head the fund, Pinera said, urging “a broad and
strong agreement” on Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s replacement.  Geithner Sees ‘War of Attrition’ Against Financial Overhaul  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said some
lawmakers and bankers are waging a “war of attrition” against
efforts to strengthen regulation of the financial system.  “You’re seeing some people run a war of attrition against
the reform act,” Geithner said at an event yesterday in
 Washington , without identifying the people. “They’re trying to
starve the agencies of funding so they can’t enforce protections
for investors.”  Geithner also said opponents of the Obama administration
are trying to block presidential appointments to regulatory
agencies “as a way to get leverage over the outcome, and
they’re trying to slow down so that they can weaken over time
the thrust” of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. “We’re
not going to let that happen.”  For more, click here.  Frenkel Says New SEC Whistle-Blower Rule ‘Unfortunate’  Jacob Frenkel , a partner at  Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Ecker , discussed the decision by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to let corporate whistle-blowers collect as
much as 30 percent of penalties when they report financial
wrongdoing, even when they bypass companies’ internal complaint
systems.  The program, part of the SEC’s rulemaking under the Dodd-
Frank Act, expands a bounty system that was previously limited
to insider-trading cases. Frenkel spoke with Mark Crumpton on
Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 