-- 
SEC Probing Fifth Third Hybrids for Insider Trading

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-26T00:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/sec-investigates-hybrids-for-insider-trading.html
U.S. regulators are examining whether
investors made illegal trades in  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB) ’s
trust preferred securities after the volume of transactions
spiked 54-fold before the bank said it would redeem the
instruments, a person with knowledge of the inquiry said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking for
evidence of  insider trading  prior to a May 18 announcement by
the bank that it would redeem the investments for less than
market value, the person said, asking not to be named because
the investigation isn’t public. Cincinnati-based Fifth Third
said separately that it will compensate investors who bought the
so-called TruPS in the two-days before the redemption offer.  Cathy Quel, a spokeswoman for Fifth Third, didn’t return an
e-mail seeking comment and Rich Rosen in the investor relations
department, didn’t immediately return a call left at his office
after regular business hours.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman,
declined to comment.  Fifth Third’s $400 million of 8.875 percent trust preferred
securities fell 3.7 percent to $25.68 on May 18 in the two hours
before Fifth Third released a regulatory filing at 11:29 a.m.
saying it would repurchase the shares.  Volume in the securities between 9:30 a.m. and 11:20 a.m.
on May 18 was 2.03 million, compared with a daily average of
37,145 trades in the previous year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Within 20 minutes of the opening, 107,194 shares
had changed hands, compared with 1,779 shares over the same
period the day before, Bloomberg data show.  Halted Trading  Nasdaq Stock Market halted trading in the hybrids about 4
minutes after the regulatory filing was issued, according to its
 records .  Fifth Third informed Wilmington Capital, trustee for the
securities, on May 16 of its intention to redeem the securities,
spokeswoman Debra DeCourcy said in a May 23 e-mailed statement
in response to questions from Bloomberg News. Fifth Third
released a regulatory filing with the SEC and a news release two
days after notifying Wilmington Capital.  Investors who purchased the bank’s 8.875 percent notes
after 2:16 p.m. on May 16 and before trading was halted on May
18 are eligible for the offer, according to a statement
distributed yesterday by  Business Wire .  “Fifth Third is voluntarily taking this step because the
interests of its security holders are important to it, and the
company regrets any inadvertent harm that may have occurred as a
result of the notification process involved with this
redemption,” the lender said in the statement. The company
wasn’t “a party to nor participated in any trading of the trust
preferred securities” during the period, it said.  The company said it doesn’t expect compensation payments to
investors to exceed about $1.5 million.  Banks are seeking to slash interest costs by repaying
TruPS, which typically pay higher rates than other securities.
Last year’s Dodd-Frank financial overhaul prevents banks
starting in 2013 from counting the securities as regulatory
capital. Fifth Third issued the redemption “in connection with
the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act,” the bank said in the
statement. Hybrids blend characteristics of debt and equity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net  or
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  