-- 
Senate’s Grassley Says SAC Capital Met With Investigation Staff

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-05-26T14:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/senate-s-grassley-says-sac-capital-met-with-investigation-staff.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP officials
have met with investigators from Senator  Charles Grassley ’s
staff in his examination of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s oversight of the hedge-fund firm’s trading
practices.  “My staff basically just listened,” Grassley, the top
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. The lawmaker said his central focus
is on the regulator, not the firm. “What we’re trying to do is
get information from the SEC on whether or not the SEC is doing
its job.”  In a letter this week, Grassley asked SEC chairman  Mary Schapiro  to explain how the regulator has handled allegations of
suspicious trading at SAC Capital, referring to about 20
examples he received from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority of possible  insider trading  involving the firm founded
by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen .  The Iowa senator had asked Finra last month to provide
information on the “potential scope of suspicious trading
activity” at the firm.  “If we get the information from the SEC, we’re going to
look into all 20 of those trades,” said Grassley, who added he
would look for evidence of “hanky-panky.”  SAC Capital, which has about $13 billion under management,
has come under scrutiny, with U.S. prosecutors investigating
accounts at the Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund tied to
Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, former portfolio managers who
pleaded guilty to federal insider-trading allegations.  “I don’t have any control over private enterprises,”
Grassley said. “I want to make sure the SEC is doing its job of
due diligence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 