-- 
Shtokman Needs Tax Relief From Russia for Production in 2016

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-26T10:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/shtokman-needs-tax-relief-from-russia-for-production-in-2016-1-.html
The Shtokman natural gas field, which
holds enough supplies to meet world demand for more than a year,
needs tax incentives from  Russia  at least for initial output,
slated to start in 2016, according to executives.  Talks on lower taxes are “advancing,” Andre Goffart,
deputy chief executive officer of Shtokman Development AG, said
at a conference in Paris today. “I think the Russian
authorities would like this project to start next year. We want
to be relieved for some of the taxes at least for the initial
production period.”  Goffart declined to provide an expected price tag for
Shtokman, located 600 kilometers (373 miles) from Russia’s
 Barents Sea  coast in stormy, iceberg-ridden waters.  The project “will need some support from the Russian
government,” said Jan Helge Skogen, president of Statoil
Russia. “There will be a high investment level.”  OAO Gazprom aims to make an  investment decision  with its
partners  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Total SA (FP)  by the end of this year. The
companies had planned to decide in March on pipeline gas from
the field followed by a decision on liquifying gas for shipment
by tanker by year-end. Goffart said today nearly all permits
have been obtained and if the project is started at the end of
this year, production could begin at the end of 2016.  Polar Cyclones  “The gas market in the world is recovering faster than
what was anticipated,” he said. “The prices for the LNG market
are already increasing faster.” LNG is an “essential part” of
the plan, he said.  Shtokman Development is 51 percent owned by Gazprom, while
Total owns 25 percent and Statoil 24 percent.  The  oil companies  are in talks with suppliers now on the
development amid rising costs, Goffart said, adding that the
prospect of even higher prices next year for equipment and work
required at the site favors a decision being made in 2011.  Challenges in developing the field, which include drilling
16 wells between 2014 and 2018, are mostly due to the harsh
environment and weather, according to a presentation at the
conference. Risks from polar cyclones are “very real” while
icebergs weighing as much as a million tons floating in the
Barents Sea pose more remote threats that need to be taken into
account, according to Goffart.  Shtokman is of “high strategic importance for Russia,”
Statoil’s Skogen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  