-- 
Siemens Denies Supplying Compressors for Damaged Iran Refinery

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T15:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/siemens-denies-supplying-compressors-for-damaged-iran-refinery.html
Siemens AG,  Germany ’s largest
engineering company, denied that it supplied compressors for the
Phase III unit of Iran’s Abadan refinery where a blast two days
ago killed as many as four people and wounded some 25.  “Siemens has not sold any compressor to Abadan refinery
Phase III,” Alexander Becker, a spokesman with the Munich-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The May 24 blast and subsequent fire hit one of the two
main compressors of the refinery, the Tehran-based  Arman 
newspaper said today. The system, used to liquefy gas, wasn’t
ready to be operated, it said, citing unidentified officials.  The newspaper said the compressors for this unit were
purchased from Siemens, which declined to send experts to  Iran 
to operate the machine for the start-up, citing restrictions
related to international sanctions. The report cited an
unidentified National Iranian Oil Refining & Distribution Co.
official. Iranian personnel in charge of operating the
compressors were under pressure to proceed with the project
despite concerns about an accident, the newspaper said.  The explosion took place during the inauguration ceremony
of the new wing at the refinery in southern Iran, an event
intended to underscore the nation’s self-sufficiency in
producing gasoline. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  was
present for the occasion.  ‘Unreasonable Request’  The accident was the result of an “unreasonable request”
to open the refinery on May 24, the state-run Mehr news agency
said, citing remarks by Parliamentary Speaker Ali Larijani in
parliament yesterday.  The government wanted to open the unit at Abadan in the
southwestern Khuzestan province to coincide with the anniversary
of Iran’s liberation of Khorramshahr, a city in the province
that was captured by Iraqi forces during the 1980s war between
the two countries,  Mehr  said in a report yesterday. The  news
agency  cited Ali Mousavi, a parliamentary deputy representing
the city of Abadan, as saying experts had conducted tests and
warned about the possibility of an accident.  Officials in the Iranian president’s office for media
affairs and the public relations department of the National
Iranian Oil Refining and Distribution Co. couldn’t immediately
be reached by phone. Thursday is the start of Iran’s weekend.  Iran, which is constrained by sanctions imposed by the
 United Nations , U.S. and European Union over its efforts to
develop its nuclear program, is seeking to become self-
sufficient in gasoline production by expanding its refineries
and cutting domestic fuel use. The U.S. and EU say Iran’s
nuclear program masks an effort to develop nuclear weapons, an
allegation it denies.  U.S. sanctions have cut the flow of fuel into Iran,
formerly the largest market for gasoline imports in the Gulf,
and forced the country to boost its motor fuel production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in  Frankfurt  at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 