-- 
Singapore Air Forms Budget Long-Haul Carrier

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-26T01:52:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/singapore-air-forms-budget-long-haul-carrier.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the city-
state’s flag carrier, will set up a low-cost, long-haul airline
as Jetstar and AirAsia X Sdn lure intercontinental travelers
with cheaper fares.  The new airline will begin flights within a year, using
widebody planes,  Singapore  Air said in a statement yesterday.
The unit’s name, management and route network will be announced
at a later date, it said.  Chief Executive Officer Goh Choon Phong, who took over Jan.
1, will introduce the budget carrier as Singapore Air faces
increasing competition on long-haul routes from the Singapore-
based unit of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar arm. Singapore Air
is also contending with fast-growing Middle East carriers, led
by Emirates Airline, for full-service customers.  The new unit is “a reflection of the challenging prospects
in the premium air-travel market,” Rigan Wong, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, said in a report today. “The
latest venture provides Singapore Airlines a complete platform
to tailor its services to various customer demands.”  Singapore Air will fully own the new unit, which will have
its own management, the airline said. The airline also owns
regional carrier SilkAir and a 33 percent stake in  Tiger Airways
Holdings Ltd. (TGR) , a short-haul budget carrier based in the city.  Long-haul budget flights are a break from the traditional
low-cost model, pursued by Southwest Airlines Co. and  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , which focuses on flying single-class, narrowbody
planes on routes of less than about five hours.  New Market  “We are seeing a new market segment being created and this
will provide another growth opportunity,” Goh said in the
statement. “As we have observed on short-haul routes within
 Asia , low-fare airlines help stimulate demand for travel, and we
expect this will also prove true for longer flights.”  Singapore Air, the world’s second-largest carrier by market
value, was little changed at S$14.16 at 9:28 a.m. on the city’s
stock exchange. The airline has fallen 7.5 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent decline for the 18-stock Bloomberg
Asia-Pacific Airlines Index.  The new unit will face the challenge of offering low fares
on long-haul routes after the cost of fuel jumped 53 percent in
a year alongside a rise in crude price.  “I’m quite surprised by this,” said Kelvin Lau, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Institute of Research. “Operating
low-cost carriers in the region is already very tough, but long-
haul ones will be even tougher.”  Jetstar began flying from Singapore to  Melbourne  in
December, offering both economy and business-class seats. The
carrier has also started Auckland flights, and it may add
services to north Asia and southern  Europe  this year, Jetstar
Asia Chief Executive Officer Chong Phit Lian said in December.
The carrier was then touting fares 30 percent cheaper than
rivals.  Jetstar Routes  Qantas has also used Jetstar to take over or begin routes
that weren’t profitable enough for the mainline operations. The
budget unit has been able to support these flights because its
costs are as much as 40 percent lower than the Qantas-branded
unit’s. The carrier is now the fastest-growing flying business
at Sydney-based Qantas, contributing about a third of earnings
before interest and tax in the six months ended Dec. 31.  AirAsia X, partly owned by AirAsia Bhd. and  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group Ltd., flies to London, Australia and
 Japan  from its Kuala Lumpur hub. The airline plans to more than
triple its fleet to 38 planes from 11 by 2020.  Tiger Air, AirAsia and other budget carriers have won
market share in Asia as they add new planes and introduce more
routes. Low-cost airlines’ passenger numbers jumped 26 percent
at Singapore’s  Changi airport  last month, more than double the
pace for full-service carriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 