-- 
Singapore Stocks: Olam, Sembcorp Marine, Singapore Air, TMC

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-05-26T04:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/singapore-stocks-olam-sembcorp-marine-singapore-air-tmc.html
Singapore ’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell
0.1 percent to 3,114.90 at the midday trading break. An equal
number of stocks rose and fell in benchmark index of 30
companies.  Shares on the measure trade at an average 14.3 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 15.6 times at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Commodity suppliers: The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index, which tracks prices of 19 commodities from copper to corn,
advanced 1.6 percent in  New York  yesterday, extending gains for
a second day.  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  , Hong Kong-based supplier of
energy, food and mining commodities, increased 1 percent to
S$2.04.  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  , a Singapore-based
supplier of agricultural commodities, climbed 2.1 percent to
S$2.89.  Oil rig builders: The world’s largest builders of oil
exploration platforms gained after crude oil futures rose to a
two-week high in New York on signs of increased U.S. fuel demand
after a government report showed inventories of diesel and
heating oil fell in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Keppel Corp. (KEP SP), the world’s largest builder of oil
rigs, added 0.4 percent to S$11.26. Smaller rival  Sembcorp
Marine Ltd. (SMM)   increased 0.6 percent to S$5.28.  Hiap Seng Engineering Ltd. (HSE)  , the provider of
engineering services in the oil and gas industry, sank 4.1
percent to 47 Singapore cents. The company was cut to
“underperform” from “trading buy” at CIMB-GK Securities Pte.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  , the world’s second-
biggest carrier by market value, lost 0.4 percent to S$14.14.
The company said it will form a low-cost, long-haul carrier amid
competition from Jetstar and AirAsia X Sdn for budget
intercontinental travelers.  TMC Education Corp. (TMCH SP), an operator of business
management and information technology schools, slipped 5.9
percent to 8 Singapore cents. The company said it expects to
report a loss before tax for the year ending June 30 due to
dwindling student numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 