-- 
Singapore Doctor Fails in Effort to Block Inquiry Into $20 Million Bill

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-05-26T12:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/singapore-doctor-fails-in-effort-to-block-20-million-bill-mark-up-inquiry.html
Susan Lim,  Asia ’s first liver
transplant surgeon, failed to prevent the  Singapore Medical
Council  from holding a second disciplinary inquiry into claims
she overcharged a member of Brunei’s royal family, with an
initial bill of S$24.8 million ($20 million).  Lim didn’t establish that the medical council’s decision to
hold the hearing was “irrational,” Supreme Court Judge Philip Pillai wrote in a 51-page ruling today.  The Singapore Medical Council convened a disciplinary
hearing after Brunei’s Health Ministry approached its Singapore
counterpart, claiming Lim’s fees were “unacceptable and
extremely high,” according to the ruling. A three-member
disciplinary panel stepped down in July after Lim complained
that panel members had prejudged the case.  A second panel was convened and Lim sued the medical
council, arguing that there “simply cannot be a fair trial,”
according to previous court filings. The medical council said
Lim’s argument was “nothing more than fanciful conjecture” and
was seeking to stave off the probe, according to the documents.  Lim had said she had a fee agreement with the patient,
Pengiran Anak Hajah Damit, and voluntarily offered discounts on
the bill which was a “mistake,” according to her lawsuit.  The second disciplinary inquiry against Lim will go ahead
and the council will “take all steps to ensure a full, fair and
timely hearing of the matter,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the medical council.  Lim will consult with her legal advisers on the court’s
ruling, according to a statement from Rajah & Tann LLP, which is
representing the doctor. Lim has 30 days to decide if she’s
appealing to  Singapore ’s top court.  Alvin Yeo from Wong Partnership LLP acted for the medical
council.  The case is Dr. Susan Lim Mey Lee v The Singapore Medical
Council OS1252/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  