-- 
GE Sees Solar Cheaper Than Fossil Power in Five Years

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-26T08:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/solar-may-be-cheaper-than-fossil-power-in-five-years-ge-says.html
Solar power may be cheaper than
electricity generated by fossil fuels and nuclear reactors
within three to five years because of innovations, said Mark M. Little, the global research director for  General Electric Co. (GE)   “If we can get solar at 15 cents a kilowatt-hour or lower,
which I’m hopeful that we will do, you’re going to have a lot of
people that are going to want to have solar at home,” Little
said yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg’s Washington office.
The 2009 average U.S. retail rate per kilowatt-hour for
electricity ranges from 6.1 cents in  Wyoming  to 18.1 cents in
 Connecticut , according to Energy Information Administration data
released in April.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, announced in April
that it had boosted the efficiency of thin-film solar panels to
a record 12.8 percent. Improving efficiency, or the amount of
sunlight converted to electricity, would help reduce the costs
without relying on subsidies.  The thin-film panels will be manufactured at a plant that
GE intends to open in 2013. The company said in April that the
factory will have about 400 employees and make enough panels
each year to power about 80,000 homes.  Solar-panel makers from  Arizona  to  Shanghai  are expanding
factories to add more cost savings that analysts say will
sustain the industry’s expansion. Installations may increase by
as much as 50 percent in 2011, worth about $140 billion, as
cheaper panels and thin film make developers less dependent on
government subsidies, Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecast.  Solar Costs Dive  The cost of solar cells, the main component in standard
panels, has fallen 21 percent so far this year, and the cost of
solar power is now about the same as the rate utilities charge
for conventional power in the sunniest parts of  California ,
 Italy  and  Turkey , the London-based research company said.  Most solar panels use silicon-based photovoltaic cells to
transform sunlight into electricity. The thin-film versions,
made of glass or other material coated with cadmium telluride or
copper indium gallium selenide alloys, account for about 15
percent of the $28 billion in worldwide solar-panel sales.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe, Arizona, is the world’s
largest producer of thin-film panels, with $2.6 billion in
yearly revenue.  Smart Grid  Little also said the U.S. transition to a full smart grid
will take “many, many years” to develop.  A complete smart grid would consist of millions of next-
generation meters installed in businesses and homes, appliances
that adjust their energy use when prices change, and advanced
software to help utilities control electricity flows, he said.  “I think it’s going to be a long time before we can
realize the full potential of the smart grid,” he said. “But
it is coming.”  GE this year plans to introduce the “Nucleus,” a device
that will let consumers track their household electricity use
with personal computers and smart phones. The company also is
investing in its appliance and lighting unit, including $432
million for U.S. refrigeration and design centers announced in
October.  Utilities need to have incentives to put in place devices
that save energy, and Congress needs to provide greater
certainty on  tax policy  surrounding renewable energy, Little
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  