-- 
Sony Profit Forecast Misses Estimates After Toll From Quake, Hack Attack

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-05-26T08:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/sony-forecast-misses-estimates-after-quake.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  forecast lower profit than
analysts estimated this fiscal year as the company seeks to
recover from  Japan ’s record earthquake and copes with a string
of hacker attacks.  Net income will probably be 80 billion yen ($978 million)
in the year ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company, which
disclosed preliminary results three days ago, said in a
statement today. That missed the 115.9 billion yen average of 12
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The magnitude-9 temblor drove the maker of Bravia
televisions to write down the value of deferred tax assets to
record a third-consecutive annual loss for the first time since
its listing in 1958. Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics has been roiled by a string of attacks by hackers
since April, incurring an estimated cost of 14 billion yen this
fiscal year.  Sales will probably rise 4.4 percent to 7.5 trillion yen
during the 12 months started April 1, the company said.
Operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, may be little changed at 200 billion
yen. That compares with the 7.24 trillion yen and 255.8 billion
yen averages of analysts’ estimates, respectively.  Making TV Profitable  Domestic peers such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Hitachi Corp. and
Sharp Corp. earlier this month delayed providing earnings
forecasts for the current fiscal year, citing difficulties to
assess the impacts from the earthquake.  Sony rose 0.1 percent to close at 2,238 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average added 1.5 percent.  The world’s No. 3 television maker plans to sell 27 million
TV sets this fiscal year, up from 22.4 million the previous
year, the company said. Sony, which last year gave up on a goal
to make its TV operation profitable because of harsh
competition, will seek the same goal this year, Chief Financial
Officer Masaru Kato said.  Profit at the Consumer, Professional & Devices Group, whose
products include liquid-crystal display TVs, Cyber-shot cameras
and semiconductors, may increase, helped by cost reductions and
higher sales at TV operations, Sony said.  Part Procurement  Supply-chain bottlenecks are affecting most of Sony’s
electronics products, Kato said. TV manufacturing may slow down
from July to December, while camera production may be lower
until June, he said. Production of devices may be affected
through the third quarter, he said.  Income at the Networked Products & Services Group, which
includes games and Vaio laptops, may drop due to costs related
to hacker attacks and declining sales of game products.  Sony expects to sell 15 million PS3 game machines, compared
with 14.3 million a year earlier. Sales of PlayStation Portable
players will probably drop to 6 million from 8 million. Sales of
game titles may remain unchanged at about 211 million, it said.  In January, Sony revealed a plan to introduce a new PSP
model, code-named “NGP,” by the year-end holiday season. The
device will offer access to high-speed third-generation wireless
networks and feature front and rear touch pads, the company said
at the time.  Sony plans to start offering two models of its first tablet
computers in autumn, the company said last month. The S1 model
will feature a 9.4-inch liquid-crystal display, as well as front
and rear cameras. The S2 laptop-shaped model will have dual 5.5-
inch screens and feature cameras, the company said last month.  Income at the financial-services business, film unit and
music operation may drop, the company said.  Sony said it is assuming yen exchange rates of 83 to the
dollar and 115 to the euro for the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  