-- 
South African Producer-Price Inflation Slows to 6.6% in April on Rand Gain

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-26T10:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/south-african-producer-price-inflation-slows-to-6-6-in-april-on-rand-gain.html
The cost of goods leaving South
African factories and mines rose less than expected in April as
the rand surged against the dollar, cutting the cost of imports.  Producer prices increased an annual 6.6 percent after
gaining 7.3 percent in March, Pretoria-based  Statistics South
Africa  said on its website today. The median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7 percent. Prices gained
0.9 percent in the month.  The rand gained 3 percent against the dollar in April,
after advancing 2.7 percent the month before, cutting import
costs and helping offset a surge in the international price of
oil. The resultant easing in producer-price inflation may not
last long after the rand slid about 6 percent against the U.S.
currency since the end of last month.  “May would again see a resumption of the upward trend in
producer inflation to rates above 7 percent and a peak sometime
in the fourth quarter,” Adenaan Hardien, the chief economist at
Cadiz Asset Management in  Cape Town , said in an e-mailed note.
The central bank may begin raising  interest rates  during the
second half of the year, most likely in November, he said.  The rand dropped 1.7 percent to 7.0206 per dollar as of
12:29 p.m. in Johannesburg, while the yield on the 13.5 percent
government bond due 2015, known as the R157, declined 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.53 percent.  Rand Weakness  “While rand strength has countered some of the price
pressures in previous months, recent weakness could result in a
steeper increase in  South Africa ’s inflation,” Kgotso Radira,
an economist at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a note to
clients before today’s data.  The central bank’s most recent projections show inflation
will breach the 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the first
quarter of 2012, peaking at 6.3 percent, before returning into
the band in the second quarter. That temporary jump above 6
percent didn’t justify an interest-rate increase at the Monetary
Policy Committee’s last meeting on May 12, bank Governor Gill Marcus said at the time.  Producer costs typically feed through to consumer-price
inflation with a lag of about three months. The consumer
inflation rate rose to 4.2 percent in April from 4.1 percent the
month before.  Today’s producer price data “provides little reason to go
complacent on inflation risks,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a
note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 