-- 
South Africa Rejects Covered Bonds as Risk to Depositors, Regulator Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-26T15:23:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/south-african-regulator-won-t-allow-country-s-banks-to-issue-covered-bonds.html
South Africa ’s bank regulator said it
won’t allow the nation’s banks to issue covered bonds as the
debt would “subordinate the interests” of depositors.  The “covered bond structure is regarded as materially
inconsistent” with the regulator’s duty to protect depositors,
Errol Kruger, the  Reserve Bank ’s registrar of banks, wrote in a
 guidance note  sent to banks on May 23 and published on the
central bank’s website.  Covered bonds typically get higher credit ratings and pay
less interest than unsecured debt because they’re backed by
assets such as mortgages or public sector loans that stay on the
lender’s balance sheet and that can be sold in the event of a
default. The securities would have priority for payment over
senior unsecured debt, which South African banks use to raise
most of their liquid regulatory capital.  Some investors, including Cape Town-based Futuregrowth
Asset Management, a unit of Old Mutual Investment Management,
South Africa’s biggest private investor, opposed the
introduction of covered bonds, arguing they would subordinate
existing bank debt.  “We welcome the decision,” Wikus Furstenberg, who helps
manage about 100 billion rand ($14.2 billion) of fixed-interest
investments at Futuregrowth, said by phone. “We’ve been quite
vocal in our opposition” to covered bonds “because you can’t
just do something like this without considering the effect on
what is already in the market. It would not be in our clients’
interests.”  FirstRand Bonds  Senior unsecured bank debt gained after the central bank
issued its directive to banks on Monday, according to exchange-
traded pricing on Bloomberg. FirstRand Ltd.’s 3.57 billion rand
of 8.75 percent notes due 2015 gained 12.5 cents to 100.663
rand, driving the yield down four basis points, or 0.04 percent,
to 8.53 percent since May 23.  Covered bonds made up about 46 percent of European bank
issuance this year, up from 37 percent in 2010, according to
 Barclays Capital . The debt is also sold in  Canada  and  New
Zealand , while  Australia ’s parliament is considering draft
legislation to allow the securities.  Moody’s estimated savings of 20 percent for Australia’s
banks when Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announced in December that he
planned to allow the sales.  Bank of New Zealand  priced NZ$425
million ($333.4 million) of covered bonds in June, the nation’s
first such sale, at a 38 percent discount to what lenders would
pay on senior debt, Moody’s said in a report at the time.  ‘Another Option’  Some investors said they would have welcomed the
introduction of covered bonds because it would deepen the
variety of assets available to fixed-interest investors.  “It is something we would really have looked at,” Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13 billion rand of debt as head of
fixed-interest investments at Cape Town-based Metropolitan Asset
Managers, said by phone. “They would give you another option.”  Known as Pfandbriefe in  Germany , covered bonds were created
by Frederick the Great of Prussia in 1770 when aristocrats
needed credit after parts of the country were devastated by the
Seven Years War.  FSR SJ <Equity>
FIRSTR 8.75 <Corp>  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  