-- 
South Sudan President Kiir Calls for International Forces in Abyei Region

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-26T10:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/south-sudan-president-kiir-calls-for-international-forces-in-abyei-region.html
Southern Sudanese President  Salva Kiir  said international forces should be sent to the disputed
region of Abyei and pledged to work for a peaceful resolution of
the crisis sparked by the deployment of northern troops in the
area.  Kiir, speaking today to reporters in Juba, the capital of
oil-rich Southern Sudan, called the northern forces occupying
Abyei town “invaders” and said they must be withdrawn.  “I must state here that we are committed to peace,” he
said.  Sudan’s army seized  Abyei town  on May 21 after accusing
Southern Sudan’s security forces of attacking its troops two
days before while they were withdrawing from the region with a
UN convoy. The capture sparked concern that violence may
escalate between northern and  Southern Sudan , which fought a
two-decade civil war that ended with a U.S.-brokered peace
accord in 2005.  Kiir said Southern Sudan, which is due to become
independent in July, is committed to maintaining peace with
President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and not
resuming the civil war.  “We should not go back to such a sad story,” he said.  Northern Troops  The north’s troops will not withdraw until a new agreement
is reached with Southern Sudan that would guarantee stability
and freedom of movement for all of Abyei’s citizens, Defense
Minister Abdelrahim Mohamed Hussein said May 23.  Both the north and the south claim Abyei, which lies on the
border between the two regions. They had agreed to withdraw
“all unauthorized forces” from Abyei by May 17.  The Abyei region is contested between the region’s Ngok
Dinka people, who are settled in the area and consider
themselves southerners, and Misseriya nomads who herd their
cattle south in the dry season and are supported by the
government in Khartoum.  As many as 40,000 civilians may have fled Abyei in recent
days, Lise Grande, the UN Deputy Resident and Humanitarian
Coordinator, said by phone yesterday from Juba.  Sudan ’s government is settling Arab ethnic groups in Abyei,
Southern Sudanese army spokesman Philip Aguer said yesterday.  “Whatever it causes us, Abyei will remain the land of the
nine Ngok Dinka chiefdoms,” Kiir said.  Immediate Withdrawal  The UN Security Council has demanded an immediate
withdrawal of Sudan’s forces from Abyei.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has proposed the
 establishment  of a 7,000-member peacekeeping force in Southern
Sudan after the region becomes independent. The UN currently has
10,000 blue helmets to monitor the peace agreement.  The force would mainly monitor, report, advise and support
the government in protecting civilians and enforcing the rule of
law in the new state, Ban said in a May 17 report.  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south, which voted that same month to become independent, or
remain a special administrative region in the north. The
referendum was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  Inhabitants  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements, largely excluding the Misseriya. The Misseriya say
that as seasonal inhabitants of Abyei, they should also have the
right to vote.  The court set key  oil fields , including Heglig and Bamboo,
outside of the Abyei region. Those fields and Diffra in Abyei
are run by the  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co. , which is 40
percent owned by Beijing-based  China National Petroleum Corp. 
Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels a day, according to
Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000
barrels, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 