-- 
South Korea Current-Account Surplus Widens to 4-Month High on Export Gain

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-26T23:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/south-korea-current-account-surplus-widens-to-4-month-high-on-export-gain.html
South  Korea ’s current-account surplus
widened to a four-month high in April as record exports offset a
rise in dividend payments to foreign shareholders.  The surplus was $1.88 billion, compared with a revised
$1.33 billion in March, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in
Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure of
trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  South Korea ’s exports have climbed at a double-digit pace
since November 2009 even as the won has risen, with the
government boosting its estimate for sales of ships made by
companies such as Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. The stronger won
may help ease inflation pressure, which the Bank of Korea has
tried to contain by raising interest rates twice this year.  “Exports are remarkably strong, adding upward pressure on
the won,” June Park, an economist at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the release. “The won will
likely rise further but only gradually, so it won’t deter the
central bank from raising interest rates next month.”  The won rose 1.2 percent to 1,088.40 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Kospi share index gained 2.8 percent.  Rising Exports  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 25.1 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 28.8
percent gain in March, according to today’s statement. Imports
climbed 23.9 percent after expanding a revised 27.6 percent in
March. Overseas shipments probably rose 28.7 percent this month,
according to the median forecast of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Hyundai Heavy Industries and other shipbuilders won a
combined $12.8 billion new orders for the first three months of
this year, according to economy ministry data released last
month. The ministry boosted its estimate for this year’s ship
orders to $51.7 billion from $50.5 billion.  The central bank held off boosting borrowing costs for two
months after raising the benchmark interest rate by a quarter of
a percentage point in both January and March, with inflation
exceeding its target in each the past four months. Governor Kim Choong Soo’s policy board meets June 10 to decide whether to
raise rates for the third time this year.  The surplus on traded goods widened to $3.93 billion last
month from a revised $2.75 billion in March, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $179 million in April,
compared with revised $328 million in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  