-- 
Spain’s Chacon Exits Socialist Leadership Race, Averting Power Struggle

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-26T14:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/spain-s-chacon-exits-socialist-leadership-race-averting-power-struggle.html
Spanish Defense Minister Carme Chacon
said she won’t run for the leadership of the ruling Socialist
Party, averting a power struggle as the government battles the
debt crisis.  “Today I consider I need to take a step back so the
Socialist Party can take a step forward,” Chacon told reporters
in  Madrid , leaving Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
as the favorite to succeed Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero.  Chacon’s decision may spare the Socialists from internal
wrangling just as Zapatero is fighting to shield the economy
from the contagion of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Zapatero,
who led his party to its worst local election defeat in 30 years
on May 22, said last month he won’t seek a third term in general
elections scheduled for March 2012.  Debate over Zapatero’s successor in recent days “has put
at risk the unity of the party, the authority of the prime
minister and secretary general, our collective image and the
stability of the government,” Chacon said.  “I’m pretty shocked” by Chacon’s announcement, Ken Dubin, a
political-science professor at Carlos III University in Madrid,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s clearly a much more
intense battle going on behind the scenes.”  Poll Backing  Polls show Rubalcaba, 59, who also has led the fight
against Basque terror group ETA as interior minister, is the
favorite to succeed Zapatero. Forty-two percent of Spanish
voters think Rubalcaba would be the strongest candidate, with
support rising to 52 percent among Socialist voters, according
to a poll in El Pais newspaper on April 3.  Rubalcaba is “the closest thing to an elder statesman in
active duty” among the Socialists and a “logical leader,” Dubin
said. “Government instability in  Spain  at this moment is not
something the markets will welcome.”  The extra yields investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds reached 261 points this week
after the Socialists electoral defeat prompted regional leaders
to call for his ouster as party chief.  Chacon, 40, best known outside Spain for becoming the
country’s first female defense minister while visibly pregnant,
was considered the strongest candidate by 17 percent of those
polled, the survey showed.  The ruling party is set to hold a meeting on May 28, which
was scheduled to start the process for primary elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  