-- 
Standard Bank’s Tshabalala Says Bad Debt Charges Will Continue to Improve

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-26T12:19:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/standard-bank-says-bad-loan-charges-will-continue-to-improve-1-.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s
biggest bank, said bad-debt charges will drop this year as lower
interest rates in  South Africa  make it easier for customers to
repay loans.  “We expect the impairments levels to continue improving
for the rest of the year, unless there were to be a massive
increase in interest rates,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Sim Tshabalala said in an interview in Johannesburg today.  South Africa’s central bank left its benchmark interest
rate at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent on May 12 to help spur
Africa’s largest economy while warding off price pressures from
rising food and oil costs. Standard Bank said results from the
four months through April showed an improvement from the second
half of last year.  Bad-loan charges decreased at  Standard Bank ’s personal and
business banking unit in the first four months of this year
while the credit quality of corporate and investment banking
clients continued to improve, Standard Bank said in a statement
today. The lower bad debt charge and a rise in fees from
transactions helped compensate for a decline in revenue from
interest charges and a drop in trading income, it said.  Flat Costs  While earnings excluding one-time items and accounting
charges in the first four months were “slightly lower” than
the same period a year earlier, results are “trending more
positively than the second half of 2010,” the company said.  Standard Bank’s credit impairment charges declined 38
percent to 7.5 billion rand ($1.1 billion) in 2010 from the year
earlier, Standard Bank said on March 3. The company remains
focused on keeping costs flat in 2011, compared with 2010, the
lender said.  The stock headed for the highest closing level since May
10, climbing 1.4 percent to 100.60 rand as at 2:10 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  