-- 
Stanford Investors Sue Former Auditor BDO US for $10.7 Billion Over Fraud

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/stanford-investors-sue-former-auditor-for-10-7-billion-1-.html
BDO USA LLP and its parent, the ex-
auditors of indicted financier R. Allen Stanford’s former
company, were sued for $10.7 billion by investors claiming BDO
ignored signs of potential fraud.  “Despite the pervasive fraud that infected Stanford
Financial Group’s operations, BDO repeatedly issued unqualified
audit opinions on its Stanford client’s annual financial
statements,” Edward Snyder, a lawyer for Stanford investors,
said in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Dallas .  Stanford’s companies “needed BDO’s unqualified audit
opinions to satisfy securities regulators and to continue
recommending” sales of the allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at Stanford International Bank Ltd. in Antigua, the
investors said in the complaint.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulators seized
Stanford’s operations in February 2009 on allegations they were
involved in a “massive  Ponzi scheme ” that defrauded investors
of more than $7 billion.  “We have yet to be served with the complaint and therefore
are unable to comment at this time,” Jerry Walsh, a spokesman
for BDO, said in an e-mail. “However, the fact that this
complaint was not filed until now -- years after the Stanford
fraud came to light and after many other investor complaints
were filed -- reflects a transparent understanding that the
allegations lack merit.”  Criminal Charges  Stanford, 61, has been incarcerated since June 2009 as a
flight risk after he was indicted on parallel criminal fraud
charges. He denies the charges and is scheduled for trial in
federal court in Houston in September.  In addition to claims that auditors intentionally concealed
fraudulent activity, the investors also contend four BDO
executives played key roles in a Stanford-sponsored  task force 
that assisted the Antiguan banking authorities in overhauling
their banking regulations in the late 1990s, allegedly weakening
them in ways that aided Stanford.  The Stanford task force rewrote Antigua’s money-laundering
act “to ensure that ‘fraud’ and ‘false accounting’ did not fall
under the Act’s prescribed list of violations,” the investors
said. After the laws were rewritten in April 1999, the U.S.
Treasury Department issued an advisory warning banks to give
Antiguan financial transactions “enhanced scrutiny” because of
money-laundering concerns, according to the complaint.  ‘Speculative Investments’  The investors also accuse BDO auditors of ignoring signs
Stanford’s company was operating as an unregistered hedge fund
“illegally disguising itself as a bank.” They claim investors
were sold hedge fund shares “disguised as CDs,” and that
clients’ cash was pooled by Stanford’s company to make
“illiquid, speculative investments” instead of the safe,
liquid portfolio promised to clients.  “BDO’s cozy relationship with the  Stanford Financial Group 
was steeped in conflicts of interest and required ongoing
deception and duplicitous manipulation of the facts to enable
the Ponzi scheme to grow exponentially for over a decade,”
investors said in the complaint. “The result is the loss of
thousands of investors’ life savings.”  The complaint, which seeks to represent all Stanford
investors, was filed on behalf of three Texans who lost more
than $3.2 million on certificates of deposit issued by
Stanford’s Antiguan bank. They seek $10.7 billion in damages
from BDO, which is what they calculate Stanford investors
worldwide collectively lost on the Antiguan CDs.  The case is Wilkinson v. BDO USA LLP, 3:11-cv-1115, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 