-- 
Station Casinos Wins Nevada Gaming Regulators’ Approval of Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e   C h u r c h   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-26T21:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/station-casinos-wins-nevada-gaming-regulators-approval-of-bankruptcy-plan.html
Station Casinos Inc., the biggest
U.S. gambling company in bankruptcy, won approval from  Nevada 
gaming regulators for its reorganization plan, leaving it with
only one court fight before it can exit bankruptcy.  At a hearing today in Las Vegas, the Nevada Gaming Control
Board and Nevada Gaming Commission approved the restructuring
plan, Station said in a statement.  Yesterday in Reno, Nevada, the company got the next-to-last
bankruptcy court approval it needs before exiting court
oversight. The company will seek court approval in the coming
weeks of a plan to sell its  Green Valley Ranch  Resort, Spa &
Casino to a consortium lead by Station’s founding family.  “In both good times and in bad, we have demonstrated our
commitment to the Las Vegas community,” Chairman Frank Fertitta
said in a statement. “It’s a great day for Station Casinos, our
team members and the  Las Vegas  community.”  Station is being reassembled by its founding family led by
Fertitta and his brother, Vice Chairman Lorenzo Fertitta, who
will own 45 percent of the restructured casino company after
investing almost $200 million, Station said today in a
statement. Other owners include Tom Barrack’s  Colony Capital LLC 
and some lenders.  Leveraged Buyout  Station, which filed Chapter 11 in July 2009 after a
leveraged buyout by the Fertitta family and Colony Capital,
plans to exit  bankruptcy protection  before the end of June, with
17 of the company’s 18 casinos still controlled by the existing
owners.  Yesterday U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Gregg W. Zive in Reno
approved a plan to hand ownership of the Aliante Station casino,
Station’s joint venture with closely held Greenspun Corp., to
lenders. The Fertittas would continue to manage Aliante under
the accord.  Station’s second venture with Greenspun,  Green Valley Ranch 
Resort, Spa & Casino, is proposed to be acquired for $500
million by a group led by the Fertitta family as part of
Station’s bankruptcy. Lower-ranking creditors have challenged
the Green Valley purchase. Zive may rule on that proposed sale
at a hearing next month.  The bankruptcy case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-
52477,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York 
at   bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  