-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyer Brafman Defended Rappers, Mobsters, Michael Jackson

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-26T17:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/strauss-kahn-lawyer-brafman-defended-rappers-mobsters-michael-jackson.html
Former International Monetary Fund
chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s criminal defense is in good
hands, if a convicted racketeer is to be believed.  When attorney Benjamin Brafman won the acquittal of rapper
Sean “Diddy” Combs on gun and bribery charges in 2001, he got
praise from another client, Carmine Agnello, the former son-in-
law of convicted Gambino crime boss John J. Gotti.  “Ben Brafman: Congratulations on the acquittal in People
v. Combs,” Agnello said in an ad in the  New York  Law Journal
after Combs was cleared of all charges stemming from a shooting
in a Manhattan nightclub. Agnello, who hired Brafman to defend
him on unrelated federal racketeering charges, later pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to nine years in prison.  Brafman, 62, now defending Strauss-Kahn against charges of
sexually assaulting and attempting to rape a Manhattan hotel
maid, has spent much of the past 30 years representing high-
profile defendants in cases that make headlines. His client list
has included pop star  Michael Jackson , Gambino crime family
underboss Salvatore “Sammy Bull” Gravano, Genovese crime boss
Vincent “Chin” Gigante, former New York Giants wide receiver
Plaxico Burress and rapper Jay-Z.  ‘Trifecta of Media’  “I could not think of a better case for Ben to be in,”
said  Mark Geragos , who with Brafman defended Jackson against
child-molestation charges. “When I first read the story and
heard it was in New York, I thought it was right up his alley.”  Geragos said he learned the New York lawyer had been
retained by Strauss-Kahn minutes after sending him an e-mail
saying he would be perfect for the case. Geragos said the two
have remained friends since they were first introduced by the
late civil rights and defense lawyer Johnnie Cochran,  “For a case like this you have the trifecta of media,
politics and scandal and he’s extremely adept at all three,”
Geragos said of Brafman. “He’s a guy who understands the needs
of the media, both in terms of the story itself and getting your
client’s side out.”  Brafman’s fans include former prosecutors who have battled
him in the courtroom.  “He’s as smart and tough as they come. A real fighter,”
said Alan Vinegrad, the former U.S. attorney in  Brooklyn , who
prosecuted a client of Brafman’s in the 1990s, a rabbinical
student charged with helping a rabbi kidnap a teenage boy.  Good Fit  Brafman is a good fit for the Strauss-Kahn case because he
can both try cases and work out plea deals, former prosecutors
said.  Benton Campbell , the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn from 2007 to
2010, said Brafman is a formidable advocate when negotiating on
behalf of a client.  “Ben has absolute credibility and when he talks to you and
tells you about the case and can point out its shortcomings,”
Campbell said, “that’s something you’re going to listen to.”  “As a result, the conversations are much more direct,
productive and effective,” said Campbell, now a partner at
Latham & Watkins LLP in New York  Brafman, a native  New Yorker  who grew up in Brooklyn and
Queens, also connects with juries, said Nelson Boxer, a former
federal prosecutor in Manhattan.  “To me, that’s what distinguishes him from the others who
have the personality and fire in the courtroom,” said Boxer,
now a partner at Alston Bird LLP. “He’s a very effective
advocate, strong on the law and really smart. Not everybody has
all three.”  State Courts  Murray Richman, a New York lawyer who represented Combs’s
co-defendant, Jamal “Shyne” Barrow, said Brafman will bring an
intensity to defending Strauss-Kahn.  “He knows what it takes to put a case together,” said
Richman, who has known Brafman for more than 30 years. “He
really is also a product of the state court system and knows the
lay of the land. He’s on top of the heap.”  While three prosecution witnesses testified seeing Combs
with a gun during his trial, Brafman honed in during cross-
examination on the inconsistencies in their stories. He also
highlighted their motives to lie, citing the multimillion-dollar
lawsuits they filed against his client.  Richman also said Brafman will find and exploit any
weakness in the people’s case.  “This is a 62-year-old man with a young woman, there are
defensible issues here, and it’s much too early to say what will
or won’t occur,” Richman said.  ‘Fully Exonerated’  Brafman said yesterday in a statement that he continues to
believe “Mr. Strauss-Kahn will be fully exonerated.” Brafman
declined to comment for this story, except to say in an e-mail
today that he was brought into the case by another Strauss-Kahn
lawyer, William W. Taylor III.  Brafman and Taylor, a former public defender in  Washington 
who is now a partner at Zuckerman Spaeder LLP, have defended
clients together before. Brafman defended Melvyn Weiss, the co-
founder of the securities law firm now called Milberg LLP, who
was charged with paying kickbacks to clients who were plaintiffs
in class-action cases.  Weiss pleaded guilty and was sentenced in 2008 to 2 1/2
years in prison. Milberg paid $75 million to settle the charges
in federal court in  Los Angeles .  Taylor has experience in the New York state court system,
having helped represent Kenneth Langone, head of the New York
Stock Exchange’s pay committee in a lawsuit filed by then-
Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer . Spitzer sued Grasso and Langone
in May 2004 seeking the return of part of Grasso’s compensation.
That suit was ultimately dismissed by a state appeals court.  Grasso, Spitzer  “I’ve worked with Bill on and off for more than 25
years,” Gerson Zweifach, who defended Grasso in the Spitzer pay
suit, said of Taylor.  “He’s very smart, he’s seen a lot and he’s really good at
what he does,” Zweifach said. “And Bill owes me lunch for
having gotten the Grasso-Langone suit dismissed.”  Brafman, the son of Holocaust survivors, put himself
through Brooklyn College by waiting tables at resorts in the
Catskills, doing stand-up comedy when he wasn’t busing tables,
he has said. He obtained a law degree from Ohio Northern
University and obtained a master of laws degree from  New York
University School of Law .  After law school, Brafman worked at the criminal defense
firm run by former New York City Police Commissioner Robert
McGuire and was then hired by  Manhattan  District Attorney Robert Morgenthau’s office, where he worked from 1976 to 1979 in the
rackets bureau.  In a courthouse where sharp elbows wear $100 suits, Brafman
favors tailored Polo  Ralph Lauren  pinstriped suits and a Jacob &
Co. watch given him by a former client. During Combs’s trial,
Brafman’s store of choice was Robert Talbott on Madison Avenue.  Courtroom Fashion  “Don’t you want to ask me about my tie? That’s T-A-L-B-O-
T-T” Brafman quipped during the Combs trial, growing impatient
with reporters’ daily queries about what Combs and Cochran were
wearing to court.  In the elevator after a contentious hearing in the rabbi
case in Brooklyn, Brafman looked upward and sighed, “Oy, I
should have listened to my mother and gone to medical school.”  A former boss remembers Brafman as an eager prosecutor
willing to take the worst cases.  “Back then Ben was exactly like he is today, except I
don’t think he got his suits at Paul Stuart like he does now,”
said Austin Campriello, who was Brafman’s bureau chief at the
District Attorney’s office in the 1970s. “I could give him any
type of case and he never said no.”  “He was very people savvy, he had a keen sense of human
beings and was completely unafraid in court,” Campriello said.
“A lot of people think of him as only a trial lawyer, but he’s
also very adept at working out plea deals. And he’s also pretty
well liked by the bench and by his colleagues.”  Jury Appeal  Campriello said Brafman cares about his clients, which
juries sense.  “Most people can see through phonies,” he said. “If he
goes to trial, the jury is going to like him, they’re going to
think he’s funny and telling them a straight story. And that’s
why he wins.”  Brafman and his wife Lynda, a librarian, have two children
and 12 grandchildren and live on New York’s  Long Island .  One of his earliest headline-grabbing victories came in
1990, when he defended James Patino, accused in the racially
motivated killing of Yusuf Hawkins, a black 16-year-old, in
Brooklyn’s Bensonhurst neighborhood. Of the seven youths
originally charged with Hawkins’ murder, Patino was one of three
defendants acquitted of all charges.  Gambino Underboss  He represented Gravano, the underboss of the Gambino
Organized Crime Family, until Gravano agreed to cooperate in
1991.  In 1998, Brafman defended Peter Gatien, the then-owner of
two New York City nightclubs charged by the U.S. with
authorizing and financing drug dealing at his clubs. Gatien was
the only one of 30 people charged in the case to win acquittal.  That trial proved to have some bruising moments. Eric Friedberg, a prosecutor in the case, said in court papers that
Brafman was making “improper,” “inflammatory” and
“scurrilous” statements which could taint the jury and damage
the credibility of their witnesses. U.S. District Judge Frederic Block, who presided over the case, imposed a gag order on
Brafman and the prosecution.  During the Gatien case, Brafman’s relentless cross-
examination elicited tears from a prosecution witness, Michael
Caruso.  Zachary Carter, the former Brooklyn U.S. Attorney whose
office prosecuted Gatien, didn’t return a call seeking comment.
Friedberg, who now operates the security firm Stroz Friedberg
LLC, which is managing Strauss-Kahn’s house arrest, declined to
comment about Brafman or the Gatien case. Morgenthau, whose
office prosecuted Combs, declined to comment.  ‘Ruthlessly Self-Serving’  One client, Mehdi Gabayzadeh, the former chief executive of
American Tissue Inc., fired Brafman after he suggested pleading
guilty. Gabayzadeh was convicted of fraud and conspiracy and
sentenced to 15 years in prison.  Gabayzadeh sued Brafman from his Fort Dix,  New Jersey ,
prison cell, claiming Brafman fraudulently overbilled him after
getting paid more than $1 million in fees. He called Brafman
“ruthlessly self-serving.”  U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty dismissed the case on May
11, saying it was without merit. Brafman declined to comment
when Crotty issued the ruling.  Richman said that Brafman, an Orthodox Jew, remains
grounded regardless of his success.  “I remember when we finished Puffy’s trial very late, it
was 9:30 on a Friday night,” Richman said. “Everyone was
celebrating, but you know what Ben did? He walked all the way to
a synagogue to pray.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  