-- 
Strauss-Kahn Evidence, Deutsche Bank, Rajaratnam, Lloyds in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-26T10:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/strauss-kahn-deutsche-bank-rajaratnam-lloyds-in-court-news.html
Ex-Galleon Group LLC portfolio
manager Michael Cardillo testified about trading on inside tips,
discussing the information with colleagues, including the
brother of firm co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, and sending phony e-
mails to cover his tracks.  Cardillo, a prosecution witness in the insider-trading
trial of Zvi Goffer, Emanuel Goffer and Michael Kimelman, told
jurors in  New York  yesterday how he traded on illegal tips about
acquisitions involving ATI Technologies Inc., Kronos Inc., Axcan
Pharma Inc., 3Com Corp. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  In at least one case, he sent e-mails to others at Galleon
including R.K. Rajaratnam, the co-founder’s brother, extolling
the value of Hilton’s stock before buying it for his fund’s
portfolio.  “I sent it as a cover-up to buying the stock based on
inside information,” said Cardillo, who pleaded guilty in
January to charges of conspiracy and securities fraud.  Cardillo testified that his employment overlapped with Zvi
Goffer’s for six or seven months. Goffer, 34, founded
Incremental Capital LLC after he was fired from Galleon, his
lawyer, William Barzee, said May 18 in his opening statement to
jurors.  The Goffer brothers and Kimelman are charged with
securities fraud and conspiracy stemming from one of three
overlapping rings tied to Galleon, prosecutors said. They face
as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of fraud.  Raj Rajaratnam was found guilty May 11 in the largest
insider-trading prosecution in a generation. He was convicted on
14 counts of securities fraud and conspiracy and prosecutors say
may be given as long as 19 1/2 years in prison when he’s
sentenced on July 29.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Lawyers Ask Judge to Void Jury’s Guilty Verdicts  Lawyers for Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC co-
founder found guilty May 11 in the largest insider-trading
prosecution in a generation, asked the federal judge in the case
to overturn the jury’s verdicts.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers moved for acquittal twice during the
trial in April. U.S. Judge Richard Holwell reserved judgment on
those motions. The renewed motion for acquittal was filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty of all 14 counts against
him and faces 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in prison when he is
sentenced on July 29.  “The court must set aside the jury’s verdict and enter
judgment of acquittal if it concludes that the evidence that the
defendant committed the crime alleged is nonexistent or so
meager that no reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a
reasonable doubt,” his lawyers said in the motion.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pre-trial  Blood at Scene Becomes Pivotal for Strauss-Kahn Defense  Evidence that Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s encounter with a
hotel maid may have involved force, including reports of blood
at the scene, might damage any defense contention that she
consented, Bloomberg News’ Karen Freifeld and Greg Farrell
reported that former prosecutors said.  Strauss-Kahn is accused in a seven-count indictment of
forcibly trying to have intercourse with the woman at the
Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan, and of making her have oral
sex with him. Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as head of the
 International Monetary Fund  after being charged with sexual
assault and attempted rape, plans to plead not guilty, his
lawyers have said.  Reports have emerged since Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest
that physical evidence, including semen and a cut on the
defendant’s back, suggests contact between the accuser, a 32-
year-old West African immigrant, and Strauss-Kahn, 62. Strauss-
Kahn hasn’t confirmed or denied there was an encounter, and his
attorneys have hinted that, if there was one, it was consensual.  “If the DNA evidence is straightforward and there are no
big surprises along the way here, plea negotiations would seem
inevitable,” Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor, said in
a phone interview. “It may be a matter of some time before the
defendant can be brought to understand the necessity of those
discussions.”  A New York Police Department crime scene unit gathered
evidence from Strauss-Kahn’s hotel suite, Assistant District
Attorney John “Artie” McConnell told a judge last week. While
the results of tests performed on material taken in the searches
weren’t available as of the May 19 hearing, preliminary
indications “support the victim’s version of events,” the
prosecutor said.  Strauss-Kahn’s body was examined and photographed after his
May 14 arrest. Defense lawyers Benjamin Brafman and William
Taylor said their client agreed to a government request for a
physical examination.  News organizations including the Wall Street Journal have
 reported  that a DNA sample from Strauss-Kahn matched semen found
on the maid’s shirt. According to other reports, carpet samples
taken from the room may contain semen traces and blood was found
on the sheets. Reports also said Strauss-Kahn cut his back on a
piece of furniture in the room during a struggle with the
victim.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for the New York District
Attorney’s office, declined to comment on the reports.  Paul
Browne , a spokesman for the police department, didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Brafman, who declined to comment on the
reports, told a judge last week that the evidence was in his
client’s favor.  “The forensic evidence, we believe, are not consistent
with forcible encounter,” he said at Strauss-Kahn’s first
appearance in Manhattan criminal court. “This is a very, very
defensible case.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  For more, click here.  Four States’ Lawyers Announce New Foreclosure Probe Actions  The attorneys general of four states including Illinois and
 California  announced new demands in their probes of foreclosure
practices by banks and the mortgage-servicing industry.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris said yesterday
she subpoenaed  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  as part of her
investigation into so-called “robo-signing,” the practice
signing foreclosure documents without verifying their accuracy.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan is issuing subpoenas
to Lender Processing and Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., another
Florida-based company, she said yesterday.  “Foreclosure became a rubber-stamping operation that
robbed many homeowners of the American dream without a fair and
accurate process,” Madigan said in a statement. “California
homeowners have been exposed to fraud and crime at every step of
the mortgage process,” Harris said in a separate statement.  The subpoena announcements come a day after attorneys
general in the 50-state investigation of foreclosure practices
met with representatives from the five largest U.S. banks.  State legal officers at the meeting told the banks they
will face an estimated $17 billion in claims if the inquiries
result in civil lawsuits, according to a person with knowledge
of the talks.  Negotiators for the banks said they are prepared to dispute
such demands in court, said the person, who asked to remain
anonymous because the discussions aren’t public. The attorneys
general and federal officials are negotiating with the five
largest loan servicers,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , didn’t return a call
for comment.  “Nationwide Title Clearing has not yet been served a
subpoena from the Illinois attorney general and therefore cannot
comment on the specifics at this time,” Cassandra McSparin,
spokeswoman for Palm Harbor, Florida-based company, said in an
e-mailed statement. “The company intends to cooperate with the
Attorney General’s office to the fullest extent of the law.”  Nationwide’s mortgage assignment documents and procedures
have been “thoroughly audited and examined for accuracy,”
McSparin said.  Many of the states are conducting probes of foreclosure
practices independent of the 50-state probe.  For more, click here.  Ex-Deutsche Bank CEO Breuer Rejected Deal in Fraud Case  Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Rolf
Breuer , charged with attempted fraud over his testimony in a
lawsuit filed by  Leo Kirch , rejected a settlement with
prosecutors that would have included a fine and a suspended
prison sentence.  Breuer declined to accept a so called penal order that
would have included a suspended one-year prison term, his lawyer
Sven Thomas said in an interview yesterday. The deal would have
also included a fine, two people familiar with the issue said.
They declined to be identified because the negotiations weren’t
public.  “There were talks but we rejected the proposal because we
have a clear acquittal strategy,” said Thomas. “We may have
settled had the prosecution agreed to drop charges for a very
small amount.”  The case is part of a nine-year-old fight over Breuer’s
comments about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s media group.
Kirch claimed the comments precipitated the group’s bankruptcy
and filed suits for a total of at least 3.3 billion euros ($4.6
billion), which are pending. The banks and Breuer rejected a 775
million-euro settlement over the civil litigation proposed by a
judge in March.  Barbara Stockinger, spokeswoman for Munich prosecutors,
declined to comment.  A trial date hasn’t been set yet.  For more, click here.  Travelport Asks Court to Dismiss AMR Suit in Ticketing Dispute  Travelport Ltd.  asked a U.S. federal court to throw out an
antitrust lawsuit filed by American Airlines, saying the claims
are being used to gain power in contract negotiations.  The suit is part of a growing dispute between some U.S.
airlines and global distribution systems such as Travelport over
control of flight and fare data made available to travel agents.
American wants to bypass such distributors and substitute its
proprietary technology.  “This is not a genuine antitrust lawsuit brought by
consumers suffering from excessive or artificial price
increases,” Travelport said in the response filed yesterday in
U.S. District Court in Fort Worth,  Texas . “It is an
opportunistic lawsuit brought by a large and powerful company
seeking to enhance its already substantial commercial bargaining
leverage.”  Spokesmen for  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American, the third-largest U.S.
airline, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-mail.
American, based in Fort Worth, sued Travelport and  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  in April. Travelport owns 48 percent of Chicago-
based Orbitz, the second-largest U.S. online travel agency.  The Travelport case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 4-11-cv-00244, Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  South Korea Plans Tougher Penalties for ‘Unfair Trading’  South Korea plans to clamp down on stock market
manipulation and trading on undisclosed information after $26
billion was wiped from the value of the nation’s listed
companies in a matter of minutes last November.  The  Financial Services Commission  is drafting revisions to
capital-markets laws to increase penalties, said Ernst Lee, a
spokesman at the regulator. The revisions, which will require
approval by the National Assembly, may be submitted as early as
June and would help seize profits made from “unfair trading,”
Lee said by phone yesterday.  Deutsche Bank AG received in February the heaviest penalty
ever imposed on a securities firm in South Korea when it was
banned from trading shares and derivatives for its own account
for six months, starting in April. The regulator said the bank’s
employees conspired to manipulate the market on Nov. 11 by
selling 2.44 trillion won ($2.2 billion) worth of shares in the
last minutes of trading that day to make gains from
“speculative” derivatives positions built in advance.  “There are always loopholes in law that people are seeking
to exploit and the system can be abused as trading gets more and
more complex,” said Kim Young Joon, a  fund manager  at NH-CA
Asset Management in Seoul, which oversees $9 billion in assets.
“It’s natural and right move for the government to try to close
these loopholes.”  Michael West, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Deutsche
Bank, wasn’t immediately reachable for comment via telephone and
e-mail yesterday.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Longtop Financial Sued by Investor Claiming Fraud in Reports  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) , facing an inquiry by
U.S. securities regulators over its financial reports, was sued
by an investor alleging the company overstated profit margins
and concealed adverse facts.  Joe Mikus, the investor, seeks to represent people who
purchased shares of Longtop from June 2009 through April on
claims that they lost money when the shares fell 33 percent
around April 26 after reports questioned the company’s finances,
according to documents filed in federal court in Los Angeles.  Longtop, a Hong Kong-based software provider whose 2007
U.S. initial public offering was underwritten by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, said May 23 that auditor
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. resigned and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission was investigating Deloitte’s claims. The
auditor said in a resignation letter that it found falsehoods in
company financial reports, Longtop said in a May 23 statement.  The lawsuit was filed the same day by New York-based Rosen
Law Firm. The firm has filed about 20 investor suits against
Chinese companies listed in the U.S. by reverse mergers,
Laurence Rosen, managing partner, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. In a reverse merger, a closely held company becomes
public by purchasing a shell company that already trades.  The case is Mikus v. Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd.,
2:11-cv-04402, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Novartis Not Liable Over Bone-Drug Warnings, Jury Rules  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales,
didn’t cause a Rhode Island man’s so-called jaw death, a federal
jury in Brooklyn, New York, ruled.  Karlene Hogan sued Novartis in 2006, claiming her late
husband, Timothy Hogan, developed the condition by getting
injections of Zometa, a bond-strengthening drug for cancer
patients, according to the complaint.  “The labels included the risks that were known and
knowable at that time,” Bruce Berger, a lawyer for Novartis,
told jurors in his closing argument yesterday.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, faces about 700
suits over Zometa and Aredia, a similar drug. Yesterday’s
verdict is Novartis’s second win out of four trials held over
the drugs.  In November, a federal jury in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, ruled that Novartis should pay more than $12.8 million
to a North Carolina woman’s family over claims Zometa and Aredia
damaged her jaw. The award was reduced under state law to $1.26
million, including interest.  In October, a New Jersey jury rejected a woman’s claims
that Aredia and Zometa caused her jaw deterioration. In October
2009, a Montana jury ordered Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in
damages to a cancer patient who made the same claims over the
medicines.  John Vecchione, a lawyer for Hogan, declined to comment on
yesterday’s verdict.  The case is Hogan v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 06-
cv-260, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Lloyds to Pay $33 Million for Rejecting Customer Complaints  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Bank of Scotland unit must pay
20.5 million pounds ($33.3 million) for rejecting complaints
over retail investment products without taking customers’
circumstances into account.  The bank was fined 3.5 million pounds by Britain’s
Financial Services Authority for mishandling complaints, and
agreed to pay 17 million pounds in compensation to customers,
the regulator said in  a statement  yesterday.  Bank of Scotland “wrongly rejected a significant number”
of the 2,592 complaints it received between July 2007 and
October 2009, the FSA said. The agency found the bank didn’t
fairly assess whether the investments were suitable for the
customers who complained, and didn’t analyze the complaints it
received as a way to improve its business.  “The fine reflects BOS’s serious failure to treat
vulnerable customers fairly,” said Tracey McDermott, the acting
director of enforcement at the FSA. “The firm’s failure to
ensure it had a robust complaint-handling process in place led
to a significant number of complaints being rejected when they
should have been upheld.”  For more, click here.  Morgan Crucible Wins Dismissal of U.K. Claims Over Cartel  Morgan Crucible Co., the maker of carbon materials for
medical and transportation equipment, won its dismissal from a
U.K. lawsuit filed by Deutsche Bahn AG and 30 other European
rail companies over a defunct graphite cartel.  The group needed to sue Morgan Crucible sooner than the
other cartel members because it was a whistle-blower in the
underlying European Union case and wasn’t involved in a
challenge to EU fines, the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  ruled
yesterday. The rail companies waited to sue until after the EU
appeal was finished.  “The claims against Morgan Crucible in these proceedings
have not been brought within the time limit,” the  London  court,
which handles U.K. antitrust cases, said in its decision.  The price-fixing, which lasted from 1988 to 1999, caused
customers to pay too much for graphite-based goods used for
transferring electricity in train motors. While Windsor,
England-based Morgan Crucible won immunity from EU fines by
being the first to cooperate, its former Chief Executive Officer
Ian Norris was sentenced to 18 months in prison in a parallel
U.S. case.  One of the rail companies’ lawyers, Lianne Craig of
Hausfeld & Co., declined to comment when reached yesterday by
phone.  European Union regulators in 2003 levied fines totaling 101
million euros ($142 million) against four of the cartel’s five
members,  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , France’s Carbone Lorraine SA, Austria’s
Hoffmann & Co. and Schunk GmbH. The railway companies’ lawyers
have said the case, filed in December, may be the most
significant claim of its kind in Europe.  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal (London).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On the Docket  MasterCard EU Court Case Over Fees Will Be Heard July 8  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s appeal against a European Union decision
forcing it to revise the way it calculates a transaction fee
paid by retailers will be heard on July 8.  Lawyers for MasterCard will be able to explain to EU
General Court judges at the July oral hearing in Luxembourg why
it seeks to overturn the 2007 decision by the European
Commission. The court’s press service confirmed the hearing date
yesterday.  The case is T-111/08, MasterCard and others v. European
Commission.  ING’s EU Court Challenge Over Bailout to Be Heard July 12  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s appeal of a decision by European Union
regulators on the bank and insurer’s government bailout will be
heard by the EU’s second-highest court on July 12.  The EU General Court based in Luxembourg is expected to
hear arguments from lawyers representing the bank, the
Netherlands and the European Commission before the tribunal
breaks for summer, its press service said yesterday.  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 