-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accuser Adds Counsel Expecting an Attack on Her Reputation

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-27T04:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/strauss-kahn-rape-accuser-adds-counsel-expecting-attack-on-her-reputation.html
The hotel maid who accused  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the ex-International Monetary Fund managing
director now charged with sexual assault and attempted rape,
hired additional legal counsel in anticipation of an attack on
her reputation and credibility, her lawyer said.  Attorney Norman Siegel, former director of the New York
Civil Liberties Union, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney
Kenneth P. Thompson, who prosecuted  New York City  police
officers for the beating and torture of Abner Louima, have begun
to work on behalf of the 32-year-old hotel maid from Guinea,
according to Jeffrey Shapiro, who has been representing her.  “We anticipate the defense in this case is going to mount
some sort of an assault on her,” Shapiro, a  New York  personal-
injury lawyer, said yesterday in a phone interview. “It
requires a team effort” to protect her, he said.  In a May 25 letter to the Manhattan district attorney
complaining about media leaks in the case, defense attorneys
Benjamin Brafman and William Taylor III said that if they wanted
to feed the media frenzy, they could release information that
would “gravely undermine the credibility” of the woman.  In a letter yesterday, the prosecutor’s office responded
that it also was concerned about the leaks -- and “troubled”
by the defense lawyers’ claims that they possessed information
that might negatively affect the case and the woman’s
credibility.  ‘No Such Information’  “We are aware of no such information,”  Manhattan 
Assistant District Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon wrote. “If you
really do possess the kind of information that you suggest that
you do, we trust you will forward it immediately.”  Brafman and Taylor didn’t respond to calls or e-mails
seeking comment. Siegel and Thompson also didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. Shapiro said a civil lawsuit had
not been discussed.  The woman is doing well, Shapiro said.  “She’s very strong,” he said. “She’s with her daughter.
She’s happy to be done with testifying to the grand jury. She’s
going to be OK.”  The grand jury handed down an indictment against Strauss-
Kahn after the woman testified last week.  The woman has a 15-year-old daughter, and until the
incident, lived in the New York borough of the Bronx, according
to Shapiro.  “She has not been able to go back to work,” he said.
“The hotel has continued to pay her, but that is not a long-
term solution. That’s an interim solution.”  Financial Resources  No one else is providing her with support and her financial
resources for the long term must be dealt with, he said.  Shapiro said he had no knowledge that anyone had approached
her family in  Guinea  with offers of money to make the case go
away, as the New York Post reported.  Taylor, Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said May 25 that reports
that defense attorneys or other representatives have been in
contact with the woman or her family are false.  In the May 25 letter to Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., Taylor and Brafman said that their client’s right to
a fair trial was compromised by prejudicial information leaked
to news media by New York Police Department sources.  DNA Evidence  They cited news reports on alleged DNA evidence and a
“step-by-step narrative” from a police spokesman of how the
victim claims the criminal acts occurred.  “This information has now been recklessly injected into
the public arena with the potential of permanently prejudicing
potential jurors who are being exposed to these materials on a
daily basis,” the lawyers said in the letter. A copy was sent
to state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus, who is presiding
over the case.  The lawyers asked that they be provided with copies of all
scientific reports that have been completed and leaked, as well
as other evidence. They requested that efforts be made to
prevent further leaks.  In yesterday’s letter responding to the defense complaints,
Illuzzi-Orbon said it was in the interest of both sides to
discourage “to the greatest degree possible” leaks of non-
public information, and that prosecutors would continue to do
so.  The other information requested by the defense would be
addressed pursuant to normal trial procedures, she said.  Illuzzi-Orbon, who was appointed last year as chief of the
office’s new hate crimes unit, is one of two new prosecutors
assigned to the sexual assault case, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  New to Case  Assistant  District Attorney  Ann Prunty also is working on
the case, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because staffing decisions aren’t public.  “It’s a serious case. It’s also a press case,” said New
York defense attorney Thomas Curran, a former Manhattan
prosecutor. “The DA’s office is going to bring whatever assets
it has to bear on that case. And having people like Joan and Ann
available is the envy of any prosecutor’s office.”  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for the district attorney,
declined to comment on staffing.  Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the trial division at the
district attorney’s office, recused herself from the case. Her
husband, Marc Agnifilo, is a lawyer with Brafman & Associates
and has been working on Strauss-Kahn’s defense.  Brafman Clients  Brafman’s clients have included pop star  Michael Jackson ,
Gambino crime family underboss Salvatore “Sammy Bull” Gravano,
rapper Sean “Diddy” Combs, and former New York Giants wide
receiver Plaxico Burress.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
released from Rikers Island, New York City’s main jail complex,
on May 20. Among the terms his release are $1 million bail, a $5
million bond and security measures that include electronic
monitoring and cost an estimated $200,000 a month.  Strauss-Kahn was housed temporarily in  Lower Manhattan 
after arrangements on the Upper East Side fell through because
of news media attention. He moved last night to Manhattan’s
Tribeca neighborhood, near the courthouse where he is to go on
trial.  According to a sales listing for the 153 Franklin St.
building on the StreetEasy real estate website, the property is
a 6,804-square-foot townhouse. The four-bedroom unit, which was
on the market for almost $14 million, includes a roof deck and
garage, according to the listing.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York. New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 