-- 
Supreme Court Upholds Arizona Illegal-Hiring Law

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-26T16:14:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/supreme-court-upholds-arizona-illegal-hiring-law.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , rejecting
business arguments, upheld an  Arizona  law that threatens
companies with the revocation of their corporate charters if
they hire illegal immigrants.  In a 5-3  ruling , the justices said a federal law governing
immigrant hiring leaves room for states to impose their own
penalties for non-compliance, even by stripping away a company’s
license to do business.  The breakdown may hint at the outcome should the high court
consider a separate Arizona law giving local police a greater
role in arresting illegal immigrants. The court’s five
Republican appointees formed the majority today, buttressing
state power and rejecting the type of business concerns they
often support in other contexts.  “License suspension and revocation are significant
sanctions,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote in the court’s
lead opinion. “But they are typical attributes of a licensing
regime” imposed by states.  Roberts said the Arizona law allows the so-called business
death penalty only for the most egregious cases, involving at
least two intentional violations. “An employer acting in good
faith need have no fear of the sanctions,” he wrote.  So far, Arizona officials have filed only a handful of
enforcement actions against employers.  Similar Laws  The ruling might spur enactment of similar laws elsewhere.
In challenging the measure, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said
dozens of states have recently enacted laws regulating
employment of illegal immigrants. In the first quarter of this
year, state lawmakers introduced 279 employment-related
immigration bills, according to a  report  by the  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  The justices also upheld Arizona’s requirement that
employers participate in E-Verify, a system designed to allow
confirmation of worker eligibility for employment through
federal databases. The system is voluntary under U.S. law.  Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas ,  Anthony Kennedy 
and  Samuel Alito  formed the majority with Roberts. Thomas joined
only some of the chief justice’s reasoning.  Roberts’s opinion itself may provide limited guidance for
other immigration cases. He focused on a 1986 federal statute
that bars states and cities from penalizing employers for hiring
illegal aliens except through “licensing and similar laws.”  Congressional Authority  Arizona’s law “falls well within the confines of the
authority Congress chose to leave to the states,” Roberts
wrote.  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  -- all Democratic appointees -- dissented, saying the
federal law pre-empts the state statute.  The Arizona law “strays beyond the bounds of the federal
licensing exception,” Breyer wrote for himself and Ginsburg.
Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part because she played a role
in the litigation as a lawyer in President Barack Obama’s
administration.  The Chamber of Commerce joined with civil rights groups and
a labor union in challenging the Arizona law. The Obama
administration also said the law should be struck down.  The other Arizona law is on hold after a federal appeals
court said the state was interfering with the federal
government’s authority over immigration policy.  That measure requires local police officers to check
immigration status when they arrest or stop someone and have
“reasonable suspicion” that the person is in the country
illegally. The law also requires registered aliens to carry
documentation with them at all times.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, said earlier
this month that she will appeal to the Supreme Court.  The Arizona police law was the first of its kind. Almost
two dozen states have considered similar measures, drawing
lawsuits and opposition from business groups.  The case is Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting, 09-115.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 