-- 
Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Actelion Gains, Syngenta Drops

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-05-26T16:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-actelion-gains-sgs-declines.html
The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI) 
closed little changed today after increases in  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  and
 Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  offset a decline by  Syngenta AG. (SYNN)   Actelion rose after  UBS AG (UBSN)  advised investors to buy the
stock. Nobel Biocare jumped 6.3 percent after Morgan Stanley
upgraded the shares.  The Swiss Market Index of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose less than 0.1 percent to 6,469.16 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich after swinging between gains and
losses more than five times today. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also rose less than 0.1 percent.  “The market has been trading in a range because of
questions regarding the evolution of the economy,” said
Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas in
Luxembourg. “After a correction, if you bet on the fundamentals
of emerging markets being good, a rebound in  Japan  by the end of
the year and that a slowdown in the U.S. is only temporary, that
supports appetite for more risk.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index on May 23 sank to a nine-
week low amid concern Europe’s sovereign debt crisis will hurt
global economic growth. In Japan, the Topix has lost 11 percent
since March 10, the day before a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami devastated Japan’s northeast coast.  U.S. Economy  A report showed the U.S. economy grew at a 1.8 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, less than forecast. More
Americans unexpectedly filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is struggling to
gain momentum, according to another report.  Stocks pared earlier gains today after the head of the
group of euro-area finance ministers said the  International
Monetary Fund  may not release its portion of aid to Greece next
month.  Swiss exports increased in April, suggesting reviving
global demand helped offset the impact of a stronger franc
against the euro and the dollar.  Foreign sales, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 7.9 percent from March, when they dropped a revised
3.1 percent, the Federal Customs Office in Bern said.  Actelion advanced 1.8 percent to 45.4 francs. UBS raised
its recommendation on the shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  Nobel Biocare  Nobel Biocare jumped 6.3 percent to 18.65 francs, its
biggest increase since 2009. Morgan Stanley raised the stock to
“overweight” from “underweight.”  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , a
maker of dental implants, climbed 3.4 percent to 234.30 francs.
The stock was raised to “equal weight” from “underweight” at
Morgan Stanley. Growth is accelerating in dental implant sales,
the firm said.  Syngenta, the maker of Bicep II Magnum herbicide, lost 1
percent to 287.70 francs.  UBS gained 0.6 percent to 16.09 francs. Chief Executive
Officer  Oswald Gruebel  denied a report in the Wall Street
Journal today that the biggest Swiss bank intends to split off
its investment banking unit and incorporate it outside
Switzerland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  