-- 
Syms Surges Most Since 2009 After Reporting Possible Sale

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-26T20:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/syms-surges-most-since-2009-after-reporting-possible-sale-2-.html
(Corrects date in headline.)  Syms Corp. (SYMS) , a New Jersey-based
discount retailer, surged the most in almost two and a half
years after saying it will explore strategic alternatives
including a possible sale of the company.  Syms retained Rothschild Inc. as its exclusive financial
adviser, the Secaucus, New Jersey-based retailer said today in a
statement. There is no timeline for the review process, the
company said.  Shareholder Capstone Equities Capital Management LP earlier
this month sent a letter to Syms directors and Chief Executive
Officer Marcy Syms asking the retailer to sell some of its real
estate and buy back shares to “enhance  shareholder value .”  “In light of the intense retail competition which exists
today, it is now time for Syms to create a transparent sales
process to find the highest bidder and maximize value for all
shareholders,” said Andrew Sole, a managing member of Esopus
Creek Capital, in Short Hills,  New Jersey , which holds about 4
percent of Syms.  Syms surged $2.04, or 27 percent, to $9.49 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
31 percent this year.  Davia Temin, a spokeswoman for Syms, said the review
process wasn’t in response to the letter, and declined to
comment further.  Worth $200 Million  The retailer, which operates 47 stores under Filene’s
Basement and its namesake brand in the U.S., reported a net loss
of $32.9 million, or $2.27 a share, in the fiscal year ended
February 26.  Capstone valued Syms’s real estate at more than $200
million, or about 50 percent more than the company’s worth as a
money-losing retailer, according to the letter. Syms owned 18 of
its 49 stores for a total of 1.69 million square feet as of Feb.
26, according to a public filing.  “Finally, shareholders are being considered here, which is
a huge step in the right direction,” said Capstone partner
Joshua Zamir, who declined to say how many shares the investment
firm owned. “The time was just right. The real estate market
has come back very, very strongly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  