-- 
Pound Gains to a Two-Month High Against Euro; IMF May Not Give Greece Aid

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-26T15:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-k-pound-gains-versus-dollar-as-rising-equities-boost-appetite-for-risk.html
The pound reached an 11-week high
against the euro after a European Union policy maker said the
 International Monetary Fund  may not give  Greece  its next portion
of aid, boosting the relative appeal of the U.K. currency.  Britain’s pound appreciated to the highest in two weeks
versus the dollar after a report showed the  U.S. economy  grew
less than economists forecast. A gauge of U.K. consumer-services
companies dropped to minus 23 in the three months through May
from minus 11 in the quarter through February, data showed
today. The  Bank of England  left borrowing costs at a record low
of 0.5 percent this month because some policy makers said an
increase in interest rates might hurt  consumer confidence .  “We’re seeing these comments come out, and that’s
weakening the euro against the pound,” said Lee McDarby, head
of dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at
Investec Bank Plc in  London . “There is still nervousness around
in the market with respect to the dollar and anything that is to
do with the economic outlook.”  Sterling gained 0.4 percent to 86.26 pence per euro as of
4:36 p.m. in London, after reaching 86.11 pence, the strongest
since March 11. It appreciated 0.5 percent to $1.6348, after
touching $1.6377, the most since May 12. It was 0.4 percent
weaker at 132.93 yen.  ‘IMF Rules’  “There are specific IMF rules and one of those rules says
that IMF can only take action when the refinancing guarantee is
given over 12 months,” Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said today at a
conference. “I don’t think that the troika will come to the
conclusion that this is given,” he said, referring to the
representatives from the IMF,  European Central Bank  and European
Commission who assess Greece’s progress.  The dollar dropped against the yen and euro as data showed
the U.S. economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 2.2 percent forecast by economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The pound weakened against the euro earlier today after the
consumer-services report, which showed a gauge of U.K. companies
such as hotels and restaurants, fell to the lowest since
November 2009.  U.K. central bank officials are locked in a debate over
whether to tighten monetary policy after inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest since 2008. While the
European Central Bank and Sweden’s Riksbank have already started
raising rates, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  says it’s
too soon because the recovery remains weak. Advocates of a rate
increase say the price surge risks becoming embedded in the
economy unless policy makers act.  U.K. Exports  The pound strengthened against the dollar and the euro
yesterday as a report showed U.K. exports helped the economy
resumed growth in the first quarter, outweighing the biggest
slump in  consumer spending  in almost two years.  Sweden’s SEB AB advised selling the pound against the euro,
saying the Bank of England won’t be able to raise  interest rates 
without harming exports that boost the economy.  “Yesterday’s gross domestic product report underlines that
a hike from the BOE is impossible within a foreseeable future,”
Richard Falkenhall, a Stockholm-based currency strategist, wrote
in an e-mailed note today. “Higher rates would probably
strengthen the pound, at least short term, and hurt the only
part having a positive impact on growth -- external demand.
Domestic demand is extremely weak.”  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the yield
on the 10-year gilt down one basis point to 3.32 percent and the
two-year note yield at 0.93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  