-- 
U.K. Faces Risk of Extended Inflation Overshoot, Citigroup Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-26T11:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-k-faces-risk-of-extended-inflation-overshoot-citigroup-says.html
The U.K. may be facing an “extended
inflation overshoot” as consumers’ long-term price expectations
rise,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said.  Inflation expectations for the coming year rose to 3.4
percent in May from 2.9 percent in April, London-based Citigroup
economist  Michael Saunders  said in an e-mailed note today.
Longer-term expectations rose to 3.5 percent from 3.4 percent.  U.K. consumer-price growth accelerated to 4.5 percent in
April, more than twice the Bank of England’s 2 percent target.
The bank held its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent this month and Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said
allowing a “temporary” period of above-target inflation is
necessary to support the recovery.  “Some on the Monetary Policy Committee seem to take
comfort from the notion that long-term inflation expectations
are not continually rising,” Saunders said. “We are rather
more worried about the evidence that long-term inflation
expectations appear to be well anchored at a sizeable margin
above the inflation target.”  Saunders also said companies remain “unusually confident”
in their ability to raise prices. While a Confederation of
British Industry report on May 19 showed an index of factory
selling prices slipped to 24 in May from 36 in April, that
compares with the long-term average of 1. A measure of
retailers’ prices was at 63 in May, according to a separate
quarterly survey, up from 49 a year ago.  “We suspect the MPC’s willingness to tolerate repeated
inflation overshoots is reinforcing the general public’s belief
that inflation over time will be well above the 2 percent
target,” Saunders said. “The elevated level of expectations --
plus loose monetary policy -- reinforces our view that the U.K.
faces an extended inflation overshoot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  