-- 
U.K. Agency Warns Travelers to Germany of E. coli Outbreak

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-26T15:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-k-agency-warns-travelers-to-germany-of-e-coli-outbreak.html
The U.K.’s  Health Protection Agency 
is warning travelers to  Germany  about an infectious outbreak
that has killed two people and sickened 214 in the last two
weeks.  Reports of haemolytic-uraemic syndrome, or HUS, related to
enterohemorrhagic E. coli bacteria, or EHEC, have been linked to
fruits and vegetables. Those who became ill in the Hamburg area
ate a significantly higher amount of raw tomatoes, cucumbers and
lettuce, the  Robert Koch-Institut , which is tracking the number
of cases, said in a statement posted on its website today. It
recommends that people not eat these items raw until further
notice.  Infections have mainly been reported in northern Germany
and have also spread to southern and eastern states, the
institute said. Symptoms include bloody diarrhea, and the
outbreak has mainly affected adults, almost 70 percent female.  The strain of the infection is “rare” and seldom seen in
the U.K., the Health Protection Agency said today in a
statement. Britain has had two cases of it in German nationals,
while other European countries have reported cases in those
returning from Germany, the agency said.  “The HPA is actively monitoring the situation very
carefully and liaising with the authorities in Germany, the
 European Centre for Disease Control  and the  World Health
Organization  as to the cause of the outbreak,” Dilys Morgan,
head of the gastrointestinal, emerging and zoonotic infections
department at the HPA, said in a statement today.  The German institute recommends cooking vegetables to at
least 70 degrees Celsius (158 degrees Fahrenheit) for 10 minutes
and observing standard food and water hygiene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 