-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 24 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-26T12:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-24-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: An unsettled and stormy weather pattern
dominated much of the lower 48 States, unfortunately highlighted
by a deadly and destructive bout of tornadoes in the Nation’s
midsection. The southwest  Missouri  city of Joplin took a direct
hit on May 22 from an EF-5 twister, taking the lives of at least
120 people and injuring at least 750, with numerous people still
missing. Two days later, additional tornadoes touched down in
Oklahoma and Arkansas, killing at least a dozen people. This
stormy weather pattern also dumped moderate to heavy rains
across much of the northern half of the U.S. and on much of the
Plains, greatly easing drought conditions in the south-central
and central Plains. Unfortunately, little or no rain fell along
the extreme southern tier of States, from southern Arizona into
southern  Texas  and eastward along the Gulf and southern Atlantic
Coasts. Temperatures averaged below-normal in the West, north-
central Plains, and Southeast, and above-normal in the southern
Plains, upper Midwest, Northeast, and  Alaska .  Important Note: The drought depiction for south-central
 Louisiana  has been changed this week to show the areas of
drought in the Atchafalaya Basin. As a result, this does not
take into account the areas of flooding that were released into
this basin from the Morganza Spillway courtesy of the lower
Mississippi River flooding. The actual flooded areas have been
less extensive and slower to spread than initially forecast;
however, the amount of flooding is still significant.  For the latest text information about river levels in the
region:  http://www.srh.noaa.gov/lmrfc/?n=lmrfc -
mississippiandohioriverforecast  For satellite images (via ASTER on  NASA ?s Terra satellite) of
the Morganza Spillway:  http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=50659&src=iotd 
rss  Upper Great Lakes Region: Light rains (0.5 to 1 inch) was
reported in northeastern  Minnesota  and the UP of  Michigan , with
heavier totals just to the south of the D0 areas. Stream flows
and soil moisture indices have shown some improvement recently,
but this area still could use a good widespread soaking to
eliminate the lingering long-term (12- to 18-months) dryness.  South Atlantic Seaboard and Eastern Gulf Coast States: Little or
no rain fell on most of the drought-affected areas (southern and
eastern Mississippi, most of  Alabama ,  Georgia , and  Florida , and
eastern sections of the Carolinas) as moderate to heavy
precipitation (1.5 to 4 inches) was recorded just to the north.
There was enough rain, however, in central  Virginia  (0.75 to
1.25 inches) to trim away some of the western D0 edge as
deficits have gradually been replaced with near-normal or small
surpluses during the past 90-days. At Norfolk, VA,  and
Elizabeth City, NC, however, 90-day deficiencies were 4.08 and
3.64 inches, respectively, and D1(A) remained. Similar deficits
existed on the Delmarva Peninsula of  Maryland  as D1 was added,
while D1 was removed just to the south on Virginia’s Delmarva
Peninsula as 2 inches of rain fell earlier in the week. Farther
south, light rains (0.2 to 0.7 inches) maintained conditions in
the central Carolinas, but an H Impact Line was added to
delineate adequate short-term conditions from longer-term
shortages in south-central  North Carolina  and north-central
 South Carolina .  In contrast, subnormal rainfall continued across the eastern
Gulf and southern Atlantic States. The last week that this
region received widespread, soaking precipitation was in late
March and early April, and conditions continued to deteriorate.
USGS stream flows at 1-, 7-, 14-, and 28-days continued to drop,
and many in southern sections of Mississippi and Alabama, most
of Georgia, northern Florida, and parts of the Carolinas were in
the lower tenth percentile as of May 24. According to USDA/NASS
state reports, topsoil moisture rated short or very short
increased this week to 82, 75,54, 48, and 47 percent, in Georgia,
Florida, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Alabama, respectively.
Similarly, pasture and range lands rated poor or very poor rose
to 41 and 47 percent in Florida and Georgia. In southern Florida,
the combination of short-term dryness (90-days: 25 to 50 percent
of normal rainfall) and long-term deficits (since October 1:
Miami 8.83 inches; West Palm Beach 21.39 inches; Ft. Lauderdale
20.97 inches; Naples 11.52 inches) have greatly lowered river
and lake levels and some wells. Lake Okeechobee stood at 10.41
feet (normal 13.19 feet) on May 22, below the critical line for
water shortages. Accordingly, D0 through D3 was incrementally
increased northward in Mississippi, Alabama, and into western
Georgia and northern Florida, and in extreme southern Florida
(D3 in Monroe and Dade counties) in response to the growing
short-term deficiencies.  Lower Mississippi Valley: As mentioned in the above Important
Note, the opening of the Morganza Spillway on May 15 (last
opened in 1973) had projected to flood much of the Atchafalaya
River basin in south-central Louisiana by now. But due to the
basin’s hydrological complexity and uncertainty, especially in
the southern end, the rate and extent of flooding was less than
initially forecast. Where it has flooded, however, the flooding
is still significant. In contrast, where the flood waters had
not yet reached, U.S. Forestry officials reported that many
marshes were dry with fish kills from lack of oxygen in the
remaining pools of water in coastal parishes of southwest and
south Louisiana. Therefore, due to the severity of the ongoing
drought and the lack of a recent image of actual flooded land,
the area of drought depiction was returned to all of Louisiana.
And of course, the flooded regions of the Atchafalaya basin (not
depicted) would be drought free.  Elsewhere across southern Louisiana, little or no rain fell once
again. Light rains (0.5 to 1 inch) occurred in northeastern
Louisiana and southeastern  Arkansas , while 1.5 to 2.5 inches
fell on western Louisiana and eastern Texas. Unfortunately,
additional heavy rains (2 to 8 inches) inundated the already-
saturated upper Delta region (western and northern Arkansas,
southern Missouri), adding more water into the swollen main
stems of the Mississippi River. The rainfall did provide some
basis for slight drought reduction in eastern Texas, western
Louisiana, and southern Arkansas as a 1-category improvement was
made to areas with weekly totals of 2 inches or more. However,
large long-term (12-months) deficits (15 to 20 inches) remained
in portions of the lower Mississippi River Valley, and were
between 25 to 35 inches at 18-months.  Central and Southern Plains: Numerous and widespread showers and
thunderstorms, including many cells that became severe with
tornadic activity (e.g. Joplin, MO), dropped copious amounts of
rain (2 to 10 inches) on parts of northeastern Texas, most of
Oklahoma (except the Panhandle), much of Kansas (except the
southwest),  Nebraska  (and northward), and parts of  Colorado .
Needless to say, many areas of drought (D0 to D4) were improved
by 1-category, and in some places, by 2-categories, especially
where more than 4 inches fell.  In Texas, eastern sections were improved by 1-category where 1.5
inches or more rain was measured as the rains should improve
forage grass growth and conditions. In northeastern Texas along
the Red River, a 1-category improvement meant that some
locations were finally out of drought (D-nothing). In east-
central Texas (e.g. Robertson County), less improvement was made
as hydrological conditions were worse than other areas to the
north and east. In northern Texas, 2 to 3 inches of rain along
the  Oklahoma  border eased drought by 1-category, but farther
west near Childress, D4 remained as deficits were large, and
rainfall totals were less. Where little or no rain fell
(southern and western Texas), D4 was expanded into Brazoria,
Bexar, and Wilson counties. USGS stream flows continued to be in
the lower tenth percentile in southern and south-central Texas,
but improving to near-normal in the northeast. According to
USDA/NASS, Texas winter wheat was rated 76 percent poor or very
poor, while similarly-rated pastures and ranges stood at 73
percent.  In Oklahoma and Kansas, one and even some two-category
improvements were made where the amounts were the greatest. In
Oklahoma and Kansas, a 1-category improvement was made to any
D0-D3 area that received 1.5 inches or more, and a 2-category
swing was made where rainfall exceeded 4 inches. In southwest
Oklahoma where 2 to 6 inches fell, only a 1-category improvement
to the D4 area was made as soils were so dry (down to at least 8
feet) that time is needed to see if the soil moisture recharge
holds out. In Harmon County, the rains (1 to 2 inches) did
little to moisten the soil profile except to the top 2 inches,
and this area remained in D4. Where little or no rain fell on
western sections of Oklahoma and Kansas, drought persisted, and
in some instances increased. D4 was expanded northward into
Ellis and Harper counties where no summer crops are expected
following the failure of the winter wheat crop. In the Panhandle,
D4 was increased in Cimarron and Texas Counties as less than 40
percent of normal precipitation has occurred over the past 180
days. USDA/NASS winter wheat and pasture conditions rated poor
and very poor for Oklahoma were 80 and 42 percent, while Kansas
was 55 and 36 percent.  In Nebraska and Colorado, additional moderate to heavy (1.5 to 4
inches) rains erased D0 across Nebraska except for a few small
pockets where medium- and long-term shortages (at both 90-days
and since October 1; less than 70 percent) lingered. This
included extreme southeastern and south-central sections of the
state. Farther west in Colorado, another wet week brought 2 to 3
inches of precipitation to northern and western portions of the
state, providing a second week of additional improvements to the
moisture conditions. A 1-category reduction in drought (D0 to
D2) was made across northeastern Colorado where 2 to 3 inches
fell, but with lower amounts to the south, D2 and D3 remained,
especially in the southeast. A slight expansion of D2 into the
San Luis Valley in south-central Colorado as winter
precipitation was lower than surrounding regions. Even with the
recent rains, USDA/NASS pasture and winter wheat conditions
rated poor or very poor stood at 48 and 40 percent for Colorado.  The Southwest: Although little or no rain fell on southern
sections of the Southwest (southern  Arizona , southern and
eastern  New Mexico , west Texas, southeastern Colorado),
unsettled weather did make it far enough south into the Four
Corners Region to drop unseasonably heavy precipitation (0.5 to
2 inches) on parts of central Arizona, northwestern New Mexico,
southwestern Colorado, and southeastern Utah). Flagstaff, AZ,
was now at normal for the year with the latest round of
precipitation. Even heavier amounts were reported north of this
area. As a result, some slight improvements to D0 to D2 edges
were made in central Arizona, D0 and D1 were trimmed in
northwestern New Mexico, and D0 was removed from southwestern
Colorado. In southwest Texas, another week of rain (0.5 inches)
in western Crockett and northeastern Pecos counties slightly
reduced D4 there.  Hawaii and Alaska: Scattered light to moderate (0.5 to 2 inches)
showers fell on the eastern (Big Island) and western  (Kauai and
Oahu) Hawaiian Islands while little or no rain was reported in
the central (Maui, Molokai, Lanai) islands. On Maui, abnormal
dryness was expanded to cover the rest of the island as low
irrigation ditches were reported in eastern sections, along with
lower yields at the Upcounty Agriculture park due to lower
irrigation flows. Reduced forage has also led to an encroachment
of deer onto farms and pastures. In contrast, the Big Island saw
some improvement with recent rains. The D2 area was split in
half as the mid-slopes received good April rains, and the
pastures recovered. Unfortunately, the vegetation did not
recover in the lower elevations near Kawaihae and upper
elevations near Pohakuloa as D2 remained. On the western Big
Island lower Kona slopes, ample rains have eliminated lingering
D0 as farmers in much better shape than last year. Lastly, the
southern Big Island improved from D1 to D0 near Kapapala and
Pahala area with continued shower activity. Elsewhere,
conditions stayed the same.  In Alaska, light to moderate precipitation (0.3 to 1 inch) fell
on portions of the south-central and southeastern coasts, and on
west-central interior sections. Locally, 2 to 4 inches of rain
was observed on Kodiak Island and on the eastern Kenai Peninsula,
but amounts were not large enough to eliminate long-term
deficits. In the short-term (30- to 90-days), precipitation in
southwestern and southeastern Alaska is close to or above-normal,
however, in the long-term (since September 1, 2010, the start of
the cold season), much larger deficits have accumulated. This
included departures of -10 to -30 inches since September 1 along
the normally wetter coastal locations. Accordingly, the D0(H)
area was slightly modified to depict the larger long-term
deficits.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (May 26-30), a cold front
will gradually push eastward out of the Nation?s midsection and
off the East Coast later this week, bringing showers and
thunderstorms to the eastern third of the Nation. Meanwhile, a
series of Pacific storm systems will impact the Northwest and
track into the northern Plains and upper Midwest, dropping light
to moderate precipitation across the northern third of the U.S.
Unfortunately, the southern tier of States will see little or no
precipitation, although the Southeast may receive some light
rain from the frontal passage. Shower activity may increase over
the weekend in southern Florida. Above-normal readings will
gradually spread from the southern Plains and South and push
northward into the Midwest and East, while the West remains cool.
Highs near 100 deg F may occur in parts of the Southeast by May
31.  The 6-10 day CPC outlook (May 31-June 4) calls for enhanced odds
of subnormal precipitation from the central and southern Rockies
across the south-central Plains and eastward throughout most of
the Southeast and Atlantic Coast States. Above-normal
precipitation is expected in the Northwest and upper Midwest.
Subnormal temperatures are forecast for the Far West while
unseasonable warmth envelops the eastern half of the Nation. In
Alaska, wetter and warmer weather is probable in the southwest
while drier and cooler conditions are expected in the east.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  