-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Spending Cools More Than Estimated

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-26T20:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-economy-expanded-1-8-in-first-quarter-less-than-forecast.html
Consumer spending  cooled in the first
quarter more than previously estimated as the jump in food and
fuel costs held back the biggest part of the  U.S. economy .  Household purchases rose at a 2.2 percent annual pace from
January through March, less than the 2.7 percent calculated last
month and short of the 2.8 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, according to Commerce Department
figures issued today in Washington. The economy grew at a 1.8
percent pace last quarter, the same as previously calculated.  Treasury securities  climbed as the report, combined with
other data showing more Americans unexpectedly filed claims for
jobless benefits, raised concern last quarter’s slowdown will
persist. Manufacturing, at the forefront of the recovery that
began in June 2009, may also cool this quarter amid parts
shortages resulting from the disaster in  Japan .  “Consumer spending was pretty anemic last quarter, and
households are likely to be somewhat restrained going forward,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, who had forecast GDP would
be revised to 1.9 percent. “Economic growth will run a little
faster than the first quarter but nothing blockbuster.”  The number of workers filing applications for unemployment
insurance benefits increased by 10,000 to 424,000 in the week
ended May 21, according to data from the Labor Department. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
claims would decrease to 404,000.  Shares Fall  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note dropped to
3.06 percent at 4:02 p.m. in  New York  from 3.13 percent late
yesterday, and touched the lowest level since Dec. 7. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced as rising corporate profits
at companies like Tiffany & Co. overshadowed the economic data.
The gauge rose 0.4 percent to close at 1,325.69.  A monthlong slide in  consumer confidence  ended last week as
gasoline prices retreated, another report showed. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 48.4 in the period to May
22 from a nine-month low of minus 49.4 the prior week. Readings
of minus 40 or less are generally associated with recessions and
their aftermaths, the report said.  The economy last quarter maintained the previously reported
pace of growth as bigger gains in inventories and a smaller
decline in commercial construction compensated for the slowdown
in spending.  The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected GDP would be revised up to 2.2 percent. Estimates
ranged from 1.6 percent to 2.6 percent.  Second Estimate  The GDP estimate is the second of three for the quarter,
with the final release scheduled for June, when more information
becomes available.  The gain in consumer purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, followed a 4 percent increase in the
fourth quarter was the biggest since the end of 2006. Cuts in
spending on gasoline and utilities, combined with a smaller
increase in demand for autos, contributed to the slowdown in the
first three months of the year.  The price gauge tied to spending increased at a 3.8 percent
pace in the first quarter, the biggest advance since the third
quarter of 2008. Excluding food and fuel, the numbers tracked by
Federal Reserve policy makers, prices climbed at a 1.4 percent
rate.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said in recent speeches
that the threat from accelerating prices will prove
“transitory.” Central bankers are discussing how quickly to
begin tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600
billion in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June.  Smaller Wage Gain  The GDP report also showed wages and salaries climbed by
$27.9 billion from October through December, down from a prior
estimate of $52.5 billion. Real disposable income, or after-tax
earnings adjusted for inflation, climbed 1.1 percent in the
fourth quarter, rather than the 1.9 percent gain previously
estimated. They rose 0.8 percent in the first three months of
the year, less than the 2.9 percent prior calculation.  The smaller gain in pay dwarfed the slowdown in spending,
pushing the savings rate down to 5.1 percent in the first
quarter from a prior estimate of 5.7 percent.  Today’s report also offered a first look at profits.
Earnings before taxes were up 1.3 percent from the prior
quarter, the smallest gain in more than two years, after rising
2.3 percent in the prior period. They climbed 8.5 percent from
the same time last year.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 12 percent of the
economy, is slowing this quarter as disruptions in the supply of
components temporarily weigh on production until Japanese
factories recover from the fallout of the March disaster.  Growth Forecasts  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York each cut second-quarter growth forecasts by half
a percentage point this week, citing setbacks in vehicle output
caused by supply disruptions. Goldman trimmed its projection to
3 percent, while JPMorgan lowered it to 2.5 percent.  Overseas sales will remain a backstop for factories.  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker, said demand is
“strong” in  Latin America ,  Asia  and northern and eastern
 Europe , though it is facing “headwinds” this quarter including
adverse weather that probably eroded sales of agriculture
products and house paint.  “Demand is still on a steady recovery in the U.S.,” Chief
Financial Officer William H. Weideman said May 24 on a webcast
presentation. “We are seeing improvements in the business
environment, consumer spending and early signs of  job creation .
Loosening credit conditions and firming exports are also
positive signs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  