-- 
U.S. Lawyer Won’t Hear FIFA Bribery Case Because of Conflict of Interest

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-26T18:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-lawyer-won-t-hear-fifa-bribery-case-because-of-conflict-of-interest.html
The lone American on FIFA’s ethics
panel won’t take part in a hearing into accusations that a
candidate for president of soccer’s governing body offered about
$2 million in cash to Caribbean sporting officials.  Yesterday,  FIFA  said Mohamed  Bin Hammam , who’s running
against incumbent Sepp Blatter for soccer’s top job, and Jack Warner, who oversees the sport in the Caribbean, will face
ethics proceedings in the case. New York lawyer Burton K. Haimes
said today that he was stepping aside from the ethics panel,
citing his relationships with Chuck Blazer, an American FIFA
official, and Warner. Bin Hammam and Warner deny the charges.  Blazer brought the allegations that Bin Hammam offered
$40,000 in cash each to Caribbean soccer officials for
“football development” at a meeting organized by Warner, who
is also the head of North, Central America and Caribbean
Association of Football, or Concacaf, where Blazer also works.
Haimes said in an interview today that he’s known Blazer and
Warner for 20 years.  “I felt because my connection with Concacaf I did not want
to make my participation a sideshow or to detract from the
seriousness of the matter or whatever result they come up
with,” Haimes, an attorney at New York-based Orrick, Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP, said in a telephone interview.  He’s the second official on the committee to step aside
after the panel’s chairman Claudio Sulser said he wouldn’t
participate because he shares Swiss nationality with Blatter,
who’ll face Bin Hammam in the June 1 election.  ‘No Joy’  Blatter in a column today on the Inside World Football
website said the allegations “brought him no joy” and claims
“that this entire matter was somehow masterminded by me is
ludicrous and completely reprehensible.”  In an e-mailed statement today, Bin Hammam said he’s asked
for Blatter to be included in the probe because -- as part of
the evidence provided to FIFA -- there were statements according
to which the FIFA president “was informed of, and did not
oppose” the alleged payments.  “The timing of the accusations so close to the election of
FIFA president on June 1, 2011, suggests that they are part of a
plan to damage Mr. Bin Hammam and force him to withdraw as a
candidate for the FIFA presidency,” he said in the statement.  Blatter’s U.K.-based communications adviser, Brian
Alexander, declined to comment.  Members Suspended  Last year two members of FIFA’s decision-making executive
were suspended after a probe into vote-buying allegations linked
to the choices for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. An
investigation is currently looking at six officials, including
Warner, after new claims concerning improper conduct during the
World Cup bidding race that was won by Russia and Qatar.  The hearing is scheduled to take place in Zurich on May 29,
three days before the presidential election.  Haimes said there “wasn’t anything personal” in Blazer’s
decision to make the allegations against Warner. Blazer ran
Warner’s campaign when he secured his region’s presidency in
1990.  “It’s a difficult and tough time for Chuck because of his
relationship with Jack but he also owes a fiduciary duty to FIFA
and you have to do the right thing,” Haimes said. “Sometimes
we get put in a moral dilemma where you built up a relationship
over many years and something happens.”  Disciplinary Process  Bin Hammam and Warner could be expelled from FIFA’s board
should the ethics committee decide they’ve violated its
policies, he added. Amos Adamu and Reynald Temarii, two
executive committee members, were suspended following an earlier
vote-buying enquiry.  Some critics of FIFA’s disciplinary process have argued
cases such as ones against its senior officials should be
handled by an outside body, unconnected with the sports
organization. Haimes said those concerns have been discussed
internally.  “That issue was the subject of a sub-committee that I’m
on, discussing how we can put more teeth if necessary into it
and it was a very open and frank decision,” he said. “It’s a
concern, not only that we are independent but that we maintain
our independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 