-- 
U.S. First Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-05-26T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-first-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Gross Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by
labor and property located in the  United States  -- increased at an annual
rate of 1.8 percent in the first quarter of 2011, (that is, from the fourth
quarter to the first quarter), according to the "second" estimate released
by the  Bureau of Economic Analysis . In the fourth quarter, real GDP
increased 3.1 percent.  The GDP estimates released today are based on more complete source data
than were available for the "advance" estimate issued last month.  In the
advance estimate, the increase in real GDP was also 1.8 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected positive
contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), private
inventory investment, exports, and nonresidential fixed investment that
were partly offset by negative contributions from federal  government
spending  and state and local government spending.  Imports, which are a
subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.  Annual Revision of the National Income and Product Accounts  The annual revision of the national income and product accounts
(NIPAs) will be released along with the "advance" estimate of GDP for the
second quarter of 2011 on July 29.  In addition to the regular revision of
estimates for the most recent 3 years and the first quarter of 2011, GDP
and some components will be revised back to the first quarter of 2003 (see
"Preview of the Upcoming Annual NIPA Revision" in the May Survey of Current
Business).  The August Survey will contain an article that describes the
annual revision in detail.  FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted annual
rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are
differences between these published estimates.  Percent changes are
calculated from unrounded data and are annualized.  "Real" estimates are in
chained (2005) dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  The deceleration in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected a
sharp upturn in imports, a deceleration in PCE, a larger decrease in
federal government spending, and a deceleration in nonresidential fixed
investment that were partly offset by a sharp upturn in private inventory
investment.  Motor vehicle output added 1.28 percentage points to the first-quarter
change in real GDP after subtracting 0.27 percentage point from the fourth-
quarter change.  Final sales of computers added 0.06 percentage point to
the first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.35 percentage point to
the fourth-quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which measures prices paid by
U.S. residents, increased 3.8 percent in the first quarter, unrevised from
the advance estimate; this index increased 2.1 percent in the fourth
quarter.  Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross
domestic purchases increased 2.2 percent in the first quarter, compared
with an increase of 1.1 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.2 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 4.0 percent in the fourth.  Durable
goods increased 8.9 percent, compared with an increase of 21.1 percent.
Nondurable goods increased 1.1 percent, compared with an increase of 4.1
percent. Services increased 1.5 percent, the same increase as in the
fourth.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 3.4 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 7.7 percent in the fourth.
Nonresidential structures decreased 16.8 percent, in contrast to an
increase of 7.6 percent.  Equipment and software increased 11.6 percent,
compared with an increase of 7.7 percent.  Real residential fixed
investment decreased 3.3 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.3
percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 9.2 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 8.6 percent in the fourth.  Real
imports of goods and services increased 7.5 percent, in contrast to a
decrease of 12.6 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment
decreased 7.9 percent in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of 0.3
percent in the fourth.  National defense decreased 11.7 percent, compared
with a decrease of 2.2 percent.  Nondefense increased 0.1 percent, compared
with an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real state and local government
consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 3.2 percent,
compared with a decrease of 2.6 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 1.19 percentage points to the
first-quarter change in real GDP, after subtracting 3.42 percentage points
from the fourth-quarter change.  Private businesses increased inventories
$52.2 billion in the first quarter, following increases of $16.2 billion in
the fourth quarter and $121.4 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private
inventories -- increased 0.6 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 6.7 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S. residents of goods and
services wherever produced -- increased 1.8 percent in the first quarter,
in contrast to a decrease of 0.2 percent in the fourth.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services produced by the labor
and property supplied by U.S. residents -- increased 3.1 percent in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of 2.8 percent in the fourth.  GNP
includes, and GDP excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the
world, which increased $42.4 billion in the first quarter after decreasing
$10.5 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter, receipts increased $29.0
billion, and payments decreased $13.3 billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's output of
goods and services -- increased 3.8 percent, or $138.9 billion, in the
first quarter to a level of $15,010.3 billion.  In the fourth quarter,
current-dollar GDP increased 3.5 percent, or $126.3 billion.  Revisions  The "second" estimate of the first-quarter increase in real GDP is
the same as the advance estimate.  Upward revisions to exports, to private
inventory investment, and to nonresidential fixed investment were offset by
an upward revision to imports and a downward revision to personal
consumption expenditures.  Advance Estimate   Second Estimate  (Percent change from preceding quarter)  Real GDP                                  1.8               1.8
Current-dollar GDP                        3.7               3.8
Gross domestic purchases price index      3.8               3.8  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with inventory valuation
and capital consumption adjustments) increased $21.9 billion in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of $38.2 billion in the fourth quarter.
Current-production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for investment
-- decreased $11.0 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase
of $36.9 billion in the fourth.   Taxes on corporate income increased $33.6 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of $1.3 billion in the fourth.  Profits after tax
with inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments decreased
$11.6 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $39.5
billion in the fourth.  Dividends increased $15.4 billion compared with an
increase of $8.9 billion; current-production undistributed profits
decreased $27.0 billion, in contrast to an increase of $30.6 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $70.6 billion in the
first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $57.7 billion in the fourth.
Domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $45.8 billion in
the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $10.1 billion in the
fourth.  In the first quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added increased.
The increase in unit profits reflected decreases in both the unit labor and
nonlabor costs corporations incurred; unit prices were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $46.8 billion in the
first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $9.4 billion in the fourth.
This measure is calculated as (1) receipts by U.S. residents of earnings
from their foreign affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents
from unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends paid by U.S.
corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.  The first-quarter increase
was accounted for by an increase in receipts and a decrease in payments.  Profits before tax increased $113.8 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of $48.3 billion in the fourth.  The before-tax
measure of profits does not reflect, as does profits from current
production, the capital consumption and inventory valuation adjustments.
These adjustments convert depreciation of fixed assets and inventory
withdrawals reported on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-
cost measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $90.1 billion in the first quarter
(from -$15.8 billion to -$105.9 billion), in contrast to an increase of
$153.5 billion in the fourth.  The inventory valuation adjustment decreased
$1.8 billion (from -$103.2 billion to -$105.0 billion), compared with a
decrease of $66.8 billion.  The large decrease in the first-quarter capital consumption adjustment
reflects the expiration of bonus depreciation claimed under the Small
Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010.  (Current bonus depreciation
estimates are net of offsetting bonus depreciation that was claimed in
earlier years.  For detailed data, see the table "Net Effects of the Tax
Acts of 2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, and 2010 on Selected Measures of Corporate
Profits" at www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.)  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend on the
depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income tax returns;
rather they are based on depreciation of fixed assets valued at current
cost and using consistent depreciation profiles based on used-asset prices.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  