-- 
U.S. Farm Exports May Increase to Record $137 Billion

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-05-26T22:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-farm-exports-may-increase-to-record-137-billion-2-.html
U.S. farm exports will jump to a
record $137 billion in the year ending Sept. 30 as companies
including  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Archer Daniels Midland Co. expand
shipping capacity to meet rising demand.  The total would be 26 percent higher than last year’s
$108.7 billion, and more than the previous record of $114.9
billion in 2008, the department said today in a quarterly
 report . A February forecast was for $135.5 billion. Imports are
projected to rise to $93 billion, also an all-time high, and 5.7
percent above the USDA’s earlier prediction.  “Record agricultural exports should help support more than
1 million jobs across the nation,” U.S. Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack said today at a congressional hearing. Overseas
shipments of agricultural products totaled $75 billion in the
first six months of the fiscal year, according to the USDA.  U.S. farm exports have been rising, especially to  Asia , as
world food prices reached records this year, contributing to
unrest in the Middle East and northern  Africa . A weaker dollar -
- down 13 percent in the past year against a basket of six
competing currencies -- has also supported the surge in exports,
according to Michael Swanson, senior agricultural economist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  Minneapolis .  China  No. 1  China is the top destination for shipments, projected at a
record $21 billion, followed by  Canada  at $18.5 billion, the
USDA said.  The increased sales are benefiting U.S. agricultural
exporters such as ADM, which has gained 26 percent in the past
year. John Rice, the chief financial officer for the Decatur,
Illinois-based company, said in a May 18 conference call that a
“significant portion” of its capital expenditures in  North
America  is going to expanding export capacity.  White Plains, New York-based Bunge is also adding to its
trading capability, opening a new grain terminal in Longview,
Washington, this year to export 8 million tons of grains
annually to Asia, Chief Financial Officer Drew Burke said in a
conference call May 18.  The company is also building a grain terminal in Fairmont
City,  Illinois , with a million bushels of permanent storage
capacity on the Mississippi River.  ‘Rising Quickly’  “Global trade in grains is rising quickly, and part of
that is the ability to have the infrastructure to support it,”
Burke said. Bunge has risen 52 percent in the past year.  Exports are also increasing profit at Minneapolis-based
grain shipper Cargill Inc., the largest closely held U.S.
company, which reported a 30 percent jump in third-quarter
profit April 13.  Meat and dairy shipments from  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and other
processors will rise 23 percent from last year to a record $26.5
billion, the USDA said. Cotton shipments will reach $9 billion,
89 percent more than in 2010, the USDA said.  Soybean exports will bring in $21.3 billion in the current
fiscal year, 26 percent more than in 2010 and little changed
from the February forecast, as China depends more on U.S.
supplies, the department said. Grain and feed sales will reach
$38.8 billion, up 42 percent from the previous year, the USDA
said.  More than half of the increase in imports from the February
forecast came from sugar and so-called tropical products. Coffee
purchases will be $2.2 billion higher than the previous estimate
at $7.4 billion, 68 percent more than last year. Futures of
arabica beans traded in  New York  reached a 14-year high on May 3
as adverse weather threatened global crops.  The USDA will update its farm-export forecast in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  