-- 
U.S. Congress Passes Extension of Patriot Act Anti-Terrorist Wiretap Power

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-27T09:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-senate-approves-four-year-extension-of-patriot-act-wiretap-authority.html
The U.S. Congress yesterday approved,
and President  Barack Obama  signed into law, a four-year
extension of provisions in the USA Patriot Act that allow  law
enforcement  to track suspected terrorists with roving wiretaps.  The legislation was first passed by the Senate, 72-23,
followed by the House, 250-153. Because Obama was in  France  for
meetings of the Group of Eight nations, he directed that an
autopen machine, which holds a pen and replicates his signature,
be used to sign the bill, the White House said.  The legislation is “an important tool for us to continue
dealing with an ongoing terrorist threat,” Obama told reporters
at the G-8 summit in the French coastal resort of Deauville
today after a meeting with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The bill was signed before a previous extension, approved
by Congress in February, expired at midnight yesterday, the
White House said. The new law continues the surveillance powers
until June 1, 2015.  The measure “will safeguard us from future attacks,”
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said before
his chamber’s vote. “By extending this invaluable terror-
fighting tool, we’re staying ahead” of terrorists who want to
attack the U.S., he said.  The bill’s roving-wiretap section allows federal agents to
obtain a single warrant to monitor telephone calls of suspects
using a series of mobile phones.  Library Records  Other provisions allow authorities to obtain business and
library records, and to target so-called “lone wolf” suspects
who aren’t affiliated with any terrorist group.  Senator  Rand Paul , a bill opponent, tried to delay the
Senate vote, pressing for the bill to be amended. The Kentucky
Republican said the legislation goes too far in violating
privacy rights to keep the U.S. secure.  “Do we want a government that looks at our Visa bill?” he
said in a May 24 floor  speech . “Do we want a government that
looks at all of our records and is finding out what our reading
habits are?”  The Patriot Act was passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, and
many of its provisions are permanent law. Some of its
surveillance powers have been opposed by some lawmakers and
outside groups, including civil liberties activists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  