-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for May 25 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-26T18:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-may-25-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Warmer weather moved into major population centers this report
week, increasing demand at electric  power plants  in order to
meet air-conditioning needs. Prices moved higher at most trading
locations in the lower 48 States, with the biggest increases
occurring in the Southeast. During the report week, the Henry
Hub spot price increased $0.21 to $4.36 per million Btu (MMBtu).  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange  (NYMEX), futures prices also
increased as the weather outlook suggested higher weather-
related consumption for the remaining days of May. The futures
contract for June delivery climbed $0.18 on the week to $4.38
per MMBtu. Upward pressure on prices at the NYMEX also appeared
related to a decrease in the number of rigs drilling for natural
gas over the last couple weeks.  As of Friday, May 20, working gas in underground storage was
2,024 billion cubic feet (Bcf), which is 1.3 percent below the
5-year (2006-2010) average. The implied net injection from
storage was 105 Bcf.  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas continued to
decline, although the decrease slowed from the prior week.
According to data reported by Baker Hughes Incorporated, the
number of active rigs decreased by 2 to 866 for the week ending
May 20. The natural gas rig count is at its lowest level in more
than a year.  Prices  Summer-like temperatures of more than 90 degrees blanketed the
South this week, resulting in higher natural gas consumption in
the electric power sector. Overall U.S. consumption increased
1.8 percent for the report week (Wednesday-Wednesday, May 17-25)
to an average of 53.8 Bcf, according to BENTEK Energy Services,
LLC. In the electric power sector, consumption grew 19 percent,
peaking at over 21 Bcf on Tuesday, May 24. As often occurs
during the cooling season, the weather this week translated into
higher prices for natural gas on the wholesale spot markets. The
 Henry Hub  price averaged $4.18 per MMBtu yesterday, which was
5.1 percent higher (or $0.21 per MMBtu) than the price of $4.15
at the beginning of the report week. Elsewhere in States
surrounding the  Gulf of Mexico , price increases during the week
were generally between $0.18 and $0.30 per MMBtu. The price at
the  Houston Ship Channel  in East Texas increased by $0.19 on the
week to $4.29 per MMBtu, while the price at Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line (Transco) Station 65 in Louisiana increased by $0.21
to $4.34 per MMBtu.  The pace of U.S. domestic production continued to exceed prior-
year levels by about 6 percent. Supplies from shale gas fields
such as the Marcellus Shale in the Northeast/Appalachia region
and the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  helped boost domestic
production above 64 Bcf per day on average during the report
week. Domestic production has not declined substantially despite
reductions in overall rig counts compared with this time last
year, likely in part because of greater efficiencies in the
drilling process and the large initial production levels at
shale fields under development. In fact, U.S. domestic
production is 5.8 percent higher in comparison with this time
last year, according to BENTEK statistics. The natural gas
rotary rig count, according to data reported by Baker Hughes
Incorporated on May 20, meanwhile has fallen by about 5 percent
since the beginning of 2011 and is at its lowest level in more
than a year. Deployment of horizontal rigs, which are often used
in shale formations, continues to occur at a feverish pace. The
horizontal rig count (which includes both oil and natural gas)
dropped only slightly from 1,041 last week, which was the
highest level of rigs drilling horizontally in the 20 years for
which Baker Hughes has data. The horizontal rig count was 1,038
for the week ending May 20, a decrease of 3 from the previous
week.  In the Northeast, prices increased by as much as 6 percent on
the week, as temperatures in parts of the region turned summer-
like. Many points in the Northeast region posted increases of
more than $0.20 per MMBtu on the week. For delivery in Zone 6
into  New York  off Transco, the price increased by $0.27 per
MMBtu to an average of $4.71 by the end of the report week.
Prices this week at the New York market center were the highest
in about 3 weeks. The New York price was $0.35 higher than the
Henry Hub price yesterday, while during the previous report week
it had dropped to as low as $0.23.  Price increases were more moderate at markets west of the
 Mississippi River  during the report week. Nonetheless, prices in
the Rockies bounced back above $4 per MMBtu. The price at Opal,
 Wyoming , increased by $0.12 on the week to $4.08 per MMBtu. The
price for delivery to Colorado Interstate Gas (CIG) was lowest
in the county after increasing $0.10 per MMBtu on the week to
$4.04. Although prices in the  Rocky Mountains  are generally the
lowest in the country, discounts of Rockies prices to other
markets have grown less in the past two years. To date in 2011,
the CIG price has averaged about $0.20 lower than the Henry Hub,
compared to $0.32 less in 2010 and $1.33 less in 2009. The
lessening differential is the result in part of increased
pipeline capacity between the Midcontinent and Rocky Mountains
through such pipeline projects as the Rockies Express Pipeline.
Current low Rockies prices are likely in part related to
decreased power demand in the Northwest, where power from dams
this year is plentiful. In fact, several instances of negative
power prices (a situation in which parties are paid to use
power) have been recorded in the region as a result of wet
weather and melting snow.  Net imports of natural gas continue at much lower levels than in
previous years, likely as a result of higher U.S. domestic
production and relatively low  gas prices . During the report
week, net Canadian imports averaged 5.3 Bcf per day, which is
20.7 percent lower than the same week in 2010. Sendout from U.S.
liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminals averaged about 1.1
Bcf per day during the report week, or 8.2 percent lower than
the same week in 2010. The lower level of U.S. LNG imports this
year is the result of much higher prices being available to
suppliers of LNG in regional markets in  Europe  and  Asia .
Following the nuclear crisis in  Japan  (which will likely result
in higher demand for LNG) and conflict in North Africa, the
difference in prices in the  United States  and other world
markets has increased even more. Currently, however, the extent
to which this will affect future deliveries of LNG to the United
States is unclear.  Spot Prices  At the NYMEX, the price of the near-month contract (for June
delivery) increased $0.18 per MMBtu during the report week to
$4.38 per MMBtu. The increase was attributable chiefly to the
expectation of higher temperatures continuing in major consuming
regions of the country. Upward price pressure also appears
related to the lower rig count reported by Baker Hughes. The
June 2011 contract is currently priced about 5.4 percent higher
than the expiration price of $4.16 per MMBtu for the June 2010
contract. At the end of trading yesterday, the 12-month strip,
which is the average for natural gas futures contracts over the
next year, was priced at $4.71 per MMBtu, an increase of about
$0.13, or 2.8 percent, since last Wednesday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage rose to 2,024 Bcf as of Friday,
May 20, according to EIA’s WNGSR. The 105 Bcf net build is the
first triple digit build of the year. It is larger than the 5-
year average build for the week of 95 Bcf and last year’s build
of 100 Bcf. This marks the second week in a row that stocks have
built faster than both last year and the 5-year average. Stocks
are now 230 Bcf below last year’s level but just 26 Bcf below
the 5-year average.  Regional builds varied significantly. While the Producing Region
saw a very strong build relative to the 5-year average, the East
and West Regions built slightly less than average. Regional
year-over-year stock levels continue to diverge with the
Producing region 61 Bcf above last year but the East and West
Regions at 179 Bcf and 112 Bcf below, respectively.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending May 9
were cooler than normal and also cooler than last year. The
 National Weather Service ’s degree-day data show that the
temperature in the lower 48 States last week averaged 58.7
degrees, 3.6 degrees colder than the 5-year average and 3.7
degrees colder than last year.  Every region of the country was
colder than normal with the exception of the Middle Atlantic
Census region.  Other Market Trends  DOE Approves Sabine Pass’s LNG Export Plan. On May 20, the DOE
issued conditional authorization
< http://fossil.energy.gov/news/techlines/2011/11023 -
DOE_Approves_LNG_Export_Applicatio.html> to Cheniere Energy’s
application to export LNG from its Sabine Pass terminal in
Louisiana. Cheniere plans to retrofit the existing import
terminal to give it liquefaction capability. Cheniere has been
authorized to export up to 2.2 Bcf/d of natural gas from the
facility for a period of 20 years. Construction is expected to
begin in 2012, and operations in 2015. DOE’s authorization is
conditional upon final approval by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission . On September 10, 2010, DOE approved export of LNG
from Sabine Pass to 15 countries with which the United States
has a free trade agreement covering natural gas. The May 20
authorization is the first long-term authorization to export
natural gas from the lower 48 States as LNG to all U.S. trading
partners.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  The Canaport LNG facility in New Brunswick, which consistently
sends re-gasified supplies into the U.S. Northeast market
through the Maritimes and Northeast Pipeline (M&NE), re-opened
following a month-long closure for maintenance. Maintenance
activities included work on a valve within the process equipment
as well as the inspection of other equipment throughout the
facility. According to the company, work on this valve will
increase the terminal’s operational flexibility and will allow
it to reach its full send-out capacity of 1.2 Bcf per day.
Meanwhile, MN&E this week informed shippers that volumes from
Eastern Canada will likely be reduced in June because the Sable
Offshore Energy Project will undergo a planned outage lasting
approximately one week. During this outage, no supply will be
available from Sable to flow on the pipeline system, M&NE said.  ANR Pipeline Company on Tuesday said it had begun repairs at its
compressor station in  Portland ,  Indiana . This maintenance will
limit northbound capacity by 190 million cubic feet (MMcf) per
day, leaving 919 MMcf per day available through Friday. Based on
current nominations, it is anticipated that the reduction may
result in the curtailment of lower priority services, the
pipeline said.  A temporary cool down in  Florida  led to interstate pipeline
companies warning shippers of the need to balance nominations
for receipt and delivery. Gulfstream Natural Gas System,
L.L.C.’s (Gulfstream) line pack is currently at the high end of
Gulfstream’s range of acceptable operating levels, according to
company officials. Meanwhile, company representatives of Florida
Gas Transmission LLC (FGT), reported that milder temperatures
are forecasted in Florida for the next couple of days. FGT
notified its customers that it could possibly issue an Underage
Alert Day on one of the upcoming gas days.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  