-- 
UBS Plans to Split Off Investment Banking Unit, Base It Abroad, WSJ Says

-- B y   A l a n   P u r k i s s   a n d   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i
-- 
2011-05-26T08:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ubs-plans-to-split-off-its-investment-banking-unit-wsj-reports.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  intends to split off its
investment banking unit and incorporate it outside Switzerland,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  The unit, which was rescued by the Swiss central bank
during the global financial crisis, may be made into an
independent legal entity incorporated in  London ,  New York  or
 Singapore , the newspaper said.  Chris Cockerill , a spokesman for
UBS in  Hong Kong , declined to comment.  Policymakers globally are introducing rules to curb risk at
financial firms after bailing out banks with taxpayer funds
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The Swiss government proposed making UBS and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , the country’s two biggest banks, hold almost twice as much
capital as new Basel III rules will require beginning in 2019.  The Swiss regulator hopes that UBS’s restructuring will
protect the parent company and its asset management unit from
being liable for losses at the investment bank, the Journal
said. UBS and Credit Suisse each have assets greater than
 Switzerland ’s economic output.  Studying Options  UBS executives are still studying their options and haven’t
decided where to relocate the unit or how to structure it, the
newspaper said. Local regulators may still demand that the Swiss
government cover losses at UBS’s investment banking operations
in other nations, the newspaper said, citing the people.  UBS rose 27 centimes, or 1.7 percent, to 16.27 francs by
10:25 a.m. in Swiss trading, bringing the gain this year to 6.1
percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said in February the
bank may have to change its structure and move some capital-
intensive investment-banking businesses, such as securitization,
into subsidiaries in other jurisdictions with lower  capital
requirements . The bank currently operates through branches in
other countries and holds almost all capital in Switzerland
while booking 80 percent of assets elsewhere, he said at the
time.  “There are no concrete plans” to that effect, Chief
Financial Officer John Cryan said in February. “We do need to
consider this though. I think we’re going to have to move to a
regime of booking more business in fully capitalized
subsidiaries, especially in the U.K., which is our European
Union hub, and the U.S.”  Optimum Structure  Chairman Kaspar Villiger, a former Swiss finance minister,
said at the bank’s annual shareholders’ meeting last month that
UBS is a global bank and “must seek the optimum structure for
our business.”  The Swiss government backs rules that will require the
country’s two biggest banks to hold total capital equal to at
least 19 percent of assets, weighted according to risk, starting
in 2019. UBS has said that Switzerland shouldn’t rush with
legislation and should limit capital requirements to 13 percent
until it becomes clear what other countries are doing.  The Basel committee last year proposed raising total
capital requirements to 10.5 percent of risk-weighted assets and
recommended individual countries consider setting stricter rules
for their biggest lenders.  UBS ratcheted down risk after taking more than $57 billion
in writedowns and credit losses during the financial crisis.
Gruebel, who came out of retirement to lead the bank in February
2009, has since rebuilt the investment-banking division, hiring
more than 1,700 people in the past two years to replace bankers
who were fired or had left. He appointed Carsten Kengeter, 44, a
former Goldman Sachs banker, as sole head of the investment bank
last November.  Gruebel, 67, told employees in a memo last week that UBS
remains committed to keeping and investing in its investment
bank in the U.S., after at least 50 departures from the unit
since 2009.  In some cases the staff losses were “regrettable, but in
others they have been the right decision for the bank,” Gruebel
said in the memo.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Purkiss at 
 apurkiss@bloomberg.net  