-- 
UBS Is Not in Talks to Move Switzerland Headquarters, Chief Gruebel Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-05-26T16:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/ubs-is-not-in-talks-to-move-switzerland-headquarters-chief-gruebel-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, said
it has no plan to split off its investment-banking division and
has not entered into talks with regulators about moving the
headquarters of the company outside  Switzerland .  UBS sent a note to employees today affirming a
“commitment” to the investment bank and adding that “there is
no basis for speculation about splitting off” the unit.
Separately, Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said by phone
that “there are no talks with regulators about reincorporating
a holding company outside of Switzerland.”  Questions have swirled around Gruebel’s intentions since he
said in February that UBS may change its structure in the face
of Swiss capital requirements that are tougher than elsewhere.
Moving its investment bank to another jurisdiction wouldn’t
allow the Zurich-based bank to escape the reach of Swiss rules
as long as its headquarters are still in the country, Mark
Branson, head of banking supervision at the Swiss regulator, has
said.  Gruebel said in February that UBS could move some of the
more capital-intensive businesses outside of Switzerland. With
rules and  capital requirements  still in flux, the bank will
evaluate options for different businesses once it becomes clear
what regulators in different countries will demand, he said
then.  UBS rose 9 centimes, or 0.6 percent, to 16.09 francs in
Swiss trading, bringing the gain this year to 4.8 percent and
valuing the company at 61.6 billion francs ($71.2 billion).  Crying Into Beer  The Wall Street Journal said earlier today the bank is
planning to separate the securities division and incorporate it
outside of Switzerland, a report UBS said was “speculation.”  Turning UBS’s investment bank into a standalone entity
would probably drive up funding costs for the unit, which is
still rebuilding after record losses in 2008. While the division
posted its first annual pretax profit since 2006 last year, of
2.2 billion francs, it had the lowest revenue from trading,
underwriting stock and bond sales and advising clients on
mergers and acquisitions among the nine biggest investment
banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Branson, head of banking supervision at the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority, said in March that trading
business “has always moved from place to place and always
will,” adding that it’s “not an unintended consequence” of
Swiss regulation that banks reconsider the future of their
securities units.  Capital Rules  The Swiss government this year proposed changes to banking
laws to require UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to hold almost
twice the capital required under the international Basel III
rules as of 2019.  “Gruebel is very concerned about the fact that Basel III
and the stringent Swiss capital requirements are going to make
it difficult to earn adequate returns in certain businesses,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca
SpA. “We are not convinced the Swiss regulators would be crying
into their beer if some of UBS’s investment banking activities
came off the Swiss balance sheet and effectively moved away from
Swiss regulation.”  Switzerland had to invest 6 billion francs in October 2008
to help UBS spin off its risky assets into a central bank fund
after the company amassed the biggest losses and writedowns from
the credit crisis among European lenders at the time. The
proposed new rules aim to make sure that the banks’ Swiss
businesses survive in a future crisis, even if the rest is wound
down, the government said.  ‘Migrating’ Business  “We also hear a lot about business migrating across
jurisdictions,” Branson told journalists at a press conference
in Bern on March 22. “Our responsibility is to set appropriate
conditions for banking activities in this country. The
responsibility of business leaders is to assess their options,
and take the big decisions in the best interests principally of
their shareholders.”  Some Swiss shareholders at the bank’s annual meeting last
month criticized Gruebel, 67, and Chairman Kaspar Villiger, 70,
for voicing reservations about the government’s proposal for
stricter capital requirements.  “In this difficult environment, we, as a global bank, 80
percent of whose shareholders are non-Swiss, must seek the
optimum structure for our business,” Villiger told shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  