-- 
Tucker Says BOE Needs to Coordinate New Bank-Regulation Powers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-26T16:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/tucker-says-boe-needs-to-coordinate-new-bank-regulation-powers.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the central bank must coordinate its powers over
banking supervision and address concerns about accountability.  “The new architecture that is being brought in is the
world of separate boxes -- monetary policy, bank supervision,
securities regulation, debt management,” Tucker said in a
speech in London today. “Unless we connect up the different
bits of what we do, we will let everyone down.”  Britain’s government is planning the biggest shakeup of
regulation since 1997, scrapping the current banking regulator
and handing the powers to a new authority within the Bank of
England. The plan will also create a  Financial Policy Committee 
chaired by Governor  Mervyn King .  Former U.K. policy makers Willem Buiter and  Kate Barker 
criticized the overhaul this week, telling a U.K. parliament
hearing that ownership of financial stability should be with the
U.K. Treasury rather than the central bank.  The proposed new system was “disastrously misconceived”
and leaves the central bank “overburdened and too powerful,”
Buiter told lawmakers on May 23. Fellow ex-policy maker Sushil Wadhwani said that the bank’s Court of Directors should have
more power “to prevent an accountability deficit.”  “We welcome the Treasury Select Committee’s debate about
governance and accountability,” Tucker said in the speech at an
event hosted by the Wincott Foundation today. “The debate will
happen when we screw up, or are perceived to screw up. It’s much
better for us, as well as much better for the country, if the
debate happens at the beginning of this process rather than
catching up with events.”  The “major responsibility” of the court “will be to
ensure, not only that we take bank supervision, monetary policy
and financial stability seriously, but that we connect the
things together and make it worthwhile doing them in one
institution,” the deputy governor said.  “We are as transparent as we can be in the monetary policy
field,” Tucker said. “We will aim to match that transparency”
in the bank supervision and financial stability roles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  