-- 
Tudor Leads Hedge Funds Using Options to Bet on China Stocks

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-26T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/tudor-leads-hedge-funds-using-options-to-bet-on-china-stocks.html
Paul Tudor Jones  and Louis Moore Bacon, in a trade used by several hedge-fund managers in the
first quarter, loaded up on options that pay off big if Chinese
stocks rebound.  Tudor Investment Corp. of Greenwich, Connecticut, and New
York-based Moore Capital Management LLC each bought at least 7
million options on the  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  during
the quarter ended March 31, according to regulatory filings.
Other money managers who used options to bet on or against the
FTSE 25 included Philippe Jabre, George Weiss and Brian Stark.  The cost of buying options pegged to Chinese markets has
fallen along with volatility there, said Jonathan Masse, senior
portfolio manager at Baochuan Capital Management. Investors are
exploiting the decline to make low-cost bets that Chinese
stocks, having lagged behind those in the U.S. and  Europe , will
rebound as Beijing concludes a series of interest rate increases
designed to check inflation.  “A lot of people are taking advantage of the low
volatility to make plays,” said Masse, whose Walnut Creek,
California-based hedge fund specializes in  China . “There is a
big reversion trade expected, where the Chinese markets would
catch up in terms of performance.”  FTSE 25 Fund  The FTSE 25, an exchange-traded fund that tracks the 25
largest Chinese stocks on the Hong Kong exchange, includes
companies such as China Construction Bank Corp., CNOOC Ltd. and
China Mobile Ltd. As of May 20, about 51 percent of its holdings
were in financial-services companies, primarily commercial
banks, with 24 percent in energy and 17 percent in
telecommunications, according to Dan Brown, an analyst with
Wells Fargo Advisors LLC in  St. Louis .  At least 10 investment advisers running  hedge funds 
reported buying options on 500,000 or more FTSE 25 shares during
the first quarter, according to filings this month with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The managers held options on
44.9 million shares at March 31, up from 4.1 million shares at
Dec. 31, including 34.5 million calls and 10.5 million puts.  Call options , which entitle holders to buy a stock at a set
price in the future, are used to make bullish wagers, while put
options are generally used to profit from or protect against
falling markets.  ‘Smart Directional Play’  Moore Capital Management, whose main fund has returned
about 21 percent annually since 1990, sold almost all of the 2.9
million FTSE 25 shares it held in the first quarter, while
buying call options on 8.35 million shares, according to the
firm’s 13F filing. Peter Hewer, a spokesman for Moore, declined
to comment.  The combination of selling shares and buying call options
on the same stock -- known as a replacement trade -- can act as
a hedge since losses are limited to the amount paid for the
options.  “It’s a smart directional play if you happen to be
bullish, because of its risk control,” said Mark Spitznagel,
the founder and chief investment officer of Universa Investments
LP in  Santa Monica ,  California . Low volatility “creates great
low-risk opportunities for people to position themselves long
via options.”  Tudor Investment, with about $11.5 billion under
management, held call options on 8.54 million shares of the
exchange-traded fund at the end of the first quarter, up from
1.2 million shares at Dec. 31, according to its May 13 filing.
 Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Tudor, declined to comment.  A Few Bears  Not everyone is using options to make bullish bets. Jabre
Capital Partners SA bought 5 million put options on the FTSE 25
fund during the first quarter, according to the Geneva-based
firm’s 13F filing, a trade that would profit if the index
declines. Ionic Capital Management LLC, a New York-based
multistrategy fund founded by former Highbridge executives,
bought about 3 million puts during the first quarter, while also
adding 2.25 million call options to the 1.25 million it already
held, filings show.  Corriente Advisors LLC’s Mark Hart, whose  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based firm made a six-fold gain betting against U.S.
subprime mortgages, said May 25 he is using put options to wager
on a decline in the yuan, while  Jim Chanos , founder of  New
York ’s Kynikos Associates LP, said this week that he would short
sell Chinese companies listed in the U.S. if the cost wasn’t so
high.  Neither Corriente nor Kynikos owned FTSE 25 shares or
options in the first quarter, according to filings.  Flash PMI Declines  The FTSE 25 fund has dropped about 3.3 percent since mid-
October, when the Chinese central bank began raising  interest
rates  to combat inflation, stoking investor fears that economic
growth would falter. The market sell-off continued this week as
China’s preliminary manufacturing index, an economic indicator
known as the Flash PMI, declined to 51, inching closer to the
level of 50 that suggests the economy is contracting rather than
expanding.  The U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped about
14 percent during the same period, fueled by the  Federal
Reserve ’s efforts to stimulate the economy through low interest
rates and the latest round of quantitative easing, known as QE2.
China has also done worse than emerging markets overall, as
evidenced by the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF, which is up
about 4.4 percent since mid-October.  ‘Believing in China’  Still, long-term investor sentiment toward China has been
turning positive. On May 23, the ratio of put options to call
options on the FTSE 25 fell to 0.808, the lowest level since
April 2009.  “The call volume is really people still believing in China
and feeling it is going to outperform in the latter half of the
year,” said Paul Brigandi, co-manager of New York-based
Direxion Monthly China Bull 2X, a $9.5 million fund benchmarked
to the FTSE 25. “Once inflation is reined in, people go back to
focusing on the growth story, the consumer and the rising middle
class.”  Weiss Multi-Strategy Advisers LLC, based in Hartford,
 Connecticut , held call options on 6.1 million FTSE 25 shares at
March 31, up from 1.4 million at Dec. 31, according to its May
16 filing. Stark Offshore Management LLC in St. Francis,
 Wisconsin , bought 4.9 million calls and 2.4 million puts during
the first quarter, while New York-based Highbridge Capital
Management LLC acquired calls on more than 900,000 FTSE 25
shares, filings show.  ‘Pretty Cheap Price’  With call options, investors pay for the right to buy an
underlying stock from another investor at a set price in the
future. Options on stocks that plunge and soar command higher
premiums than those with less volatility.  Option sellers can get lulled into accepting less when
markets are placid, providing a potential bargain to those who
think historical volatility levels will return. The largest
daily price increase in the FTSE 25 index fund last year was 5.5
percent and the biggest decline was 4.6 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2009, the range was a gain of
10.11 percent and drop of 8.5 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “You are bullish on the index for a pretty cheap price
because of relatively low volatility,” said Abraham Goodfriend,
managing director at Yedid Capital Management LLC, a long-short
volatility trader based in  Fort Lee ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  