-- 
Unions Use U.S. Labor Board to Bully Employers, Lawyers Say

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-05-26T16:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/unions-enlist-u-s-labor-board-to-bully-employers-lawyers-say.html
Organized labor is filing trumped-up
charges with the national labor board and intimidating employers
into capitulating to unionizing efforts, executives and lawyers
told a U.S. House committee.  Unions are displaying large inflatable rats in front of
companies, staging mock funerals, running smear campaigns and
filing frivolous charges with the  National Labor Relations
Board , employers and lawyers said today at a hearing of a House
Education and the Workforce Committee panel. Democrats said
those campaigns are protected free speech and Republicans are
targeting the NLRB after the board filed a union-retaliation
complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA)   “People have the right to express themselves,” said
Representative Robert Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat. Republican
requests for documents about the Boeing case are “inappropriate
and irregular,” he said.  The board, controlled by a majority appointed by President
 Barack Obama , is faulted by Republicans for pro-labor decisions
on organizing efforts and worker rights. Republicans have vowed
to cut agency funding, demanded information on the Boeing case
and pledged to block the confirmation of acting general counsel
Lafe Solomon, who filed the case.  The NLRB, an independent agency which investigates unfair
labor practices, wasn’t represented at the hearing. The board is
siding with unions against companies, witnesses such as David A.
Bego, chief executive officer of  Executive Management Services
Inc.,  an Indianapolis janitorial company, said.  ‘Troubled By Direction’  “I am troubled by the direction of the current labor
board, their current path of implementing the agenda of big
labor, and their unapologetic actions in contravention of the
will of Congress,” Bego said.  Solomon said on May 5 that he was following the law and had
tried for six months to negotiate a settlement with Boeing.
Democrats have also defended the board, and 10 members of the
Senate Health Committee signed a letter saying it’s
inappropriate for the board to outline strategies in responding
to Republicans.  “Boeing has attacked the NLRB relentlessly -- not on the
facts, but with a political and media barrage in an attempt to
deflect from the facts at hand -- that Boeing has been charged
with violating the law,” Chris Corson, general counsel of the
International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers,
said today in a statement. The Machinists filed the complaint
against Boeing with the labor board.  Unfair labor charges with the board fell 21 percent during
nine years, to 26,585 in fiscal 2010 from 33,528 in 2001, Nancy
Cleeland, agency spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  ‘Activist Agenda’  Republican lawmakers said the labor board should be acting
on behalf of all employers and employees.  “I am concerned that the board has jettisoned this
responsibility over the last two years in favor of an activist
agenda designed to advance the cause of big labor,” said
Representative Phil Roe, a Tennessee Republican and chairman of
the subcomittee that held the hearing.  Executives complained about union tactics outside
businesses, such as unfurling banners, handing out leaflets and
stationing employees in rat costumes. The board has discussed
cases on each of the practices. The board has at times backed
the union’s right to use such actions.  Such tactics, aimed at educating consumers, often are
protected by the First Amendment’s right of free speech and the
NLRB’s decisions are appropriate,  Catherine Fisk , a law
professor at the  University of California  at  Irvine , said in
prepared remarks.  ‘Peaceful Bannering’  “The board has now concluded that peaceful bannering and
street theater cannot be prohibited” by the  National Labor
Relations Act , the 1935 law that defines and prohibits unfair
labor practices, Fisk said.  The NLRB’s complaint against Chicago-based Boeing, filed
April 20, is part of a campaign by the Machinists union,
Jonathan C. Fritts, a partner at Washington-based Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius LLP in Washington, who represents employers, said in
prepared testimony.  “The board took unprecedented steps to mandate where and
how a company can operate and expand its business,” said F.
Chet Karnas, president and owner of  Lone Sun Builders Inc ., a
framing and drywall subcontractor in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , on
behalf of Associated Builders and Contractors, representing more
than 23,000 merit shop contractors.  Inflatable Rats  Responding to a complaint from a medical center in Brandon,
 Florida , the NLRB is considering whether displays such as giant,
inflatable rats by unions should be restricted as unlawful
picketing.  Unions won expanded rights in September when the NLRB voted
3-2 to permit hanging of protest signs outside businesses. The
board said displaying large stationary banners isn’t coercive
and doesn’t violate labor law, according to a statement on the
decision.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has “long been concerned with
union corporate campaigns that seek to pressure companies to
waive their rights,” said  Randy Johnson , senior vice president
of labor, immigration and employee benefits, in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 