-- 
Vale Iron Ore Price to Stay at Record, Rio May Drop, Platts Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-26T10:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/vale-iron-ore-price-to-stay-at-record-rio-may-drop-platts-says.html
Contract iron ore prices charged by
 Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest producer, will probably stay at
record levels in the third quarter, while Rio Tinto Group may
drop prices 1.2 percent, Platts said.  Calculations based on Platts index prices from March 1 to
May 24 suggested contract prices from Vale for the July-to-
September period should fall between 1.1 percent and 1.3 percent.
Vale has a clause not to revise quarterly prices should the
change be less than 5 percent,  Platts  said in a report, citing
the miner.  Chinese steel prices may fall 10 percent this summer
because of slowing demand from automotive and appliance makers,
curbing iron-ore consumption, Mirae Assets Securities analyst
Henry Liu said today in an e-mailed note. Contract iron ore
prices have risen in the past two quarters.  The cash price of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at  China ’s
Tianjin port fell for three straight weeks to $173 a metric ton
yesterday from $183.3 on May 4, according to the Steel Index.  Quarterly iron ore prices are typically based on figures
derived by deducting freight costs from the three-month average
of iron ore price indexes provided either by the Steel Index,
Platts or  Metal Bulletin  with a one-month lag period.  Rio Tinto’s iron ore fines may be sold at about $2.73 a dry
metric ton unit in the third quarter, compared with $2.76 in the
previous three months, based on calculations using Platts index
price from March 1 to May 24, Platts said. Actual third-quarter
prices will be calculated again on May 31, the end of the three-
month period, it said.  --Helen Yuan. Editors: Indranil Ghosh, Abhay Singh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net .
RIO AU <Equity> CN
BHP AU <Equity> CN
VALE5 BZ <Equity> CN 