-- 
Venezuela Shakes Up PDVSA’s Board of Directors After Pension Fund Losses

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-05-26T20:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/venezuela-shakes-up-pdvsa-s-board-of-directors-ratifies-oil-minister.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA ousted half
its board of directors today after the state-owned oil company’s
pension fund lost about $500 million in a Ponzi scheme linked to
a Connecticut-based investor.  PDVSA, as the company is known, ejected the head of finance
Eudomario Carruyo, internal director of production Luis Pulido,
planning director Fadi Kabboul, head of gas Carlos Vallejo and
research director Hercilio Rivas, according to a decree in
Venezuela’s Official Gazette, which didn’t elaborate on the
changes. Director Ricardo Coronado kept his post.  By removing Carruyo, President  Hugo Chavez  may seek to
deflect criticism from the pension fund scandal that flared
after a Securities Exchange Commission probe found Venezuelan-
American Francisco Illaramendi used investors’ money to cover
losses, said Patrick Esteruelas, senior analyst with the Latin
American sovereign team at Moody’s Investor Service.  “It could be construed as a response to the  Ponzi scheme ,
which has certainly attracted a lot of criticism of PDVSA’s
finances and a lack of proper supervision,” Esteruelas said in
a telephone interview from  New York .  Carruyo on May 10 sent a report to Venezuela’s National
Assembly denying PDVSA’s board was responsible for the $453
million loss. Illaramendi wasn’t employed directly by PDVSA. He
worked for the oil producer while outsourcing with another
company during 2004, Carruyo said in the report.  Covering Losses  PDVSA will cover all the pension fund’s losses, company
President and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said March 27.  Ramirez was ratified in his post as were vice presidents
Asdrubal Chavez and Eulogio Del Pino, today’s decree said.
Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  and Foreign Minister Nicolas
Maduro were added to the board as external directors as well as
the head of a pro-Chavez union named Will Rangel. New PDVSA
board members are Victor Aular, Jesus Luongo, Orlando Chacin and
Ower Manrique, it said.  Giordani will bring “additional pressure” on the company
to invest more in Chavez’s social programs rather than in the
oil sector, Esteruelas said.  “Giordani has been shifting the burden over to PDVSA and
has been extremely reluctant to use resources to emit external
bond issuances that fund capital flight,” Esteruelas said.
“This is something that could become firmly entrenched now that
Giordani has a seat on the board.”  Giordani declined to comment during an event in Caracas
today.  Falling Production  Caracas-based PDVSA’s profit and production have been
declining as the company increases investment in government
social programs and unplanned refinery outages curb exports.
Venezuela’s oil sector contracted 1.8 percent in the first three
months of 2011, according to the central bank.  “I suspect the changes on the board were made in response
to PDVSA’s steadily declining crude production,”  Gianna Bern ,
president of Brookshire Advisory and Research, said today in a
telephone interview from  Chicago .  Venezuela’s net crude oil and refined products exports fell
4.5 percent in April from a year earlier to 2.14 million barrels
a day, the oil ministry said on May 23. The country produces
about 2.8 million barrels a day, according to the ministry.  The yield on PDVSA’s 12.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2022
jumped 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, to 17.51
percent at 3 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 2.04 cents on the dollar to 77.24
cents, the biggest drop since the bonds were sold in February.  Arbitration Rulings  PDVSA, which is finalizing some accords with partners to
increase output, may see the startup of projects in the Orinoco
heavy crude belt delayed until 2013 or 2014 as companies seek to
negotiate safeguards or incentives, said Alberto Ramos, an
analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “ Oil companies  currently operating as junior partners with
PDVSA see the regulatory environment and governance conditions
as challenging,” Ramos said today in a report after meeting
officials in Caracas on a research trip.  PDVSA is expecting some adverse arbitration rulings and has
set aside about $1.5 billion for payments, Ramos said. PDVSA may
have to pay $3.7 billion in compensation to Exxon Mobil Corp.
for nationalized assets, Barclays Capital analysts said in
April.  “PDVSA will not dispute the rulings and may honor the
largest ongoing arbitration claims with potential asset swaps,”
said Ramos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net 
Nathan Crooks in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  