-- 
Vermont’s Shumlin Uses Obama Health Law to Build Bridge to State-Run Care

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-26T16:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/vermont-s-shumlin-uses-obama-health-law-to-build-bridge-to-state-run-care.html
Vermont  Governor Peter Shumlin kicks
off a drive today to create a publicly financed health-care
system for all residents in the second-smallest U.S. state by
population, building off of the 2010 national health overhaul.  By signing a bill that lays a framework for a single-payer
insurance system for Vermont’s 625,700 residents by 2017,
Shumlin will begin creating the first state-financed universal
health plan in the U.S. The measure initially creates an
insurance exchange authorized by the federal law.  The health-care overhaul led by President  Barack Obama 
provided the basis for the bill sought by Shumlin, a first-term
Democrat who beat his Republican foe by fewer than 5,000 votes
last year. Vermont may produce a national health-care model, in
contrast with 25 states that have joined  Florida ’s challenge to
the U.S. law as an unconstitutional overreach of federal power.  “We are the first state that is affirming that we are
going to implement a single-payer health-care system,” Shumlin,
55, said in a telephone interview this week. The measure asserts
that “health care is a basic human right for all,” he said.
“This is a really significant step.”  Almost 50,000 state residents lack insurance while another
150,000 have insufficient health coverage, according to a
government assessment, said Shumlin, whose two-year term began
in January. He said the  bill  also sets up a board seeking to cut
health-care costs by changing the way patient care is paid for.  Exchange Participants  The state still needs to determine which insurers will be
included in the exchange, which is set to open in 2014. Under
the U.S. overhaul, individuals and businesses can begin claiming
federal tax credits for their health-insurance costs in that
year. Vermont’s single-payer plan also requires a federal
waiver, which it can’t get until 2017 under current rules.  “The legislation is really more an announcement of
intention rather than an accomplishment,” said David
Himmelstein, a City University of  New York  public-health
professor. Himmelstein helped start  Physicians for a National
Health Program , a Chicago-based group that advocates for a
nationwide single-payer insurance system.  “If they actually follow through on it, it would be
historic,” Himmelstein said.  Vermont policy makers still haven’t figured out how to pay
for universal coverage, said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for
 America’s Health Insurance Plans , an industry association based
in  Washington . The group opposes changes that will exclude
private insurers operating in the state, which includes
Philadelphia-based  Cigna Corp. (CI) , Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Vermont and  MVP Health Care Inc.  of Schenectady, New York.  Soaring Costs  “There needs to be a viable private sector that has a
track record of offering the programs and services that everyone
agrees are needed,” Zirkelbach said. “One of the biggest
challenges in Vermont is that health-care costs are soaring.
This approach isn’t going to do anything to address that.”  Per capita spending on health care in Vermont grew by 9.4
percent a year between 1998 and 2004, compared with 6.3 percent
nationally, according to a report from Arrowhead Health
Analytics in Fall River,  Massachusetts . The research company is
run by Anya Rader Wallach, Shumlin’s special assistant for
health reform.  ‘Incredibly Important’  Shumlin, a former state Senate president pro tempore who
succeeded Republican Jim Douglas in the top job, campaigned on a
pledge to create a single-payer system. Dealing with health-care
costs has been an issue in Vermont and nationwide since the
1990s, said former Governor Howard Dean, a medical doctor. He
said the Green Mountain State’s plan may become a prototype.  “If we’re successful and our cost per capita is limited,
then I think people will copy it,” said Dean, a former
Democratic National Committee chairman and 2004 presidential
candidate.  “This kind of experimentation is incredibly important
because it does allow a varied approach to these things,” Dean,
now a senior strategic adviser at the Atlanta-based law firm
 McKenna, Long & Aldridge LLP , said in a telephone interview.  The intent in the law is for the state to partner with a
private company to operate the single-payer system, as opposed
to the government running it, said William Hsiao, a professor of
economics at the Harvard School of  Public Health  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, who was hired by the Vermont Legislature last
year as a consultant. Hsiao said he has been approached by six
other states seeking information about setting up a single-payer
system.  ‘Power Grab’  The measure Shumlin signed today passed earlier this month
in Vermont’s Legislature, where Democrats control the agenda.
Most Republicans voted against the bill.  “We oppose it as a power grab,” said Darcie Johnston, a
Republican political consultant in Montpelier, the state
capital. She formed Vermonters for Health Care Freedom to oppose
the single-payer measure.  The measure will be used by the government “to seize
control over all aspects of health-care spending in the state
without the input or consultation of doctors, businesses, or
employers,” Johnston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  