-- 
Vestas Falls as Much as 6.2% as Chanos Says ‘Best Avoided’

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-26T12:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/vestas-falls-as-much-as-5-4-after-chanos-says-best-avoided-.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the largest
wind-turbine manufacturer, fell the most in three weeks in
Copenhagen after investor  Jim Chanos  recommended betting against
the stock.  Vestas declined as much as 6.2 percent to its lowest in
almost five years and pared its loss to 4.3 percent at 2:37 p.m.
local time.  “The market is very sensitive to bad news at the moment,”
said Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in  London . “The sentiment about wind and about Vestas
especially is very bad.”  Chanos, the short seller known for predicting Enron Corp.’s
collapse, yesterday said the Randers, Denmark-based company will
be “under financial strain and best avoided,” while Nordea
Bank AB forecast that the U.S. wind market will remain depressed
for the next three years.  Michael Holm, a spokesman for Vestas said the company never
comments on movements in its shares. “People make money out of
shorting stocks,” he said.  U.S. wind-turbine installations will likely average between
6 gigawatts and 8 gigawatts a year as cheap natural  gas prices 
offer power generators an alternative way to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions, Nordea said in a note yesterday.  “The issue with the U.S. isn’t going to help them,” said
Stephane Aderca, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London.
“Vestas is invested heavily in U.S. wind production facilities
and we are still well below the 10 gigawatt record.”  Analysts are divided over the outlook for the company, with
15 recommending buying the stock and 13 saying it should be sold
out of 38 views compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial Forecasts  Vestas is “highly likely” to meet its 2011 forecasts for
revenue and margins, analysts at Matrix Investment Management
Ltd. said in a note on May 20. The company has already secured
enough orders for delivery and commissioning in 2011 to meet 95
percent of its target of 6,000 megawatts of shipments that
underpin its financial forecasts, analysts Tom Plinston and
 Michael McNamara  said today in a note to investors.  “This suggests that Vestas is highly likely to achieve its
2011 revenue and margin guidance of 7 billion euros ($10
billion) and 7 percent, respectively,” the analysts said.
“This sets a floor under Vestas’s share price.”  Shares in Vestas have lost about 18 percent in the last
month, compared with the 7.7 percent decline in the 64-member
Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index.  “There are risks to take into account, but this year is
clearly going to be better than last year and this is not being
reflected in the price,” Tabbush said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  