-- 
VTB CEO Says U.S. ‘Nearly Bankrupt’ as Instability Lingers

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-26T15:13:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/vtb-ceo-says-u-s-nearly-bankrupt-as-instability-lingers-1-.html
Andrei Kostin , chief executive
officer of VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-biggest bank, said the
U.S. is “nearly bankrupt,” roiling the financial industry and
stifling credit flows.  “The constant threat of a financial crisis, defaults hangs
over the financial banking sector, and on the whole, the overall
situation on the global market remains very complicated,”
Kostin said at a conference in St. Petersburg today. “We see
that the  United States  is nearly bankrupt.”  Standard & Poor’s  last month said the U.S. risks losing its
top rating unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to
reduce deficits and debt. European finance ministers last week
for the first time raised the possibility of talks with
bondholders over extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule as
concerns mount that the country won’t be able to pay its debts
after last year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said today that U.S.
budget policy can’t be an example for Russia to follow because
it relies on an “excessive” level of debt. The premier last
month lashed out at the U.S.  Federal Reserve  for seeking to
bolster the economy by printing money and buying Treasuries.  Not an Example  “They have once again issued  government securities  and the
Federal Reserve happily bought them, meaning it printed the
money and channeled it into the economy,” Putin said at a
business conference in Moscow. “And this can’t serve as an
example.”  The Russian government is seeking to cut foreign borrowing
and rely on domestic resources to spur growth, Putin said.  Russian central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said today he
doesn’t think U.S. lawmakers can avoid lifting the country’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury Department has said
Congress must raise the limit by Aug. 2 to avoid the government
defaulting on its loans.  “I don’t see how the U.S. could let that happen,”
Ignatiev said in St. Petersburg. “They will have to agree” to
raise the limit, he said. “We are following the situation in
the U.S. and other countries, including on debt.”  ‘Icelandic Volcanoes’  Greece, Portugal and  Spain  are “like Icelandic volcanoes -
- one moment they are erupting, the next they die down,” Kostin
said. “There’s still a lot of instability.”  The main risk facing Russia’s financial industry is that
banks don’t have enough capital, Kostin said.  “There’s no way to get away from the task of consolidating
the banking sector,” he said. “I would add that from the point
of view of attracting capital and better transparency, banks
should be nudged to start placing shares on exchanges.”  Kostin also called for more oversight and stiffer penalties
for bank management found responsible for asset stripping.  “If things are out of control in the country, then who is
going to invest?” he said. “There needs to be more severity
and consistency in our decisions so that these things don’t
remain unpunished.”  More rigorous oversight will help improve Russia’s
investment climate, Kostin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in  St. Petersburg  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 