-- 
Wages Poised to Rise in U.S. as Paychecks for Temps Get Bigger

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-05-26T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/wages-poised-to-rise-in-u-s-as-paychecks-for-temps-get-bigger.html
Staffing agencies are charging
companies more for temporary workers, a possible harbinger of a
bump up in salaries for permanent employees later this year.  The bill rate at Calabasas, California-based  On Assignment
Inc. (ASGN) , which places temporary staff primarily in the information
technology and health-care fields, climbed 6.3 percent in the
quarter ended March 31 from the same time last year, the largest
12-month gain since 2008.  The increase in the amount the company charged was
“surprising,” said Tobey Sommer, a staffing analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Agencies like On Assignment are the first to reflect shifts
in wages because demand for their services is more immediate,
prompting “real time” changes in fees, Sommer said. By
contrast, he said, employers calibrate compensation for
permanent workers less frequently, causing those adjustments to
lag behind.  The temp labor market is a “canary in the  coal mine ” for
broader gains in wages, Sommer said. “Bill-rate increases are
starting in areas where demand is the strongest, like the IT
sector. The logical next step is for bill rates to improve more
broadly and ultimately be reflected in the wage gains of
permanent employees.”  On Assignment had “robust” revenue growth in its
information technology and engineering business during the first
quarter, driven in part by higher contract rates, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Dameris said on an April 28 conference
call. “Exiting the quarter, demand for our services
strengthened in all divisions,” he said.  Fees Climb  Companies specializing in placing health-care workers are
also starting to command higher fees. San Diego-based  AMN
Healthcare Services Inc. (AHS)  increased its rates twice as many times
in the first four months of the year than it did in the first
six months of 2010, Susan Salka, president and chief executive
officer, said in a May 5 conference call.  Cross Country
Healthcare Inc. (CCRN) , based in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , expects to
increase rates in the second half of the year, CEO Joseph Boshart said in a call the same day.  Robert Half International Inc. (RHI) , which specializes in
finance and legal work, is also seeing a pickup. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based company increased pricing by 2.4 percent in the
first quarter from the prior year, Chief Financial Officer Keith Waddell said on an April 21 conference call.  “We’re seeing higher pay rates in every single division
sequentially,” Waddell said. This is one of the precursors of
“good things to come in staffing,” he said.  Skilled Temps  Wage growth for temps is likely limited to workers whose
skills are in relatively short supply, said Kathryn Kobe,
director of price, wage, and productivity analysis at Economic
Consulting Services LLC in  Washington . Nonetheless, the
employment situation has started to improve enough to expect a
pickup in overall wage gains by year end, she said.  Recent increases in the Wage Trend Indicator, an index
created by Kobe and economist Joel Popkin for the  Bureau of
National Affairs , a private provider of economic data, indicate
pay will climb.  The gauge points to about a 2 percent increase in the
Employment Cost Index by the end of the year, which would be the
biggest gain since the first quarter of 2009, according to BNA.
Through the first quarter, the ECI, a broad measure of
compensation, posted a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain,
according to Labor Department data.  “We’re seeing enough forward momentum in the economy that
we’re expecting to see modest wage and salary gains,” Kobe
said.  ADP’s Clients  In another sign wage gains are broadening, funds held by
Roseland, New Jersey-based  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP)  for
its clients are rising, according to Rod Bourgeois, an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, who maintains an
“outperform” rating on the provider of payroll services to
about 550,000 companies.  Average client balances, or the money ADP receives to pay
wages to customer employees, increased 12 percent in the quarter
ending March 31, Chief Executive Officer Gary Butler said in a
May 2 statement. Such funds climbed to a record in April,
breaking the previous high reached in March 2008, Butler said on
a conference call the same day.  This is “resounding evidence” that salary gains are
improving, said Bourgeois. While some of that growth may be
attributed to a larger client base or other non-wage reasons,
these are not large enough to account for all the gain, he said.  Bourgeois estimated that gains in salaries accounted for
about half of the 12 percent increase in ADP’s client funds.  Fed View  Federal Reserve policy makers at their April meeting were
less optimistic on the outlook for wage increases as
unemployment hovers around 9 percent.  “Wage increases continued to be restrained by the presence
of a large margin of slack in the labor market,” central
bankers said. “Signs of rising wage pressures were reportedly
limited to a few skilled job categories for which workers are in
short supply, while, in general, increases in wages have been
subdued.”  Even moderate wage gains in some areas of the labor market
are an encouraging sign that higher paychecks may be on the way
for other temporary and permanent workers, according to
Bourgeois.  “High unemployment is an ongoing economic problem, but
ADP’s recent results show solid signs of wage gains across a
quite diverse set of employers,” Bourgeois said. “Broader pay
increases are feasible if economic expansion continues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  