-- 
Washington Drivers Replace N.Y. as Most ‘Unfit’

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-26T13:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/washington-drivers-replace-new-yorkers-as-most-unfit-for-road.html
Washington , D.C., drivers are the
least knowledgeable in the U.S. about the rules of the road, a
distinction held by New York state motorists in 2009 and 2010,
according to a study by GMAC Insurance.  Drivers in the nation’s capital scored an average of 71.8
percent on tests, the insurer said. New Yorkers ranked 45th,
scoring 75.3 percent. Kansans ranked No. 1 with 82.9 percent.
The national average for the test was 77.9 percent, with below
70 considered failing, according to a statement today from GMAC
Insurance, the carrier that American Capital Acquisition Corp.
bought from GMAC Inc.  The national results show that almost one in five drivers,
or 36.9 million U.S. motorists, “cannot meet the basic
requirements” to get a license, according to the statement. The
test of 20 questions from licensing exams was given to 5,130
drivers from all 50 states and the capital.  “Taking the test brings a little bit of attention to
something that people don’t generally think about,” said Scott
Eckman, GMAC Insurance’s chief marketing officer, in an
interview. “If we can have people just think twice, it may make
them think about rules and maybe pay attention.”  Eighty-five percent of drivers couldn’t identify the
correct action to take when approaching a steady yellow traffic
light. Correct answer: “Stop if it is safe to do so,”
according to a version of the test on GMAC Insurance’s  website .  ‘Traffic Is Difficult’  Some of the test results may be explained by people
learning to drive from family members, Jean Guenguem, co-owner
of Dexterity Driving School in the capital, said in a phone
interview. Drivers should brush up on the rules every two years,
he said.  “The traffic is difficult” in Washington, Guenguem said.
 New York  motorists follow the rules less than Washington
drivers, he said.  The national average rose from 76.2 percent in 2010.
 Mississippi ,  Massachusetts ,  New Jersey ,  Maryland  and Hawaii
motorists ranked behind New York. The test was given online by
the insurer through a research company to licensed drivers, ages
16 to 65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 