-- 
Obama Administration Slashes Red Tape Tangling Car Fumes to Spilled Milk

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-26T21:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/white-house-slashes-red-tape-tangling-car-fumes-to-spilled-milk.html
The White House announced today that
30 U.S. agencies are seeking to repeal or modify regulations in
an effort to reduce reporting requirements and save businesses
and individuals billions of dollars in compliance costs.  Among the revisions the Obama administration is proposing
is elimination of a requirement in some states for vapor
recovery systems at gas stations and changes in labeling
mandates for hazardous materials, according to a fact sheet
prepared by the White House.  Cass Sunstein, director of the White House’s Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, said in an interview that
the proposed regulatory changes would have a “big impact” on
industries including railroads, airlines, medical device makers,
and hospitals and doctors.  The regulatory proposals also would “simplify and
streamline” requirements for businesses to gain export control
approvals for “low-risk” national security technology, he
said.  “It’s pretty technical stuff, but the impact will be to
free up small businesses and large businesses to export goods to
other nations without facing nearly as much red tape and
bureaucratic barriers,” Sunstein said.  The revisions are the result of a review President  Barack Obama  ordered on Jan. 18, saying he wanted “to remove outdated
regulations that stifle  job creation  and make our economy less
competitive.”  Spilled Milk  Already in place as a result of the review is an exemption
for the  dairy industry  from Environmental Protection Agency
rules that defined milk as an “oil” and subjected farmers to
regulations designed to cover oil spills, Sunstein said,
estimating that the change will save the milk and dairy
industries $1.4 billion over 10 years in clean-up costs.  “The exemption gives whole new meaning to the phrase
‘Don’t cry over spilled milk,’” Sunstein said.  In most cases, the proposed regulatory changes will first
be subject to a 30-day public comment period, followed by a
review process that averages four months to a year before a rule
modification becomes final.  The gas station recovery systems were described as
“redundant” because modern vehicles include air pollution
control technologies. Eliminating the requirement, which some
states impose under the  Clean Air Act , would save $67 million
annually, according to the fact sheet.  A proposed change in  Occupational Safety and Health
Administration  rules to “harmonize” classification and label
requirements for hazardous chemicals with international
standards would save at least $585 million per year, according
to the proposal submitted by the Department of Labor.  Railroad Safety  Other proposals to come out of the review include changes
to railroad safety rules and an easing of paperwork requirements
in the Endangered Species Act that would “streamline” approval
of conservation agreements.  The railroad proposal would scale back a requirement that
railroads, including Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , install
technology intended to prevent collisions between trains.  So-called positive train control technology was mandated in
a 2008 law following a fatal crash between a  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) 
freight train and a  commuter train  in  Los Angeles  that could
have been prevented if the trains had been equipped with the
technology. The plan says the requirement would be limited to
areas where it is “actually needed.” The change would save
$400 million initially and up to $1 billion over 20 years,
according to the fact sheet.  ‘Too Rigid’  Sunstein said medical device manufacturers should benefit
from an effort the  Food and Drug Administration  is mounting to
revise their approval process.  “There have been a lot of concerns about whether our
approval for medical devices has been too rigid and
complicated,” he said. “The FDA is adopting an effort to make
is more simple and streamlined.”  Altogether, Sunstein said, the regulatory proposals have
the potential to save businesses billions of dollars a year by
eliminating “out-of-date” requirements.  The regulatory review is among a series of steps the
president has taken this year to counter perceptions that he is
insensitive to business interests. In January, he appointed
former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive  William Daley  as his chief
of staff, and a month later he went to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce to make a case for his administration to business
leaders.  Slow to Hire  While the U.S. recession ended in June 2009 and the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index has risen more than
55 percent since Obama took office in January 2009, employers
have been slow to hire workers. The  unemployment rate  stood at 9
percent in April. Only 1.8 million U.S. jobs have been regained
of the more than 8.7 million lost since January 2008.  Under the review Obama ordered, agencies were required to
submit to the White House by May 18 a list of rules they planned
to look over or eliminate.  The review didn’t include independent agencies set up by
Congress, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
 Federal Reserve , the Federal Communications Commission and the
Federal Trade Commission, which exercise substantial regulatory
authority over industries such as finance and
telecommunications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  