-- 
Wisconsin Court Voids Changes to Public Employee Collective-Bargaining Law

-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-26T19:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/wisconsin-court-voids-changes-to-public-employee-collective-bargaining-law.html
A  Wisconsin  judge voided a law that
would limit public employees’ collective-bargaining rights
because the legislation was passed in violation of state open-
meetings requirements.  In her decision today, Dane County Circuit Judge Maryann
Sumi didn’t rule on the merits of the law championed by first-
term Republican Governor  Scott Walker . She said lawmakers could
still pass the measure if they abide by public-notice rules.  Wisconsin’s Supreme Court on June 6 will hear arguments on
whether it can take control of the case and, if warranted,
dismiss it. The law requires annual recertification votes for
union representation by public employees and makes union dues
voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  “This case is an exemplar of values protected by the open
meetings law: transparency in government, the right of citizens
to participate in their government and respect for rule of
law,” Sumi wrote in her decision.  Sumi halted enforcement of the legislation on March 18
after the suit was filed by  Dane County  District Attorney Ismael
Ozanne, alleging the law was drafted in violation of the open
meetings law. She later declared the law wasn’t in force.  Ozanne accused four Republican lawmakers of violating the
law when they gathered on less than two hours’ notice to craft a
legislative measure that was then passed by both houses and
signed by Walker. In today’s decision, Sumi said the legislature
could have remedied the violation by holding another meeting at
a public location and giving proper notice.  ‘Separation of Powers’  Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker, said in an e-mail
that the governor’s office had no comment on the decision.  “There’s still a much larger separation-of-powers issue:
whether one Madison judge can stand in the way of the other two
democratically elected branches of government,” Senator Scott Fitzgerald, the Republican senate majority leader and a
defendant in the case, said in a prepared statement.  Fourteen Wisconsin Senate Democrats left the state Feb. 17
and spent more than three weeks in  Illinois  in an attempt to
block the law by denying the chamber a quorum. Republicans were
able to vote on collective bargaining after they stripped the
bill of some fiscal measures allowing them by law to vote
without the Democrats present.  ‘Budget Repair’  “We look forward to the reforms of the budget repair bill
being enacted in the near future,” Secretary Mike Huebsch of the
Wisconsin Department of Administration said in a statement. The
 department  coordinates the state budget. “We will continue to
pursue legal action with the Supreme Court.”  Crowds of as many as 100,000 gathered at the Capitol in
Madison to rally against Walker’s bill. The struggle incited
protests across the U.S. and sparked debate about public-worker
concessions as states face combined deficits that may reach
$112 billion next fiscal year.  “We hope that the  Supreme Court  will consider the careful
review conducted by Judge Sumi and support her conclusion,” Phil
Neuenfeldt, president of the Wisconsin State AFL-CIO, said today
in an e-mailed statement.  State law required 24 hours’ notice before the legislation
could be considered by the joint committee of six senate and
assembly members, Ozanne said in a March 16 filing. The
legislators gave less than two hours’ notice of their March 9
meeting, according to Ozanne’s complaint.  Unions Sue  Unions representing public works employees, firefighters
and other public safety officers sued on March 25, claiming the
state senate passed the legislation signed by Walker on March 11
without a constitutionally required quorum.  “The decision should be looked at as an opportunity to
work together to find commonsense solutions to grow our economy
and get our fiscal house in order -- not to tear our state
apart, as Walker and his lockstep Legislature have chosen to
do,” Mike Tate, the Wisconsin Democratic party chairman, said
in a statement.  The state  Justice Department  yesterday asked Sumi to remove
herself from the case because she filed a brief in connection
with the request that the Supreme Court take jurisdiction in the
dispute. Assistant Attorney General Steven Kilpatrick said in a
letter to Sumi that her May 18 brief to the Supreme Court showed
she could no longer be impartial.  Sumi Brief  In her brief, Sumi argued that she had the power to bar
publication of the act -- which would give it power -- and void
it based on the open-meetings law violation.  Because she had made no formal ruling before filing the
brief, the arguments gave the appearance that she decided a
pending case, Kilpatrick wrote.  When Sumi issued a temporary restraining order on the law
in March, she said she couldn’t decide the case until the
Republican legislators named in the lawsuit appeared in court.
They claimed immunity from the civil action while the
Legislature is in session. The session will end after the
biennial budget is adopted on or before June. 30.  Marie Stanton, a lawyer for Sumi, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Rohde in Madison, Wisconsin at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 