-- 
Yemen Economic Crisis Deepens After Violence

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-26T10:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-26/yemen-economic-crisis-deepens-after-violence.html
Hundreds of Yemeni families fled gun
battles in the capital and the U.S. State Department urged
citizens to leave the country while commercial transportation is
available.  Four people were killed and 11 wounded in clashes in Sana’a
pitting the security forces of President Ali Abdullah Saleh
against members of the country’s most influential tribe, state-
run Saba news agency reported late yesterday. The  Defense
Ministry  said today that orders have been issued for arrest of
the tribesmen on charges of staging an armed rebellion.  The clashes began on May 23 after Saleh refused to sign a
Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered accord that provides for him
to step down within 30 days, to end unrest that has left more
than 100 people dead. Saleh warned in an interview yesterday
that the fighting could drag the country into civil war.  An explosion in a Sana’a housing complex used by the
tribesmen killed 28 people, the Defense Ministry said today.  Hundreds of families fled south in cars with furniture and
other possessions strapped to the roofs. Long lines formed at
the checkout counter of a Sana’a supermarket, with shoppers
stocking up on food.  “People are worried that roads will be closed and they
won’t have access to stores,” said Mohammed al-Omari, 50, an
adviser at Sana’a municipality.  Peace Efforts  Abdul-Karim al-Eryani, Saleh’s political adviser, said in
an interview that “efforts are under way from all sides to end
the conflict.”  The director-general of Sana’a airport, Naji al-Murqab,
late yesterday denied reports that the terminal had been closed
and flights diverted to Aden. “The airport is working
normally,” al-Murqab told the official Saba news agency.  In a travel advisory yesterday, the State Department
ordered family members of U.S. government employees to leave and
urged private citizens to do so as well, citing fighting in
Sana’a that “may escalate without notice.”  Mohammed al-Mutawakkil, a member of the opposition Joint
Meeting Parties’ higher council, said the clashes were a “final
attempt by the president to impose changes on the ground that
will work in his favor.” He predicted that the effort will fail
and Saleh “will either die in the country or be arrested
abroad.”  The Gulf agreement grants immunity from prosecution to
Saleh, in power since 1978, and his children. Al-Mutawakkil said
it will be “difficult” to keep that provision if the president
does not sign soon.  In a briefing with reporters in the presidential palace in
Sana’a yesterday, Saleh said he was ready to sign the agreement,
when a clear timetable and a mechanism for its implementation
have been outlined. He also said he won’t quit politics even if
he leaves the presidency and will continue the crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Sana’a at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 