-- 
L-3 Jumps After Relational Buys 6% Stake

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T20:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/l-3-jumps-after-relational-buys-6-stake-pushes-breakup-2-.html
L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) 
jumped 4.7 percent after Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors
LLC became the defense company’s largest shareholder and pushed
for changes including a possible breakup.  Relational bought a 6 percent stake, according to a
regulatory filing today. That makes it the biggest investor in
New York-based L-3, according to Bloomberg data.  The share price compared with earnings would improve if L-3
took actions that “could include the disposition or spinoff of
underperforming or low-growth, low-margin assets,” Relational
said in the filing. The investment firm said it has talked with
L-3 management about strategy “from time to time.”  L-3 rose $3.83 to $86.21 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain since Jan. 7. The
shares had advanced 1.2 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 20 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Industrials Index.  Sales stagnated last year after L-3 lost one of its largest
government contracts, valued at as much as $5 billion, for
providing logistics support to U.S. troops. Revenue from the
aircraft maintenance and modernization unit also declined.  “The L-3 Board of Directors and management team are
continually exploring opportunities to create additional value,
and consider the views and opinions of all of our
stockholders,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Private-Equity Appeal  San Diego-based Relational, founded by Whitworth and David Batchelder in 1996, bought a stake in ITT Corp. last year and
pushed for changes at the company. Whitworth sold off the shares
after ITT announced in January that it planned to split off its
defense and water units.  Relational made a presentation to L-3 executives months
ago, during which it urged them to jettison some low-growth
businesses, arguing that they may fetch attractive prices from
private-equity firms, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. Relational recommended selling or spinning off divisions
including the government services unit, except for the cyber-
security portion, and the aircraft maintenance and modernization
unit, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions were private.  Operating income at the government-services division
slumped 13 percent to $344.3 million in 2010, or 20 percent of
the company’s total. The aircraft maintenance and
modernization’s operating profit fell 5.7 percent to $229.1
million.  Since October, L-3 has been doing a “rather extensive”
review its businesses, Chief Executive Officer Mike Strianese
said in an interview on June 20 at the  Paris Air Show .  “We’re targeting possible action on those businesses where
we see lower growth, lower margin than our composite margins,
lower barriers to entry, and conflicts of interest in services
area,” he said, reiterating that he would update investors
about the conclusions in July.  The Wall Street Journal reported Relational’s stake in L-3
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Paris at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner   edufner@bloomberg.net 
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 