-- 
L-3 to Launch Export Model of Spy Planes for Middle East, Asia

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-22T13:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/l-3-to-launch-export-model-of-spy-planes-for-middle-east-asia.html
L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,
will launch an export model of its Project Liberty-type spy
planes targeted at customers in the Middle East and  Asia , Chief
Executive Officer Mike Strianese said.  The Project Liberty system, based on Hawker Beechcraft
Corp.’s King Air 350 propeller planes, is generating “a lot of
international interest,” Strianese said in an interview at the
 Paris Air Show . The aircraft, equipped with electro-optical and
heat-sensing cameras, are used by the U.S. Air Force in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  to spot adversaries planting roadside bombs.  “A lot of countries are looking at it for border
security” purposes, Strianese said. “I expect there to be
interest in  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates , other  Middle
East  countries, and possibly North Asia.”  The export version, called Spydr, will be launched next
month at the Royal International Air Tattoo, an annual air show
held in the UK, he said.  L-3, a New York-based supplier of military electronics with
2010 sales of $15.6 billion, received the first order for the
Project Liberty aircraft from the U.S. Air Force in September
2008 and now has a contract for 37.  Export Version  For the export version, L-3 will offer the plane and all of
the equipment on board including full-motion video, signals
intelligence gear, line-of-sight communications and self-
protection sensors, company spokeswoman Jennifer Barton said.
The company will also offer to outfit airplanes other than the
King Air with such equipment, she said.  The Pentagon and the U.S. State Department have made
“significant” progress in reducing the time for obtaining
export licenses, Strianese said.  U.S. export restrictions have “been a headwind on the
industry especially when alternative technologies are available
in the international market,” Strianese said. “The technology
is the same, so you’re hurting U.S. industry when you’re not
allowing us to export.”  The Pentagon’s Defense Security Cooperation agency, which
is the department’s foreign sales arm, is speeding up the
process of export licensing for drone aircraft, the agency’s
head Vice Admiral William Landay said June 10.  To meet a growing demand for U.S.-made unmanned aerial
systems, the agency plans to speed up the exports process by
getting pre-approval for countries that may have an interest in
the drones, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Paris at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  