-- 
‘Code of the West’ Guides Otter in Taking Idaho Beyond Potatoes

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/-code-of-the-west-guides-governor-otter-as-he-takes-idaho-beyond-potatoes.html
Idaho  Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter
pulled a pocket-sized Constitution from his back pocket with a
grin and recited the  10th Amendment  from memory.  “Twenty-eight words,” Otter said about the passage that
grants states rights not given to the federal government. “They
wanted to keep it simple because they wanted the states to be
the laboratory of this republic.”  The cattle roper who once won a “Mr. Tight Jeans” contest
and lives by the  “Code of the West”  is making a career of
wrangling with the federal government.  The 69-year-old Republican defied U.S. efforts to increase
Idaho’s wolf population, directing local officials not to
report, investigate or arrest anyone who shot the animals. In
April, he banned state agencies from implementing President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law, arguing that the federal
government shouldn’t regulate a person’s choice of health
coverage. As a U.S. representative, he was one of three
Republicans to vote against the USA Patriot Act in 2001.  “Our Constitution was put together for a free people,”
Otter said in an interview last month from his office at the
Capitol, nestled at the foot of the snow-capped Boise foothills.
“Whenever any of those freedoms are threatened, then we need to
rally around that.”  Channeling the Founders  Senate Majority Leader Bart Davis said he’s often seen
Otter draw his Constitution and read a passage at policy
meetings with Republican leaders.  “He’s a man of principle and he is principally driven by
the Founding Fathers’ thought process and his understanding of
that,” Davis, a Republican from Idaho Falls, said in a
telephone interview.  His politics of opposition to federal authority, and his
backing of a suit against the health-care law, haven’t found
universal approval.  “We’re spending a lot of money on lawsuits against the
federal government that we could be using to pay teachers and
provide health insurance for people who can’t afford it,” Larry
Grant, chairman of the Idaho  Democratic Party , said in a June 20
telephone interview.  Otter, who has argued that predators decimate big game such
as elk, is “clearly anti-wolf,” Suzanne Stone, the Boise-based
Northern Rockies representative of Defenders of Wildlife, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  Blameless Wolves  For Otter to “undermine existing laws” that protect
wolves is embarrassing, she said. “These animals are innocent.
They are not doing anything wrong by being back in their native
habitat.”  House Minority Leader John Rusche, a Democrat who
represents Lewiston, said in a June 20 telephone interview that
Otter “is a very affable individual. I enjoy the governor when
I’m around him, but that doesn’t translate into forward-looking
and engaging policy.”  The second-term governor first tasted politics in 1969 when
he became the assistant secretary and parliamentarian of the
state Senate, a role that let him steep himself in the
legislative process. He was elected to the Idaho House of
Representatives in 1972 on a platform of limited government.  Born about 27 miles (43 kilometers) west of Boise in
Caldwell, the sixth of nine children, Otter recalls being about
17 and living on 300 acres outside Meridian, when his father, an
electrician, hurt his leg. Otter quit school and joined his
mother in running the farm, with its 84 cattle.  “That year and a half, two years, that my mom and I ran
that farm was a real growing experience for me,” Otter said.
“Those cows had to be milked every morning and they had to be
milked every night.”  Shoveling Spuds  Otter, who has four children, met his first wife, Gay,
during a summer job pouring road asphalt to earn college money.
In 1965, he went to work for Gay’s father, J.R. Simplot, the
founder of the J.R. Simplot Co., which operates potato
processing plants that produce French fries for  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain. One of his first
jobs was shoveling potatoes. He became president of Simplot
International before retiring in 1993.  The governor, who is divorced from Gay, met his second
wife, Lori, 44, a former Miss Idaho USA, at a July 4 parade
while he was campaigning for lieutenant governor, a post in
which he served from 1987 to 2001.  Cowboy Pageant  Otter earned the additional title of “Mr. Tight Jeans”
after his sister and her friends entered him in the contest at a
country-and-western lounge in 1992.  “I was wearing Wranglers,” Otter said in the interview.
“And I won.”  Three months later, Otter got a drunken-driving citation,
derailing plans to run for governor. He ran instead for another
term as lieutenant governor.  “I had a very promising future, and made a terrible
mistake that night,” Otter said.  Still, he won the governor’s office in 2006, defeating
Democrat Jerry Brady 53 percent to 44 percent.  Two years later, Otter started  Project 60 , an initiative to
increase the state’s gross domestic product to $60 billion by
drawing out-of-state companies, encouraging foreign investment
and supporting existing businesses.  Idaho, which in 1890 became the 43rd state, has diversified
from agriculture -- though it is still the country’s biggest
potato producer. The state is home to Boise-based  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest U.S. maker of computer-memory
chips, papermaker  Boise Inc. (BZ) , and  Idacorp Inc. (IDA) , which owns the
Idaho Power Co., an electric utility.  The state’s gross domestic product grew to $55.4 billion as
of June 7 from $51.5 billion in 2008, said Don Dietrich,
director of the Idaho Commerce Department.  Targets of Opportunity  State officials have targeted businesses in California,
Oregon and Washington state, which have faced deficits in the
billions, Dietrich said.  “We live within our means,” Dietrich said. “That
provides a huge level of assuredness. They are looking for a
predictable and stable government.”  Idaho doesn’t issue long-term general-obligation bonds, 
said Shawn Nydegger, investment officer at the State Treasurer’s
Office. The state issues debt to manage  cash flow , he said. 
Idaho sold $500 million in one-year tax-anticipation notes in 
June 2010 and another $500 million this month, according to data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Outside the halls of government, Otter enjoys roping steer
at his ranch in Star, participating in team events.  “I like to rope. I like to fish and hunt. I like to camp,
but mostly I like to rodeo,” Otter said.  He abides by the “Code of the West,” 10 principles that
hang on a wall across from his desk. They include “Live each
day with courage,” “Do what has to be done” and “Be tough,
but fair.”  “Number eight is the one I have the most difficulty
with,” Otter said. “Talk less and say more.”  Clement Leroy “Butch” Otter at a glance:  Born: Caldwell, Idaho, May 3, 1942 (age 69).  Party: Republican  Spouse: Lori, 44, former Miss Idaho USA.  Children: John, Carolyn, Kimberley, Corrine  Education: Bachelor of Arts, political science, College of
Idaho, Caldwell, Idaho, 1967.  Career: various positions, J.R. Simplot Co., 1965-1993; member,
Idaho House of Representatives, 1973-1976; Idaho lieutenant
governor, 1987-2001; member, U.S. House of Representatives,
2001-2006; governor, 2007-present.  Noteworthy: Member of the  National Rifle Association  and the
Idaho Cowboys Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 