-- 
H&M Second-Quarter Profit Falls More Than Anticipated on Higher Costs

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-06-22T13:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/h-m-second-quarter-profit-mises-estimates.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , the world’s
second-largest clothing retailer, said the rising cost of making
garments led to a third straight drop in quarterly earnings.  Profitability shrank in the second quarter as H&M held
prices down to win shoppers and bore the brunt of higher labor
expenses in Asia and the soaring cost of cotton. Group sales
increased 12 percent in local currencies as margins narrowed,
the Stockholm-based company said today in a statement.  H&M fell as much as 3.9 percent in Stockholm trading, the
steepest intraday decline since April 29. The retailer, which
will start selling a collection by Italian fashion house Versace
in the fall, is struggling to keep up with larger rival  Inditex
SA (ITX) , owner of the Zara chain. Inditex has more suppliers in and
around  Europe  than H&M, meaning it’s able to roll out products
more quickly to stores in the region and is less affected by
soaring wage inflation in  China .  “The short-term challenges are proving slightly more
serious than analysts anticipated” for H&M,  Anne Critchlow , an
analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , said in an e-mail today,
referring to rising input costs and unfavorable currency shifts.  The shares were down 6.6 kronor, or 3.1 percent, at 208.20
kronor as of 3:21 p.m. local time. They have fallen 7.6 percent
this year, while Inditex has risen 11 percent.  Margins Narrow  Net income in the three months ended May 31 declined to
4.26 billion kronor ($670 million) from 5.21 billion kronor a
year earlier, H&M said. The average estimate of 16 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was 4.37 billion kronor.  H&M’s gross margin narrowed to 61.7 percent of sales in the
quarter, from 65.9 percent a year earlier as the company faced
increased wage inflation in  Asia  and record cotton prices.  The retailer gets about 75 percent of its clothes from Asia
and 35 percent from China alone, according to Critchlow. Annual
pay inflation in China is about 10 percent, she said. Hourly
manufacturing wages in the country rose 89 percent between 2005
and 2010, according to Euromonitor International.  Inditex sources about 50 percent of its merchandise close
to its distribution centers in  Spain , where hourly manufacturing
wages rose 17 percent between 2005 and 2010, according to
Euromonitor. The Madrid-based retailer last week reported a 10
percent increase in quarterly profit.  The price of cotton gained 92 percent last year, which H&M
said was among circumstances that were “beyond our influence.”  Expansion Plans  H&M plans to open 178 stores and close 19 in the second
half of 2011. The company, which confirmed its store-growth
target of as much as 15 percent a year, said China, the U.K. and
the U.S. will be its biggest markets for expansion this year.
H&M plans to start online sales in the U.S. as soon as March.  “We are optimistic about the future for H&M despite
challenging conditions both in the sales markets and in the
sourcing markets,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson
said in the statement.  H&M is evaluating store openings in the Southern
Hemisphere, the CEO said. Inditex opened its first store in
 Australia  in April and has more than 30 stores in  Brazil .  The company had 2,297 stores at the end of the quarter,
including its COS, Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday outlets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  