-- 
La Polar Surges in Chile as Shareholders Vote on $400 Million Stock Sale

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-22T20:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/la-polar-pitches-chilean-stock-sale-to-avoid-second-bankruptcy-since-1999.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  shareholders
approved a proposal to sell new stock as the Chilean department-
store operator seeks to avert a second bankruptcy in 12 years.  In a meeting in Santiago today, stockholders gave their
consent for the sale of 250 million shares to be priced at a
subsequent meeting. The transaction may raise about $200
million, which will help make the company viable, Chairman Cesar Barros told reporters after the meeting.  “The purpose of the $200 million is to leave the company
with enough working capital to face its current problems and
continue operations so La Polar doesn’t lose market share,”
Barros said. “The company can continue operating for a number
of months before it receives the capital injection.”  La Polar climbed as much as 23 percent before today’s vote.
The Santiago exchange suspended trading at 10:20 a.m. New York
time when the stock was at 540 pesos. Shares had tumbled 80
percent in less than two weeks after the company announced
additional loan-loss provisions from irregular consumer-lending
practices. The share sale may provide a way for an investor to
buy a controlling stake in the company.  “The new share sale will give La Polar more options to
solve its problems, but it won’t mean the end of all of them,”
said German Guerrero, who helps manage about $1 billion,
including La Polar securities, as director of MBI Inversiones in
Santiago. “It could open the door for a partner to acquire
control or for current holders to bolster the company.”  Bond Covenants  La Polar will meet with bondholders on June 29 to discuss
waiving covenants that would accelerate prepayments. Another
shareholder meeting is scheduled for July 8 to vote for a new
board. The price of the new shares won’t be discussed at that
meeting as the company is still waiting for information from an
audit being done by  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , Barros said.  Before today, La Polar had lost $1 billion in market value
since unveiling on June 9 credit irregularities that triggered
regulatory and criminal investigations.  La Polar said executives restructured 475 billion pesos ($1
billion) of overdue credit without getting the consent of the
more than 400,000 customers involved or informing the board.
Responding to a regulatory request, La Polar said June 17 that
it faces additional provisions of 420 billion pesos, compared
with an initial 200 billion-peso forecast.  Including previously recorded charges, the company said it
may have to set aside a total of 538 billion pesos. That’s more
than 10 times last year’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Enormous Losses’  “Minority shareholders essentially are interested in
recouping their enormous losses caused by La Polar’s decline in
the stock exchange,” Barbara Salinas, a lawyer who said she
filed suits for fraud in a Santiago court on behalf of about 70
shareholders, told reporters today. “The company’s new
leadership should have called for a new meeting to address the
most important topic: how to save this company.”  The shares closed yesterday at 467.26 pesos in Santiago
trading for a market value of 116 billion pesos compared with
581 billion pesos on June 8. Shares will resume trading
tomorrow, according to a statement posted on the website of the
Santiago exchange.  The yield on La Polar’s 2016 inflation-index bond fell
yesterday to 30 percent from 37.6 percent on June 20, according
to data from the Santiago stock exchange. Before the
irregularities were announced, the bond traded at 3.87 percent.  ‘Risk of Bankruptcy’  “There is a risk of bankruptcy,” Raul Montero, a partner
at law firm Alessandri & Cia, said in an e-mailed response.  La Polar declared bankruptcy in 1999 before the retailer
was acquired by private equity firm  Southern Cross Group .
 Southern Cross  listed the company’s shares in 2003 and sold its
remaining stake in 2006. Today La Polar has no clear controlling
shareholder as all of its shares trade freely.  Heriberto Urzua, who replaced Pablo Alcalde as chairman
last week after the irregularities were unveiled, stepped down
from the position, he said in a June 20 e-mailed statement.  Urzua was replaced byBarros, who as head of Chile’s salmon
exporters association led negotiations to restructure farmers’
bank debt after a virus outbreak decimated fish stocks.  ‘Nobody is Innocent’  “They robbed people of their money,” Luis Pareto, a
former lower-house member of congress who said he holds 6,000 La
Polar shares, told reporters today. “Nobody is innocent - not
the board members, not the ministers, not the regulators.”  La Polar operates 43 stores in  Chile  and opened its first
store in  Colombia  this year. The company planned to invest $250
million between 2012 and 2015 to open 10 stores in Colombia and
eight in Chile, Alcalde said May 3. The Colombian expansion plan
will be trimmed, Barros said today.  Negotiations to restructure bank debt will be “crucial”
to the company’s survival, he said.  “La Polar is ill, but its survival is in the best
interest,” Barros said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  