-- 
Africa Israel Said to Sell Manhattan Apartment Tower to Chicago’s Waterton

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-06-23T17:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/africa-israel-to-sell-manhattan-apartment-building-in-222-million-deal.html
Africa Israel USA, billionaire Lev Leviev’s U.S. real estate unit, agreed to sell  88 Leonard , a
luxury apartment building in Manhattan’s TriBeCa neighborhood,
in a deal the company values at about $222 million.  Waterton Associates LLC , a Chicago-based investment firm
that owns and operates more than 15,000 apartments nationwide,
is in contract to purchase the 352-unit tower, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
named because the details are private. Tamir Kazaz, chief
executive officer of the U.S. division of Tel Aviv-based Africa-
Israel Investments Ltd., declined to comment on the buyer.  “It’s a good deal for us and a good deal for the buyer,”
Kazaz said in a telephone interview from New York. “The buyers
are sophisticated real estate investors with tremendous
experience in management of rental apartments, which I trust
will continue to increase the value of this asset.”  Demand for  Manhattan  apartments is climbing as the city’s
rental market tightens. Rents increased 7.4 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and newly signed leases more than
doubled amid an improving job market, according to appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc . and broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate. The borough’s apartment vacancy rate in May was the
lowest in almost five years, brokerage Citi Habitats said.  Brooklyn Deal  Waterton Associates entered the New York market in
December, when it bought the senior construction loan and
mezzanine debt on downtown Brooklyn’s 271-unit Addison apartment
complex. The firm’s co-founder, David Schwartz, said in a March
interview that the company would also “take a run at” bidding
on 88 Leonard.  Schwartz declined to comment in an e-mail today, saying the
firm does not discuss transactions until they have closed.  In the next 60 days, Africa  Israel  will sell 49 percent of
its stake in the property for $37 million. Six months later, the
company will sell its remaining share for about $17 million. The
purchaser will also pay off a $24 million mezzanine loan on the
building and assume a $132 million senior mortgage, Kazaz said.  Africa Israel values the deal at about $222 million after
the realization of a $14 million before-tax profit and the
subtraction of about $7 million in closing costs, according to a
corporate filing yesterday with the Israel Securities Authority.  Reducing Debt  The company has been working to restructure and refinance
more than $1.5 billion in debt from its boom-time real estate
acquisitions in the U.S. Selling 88 Leonard and having the buyer
assume its debt on the property reduces Africa Israel’s burden
by $156 million, according to the filing.  “After this transaction, our debt will be $250 million on
our books,” Kazaz said.  Africa Israel completed construction of 88 Leonard in 2007.
One-bedroom apartments in the building, which has such amenities
as an outdoor whirlpool and a billiards lounge, rent for as much
as $4,300 a month, according to the property manager’s  website .
Two-bedroom units command as much as $6,000 a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  