-- 
Ai Weiwei Is Released on Bail in China After Confessing to Tax Evasion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T18:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ai-weiwei-released-on-bail-by-police-xinhua.html
Dissident Chinese artist Ai Weiwei
was released on bail yesterday and has returned home, his sister
Gao Ge and the official Xinhua News Agency said.  Ai was let out because “his good attitude in confessing
his crimes,” willingness to pay taxes he owes, and his chronic
disease, Xinhua said. Gao, in a telephone interview, said while
her brother was thinner, he appeared otherwise fine.  “Chinese authorities at the highest level have made the
judgment that releasing Ai serves their power interests more
than continuing to hold him,” Perry Link, a  China  expert at the
University of  California , Riverside, wrote in an e-mail. “The
reason has nothing to do with taxes, which was spurious, and
nothing to do with a confession by Ai that he avoided taxes,
which is equally spurious.”  Ai’s April 3 detention at the Beijing airport was the most
visible in a series of arrests, harassments and unexplained
disappearances of activists in China after a surge of pro-
democracy protests in the  Middle East  that spurred online calls
for nationwide “jasmine” rallies in China. The government
deployed thousands of police across the country in late February
to quell the planned protests, set to take place each Sunday.  Ai’s detention and the broader suppression of activists
chilled China’s relations with the U.S. The crackdown “makes
other aspects of the relationship more difficult,” U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and
Labor  Michael Posner  told reporters in Beijing on April 28.  ‘First Step’  In  Washington , State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
that the U.S. has “long called for his release and we continue
to urge the release of all those held” for political reasons.  Ai’s release on bail can “only be a first step,” said
Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . “Now the charges against Ai Weiwei must be explained in
a legal and transparent manner.”  Human Rights Watch says Ai was one of more than 100 people
detained in China this year in “the largest crackdown on
dissent in over a decade.” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
told reporters on April 7 in Beijing that Ai was arrested on
suspicion of economic crimes.  “If the Chinese authorities have decided to release those
with chronic illness” or those who have exhibited “good
attitude,” “we have a long list of others” who qualify, said
Sophie Richardson, Asia advocacy director at the  Human Rights
Watch  office in Washington.  Ai, who is followed by more than 87,000 people on Twitter,
kept a tally of people who were being detained in his postings
to the site, blocked for most of China’s 450 million Internet
users. His last post was on April 3, the day he was apprehended.  His phone and that of his wife Lu Qing were busy following
his release. Gao said Ai wasn’t available to speak.  International Exhibitions  An internationally known artist, Ai’s had an installation
at  London ’s Tate Modern gallery turbine hall featuring millions
of ceramic sunflower seeds. He collaborated on the design of the
Olympic Bird’s Nest Stadium in Beijing, working with the Swiss
architects Herzog & de Meuron. Sculptures based on the animals
of the Chinese zodiac are currently on display outside of  New
York ’s Plaza Hotel.  Germany ’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung on April 4 published what it
said was Ai’s last interview before his arrest. He said the
Chinese authorities had destroyed his new studio in  Shanghai  and
prevented a planned exhibition in Beijing.  “Recently they have been putting more and more people in
jail, just because they write something on Twitter or on a
blog,” he told the newspaper.  Beijing Fake Cultural Development Ltd., controlled by Ai,
evaded a “huge amount” of taxes and destroyed accounting
documents, Xinhua said yesterday, citing Beijing police.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net  