-- 
Mainstream in Talks to Build French Wind Farms, Kinsella Says

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-22T19:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/mainstream-in-talks-to-build-french-wind-farms-kinsella-says.html
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd., a
clean energy developer partly owned by  Barclays Capital , is
talking with other companies about building wind farms in
France, said Andy Kinsella, who heads the company’s offshore
business division.  The European nation, which doesn’t have any sea-based  wind
energy  projects, is seeking bids for 3,000 megawatts of offshore
wind farms as it strives to meet goals on cutting emissions and
fostering renewable energy set by the European Union. The French
government wants to produce 6,000 megawatts of wind energy by
2020.  Mainstream plans to bid for a project with at least 500
megawatts of capacity, Kinsella said in a phone interview today.
“Our participation will depend on whether we can cooperate with
what we believe will be a winning group of partners," he said,
declining to identify the companies they are in discussions
with.  There are five sites available under the first phase of
France’s program, Kinsella said. Tenders for the first 3,000
megawatts will be published "within weeks," French Prime
Minister  Francois Fillon  said on May 31.  French energy producer  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, Areva SA, the world’s
largest builder of nuclear power plants, and  Vinci SA (DG) , Europe’s
biggest builder, have already agreed to bid together for a site.
Paris-based  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s
third-largest power-equipment maker, signed an agreement on Jan.
19 to develop sea-based wind projects in preparation for the
initiative.  U.S. Expansion  Mainstream plans to expand on the 7,600 megawatts of
offshore wind energy projects it has under development in Europe
by building wind farms in the U.S., Kinsella said. The company
will learn at the end of August whether its qualified to bid in
a New Jersey  offshore wind program , he said.  The U.S. projects range from 350 megawatts to 3,000
megawatts, according to the New Jersey  environmental protection
department . Mainstream will aim to start construction on a wind
farm in the state in 2016, Kinsella said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  