-- 
Frontier Orders 80 Airbus Jets After Bombardier CSeries Deal

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-22T22:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/airbus-wins-order-from-republic-airways-for-80-a320neo-aircraft.html
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) 
agreed to buy 80 of Airbus SAS’s upgraded narrowbody jets for
its Frontier Airlines unit, half of them smaller models that
compete with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s new CSeries.  Republic’s letter of intent is for 40 each of the A320neo
and the smaller A319neo models, Indianapolis-based Republic and
Airbus said today in a statement. The order is the first for the
neo version of the A319, which offers more fuel-efficient
engines than its predecessor and can carry about 130 passengers.
The CSeries targets the 100- to 150-seat market.  Frontier’s Airbus order is only a minor negative for
Bombardier since the carrier already flew Airbus jets and
“commonality of fleet was a significant consideration,” Hamzah Mazari, a New York-based analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a note to clients. Frontier has a fleet of 54 Airbus
jets, according to its website.  The airline’s parent, Republic, also has 40 firm orders for
the CSeries, and probably will allocate those planes to four
other carriers it owns, Mazari said. The CSeries order “remains
in place,” said James Reichart, Frontier’s vice president of
marketing and sales.  As Bombardier’s new jet endured an order drought of more
than a year, which ended in June, the Montreal-based company
defended the plane by saying its chief competitor was the A319,
a model no one had purchased.  Firm Order  “We have a firm order from Republic which we’re very proud
of,”  John Arnone , a Bombardier spokesman, said today.
“Different types of aircraft co-exist in airline fleets all the
time. Republic is a valued CSeries customer.”  Bombardier slid 34 cents, or 4.8 percent, to C$6.69 in
Toronto, the largest drop in four months. Republic fell 12
cents, or 2.6 percent, to $4.46 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
the largest decline today in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  Republic’s agreement to add the Airbus planes, which have a
value of about $7 billion at list prices, comes as it pursues a
$120 million restructuring plan for Frontier after buying the
Denver-based airline out of bankruptcy in 2009. Frontier pilots
approved money-saving concessions last week.  How Republic would be able to buy jets from Toulouse,
France-based Airbus after agreeing to purchase 40 CSeries planes
with a value of $3.06 billion wasn’t clear, said Bob McAdoo, an
analyst at Avondale Partners LLC in Prairie Village,  Kansas .  “The company says they question their own financial
outlook,” said McAdoo, who rates Republic shares
“underperform.”  ‘Bright Future’  Airlines typically make small deposits years ahead of
taking delivery of new planes to lock in their spot in the
production cycle, with the bulk of the price due a few years
before the aircraft is made.  Frontier isn’t in a position to talk about financing yet,
Reichart said in a telephone interview today.  Employees who were asked by Frontier to make concessions
“understand that we’re doing the hard work right now to make
this business viable in such a way that we can produce positive
returns even with the current fleet at very high fuel prices,”
he said. “Couple that with a growth platform with a much more
fuel-efficient aircraft and that makes for a pretty bright
future for Frontier.”  The Frontier Airline Pilots Association didn’t immediately
respond to a message left at its office in Denver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  