-- 
Airbus-Boeing Duopoly Holds Narrow-Body Startups at Bay at Paris Air Show

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-23T08:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/airbus-boeing-duopoly-holds-narrow-body-upstarts-at-bay-in-paris.html
The Airbus SAS- Boeing Co. (BA)  airliner
duopoly survived the  Paris Air Show  intact as challengers from
Canada, China,  Brazil  and  Russia  offered little evidence that
they’ll break the pair’s stranglehold on single-aisle jets.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries won 30 orders from Korean Air
Lines Co. and an unnamed carrier before the program took a blow.
Qatar Airways Ltd. shelved a deal and Republic Airways Holding
Inc. of the U.S. bought Airbus’s rival A320neo, casting doubt on
a contract for 40 of the Montreal-based company’s jets.  Russia’s SuperJet won a single 12-plane deal, while
Brazilian regional jet specialist Embraer SA said it’ll wait for
Boeing’s next move in the narrow-body market before deciding
whether to go ahead with a 150-seater. Commercial Aircraft Corp.
of China’s C919 may be most likely to mount a challenge after
enlisting  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  as a development partner, though
the Irish discount carrier is also in talks with Boeing, and
analysts said a deal for the Comac model is unlikely.  “Going up against Boeing and Airbus in head-to-head
competition is really tough, not only because of their size, but
because of their existing product line and industrial
capacity,” Embraer Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado
said in an interview in Paris. “They can have a very quick
response and literally flood the market.”  Biggest Prize  Bombardier and Embraer are targeting single-aisle jets
after building up their capabilities by adding bigger regional
models over the past decade. Russia is seeking to rebuild a
civil-aircraft industry shattered after the collapse of the
 Soviet Union , and  China  wants to establish its credentials as an
airliner manufacturer as a booming economy stokes  air travel .  All are seeking a slice of the biggest part of a global
airliner market estimated at $4 trillion over the next 20 years.  Airbus’s neo, already the Toulouse, France-based company’s
fastest-selling plane, won more than 300 orders during the first
three days of the Paris show, bringing commitments since the
jet’s December launch to more than 600. Boeing, which says it
will take the rest of the year to decide between re-engining and
an all-new model, still clawed in 75 orders for the 737.  Airbus added more contracts today, with a firm order for 72
A320neos from GoAirlines ( India ) Ltd. Skymark Airlines Inc. of
 Japan  also placed a contract two A380 superjumbos, the first for
victory for the double-decker model at this week’s event.  The narrow-body market is split 52 percent to 48 percent in
Airbus’s favor, according  Jim Albaugh , president of Chicago-
based Boeing’s commercial airplanes unit.  ‘Smallest to Buckle’  Louis Gallois , CEO of Airbus parent European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., said at a briefing in Paris that he expects
some of the new models in the 100-seat-plus sector to fail.  “Can the market accept six single-aisle planemakers? I’m
sure the smallest will have to buckle,” he said.  Republic Airways signed a letter of intent to buy 80 neos
with a list price of $7 billion for its Frontier Airlines unit,
split between A319 and A320 variants that carry 124 and 150
people, overlapping with Bombardier’s 100-149 seat CSeries.  It’s not clear how Republic, which bought Frontier out of
bankruptcy in 2009, will be able to buy the neos after agreeing
a 40-plane CSeries deal worth $3.06 billion in February 2010,
said Bob McAdoo, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst based in
Prairie Village, Kansas. E-mail and phone messages to Republic
weren’t immediately returned, though Bombardier said its accord
with the Indianapolis-based airline won’t be affected.  Qatar Rebuff  The Republic announcement is “a marginal negative” for
Bombardier, according to Hamzah Mazari, a New York-based analyst
at Credit Suisse AG who said the CSeries order book “remains
robust” and reiterated his “outperform” rating on the stock.  Qatar Airways  has deferred a decision on whether to order
the CSeries for the moment, Chief Executive Officer Akbar al
Baker said June 20. The Middle East’s second-largest carrier is
hopeful about making an order announcement regarding the Airbus
neo before the end of the Paris event, he said.  Bombardier’s president for commercial aviation,  Gary Scott ,
said at the show that the Korean CSeries deal for 10 CS100 and
10 CS300 derivatives is a “marquee order,” though the company
is focused on adding as many customers as possible -- including
leasing firms -- rather than on chasing blockbuster deals.  “Getting that customer breadth is really, really
important,” Chet Fuller, Bombardier’s commercial aircraft sales
chief, said in an interview after the Asian contract was
announced. “And diversity too, because that’s what’s going to
make it a good, strong lessor’s airplane and a good, strong
financial asset.”  Russian Target  As a publicly traded business, unlike rivals including
Comac and SuperJet, Bombardier undertakes new projects for no
other reason but to make money, he said.  The SuperJet, Russia’s first major passenger plane since
the Soviet collapse in 1991, requires 300 orders to break even,
CEO Mikhail Pogosyan said June 21 in a briefing at the French
show. It has so far secured 131, including a sole Paris contract
for 12 planes from Blue Panorama Airlines SpA, based in Rome,
Italy, the home city of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , which is marketing the
plane via its Alenia Aeronautica division.  Moscow-based manufacturing group United Aircraft Corp. is
looking at extending the SuperJet’s capacity from 75 to 115
seats to as high 130, Pogosyan said.  China’s Comac said June 21 in Paris that Dublin-based
Ryanair,  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, is exploring a
requirement for at least 200 single-aisle jets after agreeing to
help evolve the C919.  Stretch Version  Chief designer Wu Guanghui said the day before at the show
that the plane, slated to begin test flights in 2014 and enter
service by 2016, may attract 50 to 100 more orders over the
second half of 2011, revising guidance from March for it to win
that number of contracts for the whole year.  Ryanair CEO  Michael O’Leary  said he’ll push Comac to
develop the 150-seat C919 into a 199-seat version available by
2018, allowing his airline to carry the maximum number of
passengers without an extra flight attendant. The Irish company,
which will have 300 Boeing 737s by 2013, could move to a mixed
fleet if the economies offered by a new entrant can at least
match those of the current fleet and the purchase price is right.  Eamonn Hughes, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin, said Ryanair’s preference would still be to stick with
737s and that O’Leary’s development accord with Comac amounts to
a “warning shot” over pricing.  ‘Killer App’  Still, the C919 is undergoing a “remorseless development
program” that includes 70 percent western technology and is
likely to reach production thanks to a critical mass of orders
in China itself,  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers
also based in the Irish capital, said in a note to investors.  Building orders outside China will be much tougher, so that
“planting 400 C919s in the center of Europe, in a business
model that already has clear cost advantage over all others,
would be one helluva strategic play,” he said. “It would give
the C919 global legitimacy and Ryanair gets a killer app.”  Boeing reckons a potential customer may turn to a Chinese
planemaker “sooner than anybody thinks,” though probably not
until a C919-successor has been built, Albaugh said in Paris.  The Bombardier CSeries, while a major technical challenge,
is a “pretty interesting airplane” and may influence some of
the design space Boeing is looking at, he said. The U.S. company
regards the “heart” of the single-aisle market as the 125-200
seat range and will defend that “very diligently,” he said.  Delta Test  Albaugh, too, said it’s unlikely that the marketplace will
sustain six players. The biggest test for the new entrants may
come later in 2011 when Delta Air Lines Ltd. decides on an order
for as many as 200 narrowbodies over a range of capacities.
Delta fleet strategy chief Nat Pieper said earlier this year
that the company is looking at all of the available options.  Embraer Chief Curado said he’ll target the Delta contract
with the 120-seat Embraer 195, currently the Sao Jose Dos Campos,
Brazil-based company’s biggest model.  “I think we do have a chance,” he said in Paris. “We
have several airplanes flying for them and they’re very suitable
for what they need. It’s going to be a very, very tough one, but
we’re going to fight for it.”  Even then, the design and build of a new plane is only half
the battle, and it can take many years to attain the mature
technologies and global abilities needed to win the confidence
of airlines, according to Filipo Bagnato, CEO of turboprop
producer ATR, which is also mulling a move into jetliners.  “Getting an aircraft flying is like the life of a person,”
Bagnato said in an interview yesterday. “You have to go to
elementary school, high school and university before you reach
maturity, and only then does the real test begin, because a
plane has to really perform to become a serious contender.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Paris at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  