-- 
Taiwan Regulator Rejects KKR-Backed $1.6 Billion Takeover Offer for Yageo

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-06-22T08:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/taiwan-government-rejects-1-6-billion-kkr-backed-buyout-offer-for-yageo.html
Taiwan rejected a NT$46.8 billion
($1.6 billion) KKR & Co.-backed takeover of electronic-parts
maker  Yageo Corp. (2327) , the second major cross-border deal turned
down by regulators in the past year.  “The investor didn’t clear up doubts regulators had about
shareholder and investor protections, whether the offer price is
reasonable, and level of transparency of information
disclosure,” Fan Liang-tung, executive secretary of the
economic ministry’s investment commission said today. The KKR-
backed group can appeal within 30 days. Orion Investment Co., a
venture between New York-based KKR and Yageo founder Pierre Chen, announced a management-led buyout of the company in April.  Taiwan’s rejection is a blow to Chen’s plans to get control
of the company he founded 34 years ago and take it private. The
regulator also rejected a $2.15 billion bid for Nan Shan Life
Insurance Co. led by Hong Kong-based Primus Financial Holdings
Ltd. last year, saying the group had failed to show it had the
financial capability and long-term commitment to operate the
venture.  Fan declined to say if raising the offer price of NT$16.10
per share would help the purchase of Yageo get approved. The
commission also had doubts about how Orion would benefit from
the transaction and about the weakened capital structure of the
surviving entity because it was highly leveraged, Fan said.  Susannah Geary from Kreab Gavin Anderson, the public
relations company representing KKR, and Jacky Chen, a spokesman
for Yageo, declined to comment.  Carlyle’s Deal  The  Carlyle Group ’s NT$47.6 billion buyout of Taiwan-based
cable operator Kbro Co. won Investment Commission approval in
2006, according to Bloomberg data. Carlyle this year received
permission to sell Kbro to a Taiwanese group.  Yageo’s stock dropped 1.4 percent to NT$13.70 at the 1:30
p.m. close of trade today in Taipei before the announcement, the
lowest level since December. The shares have lost 2.8 percent
since the closing price prior to the April 6 announcement of the
bid, compared with a 1 percent drop in the benchmark Taiex.  The bid received support from shareholders who would
represent 60 percent of the fully diluted stock after taking
into account the shares issuable upon conversion of euro
convertible bonds, Yageo said May 23.  Orion’s Bid  Orion’s bid, to be funded by an NT$28 billion loan, follows
KKR’s 2007 investment in Taipei-based Yageo through a
convertible bond purchase. That deal led the Taiwanese company
to appoint Chief Financial Officer Dora Chang and recruit
Masayuki Fujimoto from  Japan ’s Taiyo Yuden Co. as chief
technology officer.  UBS AG and Nomura International Plc had given commitments
to provide the loans, Orion said in the  prospectus  dated May 5.
Chen and his family would own 55 percent of Yageo after the deal
closed, it said in April.  Orion had extended the tender offer to June 24 to allow
more time for regulators to review the deal, it said in the May
23 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  