-- 
Taiwan Dollar Gains for Second Day After Papandreou Wins Vote

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-22T08:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/taiwan-dollar-gains-for-second-day-after-papandreou-wins-vote.html
Taiwan’s dollar strengthened for a
second day after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a
confidence vote that fueled optimism the country may avoid a
default, boosting demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency has advanced 0.4 percent this week as overseas
investors bought $119 million more of the island’s shares than
they sold, according to exchange data. The MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index of shares rose as Papandreou’s victory bolsters his
government’s chances of pushing through austerity measures to
secure further international financial aid.  “Obviously, given the passage of the confidence vote, all
risky assets including Asian currencies are being supported,”
said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in  Hong Kong . “Asia continues to be an outperformer in terms of
growth and so, whenever sentiment returns, regional currencies
will be supported.”  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.2 percent to NT$28.879 against the
greenback as of the 4 p.m. local close, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The currency will appreciate to NT$28.10 by the end
of the year, Credit Agricole predicts.  The unemployment rate in the island increased to 4.41
percent in May from 4.35 percent the previous month, the
government reported toward the end of the day’s currency
trading.  Government bonds fell. The yield on the 1.375 percent bonds
due March 2021 rose three basis points to 1.510 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was little changed at 0.345 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the  Taiwan  Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  