-- 
Yemen Jailbreak by Al-Qaeda Fighters Highlights Risk of Descent Into Chaos

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-06-23T09:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/al-qaeda-fighters-escape-from-yemeni-jail-via-tunnel-after-killing-guard.html
Sixty-three suspected al-Qaeda
militants escaped from a jail in  Yemen , highlighting its growing
insecurity as the U.S. pushed for political transition in a
country that borders the world’s top crude oil exporter.  The prisoners escaped yesterday via a tunnel they dug under
their cells in the coastal city of Mukalla in Hadramout
province, a Yemeni intelligence official said on condition of
anonymity because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. One
snatched a gun, killing a guard and wounding another.  Reports of clashes between Yemeni forces and al-Qaeda have
increased amid protests calling for the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is in neighboring Saudi Arabia recovering
from injuries sustained in a June 3 attack on his compound. He
has said the unrest is emboldening al-Qaeda, which has used
Yemen as a base. Troops are also battling Shiite Muslim Houthis,
who say they face discrimination from the majority Sunni.  “If you look at all the power centers here they are
preparing themselves for post-Saleh period,”  Mustafa Alani ,
director of security and terrorism research at the Gulf Research
Center in Dubai, said by phone today. “The Houthis are sitting
and waiting and they are going to take advantage of the next
government’s weakness. Al-Qaeda has the same strategy. The
jailbreak is part of that strategy.”  Three Killed  Three escapees were killed and two others captured, Yemen’s
Interior Ministry said in a text message. Fifty-seven of those
who fled the jail had been convicted of terrorism and the 12
most dangerous belong to the Tarmin cell, whose leader, Hamza
al-Quaiti, was killed in clashes with police in 2008, the
official said. A similar incident took place in 2006, when 23
al-Qaeda militants escaped from a jail in Sana’a, the capital.  About 400 gunmen seized control of parts of a city in
southern Yemen for several hours on June 15.  While operating in Yemen, al-Qaeda has sought to
destabilize Saudi Arabia, the top producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and plot attacks, including an
attempt to bomb two U.S. synagogues last year.  A weak central government in Yemen risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there
hasn’t been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has
become a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  “The instability in Yemen is the kind that al-Qaeda feeds
on or tries to take advantage, exploit, throughout the world,”
said State Department spokesman Mark Toner.  Envoy in Sana’a  U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs
 Jeffrey Feltman  met with Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi,
who is acting as president while Saleh recovers.  At a press conference in Sana’a today, Feltman said the
U.S. government has no information on Saleh’s condition or
whether he will return to Yemen. He urged political parties to
sign a proposed Gulf Cooperation Council agreement calling for
Saleh to step down within 30 days and turn the leadership over
to Hadi in exchange for immunity from prosecution.  “We continue to believe that an immediate peaceful and
orderly transition is in the best interest of the Yemeni
people,” Feltman said. “We urge all sides to engage in
dialogue that peacefully moves Yemen forward.”  Feltman praised Hadi’s to efforts maintain a cease-fire
with armed opposition factions, according to Yemen’s state-run
news agency. Hadi told Feltman that he appreciates President
 Barack Obama ’s efforts to “defuse tensions” in Yemen, the
agency said.  The U.S. is pressing for Yemen to move ahead with the GCC
plan to start a process of democratic reforms, Toner told
reporters in  Washington .  U.S. Strategy  “The Americans are also building their strategy,” Alani
said. “They think that Yemen is heading toward a chaotic
situation and the next government will not be able to handle the
situation so they are preparing themselves to take on the fight
against al-Qaeda on their own if they need to.”  Any government that succeeds Saleh’s probably will “sink
into the internal fighting as well,” Alani said.  Saleh has refused to sign the GCC accord three times, and
officials have said he will return to office when he is healthy
enough to do so. U.S. officials have said Saleh has burns to his
face and 40 percent of his body.  ‘Seriously Wounded’  “The real question here is whether he is going to live,”
Charles Schmitz, an associate professor of geography and Yemen
expert at Towson University near Baltimore, said by e-mail. “He
is seriously wounded.”  If he recovers and returns, “it would increase tensions in
Yemen significantly,” said Schmitz, who is in Istanbul
organizing a conference on Yemen.  Protesters have been calling for Saleh to step down since
January.  Saudi Arabia  has led the efforts to pressure the Yemeni
leader to quit.  Yemeni forces killed about 20 suspected al-Qaeda militants
in airstrikes and clashes in the province of Abyan on June 20,
said Ahmed al-Rawhi, the deputy provincial governor. The
previous day, the army killed 17 members of the group, according
to the  Defense Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 