-- 
Malema Says South Africa’s ANC Seeks Nationalization Model

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-22T07:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/malema-says-south-africa-s-anc-looking-for-best-model-for-nationalization.html
South Africa ’s ruling party is
debating how and not whether it should nationalize the country’s
mines, said  Julius Malema , leader of the ruling party’s Youth
League.  The league argues that state ownership of mines became
African National Congress policy when it adopted a document
known as the Freedom Charter in 1955. Last year, the party
initiated a study into the issue, saying it would be debated
further at two conferences next year.  “The call of nationalization is what is required by the
Freedom Charter,” Malema said in an interview on Johannesburg-
based SAFM radio today. “Its interpretation is very clear. We
need to nationalize. The research is not about nationalization.
The ANC is looking at the best model of nationalization.”  South Africa has the world’s largest reserves of platinum,
chrome ore and manganese. Citigroup Inc. has valued its total
 mineral resources  at $2.5 trillion. Companies including
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and London-based Rio Tinto
Group and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  have mines in the country.  Laws passed in 2004 that compel mining companies to sell 26
percent of their local assets to black  South Africans  by 2014
have done too little to transform the industry in the 17 years
since the end of all-white rule, the Youth League argues.  “Those who are saying we are divisive are scared of what
we are saying,” Malema said. “That is an attempt to silence a
radical voice.”  Official Policy  The government and the ruling party have repeatedly said
nationalization isn’t official policy.  The Youth League’s positions “remain those of the league
and do not alter ANC policies being implemented at government
level,” the ANC said in an e-mailed statement on June 20.
“Pronouncements by the Youth League on such matters as the
nationalization of mines and land redistribution, among others,
form part of ongoing discussion.”  Venezuela , which took control of its oil reserves and used
the revenue to provide services to its people, was one example
of a country where nationalization had been successfully
implemented, Malema said.  The youth leader said he has no ambition to become South
Africa’s president.  Presidents “do not have time for themselves to concentrate
on things that matter to them,” he said. “They have no
personal lives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 