-- 
Allen Stanford’s Criminal Trial Delayed to January While He’s in Treatment

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-22T01:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/allen-stanford-s-criminal-trial-delayed-to-january-while-he-s-in-treatment.html
Indicted financier R. Allen Stanford’s criminal trial was postponed to January from
September so he can complete rehabilitation treatment for
dependence on anti-anxiety drugs prescribed by prison doctors.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston said doctors
treating Stanford said that it will take him as long as four
more months to kick his dependence on anti-anxiety drugs
prescribed after he was severely beaten by another inmate in
September 2009.  Hittner found Stanford incompetent to assist in his own
defense in January after three psychiatrists testified the
former billionaire’s mental capacities were diminished from
over-medication and lingering head injuries suffered in the
prison fight.  Stanford was moved in February from a Houston jail to the
federal medical center at the Butner,  North Carolina , prison
complex, on the expectation his rehabilitation would take as
long as four months. Last month, Hittner scheduled the Stanford
Group Co. founder for trial in September based on his expected
return to Houston this month.  “However, the court now finds it has no alternative but to
grant FMC’s request for an additional four months to continue
treating Stanford,’’ Hittner said in a ruling handed down today.
“Assuming FMC needs the entire four months to treat Stanford,
the court now sets Stanford’s jury trial to commence January
2012.’’  Hittner said if Stanford recovers more quickly and returns
to Houston sooner than expected, his trial may be moved up
again.  Stanford Denies Wrongdoing  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with
civil and criminal allegations he defrauded investors of more
than $7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit
issued by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford has been incarcerated as a flight risk since his
indictment and arrest in June 2009.  Ali Fazel, a lawyer for Stanford, declined to comment on
today’s order, citing a ruling by Hittner barring lawyers from
publicly discussing the case.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
also declined to comment, citing the judge’s gag order.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 