-- 
American Said to Be In Talks for 100 Airbus Single-Aisle Planes

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-23T09:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/american-said-to-be-in-talks-for-100-airbus-single-aisle-planes.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines is in
talks with Airbus SAS about buying at least 100 narrow-body
planes, a possible break from its longtime reliance on  Boeing
Co. (BA)  jets, two people familiar with the matter said.  The board of the third-largest U.S. carrier may make a
decision as soon as July, said one of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the discussions are private. Jets from
Airbus’s A320 series would replace American’s less-efficient
models such as Boeing 757s and MD-80s, the people said.  An order at American would buoy Airbus as it tries to crack
Boeing’s grip on single-aisle plane sales to the biggest U.S.
airlines. It would also add to pressure on Boeing, which is
deciding whether to match Airbus and put upgraded engines on its
737 or wait to build a new jet by 2020 with more fuel savings.  “We’ll do everything we can to retain  American Airlines  as
a Boeing customer,” Marlin Dailey, the Chicago-based company’s
sales chief, said in an interview yesterday at the Paris Air
Show. “I wouldn’t say they’re drawn more to Airbus. They
obviously are seriously evaluating their options.”  An A320 has a list price of $85 million, giving a potential
American order a value of about $8.5 billion. Airlines typically
buy planes at a discount.  ‘Increase Complexity’  “We assume AMR is attempting to seek out price concessions
from Boeing” or urge 737 efficiency gains, Will Randow, a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in  New York , said in a note to clients.
“The addition of Airbus narrow-body aircraft to the fleet would
likely increase complexity and potentially costs in regards to
maintenance, network planning, and other areas.”  Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus, said the company doesn’t discuss conversations with
potential customers.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR doesn’t comment
“on rumors and speculation,” said Roger Frizzell, a spokesman.  AMR fell 10 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $5.75 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Boeing slid
$1.86, or 2.5 percent, to $72.12 for the worst drop among 30
stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Airbus parent
European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. gained as much as 2
percent to 22.29 euros in Paris today.  Second-Largest Fleet  American’s main jet fleet is the world’s second-largest,
behind  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s, according to industry researcher
Ascend. It consists only of Boeings, and the carrier’s last
Airbus jet flew in 2009. Delta has a mix of Boeing and Airbus
planes, as does  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , whose United
and Continental units are still tallied separately. United
Continental and Delta are the biggest airlines by traffic.  The 216 twin-engine MD-80s at American are among the oldest
jets at major U.S. airlines, with many logging more than 20
years of service, and they burn more fuel than the single-aisle
737s the company now has on order.  Airbus may manage another upset later this year when Delta
decides on an order for as many as 200 narrowbodies over a range
of capacities. Nat Pieper, the Delta fleet strategy chief, said
earlier this year that the company was looking at all of the
available options.  The  Boeing 737  is the world’s most widely flown airliner
and competes with the A320 family in the biggest segment of the
civil airline market. Airbus will start shipping its upgraded
A320neo with revamped engines in 2015, a plane that has become
the company’s fastest seller on the strength of more than 600
commitments since its unveiling in December.  Fuel Savings  Airlines crave fuel economy because  jet fuel  is, with
labor, one of their biggest costs.  No major U.S. airline has yet ordered from the A320neo
family, so a deal with American would bolster Airbus’s efforts
to market the model to other large carriers. Boeing for many
years had exclusivity clauses in contracts with American
Airlines, Continental Airlines and Delta Air, an accord that
came under scrutiny and was eventually scrapped as part of
European approval for Boeing’s $15.5 billion purchase of
McDonnell Douglas Corp in the late 1990s.  A320s with upgraded engines and new, modified wingtips that
Airbus calls sharklets are a good replacement for the Boeing 757
on so-called long, thin routes -- long-haul flights with
passenger travel demand to profitably fill a single-aisle jet,
not a wide-body aircraft, according to C. Jeffrey Knittel,
president of transportation finance at  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   Mission Coverage  “Airlines are looking for those types of planes,” Knittel
said June 21 after the lessor ordered 50 planes from the A320neo
family. “And while this aircraft doesn’t cover 100 percent of
the missions, it covers most of them.”  Boeing understands “the challenge we’ve been given,”
Dailey, the sales chief, said when asked about the status of the
company’s talks with American, adding that it wouldn’t be
appropriate to discuss details about a sales campaign.  “You never know how things play out,” he said. “We’re
moving. Working it hard.”  Captain John Hale, American’s chief pilot, said he couldn’t
confirm or deny whether the carrier had already chosen a
supplier for new narrow-body jets.  “We’re always going to look at every opportunity to create
value for our airline, our shareholders and our customers,”
Hale said in an interview yesterday at the air show, where
American and Boeing announced a trial program for fuel-
efficiency improvements. “We’re very measured and we do our
homework before we do anything.”  Paris Orders  American’s main jet fleet consists of 613 planes, according
to the company, with the MD-80s the most-numerous type and 153
737s. It began taking deliveries of the new 737-800 model in
2009, and is scheduled to get the last of those planes in 2013.
American has 124 757s.  An A300, which is no longer in production, made American’s
last flight with an Airbus plane, in August 2009. At the end of
March, American still had 10 of the twin-engine, wide-body
planes on its books as leased or owned but not in operation.  Airbus and Boeing have an almost equal share of the global
single-aisle market, and Airbus has sought to extend its
position by offering new engines on its A320 by the end of 2015.  The A320neo won more than 300 orders during the first three
days of the  Paris Air Show . Boeing, which says it will take the
rest of the year to decide on re-engining or building an all-new
model, tallied 75 orders for the 737.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Paris via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  