-- 
Americans Worse Than When Obama Inaugurated by 44%-34% Margin

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/americans-worse-now-than-when-obama-inaugurated-by-44-34-margin-in-poll.html
Two years after the official start
of the recovery, the American people remain pessimistic about
their current economic circumstances and longer-term prospects.  Fewer than a quarter of people see signs of improvement in
the economy, and two-thirds say they believe the country is on
the wrong track overall, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted June 17-20.  “ Gas prices  are higher, grocery prices are higher,
transportation prices are higher,” says poll respondent Ronda
Brockway, 54, an insurance company manager and political
independent who lives in a suburb of Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .
“The jobs situation nationwide is very poor.”  By a 44 percent to 34 percent margin, Americans say they
believe they are worse off than when President  Barack Obama  took
office in early 2009, when the U.S. was in the depths of a
recession compounded by the September 2008 financial crisis and
the economy was losing as many as 820,000 jobs a month.  The gloom covers the immediate future, with fewer than 1 in
10 people expecting unemployment to return to pre-recession
levels within the next two years, and it extends to the next
generation. More than half of respondents say their children are
destined to have a lower standard of living than they do,
upending a traditional touchstone of the American Dream.  Higher Than Reagan  The portion of Americans who say they believe the U.S. is
on the wrong track is higher than it was at any point during 
 Ronald Reagan ’s presidency, when unemployment peaked at 10.8 
percent after the 1981-82 recession, according to an ABC 
News/Washington Post poll. The ABC poll showed the wrong-track 
number during Reagan’s first term peaking at 57 percent in 
October 1982. The Bloomberg poll shows 66 percent of Americans
think the U.S. is going in the wrong direction now.  As the public grasps for solutions, the  Republican Party  is
breaking through in the message war on the budget and economy. A
majority of Americans say job growth would best be revived with
prescriptions favored by the party: cuts in government spending
and taxes, the Bloomberg Poll shows. Even 40 percent of
Democrats share that view.  “Unless you limit the actual money coming in to the
government and give businesses a break, I don’t think you’re
going to have a bounce-back in the economy,” says poll
respondent Michael Jefferys, 37, a business analyst for a
building supply manufacturer. The economy “is at a teetering
point: Depending on what changes are made, it could take a
dramatic fall or start to revive,” says Jefferys, a political
independent who lives in Pitman,  New Jersey .  Better Vision  Even so, the public remains ambivalent about the Republican
Party’s economic stewardship. Asked to rate Obama’s vision for
the economy against that of the Republicans, poll respondents
favor the president’s by 40 percent to 37 percent, though that
is a deterioration from a 12-percentage-point advantage Obama
maintained three months ago.  The souring public mood comes as the economy has been
buffeted by a heightened sense of crisis over European sovereign
debt, manufacturing supply disruptions in the aftermath of the
Japanese earthquake, and rising gasoline prices during the early
months of the year.  Following a string of disappointing data in recent weeks, a
number of economists have lowered their growth forecasts for the
current quarter and remainder of the year. The median forecast
for second-quarter growth among economists surveyed by Bloomberg
dropped from 3.3 percent in May to 2.3 percent in June.  Earnings Down  The buying power of Americans’ wages is declining at the
fastest rate since 2008, with real average hourly earnings down
1.6 percent during the 12 months ended in May. Job growth also
has slowed, and the  unemployment rate  in May reached 9.1
percent, the highest level so far this year.  Other data point to progress over the past two years,
including seven consecutive quarters of economic growth and a
more than 50 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock
index during Obama’s presidency. The  National Bureau of Economic
Research  officially dated the end of the recession to June 2009.  Though Americans rate unemployment and the economy as a
greater concern than the deficit and government spending, the
issues are now closely connected. Sixty-five percent of
respondents say they believe the size of the federal deficit is
“a major reason” the jobless rate hasn’t dropped
significantly.  ‘Spend Less’  “In this day and age we all have to spend less, and that
includes the government itself,” says poll respondent Carolyn
Beller, 66, a retired financial-services worker and independent
voter in Hull,  Massachusetts . “We all have to put a stop to
this nonsense of spending.”  Majorities also cite as major reasons for weak job growth
the outsourcing of U.S. companies’ production to foreign
facilities, structural changes in the economy and uncertainty
about government regulations and taxes. Fewer than half cite
failures of Obama’s economic stimulus or cuts in government
spending as contributing reasons. Fifty-eight percent say the
economy needs time to heal in the wake of the financial crisis.  Republican criticism of the federal budget growth has
gained traction with the public. Fifty-five percent of poll
respondents say cuts in spending and taxes would be more likely
to bring down unemployment than would maintaining or increasing
 government spending , as Obama did in his 2009 stimulus package.  Even with their concerns about the deficit, Americans
aren’t ready to pay more in taxes: More than 6 of 10 say they
are unwilling to do so, even as 77 percent say it’s inevitable
taxes will rise as a result of a deal to curb the deficit.  Tax Breaks  The public shows more openness to reducing or eliminating
popular tax breaks, if accompanied by lower rates, an approach
advocated by leaders of the president’s bipartisan deficit
commission. Still, Americans are divided over giving up some of
the breaks and oppose reductions in others.  A 49 percent to 45 percent plurality would accept a
lowering of the mortgage tax deduction. The country is almost
evenly split on cutting tax benefits for education expenses,
with 49 percent favoring that and 48 percent opposed.  The divisions are also close on other deductions: 48
percent of Americans favor reducing tax breaks for charitable
contributions compared with 47 percent who are opposed; 46
percent favor lower deductions for child-care expenses compared
with 50 percent who don’t.  Larger margins oppose rollbacks of tax laws that encourage
employee benefits. By a margin of 51 percent to 40 percent, poll
respondents oppose a reduction in the exclusion of employer-paid
health insurance from taxable income. Lower tax breaks for
401(k) contributions are opposed by 54 percent with 39 percent
in favor.  Support for limiting the tax breaks is strongest among low-
income Americans, who are less likely to benefit from the
deductions because fewer of them itemize their income tax
returns.  The poll of 1,000 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at  mdorning@b  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 