-- 
Anglo Irish Bank Says Its U.S. Assets Sale, Merger Are ‘Sovereign’ Acts

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/anglo-irish-bank-denies-fir-tree-s-court-claims-defends-u-s-asset-sales.html
Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. defended a
sale of its U.S. loan portfolio that was ordered by the Irish
government and its acquisition of Irish Nationwide Building
Society, calling them “non-commercial, sovereign acts.”  Anglo Irish Bank made the statement in a letter yesterday
to U.S. District Judge Paul G. Gardephe in  Manhattan , who had
directed the bank to disclose whether it has sold substantial
commercial assets in the U.S. and whether a sale of its
remaining U.S. assets was imminent. The letter was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Fir Tree Partners, a  New York  investment firm, sued Anglo
Irish Bank in February, claiming it owns $200 million of notes
the bank issued in the U.S. Fir Tree seeks an order blocking
Anglo Irish Bank from transferring any U.S. assets out of the
country so it can force the bank to honor its debt obligations.  Fir Tree sent a letter to the judge on June 20 asking for
an expedited hearing on the issue.  Anglo Irish Bank said the sale of its U.S. assets and its
acquisition of Irish Nationwide Building Society in “the next
week or two weeks” had been reported in the global press and
were consistent with and anticipated in statements it has made
to the court, according to yesterday’s letter.  Paul Smith , a lawyer for Fir Tree, and Walter Stuart, a
lawyer for Anglo Irish Bank, didn’t immediately return calls
for comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Fir Tree Capital Opportunity Master Fund LP v.
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., 11-CV-0955, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 