-- 
Anglo Irish Bank Ordered to Explain Possible Merger, Asset Sale

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-22T03:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/anglo-irish-bank-must-explain-possible-merger-u-s-judge-rules.html
Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. was ordered
by a federal judge in  New York  to explain whether it submitted a
plan to merge with Irish  Nationwide Building Society  and detail
its sales of U.S. assets.  Anglo Irish Bank has until 5 p.m. today to disclose whether
it has sold “substantial commercial assets” in the U.S. and
whether the sale of all its remaining U.S.-based assets is
imminent, according to an order issued yesterday by U.S.
District Judge Paul G. Gardephe in Manhattan.  The order was in response to a letter from Fir Tree
Partners, a New York-based investment firm that sued Anglo Irish
Bank in February, claiming it owns $200 million of notes the
bank issued in the U.S. The Irish government became the sole
shareholder of the bank by 2009 and began to liquidate its
assets at discounts that reduce its ability to pay creditors
including Fir Tree, according to the complaint.  Fir Tree seeks an order blocking Anglo Irish Bank from
transferring any U.S. assets out of the country so it can force
the bank to honor its debt obligations.  Anglo Irish Bank spokesmen Billy Murphy and Anthony
Kavanagh didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said June 15 that
senior bondholders should share in the losses of the
nationalized Anglo Irish Bank and Irish Nationwide Building
Society, reversing a policy of protecting owners of senior
securities. A day later he said there was “no urgency” to the
plan and his comments had been given too much weight because of
the crisis in  Greece .  The case is Fir Tree Capital Opportunity Master Fund LP v.
Anglo Irish Bank Corporation Limited, 11-00955, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  