-- 
Apple Bid to Bar Amazon ‘Appstore’ Will ‘Probably’ Be Denied, Judge Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-22T18:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/apple-bid-to-bar-amazon-s-app-store-will-probably-be-denied.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will “probably” lose
its court bid to stop Amazon.com Inc. from using the term
“Appstore” for a service selling programs for Android devices,
a federal judge said.  Apple, whose top-selling product is the iPhone, claimed it
would be irreparably harmed because the value of its own App
Store will be eroded as consumers confuse the two services.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton said today after a
hearing in Oakland,  California , that she is “probably” going
to deny the motion because Apple hasn’t demonstrated confusion
among consumers. Hamilton said she will review court filings
before issuing a final decision.  Apple’s difficulty demonstrating “real evidence of actual
confusion” among consumers is a “stumbling block for Apple,”
Hamilton said in court. “I’m troubled by the showing that
you’ve made so far, but that’s where you’re likely not to
prevail at this early juncture.”  Like “honeybaked ham,” a product made by a Michigan
company,  App Store  has come to be identified by consumers as an
Apple service selling downloadable programs for the iPhone and
other company devices, Apple said in court filings.  Apple has spent hundreds of millions of dollars advertising
the service since it was launched in 2008 and will suffer
irreparable damage by associations with Amazon’s Appstore
service, which provides fewer safeguards against viruses and
data security issues, the company’s filings said.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.  Trademark Infringement  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Seattle-based
Amazon for trademark infringement in March and asked for a
preliminary court order barring the online retailer’s use of
“Appstore,” pending the outcome of the lawsuit.  Amazon says the words “App Store” are generic and Apple
doesn’t have exclusive rights over them. Even if the term wasn’t
generic, Apple can’t show that consumers would confuse the two
services because Apple’s service only sells downloads for the
iPhone and other Apple devices, Amazon said in court filings.  The largest online retailer is seeking dismissal of Apple’s
lawsuit and a court order allowing it to use the term to sell
programs for Android devices. Android is the Google Inc.
operating system used by handset makers including Samsung
Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Amazon’s Appstore offering downloads of software for
Android devices opened March 22.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  