-- 
Apple Is Said to Be Preparing IPhone With Faster Chip for September Launch

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-22T16:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/apple-said-to-prepare-faster-iphone-for-september.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  plans to introduce a new
iPhone in September that boasts a stronger chip for processing
data and a more advanced camera, according to two people
familiar with the product.  The device will include the A5 processor, the more powerful
chip that Apple added to the iPad 2 earlier this year, along
with an 8-megapixel camera, up from the 5-megapixel model in the
iPhone 4, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the details aren’t public. Apple is also testing a new
version of the iPad that has a higher resolution screen, similar
to the one now used in the iPhone 4, one of the people said.  The iPhone is Apple’s top seller, accounting for half of
revenue last quarter. A faster chip will enable speedier loading
of programs and help the device vie with handsets being
introduced by rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. that are
powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The iPhone’s gains
versus the BlackBerry partly explain why  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
last week forecast its first-ever quarterly sales decline.  The new phone will run the iOS 5 operating system Apple
previewed at a developer’s conference this month. Codenamed
“Telluride,” it will feature already-announced features such
as improved messaging and photo-sharing, one person said. It’s
also designed to run on all of Apple’s mobile devices, this
person said. Until late last year, iPads, iPhones and iPod
touches used slightly different versions of iOS.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  Google’s Gains  Apple pushed back the release of the next iPhone -- its
fifth -- to coincide with the release of the new iOS 5, the
people said.  Apple has not kept pace with Google in the smartphone
market,  projected  by researcher IDC to reach almost 1 billion
units by the end of 2015. This year, Apple is projected to
account for 18.2 percent of the global market, compared with
38.9 percent for devices running Android, according to IDC in
Framingham,  Massachusetts .  The release of a new iPhone may help Apple cut in to
Android’s market share,  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co.
in New York, said in a report this week. He said Android
customers are waiting for the next-generation iPhone, especially
those on the Verizon Wireless network, which added Apple’s
handset this year.  Cheaper iPhone  Apple is also working to finish a cheaper version of the
iPhone aimed at attracting customers in  developing countries ,
the people said. This device would use chips and displays of
similar quality to today’s iPhone 4, the people said. Apple’s
work on a smaller, lower-priced version of the device was
discussed by people familiar with the matter in February.  The screen resolution on Apple’s new iPad would be about
one-third higher than that of the iPad 2 and will boast a more
responsive touchscreen, one of the people said.  The new iPhone will closely resemble the iPhone 4, the
people said.  As Apple upgrades its mobile operating system it may
eventually stop guaranteeing that all iOS apps run on older
models, such as the iPhone 3G and iPhone 3GS, one person said.  Apple, the second-largest company in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index behind Exxon Mobil Corp., fell 93 cents to $324.37 at
12:02 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has
gained less than 1 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  