-- 
Vale Says Largest-Ever Iron-Ore Ships Can Enter Three Chinese Ports

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-06-22T16:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/largest-ever-iron-ore-carriers-can-enter-three-chinese-ports-vale-says.html
The biggest iron-ore carriers ever
built will be able to enter three Chinese ports, according to
 Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest producer of the raw material used
to make steel and owner of the vessels.  The northern Chinese ports of Dalian and Dongjiakou, and
Majishan, near  Shanghai , have the capacity to receive the so-
called Valemaxes that are able to haul 400,000 metric-ton
cargoes, the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
 China  is the world’s largest steel producer and iron-ore user.  “The decision to receive the ship is taken by the port,”
the company said. The vessels’ right to enter will depend on
“berth capacity, the draft, the space to maneuver the ship, and
the security of the mooring operation,” Vale said.  The vessels are part of a $14 billion investment program in
railroads, ports and mines by Rio de Janeiro-based Vale as
global demand for the raw material strengthens. Seaborne trade
in the commodity will expand 4.5 percent to a record 1.04
billion metric tons this year, estimates Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  The first of the new ships, the South Korea-built Vale
Brasil, diverted to  Italy  on its maiden voyage, having
previously been scheduled to deliver to Dalian, the miner said
in a statement yesterday. It has a 391,000-ton cargo. The vessel
is currently off the coast of  South Africa , according to ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale China, a ship of the same size under construction in
China and yet to enter service, “has a final destination of a
Chinese port,” Vale said. That ship was financed by Chinese
financial institutions, the company said.  A plan for an iron-ore distribution center in China to
stockpile the commodity “didn’t advance,” Eduardo Bartolomeo,
Vale’s executive director for integrated bulk operations, said
in an interview at company headquarters on June 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  