-- 
Harrisburg City Council Approves Preparing for Possible Bankruptcy Filing

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-06-22T15:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/harrisburg-city-council-takes-steps-to-prepare-for-possible-bankruptcy.html
Harrisburg, the capital of
 Pennsylvania , may prepare a bankruptcy petition even as
consultants working for the state try to avoid it.  The City Council voted 4-3 yesterday to approve Councilman
Brad Koplinski’s recommendation that the city draw up papers.
Harrisburg must protect its interests as it faces lawsuits and
state legislation that would remove power from elected officials
should they fail to implement a fiscal recovery plan, he argued.
His measure doesn’t authorize an actual filing.  The council’s meeting also included testimony from the
consultants who drafted the recovery plan under Pennsylvania’s
distressed-cities program, called Act 47. The proposal calls for
the sale of municipal assets, dismissals and changing workers’
contracts.  “This is a responsible action by this body to be prepared
for an uncertain future,” Koplinski said about the resolution
to prepare for bankruptcy.  The city of 49,500 faces a debt burden five times its
general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of a
trash-to-energy incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough
revenue to cover the obligations.  On The Hook  Harrisburg needs $310 million to make bond payments,
restructure debt and repay Dauphin County and insurer Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp., which made payments the city skipped,
according to the Act 47 consultants led by Julia Novak,
president of Cincinnati’s Novak Consulting Group.  At 11 a.m., Assured Guaranty stock slipped 26 cents to
$15.63 in trade today on the New York Stock Exchange. The 1.6
percent drop was the steepest decline since June 10.  Mayor  Linda Thompson  doesn’t think bankruptcy is the best
course, Robert Philbin, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement before the council meeting. The mayor thinks there are
better options in the consultants’ Act 47 plan, he wrote.  The resolution can’t compel any action by the mayor,
Philbin said in an e-mail today.  Councilwoman Patty Kim, who opposed the resolution, said
she thinks preparing for bankruptcy sends the wrong message to
Assured Guaranty.  “This is unnecessary,” she said before the vote. “We’re
getting soundbites scaring everybody.”  Grinding Forward  Kevin Harley, a spokesman for Republican Governor Tom Corbett, today referred a request for comment to the Community
and Economic Development Department, which administers the
distressed-cities program.  “The Act 47 process is going to move forward,” Steven
Kratz, a department spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Under legislation proposed by Republican Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola of Susquehanna Township in Dauphin County, a city that
fails to approve its Act 47 blueprint would be taken over by a
three-member board appointed by the governor and home county.
The board would enforce the plan’s actions, such as selling
assets, and the city would be barred from entering bankruptcy.  “Virtually every municipal official elected in the city of
Harrisburg has taken an irresponsible position concerning the
city’s fiscal mess,” Piccola said in a statement June 15.  The lawmaker “intends to vigorously pursue passage of his
legislation,” Colleen Greer, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
today.  Suing and Fasting  Harrisburg is also facing the reinstatement of a lawsuit by
Dauphin County, which is demanding the city repay $35 million on
the incinerator debt that the county covered in December. The
case “could put significant additional strain on Harrisburg’s
financial operations and drive the city one step closer to
insolvency and Chapter 9 bankruptcy,” Josellyn Yousef, a
Moody’s Investors Service analyst, said in a note to investors
and reporters June 20.  A Harrisburg general-obligation bond maturing in 2014
traded today at an average yield of 10.68 percent, up from 10.3
percent on June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thompson will be subsisting on liquids alone starting today
as she participates in a three-day fast to help solve the fiscal
crisis, Philbin said in an e-mail yesterday.  At least 12 leaders of Christian, Jewish and Muslim
congregations around Harrisburg say the rite will focus on a
“cooperative spirit among government leaders, the business
community and citizens,” according to a statement from Philbin
on June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story: Romy Varghese in
Harrisburg at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  