-- 
Artists Revolt as City Opera Chief Steel Proposes to Cast Mutes

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-06-22T07:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/artists-revolt-as-new-york-city-opera-chief-steel-proposes-to-cast-mutes.html
Unions representing  New York City
Opera  singers and musicians said yesterday that they have lost
confidence in artistic director and general manager George Steel.  They called his plan for next season, which includes an
opera featuring two mutes, “a formula for continued failure.”  At the Manhattan office of City Opera’s law firm,  Proskauer
Rose LLP , Steel offered the union members from  Local 802 of the
American Federation of Musicians  and the  American Guild of
Musical Artists  a page-and-a-half, 230-word “working schedule”
of four operas.  “Opera 2” is a “21st-century American Opera (running
time 2:50)” with two lead roles, two featured and two mute
roles. It would be the only production with a full orchestra and
one of two with no chorus.  Defending the plan before 53 singers, production personnel
and musicians, Steel said the unnamed works, to be presented in
undisclosed venues, had been chosen to please donors, not the
public. He said that calls for traditional operas were
“misguided,” according to a statement from the two unions.  Steel, who took over the 68-year-old company in February
2009, recently announced that the troupe could no longer afford
to stay in its home at  Lincoln Center ’s  David H. Koch Theater .  The opera chief left the room after the about two-hour
meeting. The union members then took a “no confidence” vote,
said Tino Gagliardi, president of Local 802.  “I think it’s more symbolic than anything else,”
Gagliardi said of the vote. “We’re trying to send a signal.”  ‘Pretty Pathetic’  Until yesterday, the union hadn’t publicly criticized
Steel. “It’s pretty pathetic what Steel is trying to do to a
main-stage opera company,” Gagliardi said.  One singer, not identified in the statement from the
unions, said that “Steel should be calling this the Pot Luck
Opera.”  Steel, who earned $407,560 in pay and benefits in 2009, was
unavailable to comment, Maggie McKeon, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  City Opera Chairman Charles Wall said in a statement that
the board “has full and complete confidence in George’s
innovative and passionate ability to lead City Opera through
this difficult, but exciting time in the company’s history.”  Most of the company’s 2010-2011 productions played to less
than 40 percent capacity, according to a financial report
prepared for its board of directors and obtained by Bloomberg
News. In April, the company projected a negative cash balance of
$2.1 million this month. Its endowment was valued at $4.8
million in March, down from the high of $64.5 million in 2001.  In 2009-2010, the orchestra accepted a cut in guaranteed
weeks. Players’ annual pay fell that season by a quarter, to
$36,850 from $48,575, and they were given fewer rehearsal hours.  “We gave him two years to stabilize the company’s
finances,” said Gail Kruvand, assistant principal bass and the
orchestra’s representative on the board. “Are we in better
shape than two years ago? I don’t think so.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 