-- 
Asian Stocks Rise a Second Day as Greece Vote Boosts Optimism

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-22T11:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/asian-stocks-rise-a-second-day-as-greece-vote-boosts-optimism-sony-jumps.html
Asian stocks rose, driving the
region’s key index up for a second day, as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  won a parliamentary confidence vote, moving
the country a step closer to avoiding a default on its debt.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, and Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co., both of which
get at least 20 percent of sales from Europe, advanced.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, gained 1.1
percent in Sydney as metal prices rose.  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) , a
uranium producer, surged 5.2 percent on takeover speculation. Li
& Fung Ltd. jumped 5.6 percent in  Hong Kong  on optimism sales
will accelerate.  “The progress over the past few days on Greece has been
welcome,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion. “We’re still a
long way from a resolution of this issue, and I suspect further
volatility and uncertainty lies ahead. Investors therefore
remain cautious and conservative.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.8 percent to 131.78 as
of 8:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , extending a 1.4 percent advance yesterday
after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , leader of euro-area
finance ministers, indicated a solution to the crisis will be
found. Today, most than twice as many stocks rose as fell on the
gauge, even as police in Greece used tear gas to disperse crowds
protesting against Papandreou’s budget cuts.  Debt Concern Ebbs  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 1.8 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.5 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
was little changed.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3
percent today. The index rose 1.3 percent yesterday in  New York 
as concern about Greece’s debt crisis eased. Shares advanced
even after a report showed sales of existing U.S. homes fell in
May to the lowest level in six months.  “The Greek vote of confidence and Juncker’s comments to
investors has helped a lot,” said  James Holt , Sydney-based
director of BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Ltd.,
which oversees about $40 billion in assets. “The softer U.S.
data is mostly being interpreted as a mid-cycle slowdown at this
stage.”  Sony, Samsung  Sony advanced 3.7 percent to 2,012 yen in Tokyo, while
Samsung climbed 1.5 percent to 826,000 won in  Seoul .  Cosco
Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at Greece’s
Piraeus port, advanced 1.5 percent to HK$13.80. Hanjin Shipping
Co., an international shipping line, climbed 8.6 percent to
22,800 won in Seoul.  In Athens, 155 lawmakers in the 300-seat parliament
supported the confidence motion, with 143 voting against,
Speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on
state-run Vouli TV. Attention now turns to whether Papandreou
can push through parliamentary approval next week of a 78
billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts to stave off
the threat of default.  European finance ministers said this week they would hold
off on approving a 12 billion-euro payment to the country
promised for July until passage of plans to cut the deficit,
sell state assets and impose a “crisis levy” on wages.  “Greece is one step closer to getting additional loans,
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in Tokyo, said after Papandreou survived the confidence vote.
“That helps ease concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis.”  ‘Very Oversold’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3 percent by the  S&P
500  and a drop of 2.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  “The news out of Greece is good for a bounce in markets,
particularly as they are very oversold,” said  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages about $98 billion in Sydney. “There is still a lot of
water to go under the bridge before Greece gets a new bailout
package, and uncertainty still remains about the strength of the
global economic recovery. It could remain a volatile ride for a
while yet.”  Takeover Speculation  BHP Billiton  gained 1.1 percent to A$42.46 in Sydney after
the London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum rose 0.9 percent yesterday. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company by sales,
advanced 1.5 percent to A$79.79.  Paladin Energy surged 5.2 percent to A$2.41 in Sydney today.
The company’s declining share price makes it vulnerable to a
potential takeover, Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a note to
clients.  Paladin’s shares have tumbled almost 50 percent since March
11, when Japan’s worst earthquake triggered a nuclear crisis
that raised concerns about the prospects for global uranium
demand.  “There are few procuring uranium assets globally of
Paladin’s size and we believe such assets could be attractive to
Chinese, Russian, Indian and South Korean producers and
utilities seeking long-term uranium supply,” the Citigroup
analysts said.  Li & Fung  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier of clothes and toys to
retailers, gained 5.6 percent to HK$15.58 in Hong Kong. Dow Famulak, an executive from the division that handles sourcing
for Wal-Mart Stores Inc., told an analyst conference that it has
an “addressable business” of as much as $100 billion.  Li & Fung signed a supply agreement with Wal-Mart last year
in a deal that may contribute $2 billion in revenue this year,
Chief Executive Officer Bruce Rockowitz has said.  “We’re just getting started,” Famulak said on a briefing
broadcast on the company’s website today. Separately, the
company said it acquired five companies to expand its trading
and distribution businesses.  Also in Hong Kong, Hang Lung Properties Ltd., with more
than 40 percent of its assets in commercial properties in the
mainland, increased 2.8 percent to HK$30.75 after Standard
Chartered Plc boosted its rating on the stock to “outperform”
from “inline.”  “We believe Hang Lung’s strategy in  China  remains
relatively immune from government property-cooling measures due
to its commercial subsector focus,” Hong Kong-based analyst
John Chan wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 