-- 
Asian Currencies Advance, led by Won, as Greek Vote Boosts Risk Appetite

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-22T08:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/asian-currencies-advance-led-by-won-as-greek-vote-boosts-risk-appetite.html
Asian currencies gained for a second
day, led by  South Korea ’s won, as signs economic growth is on
track and optimism Greece will avoid a default boosted demand
for the region’s assets.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks advanced
after Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won a parliamentary
confidence vote, bolstering his chances of pushing through
austerity measures to secure further financial aid. Overseas
investors bought $225 million more Taiwanese, Indonesian and
Thai equities than they sold yesterday, exchange data showed.  “Given the passage of the confidence vote, all risky
assets including Asian currencies are being supported,” said
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “Asia continues to be an outperformer in terms of
growth and so, whenever sentiment returns, regional currencies
will be supported.”  The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,073.90 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.3 percent to 3.0243, the
Taiwan dollar gained 0.2 percent to NT$28.879 and the Philippine
peso advanced 0.2 percent to 43.365. Thailand’s baht rose 0.1
percent to 30.49.  Greece needs to pass the austerity package to ensure it
receives a 12 billion-euro ($17.3 billion) payment in July, part
of last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Malaysian Inflation  Taiwan’s unemployment rate increased to 4.41 percent in May,
from 4.35 percent in April, the statistics bureau said in Taipei
today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a jobless rate of 4.30 percent.  The ringgit reached a one-week high before a government
report June 24 that economists forecast will show inflation
quickened, stoking speculation of an increase in borrowing costs.  Consumer prices gained 3.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, the most since March 2009, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank
next meets on July 7 to review its policy rate.  “Expectation of a higher inflation rate also supports the
Malaysian currency’s strength,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of
financial markets at Alliance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  The baht advanced for a second day after data this week
showed overseas shipments increased more than economists
forecast in May, adding to signs economic growth is on track.  Positive Sentiment  Thai exports, which account for about two-thirds of the
economy, increased 17.6 percent in May from a year earlier, more
than the 15.6 percent gain that economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast, a government report showed on June 20.  “Concern over  Greece  has eased a bit today, which supports
sentiment for stocks and regional currencies,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“With today’s sentiment, better-than-expected economic data is
supportive for the baht.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to
8,590 per dollar.  Singapore ’s dollar added 0.3 percent to
S$1.2311,  China ’s yuan advanced 0.04 percent to 6.4630 and
India’s rupee was little changed at 44.825.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  