-- 
Math to Reach $62 Trillion in Debt Requires Leaps of Logic: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/math-to-reach-62-trillion-in-debt-requires-leaps-of-logic-view.html
On June 6,  USA Today  led the paper
with bad news. “The federal government’s financial condition
deteriorated rapidly last year, far beyond the $1.5 trillion in
new debt taken on to finance the  budget deficit ,” the newspaper
wrote.  How so? Well, if you figure in the unfunded or underfunded
commitments to Social Security participants, Medicare patients,
pensions and health care for government retirees, plus
retirement and disability payments for the military, the
government’s debt increased by $5.3 trillion in 2010. The future
debt was $62 trillion as of Jan. 1, 2011, the newspaper
calculated. That’s more than four times the official debt
ceiling of $14.3 trillion that Democrats and Republicans are
quarreling about. And because the government must come to us --
the citizenry -- for money, that works out to over half a
million dollars owed by every household in the country.  USA Today isn’t alone in advancing this line of thinking.
In 2009, the  Peter G. Peterson Foundation  did its own
calculation and miraculously reached the same conclusion: The
federal government’s total projected liabilities as well as the
conventional deficit, was $62 trillion ($62.3 trillion to be
exact).  Others -- including some in Congress -- have sung the same
scary tune. There’s an obvious flaw in this reasoning. In fact,
there are several. As deficit hawks ourselves, we were reluctant
to point this out, figuring that some aspiring left-wing big
spender or right-wing tax cutter would take care of it. But
after two weeks, that hasn’t happened. So rather than let a
simple accounting error lead people to think they suddenly owe
$534,000 as their part of the nation’s debt, we thought it worth
explaining why it ain’t so.  Obligations and Assets  In a nutshell, this brand of analysis counts future
entitlement and pension payments as obligations of the
government, and ultimately of private households, but not as
assets for the people who benefit from these payments. If a
government retiree is entitled to a pension of, say, $35,000 a
year, that is both a cost to the government and a benefit to
that retiree. But only the cost is taken into account.  That’s not the only flaw. For the most part, these sorts of
approaches assume that a dollar is a dollar, no matter when it
comes in or goes out. But a dollar tomorrow is worth a lot more
than a dollar 50 years from now. This is not only because of
inflation, but also because of the time value of money. A dollar
today can be invested, and at 5 percent interest will be worth
$11.46 in 50 years. By contrast, the present value today of a
dollar 50 years from now (again at 5 percent) is only 8 cents.
Much of the $62 trillion that the government supposedly owes is
in dollars decades from now.  False Precision  Then there is false precision. The calculations of  USA
Today  and others require peering decades into the future. Who is
to say what medical breakthroughs may extend the average
person’s life, or what new plagues may shorten it. Even small
changes can have a large impact on the total cost of entitlement
programs. The longer out you look, the foggier it gets.  Nevertheless, the $62 trillion figure has made the rounds
in the two weeks since it was published.  Trillions have now joined billions as amounts that are part
of everyday conversation, but impossible to make meaningful.
News that you thought your country owed $14.3 trillion but it
actually owe $62 trillion has less impact than pulling a $20 out
of your wallet and discovering that it’s only a $10. The notion
that you yourself personally owe half a million dollars is
simply unreal -- it can’t be processed.  Given this limitation, throwing around billions and
trillions may not be the best way to get people to focus on the
deficit. We think there’s good reason for alarm, but no reason
for exaggerated numbers.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 