-- 
Australia Westpac Leading Index Growth Slows on Impact of Floods

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-22T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/australia-westpac-leading-index-growth-slows-on-impact-of-floods.html
An Australian index of leading
economic indicators rose at a slower pace in April as the impact
of natural disasters this year hampered growth.  The index, a gauge of future economic growth, rose 0.2
percent from a month earlier, when it climbed a revised 0.6
percent, Westpac Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute said
in Sydney today.  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  has held the cash-rate
target at 4.75 percent for the past six meetings, the longest
pause since 2007, to help Queensland state recover from
torrential rains and a cyclone. A government report this month
showed Australian employers cut the most full-time workers in
two years in April and May, even as investment in the minerals
and energy industry is forecast to drive the nation’s economy.  “The scale of the impact of weather disasters on the
economy’s ongoing growth momentum is becoming more apparent,”
said Matthew Hassan, senior economist at Westpac in Sydney.
“The good news so far is that even with the negative hit, the
growth rate in the leading index does not appear to be so low as
to be of major concern.”  The Australian government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion ($80 billion) next fiscal year as companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company,
expand output to meet demand from China and  India . The buildup
has spurred hiring and prompted the RBA to predict the
 unemployment rate  will fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  Australia  recorded its biggest annual job growth on record
last year before hiring cooled in the first quarter. The
nation’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the
most since 1991, as floods slashed coal exports.  Westpac’s leading index tracks eight gauges of activity,
including company profits and productivity, to give an
indication of how the economy will perform over the next three
to nine months. It climbed to 280.6 in April from 280 in March.  The coincident index, a measure of the current state of the
economy, rose 0.1 percent to 265.2 in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  