-- 
Tax Writers Caution That Raising Revenue Now Could Hurt Tax Overhaul Later

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/tax-writers-caution-that-raising-revenue-now-could-hurt-tax-overhaul-later.html
The chief Republican tax writers in
Congress are warning that Democratic attempts to raise revenue
as part of a deficit reduction package could threaten a
comprehensive  tax code  overhaul.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat who is
participating in bipartisan deficit reduction talks, reiterated
his party’s goal yesterday of raising revenue by eliminating
some deductions in the tax code. Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah ,
the top Republican on the Finance Committee, said such efforts
would be a “mistake” that could blunt the momentum behind a
broader rewrite of the U.S. tax code.  “You don’t want them to start playing around with tax
expenditures and other things now,” Hatch said in an interview
yesterday. “You want to be able to bring that all together to
do everything that it’s going to take to do a real tax reform.”  Hatch’s comments came less than a week after the Senate
voted 73-27 to end tax credits and a tariff benefiting the
ethanol industry. Many lawmakers, including some Republicans,
interpreted that vote as a shift that could lead to elimination
of other tax breaks, including those favored by the energy and
oil and gas sectors.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, also criticized any
piecemeal changes to  tax policy . In comments at a meeting of
chief financial officers in Washington sponsored by the Wall
Street Journal, Camp attempted to focus the debate on a
comprehensive overhaul of the corporate and individual tax
codes.  ‘Pluck Out’ Provisions  Democrats “want to sort of pluck out various provisions of
the code and simply end them,” he said.  Other Republicans appear open to addressing tax
expenditures as part of the debt-limit talks. Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican and a Finance Committee member, said
lawmakers are “going to have to deal with it sometime or
another.”  “I don’t know whether there’s enough time between now and
the debt limit to do the comprehensive  tax reform  we need,” he
said. “But as the ethanol vote indicated, there are subsidies -
- all these tax expenditures -- that we need to look at.”  Camp said in March that he would like to revise the tax
code to lower the top corporate rate from 35 percent to 25
percent. He hasn’t said which tax benefits he would eliminate to
pay for lowering rates by that much. A tax overhaul has been
delayed as Democrats and Republicans have worked to broker a
deal to raise the debt ceiling. Camp said yesterday it would be
difficult to advance a tax overhaul in the near term though
possible before the 2012 election.  Tax Code Rewrite  Van Hollen  rejected suggestions that a tax overhaul would
be more difficult to achieve if some of the deductions and
credits that Democrats most oppose, including oil and gas tax
breaks, are eliminated.  “The reality is that you can do a significant amount of
revenue now and still do tax reform,” he told reporters. “You
can get rid of pork barrel spending in the tax code and use that
for deficit reduction. Most people who are serious about the
deficit are willing to get rid of tax loopholes.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who is participating
in the debt-limit negotiations, said the talks don’t involve a
“detailed redesign of the corporate tax system.” He said the
Obama administration plans to focus on restructuring the tax
code once it secures a debt-limit increase.  “We had to sort of wait to deploy” a tax overhaul
proposal “until we were through the budget negotiations we are
going through right now,” Geithner said at the event in
 Washington . “Those require all the oxygen this town has at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  