-- 
Taylor Bean, AstraZeneca, Blackstone, Rambus in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-22T10:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/taylor-bean-astrazeneca-blackstone-rambus-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay
$153.6 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled
pension funds and a Lutheran group while selling a product
linked to risky mortgages as the housing market unraveled.  The company, the only major Wall Street bank to remain
profitable throughout the financial crisis, didn’t tell
investors that hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC helped pick
assets linked to a synthetic collateralized debt obligation in
2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission wrote in a fraud
case filed yesterday at  Manhattan  federal court. Magnetar,
betting housing prices would fall, stood to profit if assets
defaulted.  “JPMorgan marketed highly complex CDO investments to
investors with promises that the mortgage assets underlying the
CDO would be selected by an independent manager looking out for
investor interests,” the SEC’s enforcement chief,  Robert
Khuzami , said in a statement. “With today’s settlement, harmed
investors receive a full return of the losses they suffered.”  Magnetar didn’t control the asset-selection process and its
bets were part of a “market neutral” portfolio, Steve Lipin, a
spokesman for the hedge fund, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Magnetar is not a party to the settlement nor a defendant
in this case, and was not involved in the marketing of the
securities,” Lipin said. “The SEC staff issued a closing
letter to Magnetar stating that it does ‘not intend to recommend
any enforcement action’ against Magnetar, any of its funds or
any current or former Magnetar personnel.”  JPMorgan said yesterday in a statement that the bank booked
$900 million in losses on the CDO and, after an internal review,
voluntarily made $56 million in payments to investors of a
separate CDO called Tahoma I.  “The SEC has not charged the firm with intentional or
reckless misconduct,” JPMorgan said in the statement.  Asked why JPMorgan executives weren’t sued, Khuzami said,
“We look hard and long at the conduct of individuals and make
our decisions based on the evidence.”  For more, click here.  Ex- Taylor Bean  CEO Gets 40-Month Sentence for Fraud Scheme  Paul Allen, the former chief executive officer of Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 3 1/2 years in
prison in federal court in Virginia for his role in a $3 billion
fraud scheme.  Allen, 55, yesterday became the sixth person sent to prison
by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema for participating in a
fraud that duped some of the largest U.S. financial
institutions. The scheme also targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup Inc.  Prosecutors asked Brinkema to sentence Allen to six years
in prison. Allen pleaded guilty in April to one count of
conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud and one count of making
false statements.  Sean Ragland, 37, a former senior financial analyst at
Taylor Bean who also pleaded guilty to the fraud, was sentenced
yesterday to three months in prison,  Peter Carr , a spokesman for
U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride , said.  The cases are U.S. v. Allen, 11-cr-00165, and U.S. v.
Ragland, 11-cr-00162, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  London  Police Arrest 19-Year-Old in Sony, CIA Hacking Probe  London police arrested a 19-year-old man suspected of being
involved in a hacking attack on  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency.  The arrest was a “pre-planned intelligence-led operation”
as part of an investigation into hacking of international
business and intelligence agencies, the Metropolitan Police said
in a statement yesterday. Police called it “a significant
arrest.”  The police searched a residence in Essex,  England , last
night after the man’s arrest, which “led to the examination of
a significant amount of material.” The man, who wasn’t
identified, is being questioned at a police station.  Police are looking into whether the suspect is associated
with Lulz Security, known as LulzSec, or Anonymous groups.
LulzSec has claimed credit for breaking into websites at Sony
and the U.S. Senate, while Anonymous said in April it would wage
a cyber war against Tokyo-based Sony for trying to prevent
people from tinkering with PlayStation 3 game consoles. Daichi Yamafuji, a spokesman for Sony, declined to comment.  “Seems the glorious leader of LulzSec got arrested, it’s
all over now... wait... we’re all still here!” the group wrote
on its Twitter feed following the arrest.  For more, click here.  Gome Says It’s Suing Ex-Chairman Chen for Breach of Agreement  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd.,  China ’s second-
largest electronics retailer, said it filed a lawsuit in Beijing
against former chairman  Chen Xiao  for breaching an agreement to
protect the company’s reputation.  Chen broke the agreement by giving “false and misleading
company information to a finance newspaper reporter” that
damaged Gome’s reputation and operations, the company said June
20 in an e-mailed statement. Chen said he wasn’t aware of a
lawsuit filed against him and declined to comment further when
reached by phone June 20.  Chen had resigned in March after losing a boardroom battle
with Gome’s billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu , who fought from
prison to reassert his influence over the company after being
jailed on bribery and insider trading charges. Gome on May 11
fell the most in almost two months in Hong Kong trading after
the 21st Century Business Herald carried remarks by Chen.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron in Talks With U.S. on Fraud Case  Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge fund manager Chip Skowron,
charged as part of a nationwide insider trading crackdown, is in
talks with federal prosecutors that may involve plea
negotiations, according to court filings.  Skowron was charged in April by the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in Manhattan with conspiracy, securities fraud and
obstruction. He was also sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Prosecutors claimed he obtained nonpublic information from
Dr. Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and a former
adviser for Human Genome Sciences Inc. The tips concerned
hepatitis C drug trials and enabled Greenwich, Connecticut-based
FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in losses, the
government said. Benhamou has since pleaded guilty.  “Counsel for the defendant and I have had ongoing
discussions regarding a possible disposition of this case,”
Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones wrote in court
papers filed June 13 in Skowron’s case. “We plan to continue
our discussions.”  “This request can mean a whole range of things,” said
Stephen Miller, a former federal prosecutor in  New York  and
Philadelphia who’s not involved in the case. “It can mean
they’re talking about the actual plea discussions, how much jail
time is the government going to seek all the way to a prosecutor
badgering a defense lawyer about ‘When are you going to get your
client in to plead guilty?’” said Miller, now a partner at
Cozen O’Conner.  The defendant may also be seeking a delay “to buy more
time to do more of an investigation or raise motions with the
court,” Miller added.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Primedia Suits Over KKR Share-Buyback Deals Revived by Court  Primedia Inc. (PRM) , the publisher of free auto and real-estate
guides, must face investors’ claims that share buybacks unfairly
benefited buyout firm KKR & Co., the company’s controlling
shareholder, a court ruled.  The  Delaware Supreme Court  reinstated June 20 Primedia
shareholders’ lawsuits seeking to recoup monies for the company
tied to the KKR buybacks. The state’s highest court found a
 Delaware Chancery Court  judge erroneously threw out the cases
last year after concluding investors had to prove KKR’s actions
harmed the company.  “Actual harm to the corporation is not required” for
investors to state breach-of-fiduciary duty claims like those
leveled against KKR, Chief Justice Myron Steele said in a 25-
page ruling.  The decision comes a month after Primedia agreed to sell
itself to an affiliate of TPG Capital, the buyout firm co-
founded by David Bonderman, in a deal valued at about $525
million. Primedia investors are slated to receive $7.10 in cash
for each share.  KKR officials don’t comment on pending litigation,  Kristi
Huller , the firm’s spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
Jeff Grossman, a Primedia spokesman, didn’t return a call for
comment yesterday.  Joseph Rosenthal, a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer
representing Primedia investors in the case, didn’t return calls
for comment on the ruling.  The Supreme Court case is Kahn and Spiegal v. Kolberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. LP and Primedia Inc., No. 436, 2010,
Delaware Supreme Court (Dover). The chancery court case is In re
Primedia Inc. Derivative Litigation, 1808-N, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Banks Will Be Sued If Foreclosure Talks Collapse, States Say  Two state attorneys general who are among those leading
negotiations with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers over
their foreclosure practices said the banks would be sued if a
settlement isn’t reached.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan and North Carolina
Attorney General Roy Cooper threatened litigation if settlement
talks with the companies, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., break down.  “If we don’t get an agreement, we’re prepared to go to
court,” Cooper told homeowner advocates at a meeting of state
attorneys general in  Chicago  yesterday.  Cooper and Madigan are members of the executive committee
of attorneys general which, along with officials from federal
agencies, is negotiating with the banks. State and federal
officials are seeking to set standards for the way the banks
service loans and conduct foreclosures. They also want monetary
relief for homeowners.  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading
negotiations for the states, told the group of homeowner
advocates that officials are making progress in the
negotiations. He declined to provide any details.  “We don’t want a settlement around the margins, around the
edges,” Miller said. “The settlement has to be fundamental,
has to make some changes that are worth it, that are
constructive.”  AstraZeneca Breached Albemarle Supply Pact With Bachem Deal  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , Britain’s second-biggest drugmaker,
breached a supply contract with U.S. chemical maker  Albemarle
Corp. (ALB)  by agreeing to buy a critical drug component from  Bachem
Holding AG (BANB) , a U.K. judge ruled.  AstraZeneca violated a 2005 deal by switching in October
2007 to Bachem’s Sochinaz unit for supply of propofol, the
active ingredient in its Diprivan anesthetic, Justice Julian
Flaux ruled yesterday at the High Court in London. Albemarle
terminated the deal in 2008 over the breach.  “Albemarle is entitled in principle to recover damages for
that breach,” Flaux said in the ruling. “Assessment of those
damages will have to be the subject of a subsequent trial.”  AstraZeneca, which bought the ingredient from Albemarle as
early as 1994, didn’t give the Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based
company a chance to match the offer from Switzerland’s Sochinaz,
according to the ruling. The drugmaker breached the deal again
by not offering the supply business to Albemarle when it matched
Sochinaz’s bid, he said.  Albemarle also had a “limited” breach of the contract by
failing to fulfill a 2007 supply order, according to the ruling.
Some of AstraZeneca’s counterclaims were split into another
case, while others must be heard in the U.S., according to the
ruling.  “The court has found both parties to be in breach of
contract, but AstraZeneca’s claim for damages is limited,”
Abigail Baron, a company spokeswoman, said in a statement.
“AstraZeneca is currently considering its options for further
review, one of which is to appeal.”  For more, click here.  Hong Kong Regulator Fails to Win Freeze of Tiger Asia Assets  A Hong Kong court refused to order the freezing of HK$38.5
million ($4.9 million) of assets held by Tiger Asia Management
LLC, the hedge-fund firm led by Bill Hwang, to restore alleged
insider trading profits to investors.  Judge Jonathan Harris said yesterday the court lacks the
authority to declare that the firm had engaged in insider
dealing, agreeing with Tiger Asia that the offense should be
decided in the Market Misconduct Tribunal or a criminal court.
He granted a request from the  Hong Kong Securities and Futures
Commission , which had sought the freeze, for a hearing to
discuss how to proceed with its allegations.  Harris last week delayed his ruling in a case where the SFC
is asking for final orders to restore HK$832 million raised by
Hontex International Holdings Co. in its 2009 initial public
offering to current shareholders. There were similar issues
regarding the jurisdiction of the regulator, he said.  The SFC intends to appeal the ruling, according to a
 statement  yesterday. Starting civil proceedings in the Market
Misconduct Tribunal would give the Tiger Asia parties immunity
from criminal prosecution, the regulator said.  For more, click here.  Centro Wins Dismissal of Suit to Block Sale to Blackstone  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  won the dismissal of a shareholder
lawsuit which sought to block a $9.4 billion sale of its U.S.
malls to a unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , allowing the transaction
to be completed by June 30.  Smartec Capital Pty, which owns less than 0.5 percent of
Centro’s outstanding shares, sued in Sydney federal court
claiming the Melbourne-based company needed shareholder approval
for the transaction to proceed. Federal Court Judge Margaret
Stone threw out the lawsuit yesterday without a hearing.  The plaintiff’s lack of “prospects for success are such
that the proceedings should be summarily dismissed,” Stone said
in court.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls in March. Centro is selling assets to pay debt that
totaled A$16 billion ($17 billion) as of Dec. 31, according to
its  financial statements . The shopping-mall manager said on
March 1 it also agreed to swap part of its debt for 108
Australian properties and will be left with about A$100 million
to distribute to shareholders when the deals are concluded.  Smartec claimed Centro violated Australian rules for listed
companies by not seeking shareholder approval for the U.S. sale.
The investor sought to overturn a ruling by the Australian
Securities Exchange, which found that approval wasn’t needed
because Centro’s U.S. assets didn’t make up its main business.  The case is: Smartec Capital Pty Ltd. v. Centro Properties
Ltd. NSD913/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  BTA Bank Seeks Two Jail Sentences in $4 Billion Fraud Suit  BTA Bank, the biggest Kazakh lender before its
nationalization in 2009, is seeking U.K. prison terms for two
men in connection with a $4 billion fraud allegedly spearheaded
by former Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov .  Syrym Shalabayev, Ablyazov’s brother-in-law who’s the
subject of an arrest warrant for failing to reveal his assets,
deserves an extra week to comply before being sentenced, Justice
Michael Briggs ruled June 20 at the High Court in London. BTA
had sought an immediate sentence for him at the hearing.  Shalabayev, accused of secretly administering Ablyazov’s
assets, must take “a more serious approach” to the claims,
Briggs said at the hearing. He “is likely to face a very
serious custodial sentence” if he fails to do so.  BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt before
restructuring last year, filed a series of U.K. cases against
Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko over
claims they siphoned money using fake loans. The lender says
litigation against the men will benefit  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and other creditors that
financed its rapid growth before the global credit crisis.  Shalabayev, whose whereabouts are unknown, is considering
cooperating in the case, which has already resulted in an order
to freeze 200 million pounds of his assets, his lawyer said at
the June 20 hearing. Almaty-based BTA seeks a court order
forcing the lawyer to reveal Shalabayev’s contact details.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rambus Chip Failure Due to Flaws, Not Plot, Hynix Tells Jury  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  chips failed in the marketplace because
computer makers found them technically inferior and too
expensive, not because of a conspiracy among rival companies,
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  said at a trial of Rambus’s antitrust
lawsuit.  Rambus-designed chips hit the memory market with “a
whimper and not a bang” and survived only as a “niche
product,” Hynix lawyer Kenneth L. Nissly told jurors yesterday
in  California  state court in San Francisco.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , based on
arguments they conspired to thwart its dynamic random access
memory, or DRAM.  The $4.3 billion in damages sought by Rambus against the
two companies would be automatically tripled under California
law, according to Rambus.  Nissly made an argument that chipmakers have used with some
success in patent cases against Rambus: that the company “had
at its core,” before any of the chips at issue in the case were
produced, a plan to sue Hynix and Micron and destroy documents
critical to revealing that plan.  “We’re talking about setting out to destroy documents so
they don’t get used in litigation,” Nissly said.  Rambus claims Hynix, based in Ichon, South Korea, and
Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, inflated the price of RDRAM chips
and collusively underpriced their own SDRAM and DDR chips to
undercut competition.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Wal-Mart Women Vow to Press Bias Fight in Courts, Agency  The women who sought to sue  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  for gender
bias on behalf of 1.5 million co-workers said they will press
their fight against the nation’s largest private employer in
smaller lawsuits in lower courts and claims with the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.  The U.S. Supreme Court said June 20 that the women failed
to prove the world’s largest retailer had a nationwide policy
that led to gender discrimination. The court deprived them of
the leverage a nationwide suit brings, both in pooled legal
resources and a potential multibillion-dollar verdict, forcing
them to pursue claims on their own.  “When I go back to work tomorrow, I’m going to let them
know we are still fighting,” said Christine Kwapnoski, an
assistant manager at a Sam’s Club in Concord, California. She
had accused a male manager of yelling at female employees and
telling her to “doll up” by wearing more makeup and dressing
better while working on a loading dock.  Wal-Mart may now face thousands of lawsuits nationwide and
claims of discrimination before federal agencies as plaintiffs’
lawyers fan out to courts across the country to file new
complaints on behalf of members of the failed group suit.  Kwapnoski and others pressing their suit claimed they were
victimized by Wal-Mart’s practice of letting local managers make
subjective decisions about pay and promotions. More than 100
employees filed sworn statements saying they were paid less and
given fewer opportunities for promotion than male colleagues.  Wal-Mart said yesterday that the high court ruling
“effectively ends this class-action lawsuit.”  “As the majority made clear, the plaintiffs’ claims were
worlds away from showing a companywide pay and promotion
policy,” Wal-Mart, led by Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke,
said in a statement.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-00277, U.S.
Supreme Court ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  On the Docket  Allen Stanford’s Criminal Fraud Trial Delayed Until January  Indicted financier R. Allen Stanford’s criminal trial was
postponed to January from September so he can complete
rehabilitation treatment for dependence on anti-anxiety drugs
prescribed by prison doctors.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston said doctors
treating Stanford said that it will take him as long as four
more months to kick his dependence on anti-anxiety drugs
prescribed after he was severely beaten by another inmate in
September 2009.  Hittner found Stanford incompetent to assist in his own
defense in January after three psychiatrists testified the
former billionaire’s mental capacities were diminished from
over-medication and lingering head injuries suffered in the
prison fight.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  