-- 
Bakrieland Says Dubai World Unit May Exit From Jakarta Real Estate Project

-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 
2011-06-22T06:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bakrieland-says-dubai-world-unit-may-exit-from-jakarta-real-estate-project.html
PT Bakrieland Development,
 Indonesia ’s second-biggest property developer by assets, said
its partner Dubai World may pull out of a real estate project in
Jakarta and expects a decision within three months.  Limitless LLC, a property developer owned by Dubai World,
agreed in September 2008 to invest in the project, valued at
$1.7 billion at the time, and has delayed its investment
following the global credit crisis, Bakrieland’s Chief Executive
Officer Hiramsyah Sambudhy Thaib said. Limitless said it’s
assessing its options for the venture.  “We’re trying to accelerate the progress again” after a
delay in the development, Thaib said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday. “We are now discussing the possibility of
them pulling out of the deal. We are really hoping that we can
move this project faster, after decisions are made.”  New investors may help revive the  Rasuna Epicentrum 
apartment, office and retail project located in one of Jakarta’s
busiest business districts, which was initially expected to be
completed this year, Thaib said. Bakrieland, which is
forecasting a 2012 completion, may divide Limitless’s stake into
smaller portions to attract more investors should the company
decide to pull out, Thaib said.  “We continue to assess options for this project that are
in the best interests of our stakeholders,” Limitless said in
an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  In Dubai, the  Middle East ’s worst-performing property
market in the last three years, Limitless and other developers
are restarting stalled projects that are nearest to completion
in the most attractive locations.  Restarting Work  Limitless plans to restart work on four office and
residential buildings in the Galleries development in Dubai next
year, adding more than 600 apartments and 1 million square feet
(93,000 square meters) of  office space , Bahaa Abouhatab, head of
projects for Limitless, said earlier this month  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikhdoms that make
up the  United Arab Emirates , sought neighboring Abu Dhabi’s help
after the global crisis pushed property prices down by more than
half and frozen credit markets forced some state-owned companies
to delay loan payments. State-owned Dubai World signed a final
agreement to restructure $25 billion of debt in March.  Limitless invested in Rasuna Epicentrum three years ago as
its first development in Indonesia in a bid to expand overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in  Singapore  at 
 yho29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  