-- 
Bank of Canada's June Financial System Review Highlights (Text)

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-22T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bank-of-canada-s-june-financial-system-review-highlights-text-.html
Following is the overview section of
the Bank of  Canada ’s Financial System Review. The statement was
released today in Ottawa.  This section of the Financial System Review (FSR) summarizes
the judgment of the Bank of Canada’s Governing Council on the
main risks bearing on the stability of the Canadian financial
system and on the policy actions required to mitigate them.  The process of financial sector repair is continuing, and  the economic recovery is proceeding at a steady pace in most  advanced economies. As expected, however, it is taking
considerable time and effort to resolve the underlying economic
and financial imbalances. The international macrofinancial
environment is still clouded by several potential threats to
financial stability. Sovereign balance sheets remain strained in
many advanced economies, and a small number of banks,
particularly in  Europe , are still undercapitalized and burdened
with underperforming assets.  The path to a more resilient global financial system is
further complicated by the two-speed recovery in global economic
activity: while growth in advanced economies remains relatively
modest, there are increasing signs of overheating in major
emerging-market economies. Rapid growth in these latter economies
is contributing to high commodity prices and broader global
inflationary pressures. This two-speed recovery reflects, in
part, the lack of exchange rate flexibility in many developing
countries--a situation that is also delaying the resolution of
global external imbalances.  Despite this challenging international environment, the  Canadian financial system remains healthy. For example, asset  quality at Canada’s major banks has improved further in recent  months. Moreover, the aggregate financial position of the  domestic non-financial corporate sector is solid, with corporate  leverage remaining at low levels. The main source of concern  domestically continues to be the high levels of debt carried by  Canadian households in relation to their disposable income.  The Governing Council judges that, although the Canadian  financial system is currently on a sound footing, risks to its  stability remain elevated and have edged higher since December.  The principal sources of risk are considered to be the same as  those noted in the last FSR and emanate primarily from the  external macrofinancial environment. The key risks are:  Global sovereign debt: In the near term, the principal risk  for Canadian financial stability is associated with the acute  fiscal strains in peripheral Europe. Whether or not a credit  event occurs, these strains could trigger a sharp repricing of  credit risk for other governments with high debt burdens, as well  as a generalized retrenchment from risk-taking in global markets.  If this happened, it would cause losses at financial institutions
and increase the funding costs of banks around the world,
including those in Canada. Over the longer term, unsustainable
sovereign debt dynamics in several major economies outside the
euro-area periphery--particularly in the  United States  and Japan-
-will also represent an important vulnerability in the absence of
credible fiscal consolidation. The risk associated with global
sovereign debt thus remains high and has edged even higher since
December.  Global imbalances: There continues to be a risk that the  large current account imbalances will be resolved in a disorderly  manner, involving sharp adjustments to exchange rates and other  financial asset prices. An orderly resolution of these imbalances  requires a timely and sustained rotation of global demand. In  other words, increased household savings and fiscal consolidation  are needed in deficit countries, while greater domestic spending  and more exchange rate flexibility are required in surplus  economies. Implementing the structural changes needed to resolve  global imbalances will be a lengthy process, and the risk of a  disorderly adjustment remains high.  Protracted recovery in advanced economies: Internationally,  banks have made substantial progress in repairing their balance  sheets. However, some institutions continue to struggle as their  efforts are impeded by the protracted economic recovery, high
unemployment and the continued weakness of real estate markets.
The risk that the macroeconomic environment could delay further
progress in solidifying the global banking sector is still
elevated and is broadly unchanged since December.  Low interest rate environment in major advanced economies:
While stimulative monetary policy is needed to support the global
economic recovery and to achieve price stability objectives, a
long period of low  interest rates  may fuel excessive risk-taking.
The search for yield could cause risk to be underpriced or lead
investors to take on exposures that they may not be able to
manage if macrofinancial conditions become less benign. In  addition, the low cost of rolling over and extending weak loans  could provide incentives for banks to delay writing down  underperforming assets. The risk to the stability of the Canadian  financial system arising from the low global interest rate  environment remains moderate. It has, however, increased since  December, given the growing popularity of riskier securities and  strategies in both Canadian and global markets.  Canadian household finances: High levels of household  indebtedness raise the risk that the impact of an adverse  macroeconomic shock on the financial system could be exacerbated  by a deterioration in the ability of households to service their  debts. Further moderation in the pace of debt accumulation by  households is needed to contain the buildup in this  vulnerability. On balance, the risk to financial stability  arising from household finances remains elevated and broadly  unchanged since December.  The key risks to financial stability are interconnected and
mutually reinforcing. For example, fiscal strains and weaknesses
in the euro-area banking sector are strongly intertwined. The
cost of supporting the banking sector has eroded public finances  in those countries, and the prospect of additional expenditures  to support weak banks is adding to the tensions that some  governments are experiencing in sovereign debt markets,  particularly in Ireland and  Spain . Meanwhile, the negative impact  of fiscal consolidation on economic growth is weakening the  credit quality of bank assets in those countries. In addition,  the low interest rate environment in advanced economies has  boosted household borrowing in a number of countries that have  weathered the crisis well, including Canada. It has also prompted  increased capital flows to emerging-market economies. Excess  demand in emerging-market economies and unsustainable sovereign  debt in advanced economies are, in turn, important manifestations  of global imbalances.  While the forceful global policy response since the onset of
the crisis has begun to bear fruit, addressing the risks to the
stability of the international financial system requires
additional policy actions across a wide front. If the significant
fragilities that still burden the financial system are not
addressed in a timely manner, the progress achieved to date could
be derailed.  The most pressing issue internationally is to take
additional steps to consolidate public finances and to shore up
the balance sheets of banks that are undercapitalized and
burdened with underperforming assets. Banks that are not viable
need to be resolved. In Canada, the elevated levels of  household
debt  require continued vigilance. The Government of Canada
further adjusted the rules for government-backed insured
mortgages in January. While these measures will help moderate the  pace of debt accumulation by households, it will take some time  for their full effect to be felt. Canadian authorities will
continue to co-operate closely in monitoring the financial
situation of the household sector.  Meanwhile, it is essential to keep up the momentum of
structural reform to improve the resilience of the global
financial sector over the medium term. A key element is the
implementation of the new international standards for bank
capital and liquidity. The Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions (OSFI) is encouraging Canadian banks to
pursue full implementation of the Basel III capital standards  early in the transition period, which starts in 2013. But  enhanced prudential standards are not sufficient to preserve  financial stability in the future. Credible frameworks for
resolution are essential to ensure that all banks, even those
that are large and complex, can be resolved in a timely and
orderly manner. In addition, global financial markets need to
operate on a sounder foundation, with stronger infrastructure,
such as central counterparty services. The Bank is working
actively with the industry and other policy-makers to develop
central counterparty services for Canadian over-the-counter and
fixed-income markets. Safeguarding financial stability also
requires firm implementation of the G-20 commitments to co-
operate in promoting an orderly, timely and sustained resolution
of global imbalances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  