-- 
Banks Will Be Sued If Foreclosure Practices Talks Collapse, Two States Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-22T20:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/banks-will-be-sued-if-foreclosure-talks-collapse-two-states-say.html
Banks negotiating with state
attorneys general over foreclosure practices would be sued if a
settlement isn’t reached, two of the state officials leading the
talks said.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan and North Carolina
Attorney General Roy Cooper threatened litigation if settlement
talks with largest mortgage servicers, including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , break down. The deadline for an
agreement has been pushed back a month, according to a person
with knowledge of the talks.  “If we don’t get an agreement, we’re prepared to go to
court,” Cooper told homeowner advocates at a meeting of state
attorneys general in Chicago yesterday.  Cooper and Madigan are members of the executive committee
of attorneys general which, along with officials from federal
agencies, is negotiating with the banks. State and federal
officials are seeking to set standards for the way the banks
service loans and conduct foreclosures. They also want monetary
relief for homeowners.  The attorneys general from all 50 states began
investigating banks’ procedures last year.  State and federal officials in March proposed settlement
terms that called for “a substantial portion” of monetary
relief from the banks to fund loan modifications, including
principal reductions.  Making Progress  Iowa  Attorney General Tom Miller, the Democrat leading
negotiations for the states, told the group of homeowner
advocates yesterday that officials are making progress in the
talks. He declined to provide any details.  “We don’t want a settlement around the margins, around the
edges,” Miller said. “The settlement has to be fundamental,
has to make some changes that are worth it, that are
constructive.”  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt said in an interview
yesterday that his office is investigating dual tracking in
Oklahoma, in which servicers foreclose on homes while
negotiating with borrowers about lower payments. The office has
found about 75 instances of what it believes is wrongful
conduct, mostly related to dual tracking, he said.  “The dual-track foreclosure problem is something we see as
being most problematic in  Oklahoma , and we are continuing to
investigate,” he said in Chicago.  Not Enough  The offer from banks to pay $5 billion to reach a
settlement isn’t enough, Madigan said yesterday at a press
conference.  “We’re going to try to get as much as we can because there
are billions and billions of dollars of harm they have done to
our entire economy, to our communities and to individual
families,” she said.  In an interview afterward, when asked if a deal with the
companies is likely to be reached, Madigan said she is “not
positive.”  “If that’s what we have to do, that’s what we’ll do,” she
said of the possibility of suing the banks. “We have the
resources to do that.”  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and Christine Holevas, a spokeswoman for New
York-based JPMorgan, declined comment. State and federal
officials are also negotiating with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Community Leader  Robert Bushey, a community leader with Illinois People’s
Action, said after the meeting with some attorneys general
yesterday that he supported lawsuits against the banks if
necessary. Any settlement should require principal reductions,
he said.  “I’d rather they go to litigation than sign a weak
agreement,” he said. “If they have to go to court to battle it
out, so be it.”  The attorneys general and federal agencies involved in the
negotiations have extended by 30 days a self-imposed mid-June
deadline to reach an agreement, according to the person with
knowledge of the talks.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa’s Miller, said the
 attorneys general  don’t have a deadline for reaching a deal.  “We’re going to take the time we feel we need to reach a
settlement,” he said.  Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said June 20 that a
settlement may allow states to individually choose how to use
any money, including whether to apply funds toward principal
reductions for borrowers.  Opposing Writedowns  Including those choices may broaden support for any accord
among the attorneys general who oppose requiring banks to fund
principal writedowns, Olens said in an interview. He estimated
that as many as 20 of his colleagues oppose forcing writedowns.  At least eight attorneys general, including Olens, Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  and  Florida ’s Pam Bondi, have
publicly opposed principal writedowns as part of any deal.
Olens, Abbott and Bondi are Republicans.  Greenwood, Miller’s spokesman, declined to comment on
whether officials had discussed a structure that would give
states the option of using money to fund principal writedowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  Chicago  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  