-- 
Bank of America’s Nakhate Says Mother-in-Law Helped Her Career

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T21:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bank-of-america-s-nakhate-says-mother-in-law-helped-her-career.html
Kaku Nakhate, chief executive
officer of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Indian unit, speaks of her
experiences as a woman chief executive in the country.  Nakhate joined DSP Financial Consultants Ltd. in 1989.
Merrill Lynch & Co. bought a 40 percent stake in the firm in
1995 and took control a decade later. She is among 14 women in
leadership roles in Indian finance, half of whom come from  ICICI
Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest lender.  On the reason finance in India has so many women leaders:  “A marketing job often entails relocating every three
years or so which is difficult with a family. In finance there
is relatively less periodic relocation which is a major reason
why a career in finance attracts a lot of women.  ‘‘Women are generally good at managing finances at home and
it fits in well with the multi-tasking role of a woman.’’  On her mother-in-law and perks for Indian women:  ‘‘I was lucky, my mother-in-law stays with me. Between my
mother, mother-in-law and my help at home, who is a blessing as
I too was raised by her, I don’t have to worry.  ‘‘I have made work trips when my son was unwell however it
is difficult at an emotional level. My husband has been a
tremendous support in all this and has also been a strong guide
to our son.’’  On her experiences in finance in  India :  ‘‘When I entered the markets, way back in 1989-93, there
were not many women in financial advisory.  ‘‘At that time some senior investment heads would not
accept advice coming from an unknown young woman which was not
so much about the gender difference, as much as about the age
gap and a lack of track record and trust which had to be built
over time. As a young woman it was not easy to be taken
seriously.  ‘‘In India in the early days, majority of the women
employees who joined quit after marriage. The reason for this
was primarily because they had to relocate when their husbands
got transferred or were required to adjust to the new family set
up.  ‘‘In many cases a lack of family support and inadequate
day-care facilities were cited as a major reason for women
opting out of work.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  