-- 
Bair Says Banks Are Lobbying Washington to Escape ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ Status

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-22T20:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/banks-lobbying-to-escape-sifi-label-bair-to-tell-congress-today.html
U.S. banks are lobbying to escape
the “too-big-to-fail” designation that will require them to
meet higher capital standards and develop plans for possible
failure, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
told lawmakers.  Proposals to increase capital standards to 10 percent are
on target, Bair said at a hearing today.  “It sounds moderate,” Bair told a House Oversight and
Government Reform subcommittee. “I think it is important we
have international agreement.”  The FDIC has supported international efforts to impose
tougher capital requirements on systemically important financial
institutions, or SIFIs. Global regulators are also proposing
that SIFIs hold additional capital buffers.  “The FDIC has detected absolutely no interest on the part
of any financial institution in being named a SIFI. Indeed, many
institutions are vigorously lobbying against such a
designation,” Bair told a House Oversight and Government Reform
subcommittee today. “Being designated a SIFI will in no way
confer a competitive advantage by anointing an institution as
too-big-to-fail.”  Wall Street banks are lobbying to limit how much capital
they would be required to hold as regulators weigh whether such
buffers are the best way to avert another financial crisis. In
the past few weeks,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Operating Officer John Havens and executives from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  discussed capital charges with lawmakers,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  Higher Capital  Global regulators at the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  agreed last year to raise the minimum common equity
requirement for banks to 4.5 percent from 2 percent, with an
added buffer of 2.5 percent, for a total of 7 percent of assets
weighted for risk.  Firms designated as SIFIs could face an additional 3
percent surcharge on top of the 7 percent requirement under
global capital standards being debated by bank regulators. The
negotiations are aimed at reaching a final proposal to be
presented to the Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers from the world’s largest economies.  The resolution process “is a transparent process that
operates under fixed rules that prohibit bailouts or favoritism
in administering the priority of claims,” Bair said in the
prepared remarks. “Despite these advantages, there remains
skepticism that the SIFIs can be resolved at all, given their
size, interconnectedness, and international scope of
operations.”  Convertible Debt  In addition to higher  capital requirements , some global
regulators are calling for at least part of the additional
capital to take the form of debt that is convertible to equity.  “The consensus of U.S. regulators is that the higher
capital standards should be met solely with common equity,”
Bair told the panel’s subcommittee on financial services and
bailouts. “Conversion to equity in a stressed situation could
trigger a run on the institution, downstream losses to holders
of the debt, and potentially feed a crisis.”  Bair also said she was worried about the impact of the
European debt crisis on the U.S.  “One of their problems with restructuring of debt is that
European banks have a lot of this on their balance sheets,”
Bair told reporters after the hearing. “And their capital
levels will be challenged because of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  