-- 
Baosteel Said in Talks to Buy $1 Billion Stake in Malaysia’s Amsteel Mills

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T09:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/baosteel-in-talks-to-buy-stake-in-amsteel-mills.html
Baosteel Group Corp.,  China ’s
second-biggest steelmaker, is in talks to buy a stake in a steel
unit of  Malaysia ’s Lion Group for about $1 billion, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The size of the holding in Amsteel Mills Bhd. to be sold
has yet to be determined, one of the people said, declining to
be identified because the negotiations are private.  Chinese  steel mills , the world’s biggest producers, need to
target foreign markets to boost sales because of domestic
oversupply. Malaysia’s economy may expand 5 percent to 6 percent
this year after growing 7.2 percent in 2010, its central bank
estimates.  “South-east Asian countries have a good projection of
steel demand as economies grow and not much steel capacity,”
said Xu Xiangchun, chief analyst with researcher Mysteel.com.  Annual steel production capacity in Asean, the  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations , may rise to 64 million metric tons
by 2015 from 25 million tons in 2009, Xu said.  Meng Haibiao, a media relations official at Baosteel,
declined to comment. Lion Group Chairman William Cheng wasn’t
immediately available when phoned at his office in  Kuala Lumpur 
today.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the publicly traded unit of
Baosteel, fell 0.5 percent to close at 5.86 yuan today in
Shanghai trading. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.1
percent.  Shares Surge  Shares of companies controlled by Lion Group rose in Kuala
Lumpur trading today. Lion Industries Corp., which owns Amsteel
Mills, jumped 15 percent to 1.87 ringgit at the close, its
biggest gain since November 2008. Lion Corp., the single-biggest
shareholder of Lion Industries, surged 20 percent to 30 sen.  Amsteel operates two steel plants in Selangor, using
electric arc furnaces and other facilities to make the alloy
used in construction, automotive parts and machinery, according
to Lion Group’s website.  Baosteel, supplier of half the sheets used by carmakers in
China, will consider building plants in developing regions
outside the country, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said in March. The
Chinese government is encouraging a shift of surplus steel
production capacity overseas, Wuhan Iron & Steel Group General
Manager  Deng Qilin  said the same month.  Steel demand in China, the world’s biggest consumer of the
alloy, may rise by as much as a quarter by 2015 compared with
last year, according to a May projection from the China Iron &
Steel Association, which represents producers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  