-- 
Bearish REIT Option Bets Increase to 17-Month High as U.S. Economy Slows

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-22T16:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bearish-reit-option-bets-rise-to-17-month-high-on-economy-jobs-weakness.html
Option traders are pushing bearish
bets against U.S. real estate investment trusts such as  Simon
Property Group Inc. (SPG)  to the highest level since January 2010 as
the world’s largest economy slows and unemployment rises.  The ratio of puts to sell the iShares Dow Jones U.S. Real
Estate Index exchange-traded fund has more than doubled in the
past three months to 2.53 as investors bought more contracts to
protect against declines or speculate on a retreat. The ETF
tracking 82 companies rose 0.9 percent to $60.60 yesterday and
has advanced 8.3 percent this year, more than twice the gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “There’s been a lot of protective flow in there for the
last few weeks,” said Stephen Solaka, who oversees about $50
million including options as co-founder of Belmont Capital Group
in  Los Angeles . “There could still be some pressure in the
REITs if the economy has a double dip.”  REITs have surged in the past two years as the credit
markets opened for publicly traded property owners ahead of
gains in occupancies, rents and real estate prices. Investors
may be betting that gains in the shares aren’t justified by the
slow recovery in the market.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, slowing from 3.1 percent growth in the fourth
quarter and 2.6 percent in the third, according to the Commerce
Department. Unemployment rose to 9.1 percent in May, increasing
for a second month after a two-year low of 8.8 percent in March.  Commercial Property Prices  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index dropped
3.7 percent in April from March and is 49 percent below the peak
of October 2007, Moody’s said in a statement today.  Simon, the biggest U.S. mall owner, accounts for 8.2
percent of the Real Estate Index that the ETF tracks and is the
largest member by weight. The next-largest are  Equity
Residential (EQR)  and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the third- and fourth-
biggest U.S. REITs by market value, respectively. The index also
includes some real estate companies that aren’t classified as
REITs, such as Florida landowner St. Joe Co. and commercial-
property broker  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   The ETF’s put volume surged to 84,435 contracts yesterday,
the most since October 2009 and triple the four-week average.
July $58 puts were the most-active contracts. A block of 24,719
of those contracts purchased June 9 almost tripled the open
interest for that option to 53,518, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Trade Alert LLC.  “Put activity has dominated the tape,” equity derivatives
strategists at Bank of Montreal said in a report. One investor
yesterday sold 14,500 July 58 puts to buy July $54 puts, while
others concentrated purchases in the July $58 and $59 puts, they
said.  The strategists recommended buying the ETF’s July $60 puts
while selling July $55 puts, a strategy known as a spread that
cuts the cost of the trade while capping potential profit. They
cited the rising put-call ratio and other “warning signs giving
us cause for concern,” according to the report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 