-- 
Berlusconi Says He’ll Complete Legislative Term, Majority Remains Solid

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-22T10:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/berlusconi-vows-to-complete-term-to-end-2013-after-winning-confidence-vote.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
said his government remains solid and that attempts by the
opposition to topple it are undemocratic and risk making Italy
the next victim of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi said he would complete his term, which runs to
the end of 2013, in a speech to parliament in  Rome  today to
defend a partial restructuring of his administration. The speech
came a day after he won a confidence vote on an economic plan
with 317 votes in the 630-seat Chamber of Deputies, the most
he’s mustered since a former ally defected with dozens of
supporters last July.  “This means that the majority exists, that it is strong
and cohesive, and it is the only one capable of governing the
country at this moment,” Berlusconi told lawmakers.  Concerns about the stability of Berlusconi’s government
contributed to Moody’s Investors Service putting  Italy ’s credit
ratings under review last week for a possible downgrade. In a
similar move last month,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Italy’s
outlook to negative from stable, citing slowing growth and
“diminished” prospects for debt reduction.  Italy’s borrowing costs have been rising as growing concern
about a possible Greek default prompts investors to shun the
bonds of the region’s other high-debt nations. The risk premium
investors demand to hold 10-year Italian debt over comparable
German debt widened 6 basis points to 192 basis points today,
nearing last week’s six-month high of 193 basis points. That
compares with 1,395 basis points for  Greece .  ‘International Speculators’  Police clashed with demonstrators outside the parliament
during Berlusconi’s speech.  Berlusconi said that his government, by containing the
country’s budget deficit, has managed to prevent “international
speculators” from attacking Italian bonds. The deficit is
forecast to fall to 4 percent of gross domestic product this
year, one of the lowest in the euro area. Debt will peak at 120
percent of GDP this year.  “If the government falls, our borrowing costs would go
right up and we would have to cut resources for health care, for
schools and for culture, to pay higher  interest rates .”
Berlusconi said.  The premier made the comments in the second of two speeches
in parliament to defend a partial reshuffle of his government to
include new deputy ministers. President Giorgio Napolitano
called on Berlusconi to appear in the chamber to demonstrate he
has enough support and explain the changes to his team, which
were made to shore up backing from his allies after the
defections earlier this year.  Voting Setbacks  Berlusconi’s grip on power was further weakened after his
candidates lost mayoral races in key cities, including Milan, in
regional elections in May. He suffered another setback last week
when almost 60 percent of eligible Italians voted to overturn a
series of his policy initiatives, the first referendum to
achieve the necessary 50 percent participation threshold since
1995.  The premier said that his alliance with the Northern League
party remains intact and that his government will go ahead with
planned legislative efforts, including an overhaul of the tax
and justice systems and a plan to turn more power over to the
regions demanding by the League.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 