-- 
Bernanke Says a Default by Greece Would Have a Small Impact on U.S. Banks

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-22T21:47:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bernanke-says-greek-default-would-have-very-small-impact-on-u-s-banks.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a default by  Greece  would have little impact on
U.S. banks, which aren’t “significantly exposed” to European
nations struggling to meet debt payments.  “We have asked the banks to essentially do stress tests
and ask, looking at all their positions, all their hedges, what
would the effect on their capital be if -- if Greece
defaulted,” Bernanke said to reporters today at a press
conference after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .
“The answer is that the effects are very small.”  Bernanke and Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo have led sweeping
changes in the central bank’s approach to supervision,
establishing the Large Institution Supervision Coordinating
Committee. The multi-disciplinary group focuses on the biggest
banks and draws on dozens of Fed economists, examiners, and
computer modelers to identify risks in the financial system.  Bernanke said the Fed has also kept “a close eye” on
money-market mutual funds, which hold dollar liabilities issued
by European banks to fund their holdings of dollar assets.  “With very few exceptions, the money-market mutual funds
don’t have much direct exposure to the three peripheral
countries which are currently dealing with debt problems,”
Bernanke said.  Core Countries  “They do have very substantial exposure to European banks
in the so-called core countries,  Germany ,  France ,” he said.  Bernanke will travel to  Basel , Switzerland to discuss  bank
regulations  with supervisors around the world this weekend.  Regulators are considering how much extra capital the
largest global banks should hold as a surcharge for the risks
they pose to the overall financial system.  It’s “also appropriate to have additional  capital
requirements  for the largest and most systemically important
institutions,” Bernanke said at the press conference. “Because
their failure would have very deleterious effects on the
financial system, we need to take extra steps to make sure that
they will be very unlikely to fail.”  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is considering
extra capital requirements of as much as 3.5 percentage points
that the largest banks may face if they grow bigger, according
to two people familiar with the talks, Bloomberg News reported
June 17.  Banks wouldn’t initially face the highest surcharge, which
is intended as a deterrent to expansion, one person said. The
largest banks may face a 3 percentage point levy at their
current sizes, the person said. Banks would be subject to a
sliding scale depending on their size.  “In choosing the amount of capital, we will certainly be
trying to weigh off and balance, on the one hand, the need for
extra safety of systemically important firms against the impacts
on” lending, Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  