-- 
Big Banks May Get Funding Boost From Basel Bid to Curb Them

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-06-23T10:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/biggest-banks-may-get-funding-help-in-basel-regulators-bid-to-shrink-them.html
The biggest banks may face the
stiffest additional  capital requirements  under plans being
considered by global regulators, a premium that may give them a
financing advantage over their smaller competitors.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  meets in the
Swiss city today to discuss how much extra capital the world’s
largest and most systemically important banks will be forced to
hold to avert another financial crisis. About 25 banks may have
to hold more than the 7 percent core Tier 1 capital required by
the Basel rules, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  While the plans may force lenders such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to hold more capital, they may
conversely make it cheaper for them to borrow as the lenders
will have an implicit state guarantee as being too big to fail,
analysts and lawyers said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint  said in March he “absolutely” wanted  Europe ’s biggest
lender to be classified as systemically important as it would
make the bank more attractive to investors and clients.  “Everybody is worried they will be left behind by not
being on the list,” said  Simon Gleeson , a financial-regulation
lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in London. “It’s politically
unpalatable to admit it, but there is an effective guarantee on
certain firms, which only will be strengthened by the creation”
of so-called systemically important financial institutions.  Wholesale Funding  Being classified as systemically important may cut the
price at which a bank borrows in the wholesale money markets as
well as the yield it will need to offer investors when selling
bonds, analysts said.  The Basel Committee is planning a sliding scale that would
be divided into several so-called buckets, into which different
lenders would be placed, a person with knowledge of the
negotiations said on June 16. Banks wouldn’t initially face the
highest surcharge, which is intended as a deterrent to
expansion, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the negotiations aren’t complete.  HSBC, Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank,  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc may be subject to a surcharge of 2.5 percent,
London-based analysts led by Huw van Steenis said in the report
on June 19. UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA would be subject to a lower charge
of 2 percent, the analysts said.  ‘Implicit Backing’  “There is a clear argument that banks would actually
prefer to be on the list than not because they enjoy the
implicit backing of government, which is reflected in a far
lower cost of funding,” said  Richard Reid , director of research
with the International Centre for Financial Regulation and the
former head of Citigroup’s economics department in London. “In
the short term, profitability is affected, but inclusion will
help underscore your position as a leading firm.”  Some big banks have warned requiring additional capital
will make them less competitive and less able to expand lending
to companies and consumers. JPMorgan Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow called the proposed capital requirements “a bridge too
far” in testimony before the  U.S. Congress  on June 16. Barclays
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  told a Treasury Select
Committee hearing in London on June 8 he worried “we’re making
the capital levels too high.”  ‘Major Step Forward’  The added capital requirements will hurt profitability, the
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said. For every half percent of
additional capital held, return on equity will be reduced by a
similar amount, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Global plans to force banks to hold more capital are “a
major step forward” in protecting the financial system from
another crisis,  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority said at a London conference today.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  also
warned yesterday in Frankfurt that risk signals for financial
stability in the euro area are flashing “red” as the debt
crisis threatens to infect banks.  Some investors say that following the 2008 financial crisis
it is obvious which banks are too big to fail.  “As a shareholder, you already know which banks are too
big to fail and which ones aren’t, or at least you should do,”
said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 15 billion
pounds ($24.2 billion), including HSBC and Barclays stock, at
 Rathbone Brothers Plc (RAT)  in London. “Post-Lehman, you already know
that the authorities are in a crisis going to rescue certain
banks and not others.”  Global regulators including U.S. Federal Reserve Governor
Daniel Tarullo have acknowledged that banks considered “too big
to fail” enjoy an implicit subsidy in the form of cheaper
funding costs though concluded this wasn’t sufficient grounds
for not introducing additional surcharges for the largest banks.  Lenders that don’t make the systemically important grade
may be expected by investors to hold more capital. That would
offset “their ability to pick up lending share from global
SIFIs, which policy makers models expect,” van Steenis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  