-- 
Billionaire Alec Gores Said to Weigh Offer for Citigroup-Owned EMI Music

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-06-22T20:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/billionaire-alec-gores-is-said-to-weigh-offer-for-british-music-label-emi.html
Billionaire Alec Gores may offer to
buy the British record company EMI Group after coming up short
in last month’s auction of  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , according
to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Len Blavatnik, who won the auction for Warner Music, is
also considering a bid, according to two people with knowledge
of his plans. They join  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group,
which is also weighing a move, a person said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which owns EMI, said this week it plans to
sell the music company or take it public. The bank took over
London-based EMI, the label of Katy Perry and Coldplay, in
February after the record company failed to meet the terms of
loans used to finance a 2007 takeover by investor  Guy Hands .  The decision to seek a buyer makes industry consolidation
more likely, even with suitors facing potential regulatory
hurdles, according to  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co.
Blavatnik agreed to buy New York-based  Warner Music  for $3.3
billion, including debt.  Gores may seek to partner with his brother, Tom, the
billionaire founder of Beverly Hills, California-based Platinum
Equity, said the person, who sought anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Another option for Gores would be to reach out to other
music companies on a joint offer, said the person.  Terry Fahn, an outside spokesman for Los Angeles-based
Gores Group, declined to comment.  Record companies including EMI and Warner Music have faced
shrinking revenue and piracy even as the digital  music industry 
boomed with the advent of Apple Inc.’s iPod and its iTunes music
store, the largest retailer of digital tracks with 28 percent of
the total U.S. market, according to NPD Group.  Global Sales  Global music sales may begin to grow again in 2013, the
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a report last
year. Industry revenue totaled $26.4 billion in 2009.  Blavatnik wants to complete the acquisition of Warner
Music, scheduled for next month, before moving ahead with an EMI
bid, said two people with knowledge of the plans. While a merger
would lead to cost savings and boost market share, Blavatnik
doesn’t consider EMI essential to his Warner Music plans, said
the people, who weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  To avoid overlap, Blavatnik would also have to get rid of
one music production business if he owned both companies, one
person said.  Universal Music Group , the world’s largest music company,
is also weighing a proposal, said a person with knowledge of the
plans. Chief Executive Officer Lucian Grainge aims to structure
an offer that addresses regulatory concerns, said the person,
who requested anonymity because the preparations aren’t public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  