-- 
Biogen, Elan Win European Approval for JC Virus Risk Label

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-22T09:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/biogen-elan-win-european-approval-for-jc-virus-risk-label-1-.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and Elan Corp. won
European approval to change the label of their Tysabri multiple
sclerosis drug to tell doctors and patients that signs of a
virus are a risk factor for developing a serious brain illness.  The summary of product characteristics will state that
patients who have antibodies against the JC virus have a higher
risk of developing a serious brain infection known as
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, compared
with patients who don’t have the antibodies, the companies said
today in a statement. Tysabri increases the risk of PML, which
usually leads to death or disability, the drugmakers said.  Multiple sclerosis  is a neurological disorder thought to
develop when a person’s immune system goes awry and attacks
healthy nerve cells, according to the  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society . Researchers theorize that Tysabri may subdue
defenses meant to keep the JC virus out of the brain.  The risk of PML emerged after Tysabri was on the market,
leading Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Biogen and Dublin-based
Elan to suspend sales in February 2005. The drug returned to the
market in June 2006 with a risk-management program.  “This label change can help give confidence to physicians
and patients by providing additional guidance on stratifying the
potential risk for developing PML in Tysabri-treated patients,”
Tomas Olsson, professor of neurology in the Department of
Clinical Neurosciences at the Karolinska Institute in  Stockholm ,
said in the statement.  With the new label in place, sales of Tysabri are expected
to reach $2.7 billion by 2016, with $1.7 billion for Elan that
year, Olav Zilian, a Geneva-based analyst with Helvea SA, said
in a note to clients today.  The European Commission, the executive arm of the European
Union, also renewed five-year marketing authorization for
Tysabri, the companies said.  Elan rose as much as 23 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 7.58
euros and was up 2.6 percent as of 10:30 a.m. in Dublin trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  