-- 
BitTorrent, Patent Reform, Best Buy: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-22T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/bittorrent-patent-reform-best-buy-intellectual-property.html
BitTorrent Inc., whose Internet
protocol is used by many to share music and films, is accused of
infringing a patent belonging to a  San Francisco  company.  BitTorrent, also based in San Francisco, is accused of
infringing patent 7,301,944, which was issued by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office in November 2007. According to the patent
office database, the patent was assigned to Tranz-Send
Broadcasting Network in April 2001.  The patent covers a technology that enables data
distribution over a network by breaking it down into small bits.
Tranz-Send claims the BitTorrent peer-to-peer file-sharing
method infringes at least one claim of the patent. Kontiki Inc.
of Sunnyvale,  California , is also a defendant in the case.  BitTorrent spokeswoman Allison Wagda said in an e-mail that
her company had no comment on the litigation.  Kontiki didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Tranz-Send asked the court for an award of money damages
“no less than a reasonable royalty,” and attorney fees and
litigation costs. In a move that is unusual in a computer
technology case, Tranz-Send didn’t ask for an order barring the
use of its technology.  The company is represented by Benedict O’Mahoney and Mark
W. Good of Terra Law LLP of  San Jose , California.  The case is Tranz-Send Broadcasting Network Inc. v.
BitTorrent Inc., 3:11-cv-02917-JCS, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  House Leaders Reach Deal on Letting Patent Office Keep Fees  House leaders agreed yesterday to give the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office greater control over its own funding, paving
the way for a floor vote on legislation to overhaul the U.S.
patent system.  Under the deal announced yesterday, a special fund would be
established to hold user fees collected in excess of the
agency’s budget. The fund could only be tapped by the patent
office, which would have to submit a spending plan to Congress
to access the money.  Guaranteed access to all the fees collected by the agency
is the cornerstone of a wide-ranging bill, H.R. 1249, that
mirrors a measure passed by the Senate on a 95-5 vote in March.
If passed, the legislation would mark the biggest change to the
U.S. patent system since 1952.  Like the Senate bill, the House measure seeks to end
lawmakers’ longstanding practice of steering fees collected by
the patent office toward non-patent purposes. Since the passage
of a 1990 law requiring the agency to fund itself, Congress has
retained more than $800 million in user fees.  The diversion of fees has been linked to an increase in the
number of patent applications awaiting first review by agency
examiners. It takes, on average, about 34 months to complete a
review, and more than 700,000 applications have yet to receive a
first response from the agency.  Companies from a range of industries, including drugmaker
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC) , as well as
universities, venture capital firms, unions and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce have expressed support for ending fee diversion.  The legislation, the result of more than six years of
negotiations, testimony, and compromise, continues to have some
detractors.  Some small businesses have objected to language that would
grant patents to the first inventor to file an application.
Under existing law, patents go to the first person to invent
something, which has led to often years-long fights over the
timing of ideas. The patent office, which supports the change,
says it would align U.S. law with the rest of the world.  Another provision would create a new process to review
patents after they’ve been issued. Independent patent owners or
firms that often sue big companies, like Acacia Research Corp.,
say it gives big companies another way to intimidate independent
inventors and avoid paying for the use of someone’s technology.
Large technology companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  say it would help weed out patents of questionable
validity.  The trade group representing generic-drug companies
including Mylan Inc. and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
opposes a provision that would let patent owners who make errors
or withhold information from the agency go back and make
corrections. The generic-drug makers say it would help brand-
name companies avoid having their patents deemed unenforceable
as punishment for misleading the agency.  The Senate bill is S. 23.  Rambus Chip Failure Due to Flaws, Not Plot, Hynix Tells Jury  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  memory chips failed in the marketplace because
computer makers found them technically inferior and too
expensive, not because of a conspiracy among rival companies,
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  said at a
trial of Rambus’s antitrust lawsuit.  Rambus-designed chips hit the memory market with “a
whimper and not a bang” and survived only as a “niche
product,” Hynix lawyer Kenneth L. Nissly told jurors yesterday
in California state court in San Francisco.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and Micron based on arguments they
conspired to thwart its dynamic random access memory, or DRAM,
chips. The $4.3 billion in damages sought by Rambus against the
two companies would be automatically tripled under California
law, according to Rambus.  Nissly made an argument that chipmakers have used with some
success defending themselves against patent claims brought by
Rambus. He said that before any of the chips at issue were
produced, Rambus “had at its core” a plan to sue Hynix and
Micron and destroy documents to hide that strategy.  “We’re talking about setting out to destroy documents so
they don’t get used in litigation,” Nissly said.  Rambus claims Hynix, based in Ichon,  South Korea , and
Micron, based in Boise,  Idaho , inflated the price of Rambus-
designed DRAM, or RDRAM, chips and collusively underpriced their
own Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory, or SDRAM, and
Double Data Rate, or DDR, chips to undercut competition.  Micron’s lawyer,  William Price , sought to downplay the
importance of Hynix’s guilty plea and payment of a $185 million
fine in 2005 to resolve price-fixing claims by the U.S. Justice
Department. In 2004, a Micron salesman pleaded guilty to
obstructing the government probe.  The Justice Department investigation is a “distraction”
and an “unrelated investigation about manipulating the price”
of memory chips, Price said. The probe concerned artificially
raising prices, which is “exactly the opposite of what Rambus
is saying,” Price said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Best Buy Tells NewEgg Its ‘Geek On’ Ad Infringes Trademarks  NewEgg Inc., an online retailer of consumer electronics and
computers, is the target of Best Buy Co.’s ire for an
advertising campaign.  Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy sent NewEgg a cease-
and-desist letter the online retailer posted on its page on
Facebook Inc.’s social-media site. In the letter, Best Buy
complains about a television commercial that appears to show one
of its blue-shirted employees as “slovenly and uninformed about
computer products.”  NewEgg, based in Whittier, California, is also accused of
infringing Best Buy’s “Geek Squad” trademarks through a “ Geek
On ” advertising campaign, according to the letter. Best Buy
told NewEgg that it was willing to consider a “reasonable
period” for the phasing out of the ads it considered
objectionable.  In response to Best Buy, NewEgg has now added a disclaimer
to the  front of its commercial , saying it’s a “work of
fiction” and that “any similarity to real persons (living or
dead), business establishments, places, events, or other
material is coincidental and unintentional.”  Prosecutors Seek Control of Mongols Motorcycle Club Trademarks  Federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles  have asked a judge to
seize the trademark for the  Mongols Motorcycle Club , the
 Associated Press   reported .  If U.S. District Judge Otis Wright responds to the
prosecutors’ request, it will be the first time the government
will take control of a gang’s identity through a court order,
according to AP.  Although lawyers for the club have claimed the trademark
belongs to all the club members, prosecutors are trying to prove
it is the sole property of Ruben “Doc” Cavazos, the former
president of the club, AP reported.  In an April deposition, Cavazos said the marks were in his
personal control and “Mongol Nation is mine,” according to AP.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Settles ‘Hangover II’ Tattoo Infringement Suit  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers unit has settled for
undisclosed terms the copyright infringement suit brought by the
tattoo artist who created  Mike Tyson ’s distinctive facial
tattoo, Variety  reported .  S. Victor Whitmill sued Warner Brothers in federal court in
 St. Louis  in April, claiming a facial tattoo that is a feature
in Warner’s “Hangover Part II” infringed his design.  He said in his complaint that he hadn’t authorized the use
of the design in the film, and that he sought money damages for
the alleged infringement.  The case is Whitmill V. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
4:11-cv-00752-DCP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  Texas  Man Pleads Guilty to Criminal Copyright Charge Over Adobe  A 28-year-old resident of Wichita Falls, Texas, pleaded
guilty to one count of criminal copyright infringement,
according to a government  statement .  James Clayton Baxter was accused of making unauthorized
copies of Adobe system Inc.’s software and selling them through
the TechKappa.com website. According to the statement, he was
selling so-called “backup” copies of software through six
different websites he owned.  In addition to the Adobe product, investigators found
unauthorized copies of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Autodesk Inc.
software offered for sale by Baxter at 20 percent of the
manufacturers’ retail value, the government said.  According to the government statement, Baxter received more
than $66,000 for counterfeit software he made and sold between
June 2006 and April 2007.  Baxter’s guilty plea was entered June 20. According to the
court docket, he is set for sentencing Oct. 25. He faces a
potential prison sentence of as many as five years and a
$250,000 fine, the government said. He could also be ordered to
pay restitution.  The government was represented by Aisha Saleem of the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Dallas . Baxter was represented by Frank D.
Trotter of the Law Office of Frank D. Trotter in Dallas.  The case is U.S.A. v. Baxter, 7:11-cv-00004-O-KA, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Wichita Falls).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 