-- 
Borders Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval for New Loan Terms, More Sale Time

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-22T22:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/borders-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-for-new-loan-terms-more-sale-time.html
Borders Group Inc. won court
permission to loosen the terms of its bankruptcy loan, giving
the U.S. bookstore chain more time to find a buyer and avoiding
immediate liquidation of about 40 stores.  Borders plans to file a proposal by July 1 to sell itself
at a court-approved auction with a guaranteed buyer, known as a
stalking horse, making an initial bid,  Mary Davis , a company
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, who is overseeing
Borders’ bankruptcy in  Manhattan , approved the changes today
after a hearing in  New York . Borders needed to extend deadlines
in its $505 million bankruptcy loan that were set to expire this
month to avoid being forced to immediately start liquidating 40
stores, most of them profitable, that the company wants to
include in a sale, Davis said.  “The stores will stay open for the foreseeable future,”
Davis said. The extra time will allow the company to talk to
potential stalking-horse bidders, she said.  The  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based company filed for bankruptcy
in February. It has 405 stores after shutting 237.  The company paid its lenders a fee of $1 million to change
the deadlines and make other changes to the loan, according to
court documents. The fee is lower than what was originally
proposed, Andrew Glenn, a lawyer representing Borders, said at
today’s hearing, according to an audio transcript.  ‘Arms-Length’  “There were arms-length and vigorous negotiations of that
amount, the committee was involved in those negotiations and
tried to get it even lower than that but $1 million was the best
that we could do,” Andrew Glenn said.  The judge said he was approving the motion “with some
reluctance” given the size of the fee.  “The reluctance is I think you’re getting raped, is the
best way I can describe it,” Judge Glenn said, according to the
audio transcript. “These fees are out of sight. The other side
of the coin is, it’s the only game in town, so it is with
reluctance that I approve the motion. A million-dollar fee for
very minimal extension in these dates is an extraordinary fee,
very close to me saying, ‘No.’”  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 