-- 
Brazil Backs G-20 Proposal for Crop-Information Database

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-22T11:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/brazil-backs-g-20-proposal-for-crop-information-database-1-.html
Brazil  backs a French proposal to
the Group of 20 nations to create a shared database on food
stocks and crop forecasts, said Wagner Rossi, the Brazilian
agriculture minister.  China and  India  are against the plan to provide more
transparency, Rossi said at a meeting with journalists in Paris,
where he’ll be attending a two-day summit of G-20 agriculture
ministers starting today.  Bruno Le Maire,  France ’s agriculture minister, has said
he’ll ask the ministers to agree to an agricultural-market
information system, to be managed by the  United Nations ’  Food
and Agriculture Organization . Lack of data about global food
stockpiles and crop prospects is causing price swings for the
commodities, leading to uncertainty for farmers and hunger,
according to Le Maire.  “We’re ready to cooperate, we can share this
information,” Rossi said. The minister said countries are
starting to realize  food security  is “so important to the
world” that concerns about “sovereignty have to be put in
perspective.”  Brazil also supports a plan to create a rapid-alert system
where G-20 countries would inform each other of harvest
problems. Le Maire has said the system should serve to
coordinate policy and prevent unilateral food-export bans.  Research Program  Rossi said Brazil backs proposals for an international
research program to improve wheat yields, as well as an
initiative for geo-monitoring of world agriculture using
satellite data and local observations.  Brazil would back more regulation of financial markets for
agricultural commodities, while opposing any rules that would
limit prices, Rossi said.  “I’m against any government attempt to restrict prices,”
Rossi said. Brazil is “not against regulatory intervention, but
those instruments must not disrupt the market.”  Biofuels are not part of the main proposals to the
ministers’ meeting because national policies are too far apart
for agreement and the subject “isn’t ripe,” according to Le
Maire. Groups including the charity Oxfam International have
criticized the U.S. for using too much corn to make ethanol.  “We’re not affected, because we produce ethanol from sugar
cane, which is recognized as having no effect on food markets,”
Rossi said, adding it might impact countries which use corn or
sugar beets to make the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 