-- 
Brazil’s Unemployment Rate Fell in May to Record Low 6.4% as Wages Rise

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-22T12:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/brazil-s-unemployment-rate-fell-in-may-to-record-low-6-4-as-wages-rise.html
Brazil ’s unemployment rate fell to
the lowest ever for the month of May as companies in Latin
America’s biggest economy hire workers to meet growing domestic
demand.  The jobless rate fell to 6.4 percent in May, from 7.5
percent a year earlier, the national statistics  agency  said
today in a report distributed from Rio de Janeiro. The jobless
rate, which was unchanged from April, matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32 analysts.  “We are still at full employment,”  Luciano Rostagno ,
chief strategist at CM Capital Markets CCTVM Ltda, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “This gives the central bank a
reason to raise interest rates again in July.”  Record low unemployment coupled with a “substantial”
increase in wages are an “important risk” for inflation and a
driver of economic growth, central bank  policy makers  said in
the minutes of their June board meeting. Companies ranging from
investment banks to fast-food chains plan to expand their
businesses in  Latin America ’s biggest economy even as the
government raises interest rates and curbs credit expansion to
cool the fastest inflation in six years.  The yield on interest rate futures maturing January 2012,
the most traded in Sao Paulo, slipped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 12.44 percent at 8:34 a.m. New York time.
The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.5893 per  U.S. dollar .  The 6.4 percent unemployment rate in May was the lowest for
the month since the statistics agency began tracking joblessness
in Brazil’s six biggest metropolitan areas in 2002. Average real
wages rose 4 percent from a year ago, a 1.1 percent from April,
to 1,567 reais ($988) per month.  Quiznos, Banks  Quiznos, the closely held Denver-based sandwich chain,
plans to open 200 locations in Brazil over the next 7 to 10
years to boost growth. Burger King Holdings Inc. said this month
it aims to reach 1,000 restaurants in Brazil in the next five
years, up from 108 now.  The  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s Brazil unit intends to
boost its staff by more than 20 percent this year to expand
operations in the South American country, President Zeca
Oliveira said May 19.  Policy makers have increased the benchmark interest rate
four times this year to 12.25 percent, slashed spending by 50.7
billion reais ($31.9 billion) and increased taxes on  consumer
credit  as they seek to bring inflation back to their 4.5 percent
target next year.  Consumer prices in the 12 months through mid-June quickened
to 6.55 percent, the national statistics agency said yesterday.
Inflation has remained above the upper limit of the bank’s 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent target range since April. On a monthly
basis, inflation slowed to 0.23 percent in mid-June from 0.7
percent in the previous month’s reading, the agency said.  Central bankers said in the minutes of their June meeting
they are ready to raise rates for a “sufficiently long” period
even as the country’s inflation outlook shows signs of
improving.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  