-- 
Pound Declines to Two-Week Low Versus Euro After BOE Minutes

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-06-22T16:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/british-pound-near-two-week-low-versus-euro-before-boe-releases-minutes.html
The pound fell to the lowest in two
weeks versus the euro as minutes released today from the  Bank of
England ’s most recent meeting showed more policy makers voted to
keep interest rates at a record low this month.  Sterling was weaker against 15 of 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Ten-year gilts rose, pushing the yield to
the lowest in seven months, as the minutes said officials voted
7-2 to hold rates and some saw the possibility of more bond
purchases to counter weaker growth and inflation. Short-sterling
futures rose as investors curbed bets on higher borrowing costs.  “This is, on balance, a dovish minutes,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“It’s consistent with a market view that the central bank will
keep interest rates at the current level for a while because of
the downside risks to the economy. That will weigh on the
pound.”  Sterling depreciated 0.8 percent to 89.43 pence per euro as
of 4:25 p.m. in  London  after reaching 89.47 pence, the weakest
since June 8. Sterling depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.6146 and
fell 0.8 percent against the Japanese currency to 129.16 yen.  The pound has lost 6.5 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track the currencies of 10 developed markets, making it
the third-worst performer after the U.S. and Canadian dollars.  Gilts Rise  Ten-year gilt yields fell three basis points to 3.19
percent after dropping to 3.15 percent, the lowest since
November. The yield on two-year notes dropped four basis points
to 0.76 percent.  Gilts outperformed German bonds this year, handing
investors a 2.7 percent return compared with a 0.2 percent gain
from bunds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  U.K. monetary policy makers, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
held rates at a record low 0.5 percent on June 9 to support the
economy, even as inflation held at the fastest pace since
October 2008 last month. Minutes of the meeting showed that
Chief Economist Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale  continued a push
for a quarter-point increase in the benchmark rate.  King and the other six members of the Monetary Policy
Committee, including Ben Broadbent, voted for no change.  Adam
Posen  kept up a call for more bond purchases. Broadbent replaced
 Andrew Sentance , who had been calling for a half-point increase.  In May, the committee voted 6-3 to keep rates on hold.  Gilts also rose as investors sought safe-haven assets amid
concern that Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  may have
difficulty pushing through parliamentary approval next week of a
78-billion euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts to stave
off the threat of default.  Rate Expectations  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of German bunds rose to 13.9 percentage points today
from 13 percentage points at the end of last month.  While U.K. inflation was 4.5 percent in May, more than
twice the central bank’s target, King said last week that the
current price surge is temporary. He defended keeping the key
rate on hold to aid the economic recovery during the
government’s budget cuts. Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said
yesterday that adding to the bank’s bond program remains “very
much on the table” as a policy tool.  Investors pushed back bets that the Bank of England will
increase  interest rates  to later than May, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average.  Pimco Comments  The central bank will refrain from raising its benchmark
rate by 25 basis points to 0.75 percent until after May 2012,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc shows. As recently as yesterday,
traders were betting on an increase in that month.  Pacific Investment Management Co. recommended avoiding non-
inflation-linked U.K. gilts because the central bank will keep
rates down to boost the economy and allow consumer prices to
exceed its target.  “The Bank of England is right to be cautious on raising
the  bank rate  given the current state of the economy,” Mike Amey, an executive vice president at Pimco Europe Ltd., wrote in
a report on the company’s website today. “This may be a good
policy framework for dealing with high levels of nominal debt,
but as a bond investor faced with 10- or 30-year gilts yielding
3.3 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively, this does not seem
like an opportune time to lock into those yields.”  Investors should look to other assets, including index-
linked bonds or shorter-maturity higher-yielding assets, to
ensure they are “adequately compensated for inflation risks,”
he wrote.  U.K. five-year breakeven rate fell seven basis points to
2.55 percentage points today, the lowest since Jan 5. The rate,
a gauge of market inflation expectation is derived from a yield
gap between regular and index-linked bonds of the same maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  