-- 
Brown Plots New Budget as California Lawmakers Forfeit Pay for Being Late

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/brown-plots-new-budget-as-california-lawmakers-forfeit-pay-for-being-late.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  has
drafted a plan to pass a budget through the Legislature that
sidesteps Republicans who blocked a previous effort, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Brown’s proposal comes as legislators have been forced to
forfeit pay for every day they fail to send a balanced budget to
the governor past a June 15 deadline. He vetoed a spending plan
sent to him by Democrats last week, saying it used legally
doubtful maneuvers and one-time fixes.  “I’ll be sharing some very specific ideas tomorrow,”
Brown said to reporters as he left a meeting with Assembly
Democrats yesterday. “There will be several ideas I’ll
propose.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, and lawmakers are at an
impasse over how to bridge a $10 billion deficit. Without a
budget, the biggest issuer of municipal debt in the U.S. is
unable to borrow on  Wall Street  to pay bills when the fiscal
year starts July 1.  Brown’s plan would need only a simple majority to pass,
according to two legislative aides apprised of what the governor
told Democrats. The aides declined to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the meetings.  A straight majority vote means the plan may not include an
earlier proposal aimed at balancing the budget by extending more
than $9 billion of expiring taxes and fees, since that requires
a two-thirds vote. Democrats are two short of that margin in
each chamber. Brown has said that without that revenue, he would
need to make deeper cuts to schools and public safety.  Lowest Credit  Brown took office in January on a pledge to fix the fiscal
malfunctions that have left California with an A-  credit rating 
from  Standard & Poor’s , its lowest for any state. He began the
year facing a $26 billion deficit through June 2012. Since then,
spending cuts passed in March and better-than-projected revenue
have narrowed the gap to $10 billion.  “We believe California’s near-term credit quality is
affected by its budget situation more than most states because
of the implications for the state’s cash position,” Gabriel Petek, an S&P credit analyst in  San Francisco , said yesterday in
a report. “If a budget is not adopted in time for the state to
issue its revenue anticipation notes before its cash runs low,
the state’s basic operating liquidity can become inadequate.”  Forfeit Pay  An $89.8 billion spending plan the Democrat-run Legislature
passed hours ahead of the June 15 deadline was short $1.85
billion in revenue, Controller John Chiang announced  yesterday. 
Chiang said he won’t pay lawmakers’ salary and expenses for
every day past the deadline that they fail to submit a balanced
budget, under a penalty set by voters in November through
Proposition 25. The lost pay won’t be restored.  “Careful review of the recently passed budget found
components that were miscalculated, miscounted or unfinished,”
Chiang, a Democrat, said. “The numbers simply did not add up,
and the Legislature will forfeit their pay until a balanced
budget is sent to the governor.”  Brown vetoed the Democrat’s plan June 16, saying it used
the kind of gimmicks and accounting maneuvers he promised he
wouldn’t use.  The $95,291 annual base salary for California lawmakers is
the highest in the nation, according to data compiled by the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . In addition, they
receive about $142 for expenses each day in session. The salary
for legislative leaders is as much as $109,584 a year.  ‘Lot of Support’  Chiang, 48, is “going to get a lot of support from the
general public,” said Joel Fox, a Republican political
consultant in Los Angeles. “These are the same people who
passed Prop. 25. The focus was legislators not getting paid if
they don’t do their job and it worked.”  Jon Coupal, president of the  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association , named for the author of California’s tax-limiting
Proposition 13, said he expects Chiang’s decision to spur quick
passage of a balanced budget.  “This will be a significant motivator,” he said by
telephone yesterday. “There really was no incentive for them
not to drag this out in previous years.”  Brown wanted lawmakers to temporarily retain a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25
percent, and a 0.5 percentage-point increase in vehicle
registration fees to 1.15 percent of value. His plan also called
for extending a reduction of the annual  child tax credit  to $99
from $309. All were put in place temporarily in 2009 and are set
to expire by July 1.  Revenue Measures  The governor said he would call a statewide election,
possibly as early as September, to ask voters whether to keep
the measures for five years. Republicans wanted lawmakers to
pass a balanced budget without prolonging the revenue measures,
and give voters the chance to reinstate the tax increases later.  After his veto last week, Brown said he’d “move heaven and
earth” to get the four Republican votes needed for his plan. So
far, he hasn’t met with top Republicans, according to Jann Taber, a spokeswoman for Senate leader Bob Dutton of Rancho
Cucamonga, and Sabrina Lockhart, a spokeswoman for Assembly
leader  Connie Conway  of Tulare, said yesterday.  “He has continued to speak with legislators on both sides
of the aisle,”  Gil Duran , a Brown spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republicans have indicated they’d be willing to allow a
referendum on the taxes after initially opposing a vote,
following polls that showed voters would reject the extensions.  ‘Constitutional Duties’  “I continue to maintain that the Legislature met our
constitutional duties in passing the budget last week,” said
Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Democrat from  Los Angeles . “We
carried out our responsibility to pass a budget reflecting all
the options available to close the deficit without new revenues
and without cuts so deep as to cost the state jobs and
jeopardize our economic recovery.”  New York lawmakers have their pay suspended when budgets
are overdue, said Meagan Dorsch, a spokeswoman based in Denver
for the  Legislature Conference . A law in  Guam  cuts off paychecks
to the governor, lieutenant governor and senators of the
territory when budgets are tardy, she said.  A Washington state law holds that lawmakers who fail to
adopt a budget by the July 1 deadline commit misdemeanors,
although none have been charged, Dorsch said. A 1979 opinion by
the state’s attorney general concluded that while the
Legislature as a whole may be guilty of a misdemeanor,
individual lawmakers weren’t subject to prosecution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  