-- 
Cable Summons FTSE 100 Directors to Urge Executive Pay Curbs

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/cable-summons-ftse-100-directors-to-urge-executive-pay-curbs.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
he will summon the heads of remuneration committees at the
biggest British companies to discuss ways of curbing executive
pay as he seeks to end “the culture of rewards for failure.”  Cable made a series of attacks on corporate bosses in a
speech to the  Association of British Insurers  in London
yesterday, saying their pay had soared while their companies had
underperformed. He said that pay policy often encouraged short-
term behavior that hurt the value of companies.  “Ridiculous levels of remuneration are going unchallenged
as the norm. There is no clear evidence of a correlation with
performance,” Cable said. “It’s outrageous that last year
median earnings for FTSE 100 chief executives rose 32 percent,
whereas the share index rose only 7 percent and the average
employee pay rose by less than 2 percent.”  The business secretary said he wants to meet all those
involved in setting pay, including the heads of remuneration
committees, over the next few weeks to discuss policy options as
he prepares to announce further action after September. The
government is about to set out its ideas on company reporting,
he said.  “Next month I will be launching a consultation on changes
to company reporting that will propose tougher provisions on
disclosure of executive pay and its link to company
performance,” Cable said. “It is the culmination of a body of
work on narrative reporting that will make company reports
clearer, shorter and more relevant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  