-- 
Banks Boost TMX Bid in Attempt to Defeat London Exchange

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-23T20:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/canadian-banks-increase-bid-for-tmx-in-attempt-to-defeat-london-exchange.html
A group of Canadian banks and
pensions raised their offer for the owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange, intensifying a bidding war hours after  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  agreed to pay a special dividend should its
takeover of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  agreement succeed.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., made up of 13 firms such as
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , said it
would pay C$3.8 billion ($3.9 billion), or C$50 a share, for
TMX, up from C$48 previously, according to a statement. LSE’s
bid was valued at C$44.89 as of the close of trading today in
 London . Both exchange operators agreed yesterday to also give
TMX owners a special dividend of C$4 a share if the deal closes.  The prospective buyers sweetened their offers a week before
shareholders of Canada’s main bourse vote on the LSE proposal.
More than $30 billion of exchange takeovers have been announced
globally since October as executives look for ways to boost
revenue after competition and technology improvements cut
profits from  stock trading  and share listing.  “This is a very tricky situation because both parties face
significant regulatory hurdles,” said  Ed Ditmire , an exchange
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York . “Ahead of that,
the best thing the management of both sides can do is put their
best hand on the table and give themselves the best chance.”  TMX rose C$1.05, or 2.4 percent, to C$45.30 in the biggest
one-day gain in more than a month. The stock trades at a three-
year high. LSE fell 0.1 percent to 956.5 pence in London
trading.  ‘Net Benefit’  LSE-TMX needs approval from Industry Minister Christian Paradis, who is reviewing the deal to determine if it provides a
“net benefit” to the country, under rules governing foreign
takeovers. The Maple bid wouldn’t require Industry  Canada 
approval because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it will
face reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the
group said in a June 13 presentation.  Maple’s new bid is valued at more than three times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared
with a ratio between one and two for LSE’s revised offer,
Ditmire said. That shows LSE has more room to increase its
price. “TMX-LSE has a lot more dry powder,” he said.  LSE and TMX agreed to pay special dividends of C$660
million in an attempt to win support for their merger and thwart
the rival Maple bid. TMX shareholders would receive a cash
dividend of C$4 a share from the combined company once the
takeover is completed, while LSE shareholders will get 84.1
pence ($1.35) a share, the companies said yesterday in
statements.  Hearing the Message  “One of the key things we received from our shareholders
was a message on the dividend rate,” TMX Group Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Kloet  said yesterday in a telephone interview
before Maple Group increased its bid.  Investors were concerned the transaction “would result in
a net decrease of their dividend rate, and we listened to that
and reacted to that,” he said.  TMX will review Maple Group’s revised bid, the bourse said
late yesterday in a statement.  The LSE all-stock offer is valued at C$44.89 a share,
according to Bloomberg data. If the cash dividend is included,
it’s valued at C$48.89, compared with C$50 a share in cash and
stock from Maple Group.  Maple Group agreed to raise the cash portion of the hostile
bid to as much as 80 percent from 70 percent, and offered to
negotiate a reverse breakup fee if the takeover doesn’t win
regulatory approval. The non-cash portion is Maple shares.  In a statement following Maple Group’s higher offer, TMX
said its board will examine whether the bid “constitutes a
superior proposal, or could reasonably be expected to result in
a superior proposal.”  ‘Slim’ Odds  TMX and LSE sweetened its offer “because they realize
their chances are slim of winning the bid,” said Mathieu Roy, a
 money manager  at Louisbourg Investments Inc., which oversees
C$1.5 billion in Moncton,  New Brunswick , and holds TMX shares.
“They realize the market sees the Maple bid as a better
financial bid and probably has a better chance of winning
approval.”  The Maple Group was formed to keep the Toronto stock and
Montreal derivatives exchanges in Canadian hands. The group also
plans to merge the Toronto bourse with the bank-owned Alpha
equity platform, which competes with TMX.  “Maple’s offer continues to provide far greater value and
certainty than the LSE takeover, as well as a stronger, more
valuable and more sustainable business model for the TMX Group
going forward,” Maple CEO Luc Bertrand said late yesterday in a
statement.  June 30 Vote  Bertrand, a vice chairman at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  who
once ran the Montreal Exchange, reiterated that investors must
reject the London Stock Exchange offer on June 30 to support the
Maple Group bid.  Maple’s  investors  are Toronto-Dominion,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, National Bank,
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Fonds de Solidarite FTQ, Manulife
Financial, Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital Markets
Inc. and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)   Institutional Shareholder Services , which advises pension
and mutual funds on proposals in shareholder meetings,
recommended the LSE bid. It follows a similar recommendation
last week from Glass Lewis & Co.  “The strategic rationale for the merger appears to be
sound,” ISS said today in an e-mailed report. “The merger
should allow TMX Group to achieve the cost synergies associated
with combination of technology platforms, leverage the combined
company’s depth of liquidity to gain new issuer listings, and
improve the company’s global competitive position.”  Thinner Margins  Maple is advised by CIBC, TD Securities, National Bank and
 Scotia Capital . Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets is among
banks working with TMX and Royal Bank of Canada is with LSE.  “For these exchanges, they’re going to see thinner and
thinner margins, so they have to get bigger and bigger to turn a
profit,” said Carlo Panaccione, the co-founder of Navigation
Group, which oversees about $350 million in Redwood Shores,
 California . “More people are trading across borders, and
probably in the next 10 years about half the assets people have
in the U.S. will be abroad, so it makes sense to increase the
efficiencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  