-- 
Canadian Dollar Declines as Fed Ends Asset Purchases, Maintains Stimulus

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-06-22T21:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/canadian-dollar-declines-as-stock-index-futures-fall-reducing-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar stayed weaker versus
its U.S. counterpart after the  Federal Reserve  said it would let
asset purchases end and maintain record monetary stimulus,
citing sluggish U.S. economic growth.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, underperformed
11 of its 16 most-traded peers. The Fed maintained its vow to
keep interest rates low for an “extended period” after a
second round of Treasury purchases under quantitative easing
failed to improve the economy. The U.S. is Canada’s largest
trading partner.  “The fact that QE2 will roll off as anticipated, with no
mention of QE3 is probably not good for the loonie,” said Firas Askari, head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital unit. “The Canadian dollar will make a rebound with
general firmness in the equity markets.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 97.39
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.11
yesterday. The loonie touched 97.01 today, the strongest level
since June 15, before weakening as much as 0.4 percent before
the Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s announcement. One Canadian
dollar purchases $1.0268.  Government bonds  were little changed, with Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note yielding 2.97 percent. The two-year note
yielded 1.51 percent.  The Fed said after a two-day meeting that it will maintain
record monetary stimulus to support a flagging economic recovery
after completing a $600 billion bond-purchase program this
month. There was no mention of additional versions of the
program, the second round of quantitative easing.  Rate Unchanged  The U.S. central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at
zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008 to
support the economy. The decision matched forecast of 86 of the
87 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. One analyst predicted
a gain to 0.5 percent.  “It hardly paints a great picture for Canada’s largest
trading partner,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in Toronto. “There
were no signs of more easing, though there was no sign of any
tightening soon. They are trying to keep a stiff upper lip about
a second-half recovery.”  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. unexpectedly climbed to
9.1 percent in May and payrolls grew at the slowest pace in
eight months.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated his forecast
that the economy will accelerate in the second half of the year
after slowing due to temporary factors.  Carney also repeated that Canadian exports are likely to be
hurt by persistent strength in the Canadian dollar, according to
the text of his opening statement to the Senate Banking
Committee today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  