-- 
Most German Stocks Retreat; Siemens, Merck Decline, Suedzucker Advances

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-22T16:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/cewe-color-daimler-deutsche-telekom-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html
Most German stocks declined,
following the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s biggest rally in two months
yesterday, as investors looked toward a vote in Greece next week
that’s needed to approve a package of austerity measures.  Siemens AG (SIE)  fell after Royal Philips Electronics NV said it
plans further cost cuts because weak consumer demand hurt sales
at its consumer lifestyle and lighting businesses.  Suedzucker AG (SZU) 
rallied 4 percent after forecasting an increase in revenue.  The DAX slipped 7.32, or 0.1 percent, to 7,278.19 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt as four stocks fell for every three
that gained. The gauge has fallen 3.3 percent from this year’s
high on May 2 as investors speculated that the U.S. economic
recovery is slowing and that Greece will fail to repay all of
its debt. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  slid 0.1 percent today.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of
confidence from 155 out of 300 lawmakers last night. He still
needs parliamentary approval next week for a 78 billion-euro
($112 billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default.
After the vote, police used tear gas and stun grenades to
disperse thousands of citizens protesting planned budget cuts.  “The focus has quickly shifted towards next week’s vote on
the austerity plan” in Greece, said Joshua Raymond, a market
strategist at City Index Ltd. in  London . “One would hope that
having come through the uncertainty of a no-confidence vote,
Papandreou is likely to garner enough support to help pass his
new austerity plan. However, with the situation still highly
fragile, not many investors are likely to take huge risks
betting on that just yet.”  Siemens Falls  Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, slipped 0.8
percent to 92.75 euros. Philips’s lighting unit will probably
have “low single-digit” sales growth in the second quarter as
the western Europe consumer market and construction in mature
markets are weaker than expected, the company said.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  fell 2.8 percent to 73 euros after the German
drugmaker said it would no longer seek approval for the multiple
sclerosis pill cladribine as regulators requested new clinical
trials.  Suedzucker gained 4 percent to 23.66 euros, the highest
since at least 1998. The maker of sugar, starch and bakery
additives forecast an increase in revenue to about 6.5 billion
euros and operating profit of more than 600 million euros for
fiscal 2012.  Krones AG (KRN)  rallied 4.1 percent to 55.05 euros after the
world’s biggest maker of bottling and packaging equipment was
upgraded to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  