-- 
Chavez May Be Home From Cuba in 10 Days, Brother Adan Says

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-22T23:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/chavez-recovery-from-surgery-in-cuba-is-slow-jaua-says-1-.html
President  Hugo Chavez  should be home
in 10 to 12 days after undergoing surgery in Cuba to remove a
pelvic abscess, the Venezuelan leader’s brother said today.  Adan Chavez, the governor of Barinas state, said he had
returned yesterday from visiting his younger brother and wanted
to end the “wave of rumors and speculation” that have
surrounded the president since he announced he had been operated
on June 10.  “We still don’t know exactly when he’ll return -- we have
to wait for the doctors’ evaluation -- but in a few days, 10
days, 12 days, he’ll be here,” Adan Chavez said in comments
carried on state television.  Since Chavez, 56, traveled to the communist island and
underwent unannounced surgery, a lack of information from the
government has raised questions about his true state of health
and triggered debates about whether he should be running  South
America ’s largest oil producer from Cuba.  Chavez is continuing a “slow recovery,” Vice President
Elias Jaua said today. He isn’t fully adhering to the advice of
his doctors while he convalesces and continues to work from his
hospital bed, Jaua told Caracas-based  Union Radio  today. The
country is “functioning as it should” in his absence, Jaua
said.  President ‘Recovering’  “The president is recovering -- he has a right to do that
as a human being,” Jaua said. “The country has excellent
stability in its politics and economy. There are institutions in
the country that are functioning as they should.”  Chavez last spoke in public on June 12, when he told
Telesur television network by phone that he decided to seek
treatment in Cuba, the final stop in a tour of allied
governments in  Latin America , after feeling pain in his abdomen
while in Brasilia and  Ecuador . He gave no estimate as to how
long his recovery would take, saying only that his injury was
“delicate” and that there’s “no reason to hurry” home.  Chavez told Telesur he was “lucky” because the abscess
wasn’t infected or malignant.  Former Cuban leader  Fidel Castro  and his brother, current
President  Raul Castro , visited Chavez at a hospital on June 17,
Cuban state newspaper  Granma reported . Photographs published by
Granma showed Chavez, wearing a track suit with the colors of
his nation’s flag, talking and laughing with the Castro brothers
in a hospital room.  The silence about Chavez’s recovery has fueled disputes
among members of his government. Information Minister Andres Izarra, writing on his  Twitter account , said June 20 that claims
by lawmaker Saul Ortega that Chavez was due to return within
hours were false.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  