-- 
Chelsea Signs Villas-Boas to Three-Year Contract, Replacing Ancelotti

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-22T10:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/chelsea-hires-porto-coach-villas-boas-to-replace-ancelotti.html
Andre Villas-Boas was named manager
at Chelsea, one day after exercising a break clause in his
contract with Porto.  Villas-Boas, 33, received a three-year contract to replace
 Carlo Ancelotti , who left last month after Chelsea finished
second to  Manchester United  in soccer’s Premier League.  “He is one of the most talented young managers in football
today and has already achieved so much in a relatively short
space of time,” Chelsea said in a  statement  on its website.
“His ambition, drive and determination matches that of Chelsea
and we are confident Andre’s leadership will result in greater
success in major domestic and European competitions.”  Villas-Boas was allowed to leave Porto, which he led to the
Europa League and Portuguese league and cup titles in his only
season in charge, after payment of a fee, reported to be 15
million euros ($21.6 million) by Lusa news agency. He previously
worked at Chelsea under former manager  Jose Mourinho .  “Andre will bring his coaching experience back to a club
he is already very familiar with, having previously worked here
for three years,” the Chelsea statement said. “He has always
been highly regarded at Chelsea and everyone here looks forward
to welcoming him back and working with him.”  After training to become a coach as a teenager, Villas-Boas
worked at hometown team Porto under Mourinho, then moved with
him to Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  Left Mourinho  In 2009, he left Mourinho’s staff to coach Academica de
Coimbra in  Portugal  and took over at Porto prior to last season.
He led Porto to an undefeated record in winning the championship
by 21 points and then became youngest coach to capture a
European soccer title when Porto beat Braga 1-0 in the Europa
League final in May.  Mourinho left Porto for Chelsea in 2004, calling himself
“the Special One” after leading the Portuguese team to the
UEFA Cup and Champions League titles in consecutive seasons.
He’s now coach at Real  Madrid .  Chelsea won the Premier League and F.A. Cup in Ancelotti’s
first season as coach in 2009-10. Last season, the Blues posted
their lowest Premier League points tally since  Roman Abramovich 
bought the club in 2003 and lost to Manchester United in the
Champions League quarterfinals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  