-- 
China 6% Inflation Looms as NDRC Says Price Gains to Accelerate This Month

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T03:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/china-inflation-in-june-to-exceed-may-levels-on-lagging-effect-ndrc-says.html
China ’s top economic planning agency
said inflation will accelerate this month, bolstering analysts’
forecasts for the rate to reach 6 percent, the highest level
since July 2008.  “The overall level of prices remains high and inflation
will remain elevated for some months although the overall
situation is controllable,” the National Development and Reform
Commission said on its  website  today.  China has raised interest rates four times since September,
limited bank lending and boosted food supplies as rising prices
threaten to fuel social unrest. The Shanghai Composite Index has
fallen more than 13 percent from this year’s April high on
concern that tightening measures will drag down growth.  “Inflation is going to be stubbornly high in 2011 and it’s
largely a food story,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asia research
at ING Groep NV in  Singapore . Authorities may be reluctant to
keep tightening given “the risk that the economy slows down too
much,” Condon said.  While the NDRC forecast faster inflation this month, it
also said that the “momentum” of price increases has “to some
extent been curbed.’”  The benchmark Shanghai benchmark was little changed at
10:58 a.m. local time.  Accelerating Inflation  Riots in Guangdong this month have highlighted the risk of
social instability.  Consumer prices climbed 5.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the most since July 2008, and food prices surged 11.7
percent. Of the overall increase in prices, 3.2 percentage
points was due to the impact of gains from May to December last
year, while increases in the first five months of this year
accounted for 2.3 percentage points, the NDRC said today.  Banks including China International Capital Corp., Societe
Generale SA and UBS AG estimate inflation could accelerate to 6
percent this month before moderating in the second half.  The benchmark one-year lending rate is 6.31 percent and the
deposit rate is 3.25 percent.  The People’s Bank of China hasn’t raised  interest rates 
since April 5, the longest pause since increases began in
October. A debate over the risks of tightening policy too much
may have delayed an increase, Sun Chi, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. said June 20. Nomura expects
the central bank to act this month.  --Chinmei Sung in Taipei and Huang Zhe in Beijing. Editors:
Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  