-- 
China Housing Boom Spreads to Smaller Cities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/china-housing-boom-s-spread-to-smaller-cities-poses-dilemma-for-government.html
China ’s property boom is shifting
from Beijing and Shanghai as government measures to curb the
market haven’t kept prices from rising in secondary cities.  New home prices rose in 67 of 70 cities in May led by
smaller centers as developers hold off price cuts, even as
existing home prices cool following higher  interest rates  and
down-payment requirements.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 cut its
outlook on Chinese developers, echoing concerns of a property
bubble aired by bears such as hedge fund manager  Jim Chanos .  Efforts to rein in property prices have been focused on the
nation’s largest urban areas, leaving less affluent cities such
as Urumqi in the northwest and northeastern Dandong with surging
home values as developers increased building there. That raises
challenges for a government that last week escalated its fight
against inflation by raising bank reserve requirements for the
ninth time since October.  “Purchase restrictions in the major cities drove
speculators to second- and third-tier cities,” said Liu Li-Gang,
who formerly worked for the  World Bank  and is chief China
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “China should raise interest rates and basically use
monetary policies to curb demand, otherwise negative interest
rates and few appealing options will send more speculation into
the property market.”  Debate that’s been raging for more than a year is now
intensifying over what the shifting boom signals. To bears, it
is a sign one of the world’s most toxic asset bubbles is still
inflating, fueled by speculative buying and cheap credit. To
economist  Stephen Roach  and hedge fund manager Chris Ruffle, the
bubble fears are overblown as incomes rise and the largest
urbanization in history continues.  Deflating Bubbles  “I can’t say a bubble will never happen,” Roach, non-
executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said in an
interview in  Shanghai  last week. “The important signal Chinese
authorities have sent is that unlike their counterparts in the
West, they are focused on relieving or deflating bubbles before
they become a major problem.”  The stock market seems to agree. A measure of property
stocks on the Shanghai Composite Index is the only industry
group that is up this year. It has gained 4.5 percent, while the
benchmark is down 5.7 percent. China State Construction
Engineering Corp. has added 14 percent in 2011, while Poly Real
Estate Group Co. has added 7.4 percent.  China’s investment in residential property accounted for
6.1 percent of gross domestic product last year, the same level
as the record in the U.S. in 2005 preceding the subprime crisis
there, according to Citigroup Inc. The government is prepared to
sacrifice 1 percentage point to 1.5 percentage points of GDP
growth to curb the  property market , Citigroup economists led by
Shuang Ding and Minggao Shen wrote in a June 20 research note.  Fighting Inflation  “China’s quest to curb property prices is one of the
important parts to its fight against inflation,” said Hong
Kong-based Shen, Citigroup’s China research head. “If home
transactions slow, property-related consumption and investment
might also slow, and take the overall economy with it.”  China’s inflation rose to the highest in almost three years
in May to 5.5 percent from last year, data last week showed. The
central bank has raised interest rates four times since October,
and most bankers in a central bank survey expect more monetary
tightening in the third quarter.  The effort to cool home prices is already having some
effect, damping the market for existing homes. Prices in May
fell from the previous month in 23 of 70 cities measured, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its  website  June 18.
That’s more than the 16 cities that posted declines in April.  Developers Holding On  “We see home price have stabilized, but they are far from
dropping,” said  Sun Mingchun , the Hong Kong-based Great China
economist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets.  Justin Chiu, executive director at  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd.,  Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s property company, said
developers are still holding up prices in China, at the expense
of softening volumes.  “But it can’t persist forever,” he said in Singapore June
21. “It really depends how long developers can hold on but home
prices will come down sooner or later.” Hong Kong’s second-
biggest developer by market value has projects in more than 10
Chinese cities.  The government last month said it won’t ease property curbs
and ordered local officials to continue to implement measures to
control prices.  Since 1998, China’s nationwide home prices have surged at
least 140 percent. The capital Beijing, its financial hub
Shanghai and the southern manufacturing center of Guangzhou led
gains. Prices in Shanghai, home to more than 20 million people,
almost quadrupled in the past 10 years, and tripled in Guangzhou.  Accumulating Wealth  The surge in home prices should be “no surprise” given
China’s 30 years averaging 10 percent annual economic growth,
said Citigroup’s Shen.  “China’s rising home prices is strongly linked with the
country’s economy, which is a process of wealth accumulation,”
Shen said.  China last year surpassed  Japan  as the world’s second-
biggest economy, and is forecast by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to eclipse the U.S. by 2018. Urban household income per capita
rose 13.7 percent in 2010 from 2009.  China’s economy  expanded
10.3 percent in 2010.  China’s private residential property market has only
existed for 13 years. In 1998, then Premier Zhu Rongji and his
government introduced private home ownership as part of its plan
to shield the economy from the Asian financial crisis, allowing
the trading of homes and banks to offer mortgages. Prior to that,
most of China’s urban population lived in government or factory
distributed homes.  ‘Underlying Demand’  Chinese investors have flocked to property in part due to a
lack of other options. Capital controls prevent citizens from
investing overseas, while putting money in banks yields interest
rates of 3.25 percent a year, less than inflation.  “Underlying demand from the end users is still very much
here,” said  Michael Klibaner , Shanghai-based head of China
research at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “There’s no bubble from
that perspective.”  Chinese families also are not saddled with big mortgages,
said Klibaner. Chinese buyers have to pay at least a 30 percent
down payment for the first home they buy, and 60 percent for
second homes, compared with as low as zero down payment in the
U.S. ahead of its financial crisis.  “The western concept of bubble with tremendous level of
leverage on home buyers clearly is not the case in China,” he
said.  Urbanization  Too much is being made of the so-called Chinese property
bubble as China’s urbanization fuels demand for housing,
according to Morgan Stanley’s Roach.  “China often puts new office and residential supply online
before demand,” Roach said. “Over the next 20 years, some 360
million people will move from the countryside to cities in China
and that provides a powerful source of demand to absorb the
supply that’s now being put in place.”  About 170 million people moved to cities in the last 10
years, the biggest urbanization in history, according to the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences . China, with 1.3 billion
people, aims to increase its proportion of those living in
cities from 47.5 percent to 51.5 percent by 2015, it said in its
latest five-year plan. That would be the first time in its
history that urban residents outnumber those in the countryside.  Tourism Hub  China implemented a two-year stimulus package totaling 4
trillion yuan after credit markets froze when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008. A record $2.7
trillion of loans were extended in the past two years, fueling a
surge in home prices and construction.  While prices have moderated in Beijing and Shanghai, new
home prices in less affluent cities including Mudanjiang,
Lanzhou and Qinhuangdao, posted increases of at least 7.7
percent last month, according to the latest data.  In the southern city of Sanya, in Hainan province, home
prices surged almost 50 percent in October, their peak, from a
year earlier after the government rolled out a plan to build it
as an international tourism island. Prices in the central city
of Wuhan, the transportation hub of the country’s new-high speed
train, rose 17 percent last year from 2009, according to SouFun
Holdings Ltd., as the government plans to spend 2.8 trillion
yuan on railways in the next five years.  To cool the market, the government this year has raised the
minimum down payment for second-home purchases and authorities
introduced residential property taxes in cities including
Shanghai and Chongqing.  “The Chinese government knows very well that there’s a
bubble in some Chinese cities and not in others, so they didn’t
impose a nationwide flat tax,” said Hong Kong-based Luca Silipo,
chief economist for the Asia-Pacific region at Paris-based
investment bank Natixis SA.  Chanos Versus Ruffle  Chanos, the hedge fund manager known for predicting Enron
Corp.’s collapse, told Bloomberg Television in  New York  on May
24 that Chinese developers have too much land on their balance
sheets, similar to the U.S. before its housing market tumbled.
He has been forecasting a Chinese housing crash since last year.  China is in a “bit of bubble” as its formula for steering
its economy is “running out of steam,” billionaire investor
 George Soros  said at a conference in Oslo on June 14.  Chris Ruffle , who helps manage $19 billion for Edinburgh-
based Martin Currie Inc. from Shanghai, said China critics focus
too much on so-called “ghost towns” such as Kangbashi in
northern Inner Mongolia province to support their arguments that
the nation’s property market is in a bubble.  Ghost Towns  Designed for 300,000 people, Kangbashi, the new urban
center of Ordos prefecture west of Beijing, may have only 28,000
residents, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in May 2010. To
Ruffle, that’s not necessarily a problem: “It’s all sold,
mostly for cash,” said Ruffle. Ruffle has started to buy
“heavily discounted” property companies with their assets in
Central China, he said, declining to name the stocks.  The Chinese government is facing a dilemma on the one hand
to control inflation while on the other hand not wanting the
property market to crash, said Patrick Chovanec, an associate
professor at Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and
Management in Beijing.  “I can’t say when you are going to see a turn in the
market, but I can tell you dynamics in the market are not
healthy or sustainable,” he said.  --Bonnie Cao With assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing and
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai. Editor: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  