-- 
China Companies Reduce Some Dividends 20%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T01:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/china-companies-reduce-some-dividends-20-.html
Air  China  Ltd. and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  are among companies withholding 20 percent of
dividend payments to foreigners as they await guidance on how to
handle the unwinding of a 17-year-old  tax exemption .  China’s State Administration of Taxation repealed in
December a 1993  exemption  from dividends tax for individual
foreign holders listed in share registries of companies with
Hong Kong-listed H shares and China-listed B shares. The
decision was announced Jan. 4. Air China, the world’s largest
airline by market value, said it is temporarily withholding 20
percent of dividends pending a clarification of the policy.  “We are aware of the mainland dividend issues and have
been trying to learn more about the taxation policy from the
relevant mainland authorities,” said Lorraine Chan, a
spokeswoman for  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing ltd., the city’s
main bourse.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, a gauge of Chinese
companies listed in the city, has retreated 11 percent since
April 8, boosting the measure’s dividend yield to 3 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. China’s efforts to control
inflation, combined with a slowing recovery in the U.S. and the
European debt crisis, sent valuations in the gauge to less than
10 times estimated earnings, the lowest since March 2009.  Individuals whose names appear in share registries of
Chinese companies may be subject to a 20 percent dividend tax.
Institutional investors and owners whose shares are held through
a custodian have tax deducted from their dividends at the
corporate rate of 10 percent, the  company filings  show.  ‘Pretty Small Numbers’  China Petroleum,  Asia ’s biggest oil refiner, reported net
income of 71.8 billion yuan ($11.1 billion) in March and
declared a final dividend of 0.13 yuan a share. The company is
withholding HK$4.2 million ($539,200) from individual investors,
less than 0.2 percent of its total dividend on 16.8 billion
shares listed in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Air China is holding back less than HK$1 million.  “For the companies we looked at, the numbers are pretty
small as a percentage of total profit, so we don’t think the
market impact will be significant,” said  Todd Martin , Asia
equity strategist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  The repealing of the 1993 exemption was part of an ongoing
effort to confirm the validity of older tax rulings, said Jon Eichelberger, a Beijing-based tax partner at law firm Baker &
McKenzie.  ‘Wait and See’  “Sometimes it’s not totally clear if the policy no longer
applies, or if there’s a more technical problem,” said
Eichelberger. “The companies are likely taking a wait-and-see
approach because the details of how they should comply with
their withholding obligations have not been clarified. ”  China’s tax administration did not immediately respond to
requests for information.  Companies that have announced they will temporarily
withhold a portion of their dividends are China National
Building Material Co., China Longyuan Power Group Corp.,
Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co., Beijing Jingkelong
Supermarket Chain Group Co. and Capinfo Co.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-largest
bank, said it is seeking clarification from the tax bureau on
how and when to start withholding the 20 percent dividend tax
for holders of their Hong Kong-listed shares, according to its
investor relations hotline. The lender is scheduled to make a
dividend payment of 0.2122 yuan per share on July 15.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  