-- 
Christie’s Chairman Edward Dolman Quits, Joins Qatar Museums

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-22T12:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/christie-s-chairman-ed-dolman-leaves-after-27-years-joins-qatar-museums.html
Edward J. Dolman, chairman of
Christie’s International, is leaving the auction house to join
the board of the  Qatar Museums Authority .  A Christie’s employee for 27 years, Dolman will be working
directly for the emir’s daughter, Mayassa Bint Hamad Al Thani,
as the executive director of her office, the London-based
auction house said today in an e-mailed statement.  Dolman, 51, became chairman of Christie’s in September
2010, when Steven Murphy, the former president and chief
executive of the U.S.-based publishing company Rodale Inc.,
succeeded him as CEO.  Dolman had been appointed CEO in December 1999 after
spending several years as a European furniture specialist.  Qatar’s museums authority administers collections of
Islamic art, Orientalist paintings, natural history,
photography, armor, Islamic coins, costumes and jewelry.  In October 2010, the emir said he may be interested in
acquiring the London-based auction house, the Financial Times
reported, after months of speculation about a possible Qatari
bid. Christie’s remains a private company owned by the French
billionaire  Francois Pinault . The auction house was bought by
his holding company, Groupe Artemis SA, for $1.2 billion in May
1998.  Active Buyers  The new National Museum of Qatar, designed by Jean Nouvel,
is scheduled to open in December 2014, according to the
authority’s website. Members of the Qatari royal family have
been active buyers of Western modern and contemporary art in
recent years.  The emir, Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, and his wife paid 9.7
million pounds for Damien Hirst’s 2002 pill cabinet, “Lullaby
Spring,” at  Sotheby’s (BID) , London, in June 2007.  They were also the buyers of  Mark Rothko ’s $72.8 million
painting “White Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose)” at
Sotheby’s  New York  in May 2007, the Art Newspaper said in May
2008. The price was an auction record for a postwar work of art.
Mayassa Bint Hamad Al Thani was seen last week at the Art Basel
fair in  Switzerland .  “We have no plans to replace Ed and appoint a new 
chairman,” said Alexandra Buxton, Christie's London-based 
head of corporate communications. “Patricia Barbizet 
continues in her long-standing role as chairman of the Board
of Christie’s and chief executive officer of Artemis,” said
Buxton in an interview.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 