-- 
Chrysler Says It No Longer Must Be ‘Embarrassed’ Over Quality

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-22T19:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/chrysler-says-it-no-longer-must-be-embarrassed-over-quality.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , said the rate of customer
warranty claims dropped 58 percent since 2007 as the company
improved its “horrible” quality and customer perception.  “We’ve gotten ourselves, at least with our internal data,
to where I don’t think we have to be embarrassed,” Doug Betts,
Chrysler senior vice president of quality, said in an interview
in advance of researcher J.D. Power & Associates releasing its
annual initial-quality survey of new vehicles. He spoke
yesterday and said he hadn’t seen Chrysler’s results yet. “Now
we have to wait for the third parties to catch up.”  The automaker’s Chrysler brand finished 23rd in the J.D.
Power survey last year with 122 complaints per 100 vehicles,
Jeep ranked 27th and Dodge was 28th.  Betts, who joined Chrysler in 2007, has pushed the
automaker to work better across divisions to find the root of
problems that arise and fix them faster.  “We treat every day like it’s a crisis and every car like
it’s at death’s door without our intervention,” Betts said.  Chrysler estimates that its rate of warranty claims in 2007
was 60 percent higher than the industry average, Betts said.
That rate has fallen to 15 percent below the industry average
this year, he said.  The automaker used to focus on warranty costs, Betts said.
“That caused us to work on problems that were more expensive,
maybe occurred a lot less frequently,” he said.  Chrysler changed “to say if a customer has to bring the
car in to be repaired, that reaches a threshold of pain for the
customer. We’re going to work on frequency, not cost.”  ‘Correlated’ Savings  While he wouldn’t say how much the effort has saved
Chrysler, he said warranty-cost declines “correlated” with the
claim decreases.  Chrysler has introduced 16 new or redesigned vehicles to
increase sales and earn a profit.  The renewed push to improve quality came as Fiat gained
control of Chrysler in 2009 from Cerberus Capital Management as
part of the U.S. automaker’s bankruptcy reorganization.  Chrysler’s quality “had not been good under the auspices
of Cerberus,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS
Automotive, said. “Horrible would be one option” to describe
the quality.  “We’ve seen a significant improvement in their products
and their reliability,” she said.  Lagging Rivals  Consumer Reports on June 21 said the automaker’s redesign
of the Dodge Durango sport-utility vehicle and Charger sedan had
improved the vehicles while they continued to lag behind
competitors such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
Those two vehicles received “very-good” scores, trailing the
magazine’s “recommended” rating.  The magazine tested eight of Chrysler’s vehicles and said
five of them “remain unimpressive.” The Chrysler 200 and Dodge
Avenger sedans and Dodge Journey, Jeep Patriot and Jeep Compass
SUVs are “mediocre vehicles,” the magazine said. The Chrysler
Town & Country minivan was rated “very good.”  Betts said the  Consumer Reports  results were important and
that he found it “encouraging” that the results showed
improvement on vehicles that had been refreshed or redesigned.  “We were disappointed in some of the ones that we just
intervened on, like the 200 and the Avenger,” he said. “We
thought we had made a bigger impact to those cars than what was
reflected.”  The redesigned Jeep Grand Cherokee has helped the automaker
boost its U.S. sales this year 19.5 percent through May,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The SUV went on sale last year with 50 percent fewer
problems than the average of Chrysler’s previous three vehicle
introductions and returned to the previous model’s warranty-
claim rate within four months compared to previous new designs
that typically took a year or more, Betts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  