-- 
CIT Group Sues to Halt Tyco’s Bankruptcy Claim Assertion

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-06-22T23:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/cit-group-sues-to-halt-tyco-s-bankruptcy-claim-assertion.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the lender that
exited bankruptcy in 2009, asked a bankruptcy judge to block a
tax-related claim asserted by Tyco International Ltd.  “Providing any recovery on the equity claim would
fundamentally alter the negotiated terms and economics of the
plan approved by this court,” Lee Attanasio, an attorney for
CIT, said in papers filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan.  Tyco acquired CIT in 2001 through affiliate Tyco Capital
Holding and sold its stake through an initial public offering
the following year. The companies entered into an agreement as a
condition of that sale that Tyco claims allowed it to write off
CIT’s losses, court papers show.  At the time of the IPO, Tyco Capital’s net operating losses
and other potential tax benefits were about $794 million at the
federal level, according to court papers.  “The tax agreement was nothing more than a transparent
attempt by Tyco to convert its prior equity holdings into future
contingent equity payment,” attorneys for CIT said in court
papers. They said the tax agreement was rejected under the terms
of CIT’s reorganization plan, implemented in December 2009.  The company contends that Tyco’s claim falls under a
section of the  bankruptcy code  that “mandates that any claim
for damages ‘arising from the purchase or sale of a security of
the debtor’ be subordinated.”  CIT, unable to win a second round of government assistance,
was forced into bankruptcy after posting losses from subprime
and student lending for 10 consecutive quarters totaling more
than $6 billion.  The case is In re CIT Group Inc. v.  Tyco International
Ltd. (TYC) , 11-02267, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 