-- 
Citadel Capital Says Main Shareholder in Talks on Stake Sale

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-22T14:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/citadel-capital-says-main-shareholder-in-talks-on-stake-sale-1-.html
Citadel Capital  SAE said its main
shareholder is holding talks with investors on the possible sale
of a stake in the Egyptian private-equity firm.  The talks between Citadel Capital Partners Ltd. and “more
than one potential strategic investor” are at an early stage
and no agreements have been signed, the Cairo-based company said
in a  statement  on its website today. Citadel Capital Partners
owns 52.4 percent of Citadel Capital, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Confirmation of the talks bodes well for Citadel shares,
although the market may have already discounted the fact based
on reports that have come out in the past week,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega
Investments Securities. “So the catalyst right now would be any
whispers of a valuation.”  Shares in the company rose for the first time in three
days, surging as much as 5 percent after the statement. The
shares closed 1.8 percent higher at 6.09 Egyptian pounds at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, giving the company a market value of
4.03 billion pounds ($677 million). The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
fell 1 percent.  Abraaj Capital Ltd., the Dubai-based private equity company
managing about $6.2 billion, may hire  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as an
adviser on the possible acquisition of a stake in Citadel
Capital, two people familiar with the matter said on June 16.
Citadel Capital Partners may hire Citigroup Inc. to advise on
the possible sale, the two people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private.  “Citadel Capital moreover confirms that while the
appointment of a major global investment bank to advise on
strategic options is under consideration, no mandate has yet
been issued,” the firm said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 