-- 
Citigroup Hires Thomas, Rosenbloom to Strengthen Emerging Markets Research

-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-06-22T21:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/citigroup-hires-rbs-rosenbloom-as-latin-america-credit-analyst.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the fourth-biggest
underwriter of international emerging-market bonds this year, is
hiring strategists and traders in  London  and New York as it
seeks to expand coverage of developing nations.  Citigroup hired Rodney Thomas as a corporate credit
strategist for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , luring him
from Thames River Capital, bank spokeswoman Danielle Romero- Apsilos said today in an e-mail.  He will be based in London and joins a growing list of
newly hired emerging market corporate debt staff at Citigroup,
including strategist Eric Ollom, who previously worked at
Jefferies & Co., and Bevan Rosenbloom, who was hired from RBS
Securities Inc. as a credit research analyst. Citigroup has also
hired Ray Khan from Morgan Stanley, Arkady Lefkowitz of Banco
Santander SA and Macquarie Bank Ltd.’s Steve Gooden as emerging-
market corporate debt traders, Romero-Apsilos said.  “Corporates are the fastest growing segment of emerging
markets debt, and we are enhancing our coverage to be at the
forefront of this development,” Romero-Apsilos said.
“Strengthening our focus in emerging markets is an important
part of Citi’s global strategy. These hires will help us align
our resources with our clients’ interests in the growing
emerging markets and corporate credit markets.”  Europe  Region  Khan, who will trade Asian financial and high-yield
corporate debt, will be based in New York and report to Jay Parshottam. Lefkowitz will be trading Latin American corporate
debt from New York and report to Alberto Agrest. Gooden will be
based in London trading Central Europe, Eastern Europe, Middle
East and Africa financial debt. He will report to Hakan Sofuoglu, Romero-Apsilos said.  Thomas will be reporting to Sofuoglu and Elbek Muslimov,
heads of Central Europe, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
credit trading. Both Ollom and Rosenbloom will be based in New
York and focus on  Latin America , according to Romero-Apsilos.
They will report to Tom Beatty and Agrest, Romero-Apsilos said.  Emerging-market economies are forecast to expand 6.3
percent this year, compared with 2.2 percent for developed
nations, according to the Washington-based World Bank.  Deutsche Bank AG is the biggest underwriter of
international emerging market debt this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  