-- 
Google, Citigroup to Invest $204 Million to Fund Biggest Wind Farm in U.S.

-- B y   W i l l   W a d e
-- 
2011-06-22T20:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/citi-google-to-invest-wind-energy-center-added-phase.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet search engine, and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will provide $204
million in additional funding for the largest U.S. wind farm.  The companies will each invest $102 million in the 1,550-
megawatt Alta Wind Energy Center being developed by Terra-Gen
Power LLC, an affiliate of ArcLight Capital Partners LLC and
Global Infrastructure Partners, they said today in a statement.
That’s in addition to $55 million each that the companies agreed
in May to provide to the project in Tehachapi.  The funding gives Google and Citigroup a source of long-
term revenue that’s “better than Treasuries,” said Amy Grace,
North American wind analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 New York . When complete, the California wind farm will be bigger
than rival operations in  Oregon  and  Texas .  Wind farms are “a very stable way to invest and get a good
return,” Grace said today in an interview. Google and Citigroup
“have the capital. They need to make it work.”  The wind farm is being built in stages. The first five
stages have a capacity of 720 megawatts and are complete, with
300 more megawatts expected to go into operation this year.  Citigroup and Google will now fund the fifth stage with
today’s investment. Their prior support was for the fourth. Both
investments are leveraged leases in which the backers purchase
the projects as they go into service and lease them back to
Terra-Gen, which will manage the operations.  The return on a straight equity investment in a wind
project is typically about 10 percent, and a leveraged lease may
be “in the mid-teens,” Grace said.  Texas, Oregon  When complete, the Alta project will be the biggest wind
farm in the U.S., Grace said, almost double the size of the
781.5-megawatt Roscoe Wind Farm currently in operation in Texas.
It will also be larger than Caithness Energy LLC’s 845-megawatt
Shepherds Flat wind farm in Oregon, a $2 billion project that’s
expected to be complete next year. Google agreed in April to
invest $100 million in Shepherds Flat.  The Alta Wind project will sell all of its electricity to
 Edison International (EIX)  utility Southern California Edison Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Wade in New York at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  