-- 
McLaren Spends $1 Billion on Super Cars to Challenge Ferrari

-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-22T11:42:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/mclaren-spends-1-billion-on-super-cars-to-challenge-ferrari-1-.html
McLaren Group plans to spend as much
as $1 billion developing and marketing a range of  sports cars  to
take on models from Ferrari SpA and Lamborghini SpA.  The U.K. company plans to unveil 13 models and variants in
the coming years to build its lineup, Antony Sheriff, McLaren
Automotive’s managing director, said in a London interview.  McLaren, best-known as the most successful Formula One team
after Ferrari, opened its first dealership yesterday at London’s
One Hyde Park as it seeks to expand sales. The automaker is
planning 35 dealerships worldwide this year, including nine in
the U.S., the largest market for luxury cars.  “I see it as a fantastic challenge to come to the market
with a new brand,” Executive Chairman Ron Dennis said in a
Bloomberg Television interview late yesterday.  McLaren has already shelled out about $320 million to
develop its 200-mile-per-hour MP4-12C, Sheriff said. The
automaker last month unveiled a track version of the car that
will cost 310,000 pounds ($500,000).  The MP4-12C road car, successor to the McLaren F1, the
world’s costliest auto in the 1990s and the fastest at 240 mph,
has racked up 2,000 orders and there is a two-year waiting list
to receive one, the company said.  Performance Criteria  The MP4-12C takes its name from the MP4 designation given
to all of McLaren’s race cars since 1981, the latest being the
MP4-26 driven by  Jenson Button  and  Lewis Hamilton , who attended
yesterday’s opening. The “C” indicates the road car’s carbon
construction and the “12” is a reflection of “internal
performance criteria” including weight, aerodynamics, power and
down force, Sheriff said last month.  Dennis said he intends to sell as much as 47 percent of
McLaren Automotive by the end of the year to reduce debt. The
executive, who hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to manage the equity
sale, said it was progressing “a bit slower” than he
envisaged.  “We don’t like debt,” Dennis said. “Investors have got
to be patient but there is very clearly a profit coming after
three or four years.”  The company is aiming to reach revenue of 1 billion pounds
within five years, Dennis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  