-- 
Clayton Dubilier-Led Group Said to Seek $1.9 Billion in LBO Debt for Spie

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-06-22T15:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/clayton-dubilier-led-group-said-to-seek-1-9-billion-in-lbo-debt-for-spie.html
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC-led
investors are seeking 1.34 billion euros ($1.9 billion) of
leveraged loans that will help fund their buyout of French
electrical engineering company  Spie , according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The loans include six-year tranches paying interest of 375
basis points more than the euro interbank offered rate, and
seven-year portions with interest margin of 425 basis points,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the deal
is private. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The financing is the biggest loan for a leveraged buyout in
 Europe  this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Clayton Dubilier, along with Paris-based Axa Private Equity and
Canadian pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec , is in exclusive talks to acquire Spie from buyout firm
PAI Partners, according to a joint statement on May 31.  Spie plans to raise 375 million euros of eight-year
subordinated bonds as part of the LBO financing, said the
person.  Coordinators of the financing HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan
Stanley and Societe Generale SA have been joined by Credit
Agricole CIB, Deutsche Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA and Natixis as
arrangers of the deal, the person said. The lenders have set a
meeting tomorrow in  London  to invite other banks to the
financing.  Leverage Levels  The acquisition debt represents about 5.5 times Spie’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
said the person. Equity investments from the Clayton-led
investors will account for about 40 percent of Spie’s value, the
person said.  Tom Franco, a New York-based spokesman for private-equity
firm Clayton Dubilier and Stephanie Grace, a spokeswoman for
Axa, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  PAI Partners  is selling Spie, based near Paris, after
buying it for 980 million euros in 2006. Clayton Dubilier, based
in  New York , beat competition from a group formed by  Carlyle
Group  and Bain Capital LLC and another formed by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s buyout unit and London firm CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter said previously.  Spie employs 28,600 people in 31 countries, mostly in
Europe. It generated 3.75 billion euros in sales and 192.3
million euros in operating profit in 2010.  In a leveraged buyout, a buyer funds part of its
acquisition with money borrowed in the target company’s name.
The debt funding the acquisition is typically graded below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Details of the financing are as follows:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  