-- 
Colombia Peso Drops From One-Week High on Concern U.S. Growth is Slowing

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-06-22T21:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/colombia-peso-gains-for-fourth-day-on-rising-inflows-before-fed.html
Colombia ’s peso retreated from a
one-week high on speculation the flagging U.S. economic recovery
will damp investment into the Latin American economy.  The peso was little changed at 1,780.15 per dollar by the
close of trading at 2 p.m. New York time. It earlier touched
1,776.85, the strongest level since June 15.  The recovery of the  U.S. economy  is continuing “more
slowly” than the  Federal Reserve  expected, the Fed Open Market
Committee said in a statement today after agreeing to maintain
record monetary stimulus. Foreign investment into Colombia,
which counts the U.S. as its largest trading partner, rose to
$5.75 billion this year through May, from $3.68 billion in the
same period of 2010, according to central bank data.  “Investors are being very cautious,”  Carlos Torres , head
analyst at brokerage Asesores en Valores SA in the Colombian
capital, Bogota, said by phone. “While Colombia’s fundamentals
point to a stronger peso, concern over U.S. growth,” is
limiting gains in the currency today, Torres said.  Investment from the U.S. has helped the peso strengthen 7.2
percent this year, the biggest advance among the seven most-
traded currencies in  Latin America , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Mexico’s peso, the second-best performer, added
4.6 percent versus the dollar in the same period.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Colombia’s credit rating today to
BBB-, the agency’s lowest investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service raised Colombia to Baa3, its lowest investment grade
ranking, on May 31. Fitch’s announcement came after Colombia’s
currency and local bond markets closed.  Colombia’s peso-denominated bonds due July 2024 rose today,
pushing the yield one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
lower to 7.81 percent, according to prices from the country’s
stock exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  