-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance After Report Showing Decline in U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-22T20:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/crude-oil-fluctuates-in-new-york-before-u-s-supply-report-fomc-meeting.html
Crude oil climbed as a government
report showed U.S. supplies fell a third week and refineries
increased operating rates to the highest level in 10 months.  Futures rose 1.3 percent after the Energy Department said
inventories dropped 1.71 million barrels to 363.8 million last
week. Refineries operated at 89.2 percent of capacity, the most
since the week ended Aug. 13. Oil also rose after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of confidence, reducing
concern repercussions of  Greece ’s debt crisis will spread.  “The inventory data today was certainly supportive,” said
Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss Research  in
Jupiter,  Florida . “We’re also higher because it doesn’t look
like the  euro zone  is going to implode soon. The Greek vote of
confidence is a huge relief.”  Crude oil for August delivery rose $1.24 to settle at
$95.41 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are
up 24 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for August delivery climbed $3.26, or 2.9
percent, to end the session at $114.21 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the biggest gain since
May 9.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$18.80 a barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between  London 
and New York oil futures reached a record of $22.29 on June 15.  Supplies of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, rose for
the first time in four weeks. Inventories climbed 273,000
barrels to 38 million, the report showed. Cushing is the
terminus of the Keystone pipeline, which carries Canadian oil to
the central U.S. and was closed from May 29 to June 5.  Relative Weakness  “There was a gain at Cushing, which may explain the
relative weakness of oil on the Nymex today,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Nationwide stockpiles of oil were projected to decrease by
1.83 million barrels, according to the median of 16 analyst
responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Although there was a slight drop in supplies, crude
remains abundant,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam
Mesh Trading Group in  New York . “It looks like the market is
still headed lower in the short term. Prices could move back to
the mid-$80s by mid-July.”  Supplies of gasoline dropped 464,000 barrels to 214.6
million last week, the report showed. It was the first decline
in seven weeks. Consumption of the motor fuel increased 0.8
percent to an average 9.32 million barrels a day in the four
weeks ended June 17, 0.9 percent higher than a year earlier, the
Energy Department said.  Gasoline for July delivery climbed 9.07 cents, or 3.2
percent, to settle at $2.9733 a gallon in New York.  Refinery Utilization  Refinery utilization rates rose 3.1 percentage points, the
report showed. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
0.5 percentage point gain. Gasoline output climbed 0.8 percent
to 9.54 million barrels a day, the highest level since August.  “There was a big week-to-week gain in refinery operating
rates, which we didn’t expect,” Evans said. “Gasoline prices
are up strongly on the drop in supplies, which is short-sighted.
The increase in refinery operating rates promises additional
supplies down the road, probably within two weeks.”  Papandreou now turns his attention to clinching
parliamentary approval next week of a 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default. European
finance ministers and the  International Monetary Fund  said they
would hold back a 12 billion euro payment due in July until
passage of the plan.  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  The Greek vote “opens the way for the implementation of
crucial austerity measures,”  David Wech , Vienna-based head of
research at JBC Energy GmbH, said. “The worst-case scenario of
a near-term default of the Southern European country seems to be
off the table, at least for the time being.”  Federal Reserve officials said they will maintain record
monetary stimulus to support a flagging economic recovery after
completing a $600 billion bond-purchase program as scheduled
this month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said record-low  interest
rates  are still needed to spur a recovery that remains
“frustratingly slow” two years after the recession ended. The
benchmark rate was left in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  ‘The Huge Drop’  “The Fed news was expected,” said  Chris Barber , a senior
analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “The main reason for the move higher is the huge
drop last week. It’s time for a correction.”  New York oil tumbled 6.3 percent last week on signals U.S.
economic growth is slowing and as fuel consumption dropped.
Futures ended the week at $93.01 a barrel, the lowest settlement
since Feb. 18.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 485,071
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 552,719
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 