-- 
Czech Central Bank to Keep Record-Low Interest Rates on Inflation, Greece

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-23T07:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/czech-central-bank-to-keep-record-low-interest-rates-on-inflation-greece.html
The Czech central bank will probably
leave interest rates at a record low for a 13th month as
government spending cuts damp domestic demand and the euro
area’s debt crisis threatens an economic recovery.  The Ceska Narodni Banka will leave the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a half-point less than the
 European Central Bank ’s main rate, at a meeting today, according
to all 23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The bank will announce
its decision at 1 p.m. in Prague and will hold a news conference
at 2.30 p.m.  The Czech monetary authority has kept the main rate steady
since May 2010 as central banks across  Europe  lifted borrowing
costs to curb inflation. Poland increased its benchmark rate for
a third month and the fourth time this year on June 8. Czech
policy makers will weigh differing signals from the economy as
overall output growth and headline inflation accelerated, while
government spending cuts continue to hinder domestic demand.  “At first, the data that came out in the last six weeks
indeed appeared pro-inflationary,’ Erste Group Bank AG said in a
June 21 report. “Looking under the surface, though, we can see
a somewhat different picture.”  Inflation accelerated to 2 percent in May, matching the
central bank’s target, from 1.6 percent the previous month,
driven mainly by higher food prices, the statistics office said
on June 9. Housing and energy costs, as well as more expensive
oil, also helped spur inflation above the central bank’s 1.7
percent forecast for May.  Government Austerity  Gross domestic product grew 2.8 percent in the first
quarter on the year, compared with 2.7 percent in the final
three months of 2010, with exports and a revival in investments
contributing the most to the expansion. Household and government
consumption declined as the Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas
trims state spending.  The Czech koruna was little changed at 24.317 to the euro
as of 8:47 a.m. in Prague. The koruna has gained 2.9 percent to
the euro since the start of the year, the second-best
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after Hungarian forint.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some central bank board members advocating higher
borrowing costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  and Kamil Janacek voted for
higher borrowing costs at last meeting on May 5, while the
remaining 5 policy makers voted for stable rates.  May inflation data were “in line with the overall spirit”
of the current central bank forecast, which says the domestic
economy isn’t generating demand pressures on consumer prices and
that inflation is driven mainly by commodity costs, the bank
said on June 9.  Export-Driven  The Czech economy is driven by foreign demand for its
goods, including Skoda Auto AS cars, as exports account for
about 70 percent of GDP. Companies also supply parts to German
manufacturers, which then sell their products outside the
European Union.  The economic recovery is facing risks of a potential
negative impact of the-area’s sovereign debt crisis as  Greece 
seeks to push through 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) of budget
cuts to secure more international financial aid.  The  International Monetary Fund , contributor of a third of
bailout money for Greece and the two other euro-area countries
that have received bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU
leaders that a failure to take decisive action on the debt
crisis risks triggering “large global spillovers.”  The Czech central bank forecasts GDP growth of 1.5 percent
in 2011. It sees the inflation rate at 2.2 percent in the second
quarter of next year and at 2.1 percent in the third quarter,
which is the boundary of what it calls the monetary-policy
horizon.  Accelerated Timetable  Policy makers moved forward the timing of a rate increase
to the fourth quarter from the first quarter in 2012, reflecting
expectations of more monetary tightening in the euro area, the
central bank said on May 5.  Forward-rate agreements locking in three-month  interest
rates  in three months rose to 1.43 percent from 1.34 percent at
the start of the month. The three-month Prague Interbank Offered
Rate, or PRIBOR, was at 1.20 percent, indicating investors
expect borrowing costs to rise at the end of the third quarter.  The Czech inflation rate may continue rising in the coming
months, although risks are “rather squeezed to the downside
than to the upside,” Danske Bank AS said in a report.  “In our view, the Czech central bank is well aware of the
increasing downside risk to the Czech economy from global
manufacturing slowdown, but also from the European debt
crisis,” Danske said. “Therefore, the first rate hike still
looks most likely in the fourth quarter this year at the
earliest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  