-- 
Daimler Seeks EADS Share Plan This Year

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-06-22T16:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/daimler-seeks-eads-share-plan-this-year.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and a group of banks are
pressuring the German government to come up with a solution for
reducing their stakes in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. by the end of 2011, two people familiar with the plans said.  The carmaker, based in Stuttgart, Germany, and the banks
want an agreement in the next six months on how Germany and
France will maintain parity in their control over the Airbus
parent to prevent it from becoming held up by next year’s French
election, the people said, declining to be identified discussing
private talks.  Daimler, which owns 15 percent of EADS and controls the
 voting rights  of the banks’ 7.5 percent holding, represents
 Germany  in the defense company. Its new stance accelerates the
timeframe of an agreement the automaker reached in 2010 with the
investors, in which Daimler pledged to find a solution to
reorder the EADS ownership by the end of 2012. The agreement
lasts until mid-2013.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has been discussing
options for the stake for months, including parking shares with
Germany’s state-owned development bank, KfW Group. The issue has
been complicated by a change in leadership in Merkel’s junior
coalition partner, the Free Democratic Party, which has balked
at state ownership.  “The government is in close and regular contact with
Daimler,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s spokesman, said today at a
press conference in Berlin, declining to elaborate.  Ending Stalemate  Merkel has been under fire for her handling of the Greek
bailout and for reversing course on nuclear power. Her last
major effort at taking an active role in corporate restructuring
ended badly, when General Motors Co. pulled out of a government-
brokered deal to sell its Opel unit to Magna International Inc.  After months of stalemate, Daimler and management at Paris-
and Munich-based EADS are pressing for a decision. EADS Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  said on June 19 that investors
would benefit from a higher proportion of freely traded stock as
Daimler and French publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  seek to scale back
their stakes.  “We can’t have this discussion forever,” Daimler Chief
Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said yesterday in  New York . A
Daimler spokesman in Stuttgart, who confirmed the comments,
declined to elaborate.  EADS-Daimler Ties  The maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks was a founder of
EADS by contributing its Dasa aerospace unit to the planemaking
and defense company’s formation in 2000. Daimler Chief Financial
Officer Bodo Uebber, who is also EADS’s chairman, said in
February that Daimler is interested in acting as Germany’s
representative in EADS, even if it sells its shares.  Under the agreement that created EADS, investors from
France and Germany must hold balanced voting rights in the
company. Lagardere owns 7.5 percent of EADS and also has
management control over  France ’s 15 percent stake.  Spain 
controls 5.46 percent. The balance between French and German
shareholdings is a “fact of life” that can’t change, Gallois
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  