-- 
Danske Says Greek Rollover Not a Default, ECB Would Accept Bonds

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-06-22T09:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/danske-says-greek-rollover-not-a-default-ecb-would-accept-bonds.html
A voluntary rollover of Greek debt
wouldn’t trigger  credit derivatives  protecting against default
and the  European Central Bank  would keep accepting Greek bonds
as collateral, Danske Bank A/S economist Frank Hansen said.  While ratings companies may downgrade Greece to default and
could also downgrade other peripheral countries, a voluntary
rollover doesn’t meet criteria applied by the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association  that would trigger payments
under credit default swaps, Copenhagen-based Hansen said in a
note to customers dated yesterday. In contrast, a bond exchange
or maturity lengthening would be deemed a default, he said.  Crucially for Greek and other European banks, the ECB would
continue to accept Greek government bonds as collateral in the
case of a voluntary rollover, even if they were downgraded to
default status by ratings firms, Hansen added.  “If rating agencies downgrade  Greece  to default, we think
that the ECB will find a way to alter its collateral
requirements to allow for this,” Hansen said. “We have
previously seen the ECB show substantial flexibility with its
collateral rules. Indeed, we believe that the ECB will take all
euro-area sovereign bonds as collateral as long as there is a
euro area, though it might ask for a substantial haircut.”  The rollover will be organized in “intensive meetings” of
bondholders, central banks and governments, in which investors
will be “persuaded by the argument that the alternative is much
worse,” Hansen said.  Meanwhile, authorities can help investors “solve a co-
ordination problem,” he said. “It is in investors’ interests
to keep exposure if they can be assured that a critical mass of
other investors will then do the same thing.”  While the ECB, itself a major holder of Greek  government
bonds , is barred from participating in the rollover directly, it
may contribute by restarting its bond purchases in the secondary
market “for at least the same amount as matures from its bond
holdings,” Hansen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  