-- 
Deere Says Revised LightSquared Plan Doesn’t Solve Interference

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-06-22T18:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/deere-says-revised-lightsquared-plan-doesn-t-solve-equipment-interference.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc.
wireless venture will interfere with agricultural equipment even
if it follows its plan to lessen interference with the U.S.
global-positioning system, a  Deere & Co. (DE)  official said.  “The LightSquared proposition would degrade most of our
GPS receivers and their capability of helping the farmer in
precision agriculture, as far away as 22 miles,”  Ken Golden , a
spokesman for world’s largest farm-equipment maker Deere, said
in a conference call with reporters today.  To reduce interference, LightSquared is to use different
airwaves than it had planned, Chief Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja said in an interview on June 20. The change would resolve
interference concerns for all but a limited number of users such
as farm-equipment makers, Ahuja said.  LightSquared, backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, proposes serving mobile-Web users over a
network of 40,000 base stations, using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellite services including GPS. Makers and
users of GPS devices say LightSquared may overwhelm their faint
signals.  The Federal Communications Commission, which granted
preliminary approval to LightSquared in January, has ordered the
Reston, Virginia-based company to deliver a report on
interference by July 1 before granting final clearance.  “There are still solutions that need to be reached for
precision GPS receivers,”  Martin Harriman , a LightSquared
executive vice president, said in an interview today. “We just
need to be able to sit down together, work cooperatively, and
figure out what the fixes are.”  OnStar Interference  A U.S. advisory panel has concluded that LightSquared would
degrade global-positioning system navigation devices as far away
as outer space and recommended that regulators revoke the
tentative approval granted to the company.  Tests showed that LightSquared, as originally planned,
would disrupt  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar navigation service and
equipment used by the Defense Department, according to the
National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing Systems
Engineering Forum, which submitted its findings to members of
Congress on June 15.  LightSquared’s new plan to operate on airwaves controlled
by satellite company  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  “should resolve interference
challenges for 99.5 percent of GPS receivers in this country,”
said Ahuja.  LightSquared remains on schedule to begin commercial
operations by 2012, Ahuja said. The company agreed with
regulators last year to offer service to as many as 100 million
Americans by the end of next year.  Broadband Push  Harbinger told investors on June 17 it had reached a 15-
year agreement with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to share network
equipment and building costs, according to a letter obtained by
Bloomberg. LightSquared has also announced a $7 billion deal
with Nokia Siemens Networks to build and operate its network, as
well as agreements to let  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  and
Best Buy Co. use its airwaves.  Falcone’s push to enter the wireless market coincides with
efforts by FCC and the Obama administration to free airwaves for
use by smartphones and tablet computers to increase U.S.
economic competitiveness.  LightSquared may help foster billions of dollars in private
investment and the creation of tens of thousands of jobs, FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a May 31 letter to Senator
 Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican.  The FCC won’t let LightSquared begin offering commercial
service “until it is clear that potential GPS interference
concerns have been resolved,” Genachowski said in his letter to
Grassley, who had questioned how the agency had handled the
company’s application.  Farm-Equipment Market  LightSquared’s proposal for reducing interference “really
doesn’t solve the lion’s share of the problem,” Jim Kirkland,
general counsel of GPS-gear maker  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , said
on today’s call.  Golden, the Deere spokesman, said he had taken Ahuja’s
announcement into account.  “We currently do not see a solution to the interference
within our use of the GPS,” Golden said. “The technical
solutions aren’t there at this time.”  GPS is becoming “an expectation” of farm-equipment
buyers, Golden said. “It is something that yearly is growing as
rapidly as anything we’ve added to equipment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 