-- 
Dollar Falls on Speculation Fed Will Keep Stimulus as Debt Purchases End

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-22T15:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/dollar-falls-on-speculation-fed-will-keep-stimulus-as-debt-purchases-end.html
The dollar dropped against a
majority of its most-traded counterparts on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain monetary stimulus without buying
more debt as economic growth remains sluggish.  The greenback touched a one-week low versus the euro before
the Fed issues a statement after a two-day meeting and Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  gives a press conference. The pound fell for the
first time in four days against the greenback as minutes of the
last  Bank of England  meeting showed some officials saw a risk
more bond purchases may be required.  “The market is pre-positioned for the Fed in part based on
the history that the Fed has tended to be quite supportive of
equities and negative for the dollar,” said  Alan Ruskin , global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in  New York .  The dollar dropped 0.2 percent to 80.06 yen at 11:27 a.m.
in New York, from 80.21 yesterday. It fell 0.1 percent to
$1.4429 per euro and touched $1.4442, the weakest level since
June 15, after gaining 0.5 percent earlier. The euro was little
changed at 115.51 yen.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major trading
partners, was little changed at 74.531 after earlier gaining as
much as 0.4 percent.  The central bank’s second round of quantitative easing, the
purchase of $600 billion of Treasuries, is scheduled to end this
month. The benchmark interest rate has been kept at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 to support the economy.  Fourth Quarter  Seventy-nine percent of 58 economists expect Bernanke to
sustain the Fed balance sheet at current levels until October or
later, compared with 52 percent who held that view before the
Fed’s last policy meeting in April, according to a Bloomberg
News survey conducted last week. Ninety percent of those
surveyed predict the Fed will wait until the fourth quarter
before dropping its pledge to hold  interest rates  low for an
“extended period.”  Bernanke and his colleagues have given no indication
they’ll tighten policy any time soon. With manufacturing slowing
and unemployment increasing during May to 9.1 percent, the Fed
chairman said on June 7 growth is “frustratingly slow.”  The dollar dropped 1 percent against the euro on April 27,
after Bernanke said following the Fed’s last meeting he was
unsure when monetary stimulus would unwind, spurring investors
to buy higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  