-- 
Dollar Rises on Speculation Durable Goods to Back Case for Ending Stimulus

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-06-23T00:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/dollar-rises-on-speculation-durable-goods-to-back-case-for-ending-stimulus.html
The dollar advanced against most of
its major counterparts before U.S. reports tomorrow forecast to
show orders for durable and capital goods increased in May.  The U.S. currency rose for a second day against the euro
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  damped
speculation the central bank would expand stimulus measures
after the second round of quantitative easing, or so-called QE2,
ends this month. The euro depreciated against 12 of its 16 major
peers on concern Greece will struggle to reduce debt.  “There’s going to be no talk of QE3 over the next couple
of months,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at
Westpac Banking Corp,  Australia ’s second-largest lender.
“Without any further stimulus signaled there’s a good chance it
could be a negative for risky assets which means it could be
positive for the  U.S. dollar .”  The dollar climbed $1.4325 per euro as of 9:20 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.4357 in  New York  yesterday. It strengthened to
80.47 yen from 80.29. The euro was little changed at 115.27 yen
from 115.28.  Orders for durable goods, those designed to last at least
three years, increased 1.5 percent in May after dropping 3.6
percent the prior month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
said ahead of the Commerce Department data. Bookings for non-
defense capital goods excluding aircraft gained 1 percent last
month after falling 2.6 percent the prior month, according to
economist estimates.  ‘Moderate Pace’  The  U.S. economy  is recovering at a “moderate pace, though
somewhat more slowly” than the central bank had expected,
Bernanke said yesterday at a press conference after a meeting of
the  Federal Open Market Committee . Policy makers decided to keep
the Fed’s balance sheet at a record to spur the slowing economy
after completing $600 billion of bond purchases this month.  The Fed cut its economic forecasts for this year and next,
predicting the U.S. economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9
percent this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to
3.3 percent, based on the median range of projections. Inflation
excluding food and energy prices will range from 1.5 percent to
1.8 percent this year, the projections showed yesterday, up from
1.3 percent to 1.6 percent in the April forecasts.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said yesterday in a Twitter
posting the Fed may signal in August of plans for additional
monetary stimulus.  “Next Jackson Hole in August will likely hint at
QE3/interest rate caps,” Gross wrote, referring to the central
bank’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Greece  Budget Cuts  Demand for the euro was limited on speculation Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  will face difficulty in getting
parliamentary approval next week for a package of budget cuts
and asset sales. Papandreou is seeking to pass the measures to
help ensure more aid from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  and stave off default.  European leaders will discuss Greece’s needs at a two-day
summit in Brussels starting today and finance chiefs will decide
on July 3 whether Greece has met conditions for the next aid
payment. Investors are watching to see if the ministers will
clear the payment or prolong the uncertainty in a bid to
increase pressure on the country’s lawmakers.  “The euro isn’t a currency that you can buy now,” said
Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at  Mizuho
Corporate Bank . “Unless Greece is able to proceed with fiscal
reform at a speed the world has never seen before, additional
loans will just delay a default.”  Antonis Samaras, leader of the opposition in the Greek
parliament, said his conservative New Democracy party will vote
against the government’s new austerity measures, contrary to
European Union calls for unity, the Financial Times reported,
citing an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net 
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 