-- 
Dollar Strengthens as Fed Chief Dashes Expectations for Further Stimulus

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-22T21:08:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/dollar-is-little-changed-after-fed-says-it-will-maintain-record-stimulus.html
The dollar rose against the euro and
the yen as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  dashed
expectations the central bank would expand stimulus measures,
easing concern policies would further debase the currency.  The greenback gained from a one-week low against the euro.
The Fed said after a two-day meeting that it will maintain
record monetary stimulus to support a flagging economic recovery
after completing a $600 billion bond-purchase program this
month. There was no mention of additional versions of the
program, the second round of quantitative easing.  “He essentially ruled out any possibility of QE3,” said
Boris Schlossberg, director of research at the online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “You’re seeing a mild pro-dollar
reaction mainly because he clearly indicated that for the time
being there will be no more dilutive factors in monetary
policy.”  The dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.4357 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York , from $1.4412 yesterday. Earlier it fell as much as
0.2 percent to touch $1.4442, the weakest since June 15, and
gained as much as 0.5 percent. The greenback rose 0.1 percent to
80.29 yen, from 80.21 yen, after earlier falling 0.2 percent.
The euro fell 0.3 percent to 115.28 yen, from 115.60.  “The committee will complete its purchases of $600 billion
of longer-term  Treasury securities  by the end of this month and
will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its securities holdings,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in a statement after meeting in  Washington .  Gross on Twitter  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said today in a Twitter posting
the Fed may hint in August of plans for additional monetary
stimulus.  “Next  Jackson Hole  in August will likely hint at
QE3/interest rate caps,” wrote Gross, referring to the central
bank’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  Bernanke said at the event last August that the Fed would
“do all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic
recovery and that more securities purchases might be warranted.
Policy makers began the $600 billion U.S. debt-purchase program
in November.  The Fed chief told reporters at a press conference today
that the central bank is in a “different position” than it was
in last August, when deflation was a “nontrivial risk.”  Rate Unchanged  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008 to support
the economy. The decision matched forecast of 86 of the 87
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. One analyst predicted a
gain to 0.5 percent.  The Fed revised its economic forecasts for this year and
next, predicting the  U.S. economy  will expand by 2.7 percent to
2.9 percent this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, based on the median range of
projections. Inflation excluding food and energy prices will
range from 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this year, the projections
today showed, up from 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent in the April
forecasts.  The euro slid earlier versus the greenback on speculation
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will struggle to pass
austerity measures, even after winning a confidence vote
yesterday. Papandreou will seek approval next week for a 78
billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and asset
sales to help ensure more financial aid from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  and stave off the threat of
default.  ‘Global Spillovers’  The IMF, contributor of a third of the bailout money for
 Greece  and the two other euro-area countries that have received
bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU leaders that a
failure to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks
triggering “large global spillovers.”  “The Greek news is one step that they had to make
yesterday,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York. “The
next step is now passing some sort of an austerity plan, and
that’s going to be a significant challenge.”  The pound fell for the first time in four days against the
greenback as minutes of the latest  Bank of England  meeting
showed some policy makers saw a risk that more bond purchases
may be required.  Sterling weakened 1.1 percent to $1.6071 and depreciated
0.7 percent to 89.33 pence per euro.  ‘Current Weakness’  The majority of the Monetary Policy Committee said the
“current weakness of demand growth was likely to persist for
longer than previously thought,” according to minutes of the
June 8-9 Bank of England meeting published today in  London .
 Europe ’s debt crisis highlighted the potential for further
shocks, and for some members, it “was possible that further
asset purchases might become warranted,” the notes showed.  Norway’s krone was the biggest gainer among the dollar’s
16-most traded counterparts after the Norges Bank kept its
benchmark interest rate on hold at 2.25 percent and said gradual
increases are projected for the second half of the year.  The krone climbed 1.2 percent to 7.8107 per euro and
appreciated 0.8 percent against the dollar to 5.4411.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  