-- 
Draft Hopefuls Prepared to Fall Back on College as NBA Lockout Approaches

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/draft-hopefuls-prepared-to-fall-back-on-college-as-nba-lockout-approaches.html
For the  National Basketball
Association ’s top draft prospects, a lockout would mean
continuing what they started in college.  Duke University ’s Kyrie Irving and the  University of
Arizona ’s  Derrick Williams , underclassmen expected to be the
first two players selected in tonight’s draft at the Prudential
Center in  Newark ,  New Jersey , said they’ll return to school if
the NBA fails to resolve its labor dispute.  Forty-two underclassmen entered the draft, which takes
place one week before the league’s collective bargaining
agreement with the  National Basketball Players Association 
expires on June 30.  “If there’s a lockout I’m going to go back and finish my
degree,” Williams, a sophomore, told reporters in New York
yesterday. “I promised my mom I’m going to do that. If I can
get a couple of classes done while at the same time working out
and doing a little camp, I think that will be the best thing.”  Irving, a point guard who left Duke following his freshman
season after being limited to 11 games because of a toe injury,
said he still has a five-year plan to graduate.  “I love college so it’s not a bad thing to get back there
and take two more classes, get closer to my degree,” said
Irving, who averaged 17.5 points per game in college.  Guard  Brandon Knight , who played one season at  Kentucky  and
is projected to be the third pick, also said he’d return to
school to get closer to his degree while practicing with his old
teammates.  Cavaliers Pick First  Irving and Williams said they want to be picked first
overall by the  Cleveland Cavaliers , who also hold the fourth
selection. The  Minnesota Timberwolves  choose second and the  Utah
Jazz  are third.  In a consensus of the top 14 selections released by NBA.com,
the only college senior was  Brigham Young ’s Jimmer Fredette, at
14th.  Fredette echoed most of the draft prospects in saying he
hasn’t been focused on the labor talks or the effects of a
possible lockout.  “I’m not following it all that much,” he said. “I’ve
been so busy and I have something else on my hands trying to get
drafted in this league. I’ve got to be in the league to worry
about the labor talks.”  The union is scheduled to brief its player representatives
today in New York, where owners and players tomorrow are
scheduled to hold another bargaining session aimed at preventing
a work stoppage.  Players union President Derek Fisher said yesterday that
the NBA’s description of its salary cap proposal as a flexible
plan is “a total distortion of reality.”  Salary Cap Plan  Fisher, a 15-year NBA veteran, spoke a day after NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  disclosed a salary cap plan that
targets player salaries at $62 million per team per season, with
a firm ceiling on what franchises could pay with salary
exceptions.  Williams, the Pac-10 Conference Player of the Year after
averaging 19.5 points and 8.3 rebounds per game last season,
said he doesn’t want the NBA to follow the  National Football
League , which began a player lockout in March before heading to
the courts and mediated negotiations to try to solve its labor
dispute.  “I don’t think anybody wants to go through what football’s
going through,” Williams, 20, said. “If you don’t have
football and basketball in this country it’s pretty bad. I don’t
think anybody wants to get to that point.”  Talk of labor disputes and lockouts won’t diminish the
elation draftees will feel when their names are called out
tonight, said Alec Burks, a sophomore guard from the  University
of Colorado .  “It’s still my dream,” Burks said. “I feel like I made
that come true and they can’t take it away from me. Whether the
lockout happens or not, I’m still going to be in the NBA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  