-- 
Dutch’s $45 Steak Beats Minetta At Its Own Game: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/dutch-s-45-steak-15-burger-beats-minetta-at-its-own-game-ryan-sutton.html
The Dutch instantly ranks with
Minetta Tavern as one of the city’s top chop houses.  It’s a win for Andrew Carmellini, a chef who ditched fine
dining for barrio tripe, tiny oyster sandwiches and Mos Def on
the sound system.  How very far from Carmellini’s aristocratic education.  This is a guy who earned critical acclaim dishing out fancy
French fare at Cafe Boulud. He left in 2005 and eventually
opened Locanda Verde, an average Italian joint, where the real
draw is Karen DeMasco, his game-changing pastry chef.  The Dutch is Carmellini’s return to form, a proper stage to
show off his clever flavor combinations. Creamy Carolina prawns
top fried green tomatoes in a pool of red pepper sauce, spiked
with chilis and ramp juice for heat and brine. He poaches giant
Hawaiian shrimp and serves them head-on. Decapitate, suck out
the brains, inhale the maritime aroma.  Such blissful moments will help bring out your inner Zen,
which will definitely be necessary for tolerating the loud
dining room.  Caviar, especially in such an unlikely venue, helps too.
 California ’s  Sterling Royal  eggs aren’t as firm or tasty as the
endangered stuff from  Russia , but the clean ocean aroma gets the
job done.  Gin and Eggs  A Ukrainian trader and I spooned the salty $95 luxury
appetizer at the counter. The beverage pairing? Icy martinis,
properly stirred.  Order the $45 strip steak. The cow comes courtesy of
Donnelly Ranch in  Kansas ; the aging’s done by the good people at
 LaFrieda .  The broiled beef is perfect: Charred and salted, with a
hint of minerality and just a touch of juice. The only
difference from Minetta is the price; it’s $9 cheaper here.  Carmellini roasts loin of veal in a robe of bacon, braises
the cheek to fall-apart-tenderness and throws in a dollop of
pizzaiola sauce to cut the richness. Pair it with an elegant
fruity Foillard Beaujolais Morgon ‘Cote du Py’ 1999 ($65) and
there’s your summer night.  Everything has acid balance; this pedigreed chef doesn’t
slack off amid the pubby digs.  Those oyster sliders get a kick from pickled okra sauce.
Black cod, light as a snowdrift, sits in a puckery pool of yuzu.
Bloody squab with smoked foie gras is tempered by cherry
mustard.  Super Burger  Most surprising is the burger. It actually comes with
fries, defying the trend elsewhere. At $15 for the duo, it’s
cheap for this first-class blend of short rib, shoulder clod,
brisket and dry-aged strip, the latter imparting that
concentrated muskiness of a more regal steak.  The texture shocks; the soft patty is almost closer to a
French pate than a stateside burger, though a squirt of barbecue
sauce cuts through the fat with American punkishness. The fries
are distinguished by a delicate crunch.  Too bad Carmellini reserves the burger for lunch and late-
night only. Same goes for fried chicken -- no big loss there,
since the buttermilk-brined bird is just okay.  Carmellini’s Sloppy Joe is awesome. He uses shredded duck
leg instead of beef. The sweet-sour concoction is spiked with a
little lemongrass to intoxicate the senses, a little fish sauce
for a salty umami punch.  Throw in some peanuts for crunch and you’ve got a sexy,
messy dish perfect for the second date.  Superb pies are made in house. Rhubarb and strawberry is
your go-to summer slice. Key lime, the cloying disaster of chain
restaurants, collapses in the mouth like good panna cotta; sea
salt keeps the sweetness at bay.  So forget Minetta and its doorman. The Dutch is for us.  Rating: **1/2. (The painful decibels trim off half a star).  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Under $30 for a snack, over $100 for a feast.  Sound Level: Over 80 decibels. Very loud.  Date place: Yes, but ask for the quieter Sullivan room.  Inside Tip: Wildly great burgers and steaks.  Special Feature: Wine-topped whiskey sour. Cool.  Will I be back? Yes, especially late at night.  The Dutch is at 131 Sullivan St. at Prince. Information:
+1-212-677-6200;  http://thedutchnyc.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 