-- 
EADS’s Gallois Urges France, U.K. to Widen Drone Plan to Others

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-22T14:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/eads-s-gallois-urges-france-u-k-to-widen-drone-plan-to-others.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’s chief executive officer,  Louis Gallois , urged  France  and
the U.K. to widen a drone program to European partners such as
 Germany ,  Italy  and  Spain .  “It can’t be only a Franco-British program,” Gallois said
on  RTL  radio today. “It must be open to Germany, Spain, Italy.
We wish that it will be a European program, and then there will
be room for all manufacturers, and, I hope, for EADS.”  France and Britain pledged last November to jointly develop
the next generation of medium-altitude, long-endurance, or MALE,
drones to end their dependence on U.S. and Israeli unmanned
aircraft for reconnaissance and strike missions, which are
increasingly used in conflicts such as Afghanistan and Libya.  Since then,  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  has teamed up with  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  to develop their Telemos drone, while Paris- and
Munich-based EADS has been developing its Talarion vehicle, and
both are vying for government orders to pursue those projects.  Dassault and EADS should cooperate to build drones for the
French and British militaries, French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said at the Bourget Air Show near Paris yesterday.
France will need to buy non-French drones to fill a gap until
2016, the earliest that Dassault and EADS’s drones could be
available, he said.  “It would be absurd for the state in its role as
shareholder not to tell companies it has stakes in to work
together,” he said. “The French-British MALE accord will
result in one drone; they will have to learn to work together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 