-- 
Earth in the Balance, Humankind on the Edge: Nathan Myhrvold

-- B y   N a t h a n   M y h r v o l d
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/earth-in-the-balance-humankind-on-the-edge-nathan-myhrvold.html
Complacency is baked into our
species. We can’t resist thinking that recent experience defines
the future. Give us a run of good luck, and we are apt to turn
that into an implicit expectation that our luck will continue --
even that we are entitled to it.  This kind of thinking was instrumental in the run-up to the
financial crash of 2008. Too many private and public
institutions assumed that an extraordinary run in prosperity,
particularly in the real estate market, was just normal. It
didn’t occur to them that things could go so wrong. Even when
token stress testing or risk assessment was done, it largely
excluded the possibility of a bad shock or a protracted slump.
Risk wasn’t systematically measured; it was ignored.  It’s easy to write this off to greed or foolishness on the
part of  Wall Street . But the truth is, our entire civilization
rests on a foundation just as shaky. We assume that the very
Earth is static and will always be as it is now, or as we
remember it.  Yet geophysics tells us that is emphatically not the case.
Bad things happen. In the past couple of years alone, we have
witnessed a litany of horrific natural disasters. Early last
year, Haiti, already one of the most impoverished places in the
world, was slammed by a magnitude 7 earthquake that caused
hundreds of thousands of deaths, both directly and as the result
of a cholera epidemic that occurred 10 months later during the
recovery effort.  Flights Cancelled  In Iceland last year, a long-dormant volcano erupted,
necessitating the cancellation of more than 100,000 flights, and
causing an estimated  $1.8 billion  in losses across  Europe  (but
no deaths). Just a few months ago, Japan was savaged by the
fourth-most-powerful earthquake ever caught on seismographs and
an ensuing tsunami that killed more than 15,000 people, brought
down almost 200,000 buildings and (unfairly) tarnished the image
of nuclear energy worldwide. This was only seven years after a
tsunami in the  Indian Ocean  killed at least a  quarter-million
people .  When the Earth itself isn’t tormenting us, the weather is.
Within the past few months, the U.S. has been wracked by drought,
wildfires and record-breaking flooding and tornadoes; the damage
bill will total  more than $32 billion . Tuscaloosa,  Alabama ;
Joplin,  Missouri ; and, more surprisingly, Monson,  Massachusetts ,
were flattened by tornadoes, which have taken more American
lives this tornado season than in any year  since 1927 .  A Restive Earth  What’s behind all this terrestrial unrest? The answer may
not be comforting, but it is simple: A run of bad events like
this is completely normal. Nature contains many phenomena that
are usually benign but sometimes turn vicious. The probability
that really bad things will happen is low -- but it isn’t zero.
Its rarity only lulls people into a false sense of security.  As a result, natural disasters are almost always compounded
by human error. The buildings in Port-au-Prince,  Haiti ’s
capital, were poorly constructed. That most of them would
collapse in a severe earthquake, leading to enormous loss of
life, was easily predictable. Worsening the situation, United
Nations aid officials staffed the relief effort with personnel
from  Nepal , where there was an ongoing cholera epidemic.
Unsurprisingly, those workers brought the disease with them, and
so began  an outbreak  that is thought to have so far killed at
least 4,700 Haitians.  It’s easy to dismiss this kind of poor response when it
occurs in Haiti, which has an infamously ineffective government.
But a mortifying degree of incompetence was also on display
after  Hurricane Katrina  struck  New Orleans  in 2005, and again
this year when the Japanese tsunami swamped four reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear-power plant.  Bad Decisions  Someone there had decided it would be safe to build the
reactors behind a 16-foot (5-meter) sea wall in an area that
experienced 125-foot tsunamis as recently as 1896. Then, in the
crucial hours and days following the event, a string of bad
decisions caused most of the problems -- the nuclear-plant
operators just  didn’t know what to do .  Mistakes are common in big natural disasters. If such
events happened frequently, response teams and the people who
direct them would have practice, as trauma teams in hospital
emergency rooms have. Unfortunately, responders rarely get the
opportunity to rehearse large-scale disasters. When the
inevitable finally occurs, and a tsunami hits a nuclear reactor,
or an earthquake reduces much of a major city to rubble, the
people in charge often are caught napping and react ineptly.  Lucky History  None of these catastrophes came entirely out of the blue.
To the contrary, geologic history tells us that we’ve actually
gotten off lucky. In 1783, the  Laki volcano  in Iceland erupted
so violently that it killed perhaps a quarter of the country’s
population. That volcano put enough ash into the sky to change
the weather in the entire Northern Hemisphere, causing crop
failures and famines across Europe,  India ,  Japan ,  Egypt  and
 North America  that pushed the total death toll to 6 million. It
took almost a decade for the  weather to recover .  Laki isn’t even the worst Icelandic volcano on record --
far larger was the six-year eruption of Eldgja that began in
934.  One could recount many such examples, but people’s eyes
tend to glaze over when you talk about something that last
occurred in 1783, much less 934. Surely things are different
now, they say. The unfortunate truth is quite the opposite -- a
millennium ago was yesterday as far as the Earth is concerned,
and the relevant phenomena operate as vigorously as ever. Proud
as we are of the many technological achievements of modern
society, we are actually more vulnerable than ever because we
live more densely, within a complex and sometimes fragile web of
buildings, roads, bridges and the like.  No War Games  The military uses war games to prepare for unforeseen
contingencies, but there seem to be few civilian equivalents.
Unfortunately, people just aren’t built to think about danger
that way. A few rare risks -- such as dying in an airplane
accident -- loom larger in our imaginations than statistics
suggest they should. But we discount other low-probability
perils straight to zero.  The lesson is simple to state, but hard to follow: Risks
with heavy consequences must be taken seriously even if the
probability of their happening tomorrow is low. That means
incurring small, but real, costs in the here and now to mitigate
the damage from some disaster that may lie far in the future --
even though “far” means beyond the present budget cycle, after
the current chief executive officer has retired, or after the
current politicians have left office. Only by thinking and
training in anticipation of the inevitable can authorities avoid
getting blindsided.  ( Nathan Myhrvold  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Nathan Myhrvold at  Nathan.Myhrvold@intven.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 