-- 
Hedge Funds End 10-Month Winning Run

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-06-22T01:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/hedge-funds-end-10-month-winning-run.html
Hedge funds  fell 1.2 percent in May,
ending a 10-month winning run, as market volatility from the
European sovereign debt crisis increased, according to
 Eurekahedge Pte .  The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more than
2,800 funds worldwide, fell for the first time since June 2010,
the Singapore-based data provider said in an e-mailed report.
The index is up 1.5 percent this year through June.  Managed futures funds and CTAs, which use computer programs
to search for price signals in  futures markets  from equities to
oil and gold, were the worst performer in May after leading
gains in April, the report said. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index fell 2.5
percent as concerns deepened over  Europe ’s debt crisis and that
a slowing global recovery will crimp earnings.  “The macro picture combined with thin trading volume in
Asia makes for a very difficult picture for a hedge-fund manager
to read,” said Rory Kennedy, chief operating officer at Rogers
Investment Advisors K.K. “Managers need to be able to move
rapidly and not try to fight the market.”  Total assets under management were down by $5 billion,
bringing the industry size to $1.82 trillion, Eurekahedge said.
Performance-based losses totaled $13.1 billion, while managers
attracted net positive asset flows of $8.1 billion, it said.
Some $113.8 billion has been invested with the industry in the
first five months of 2011, the report said.  Latin American funds delivered the best performance,
returning 0.4 percent, while an index tracking  Asia  ex-Japan
funds lost 1.9 percent, making it the worst performer, the
report said. North American funds were down 0.8 percent, while
European managers had losses of 0.6 percent, it said.  The report was based on 75 percent of the funds that have
announced May results, the data provider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  