-- 
Hedge Funds, Private-Equity Funds Face New Public Disclosures

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-22T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/hedge-funds-private-equity-funds-face-new-public-disclosures.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is weighing final action on a rule that would require
private-fund advisers to register with the agency, opening  hedge
funds  and private-equity funds to unprecedented scrutiny.  SEC commissioners are scheduled to vote at a meeting in
Washington today on a Dodd-Frank Act measure calling for about
3,500 advisers to disclose information about their investors and
employees, the assets they manage, potential conflicts of
interest and their activities outside of fund advising.  All of that information would be public, unlike a related
Dodd-Frank rule that will call for larger funds to privately
disclose a deeper array of information to help the SEC gauge
their systemic risk.  “We’re bringing in the hedge funds,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told reporters yesterday in Washington, calling it a
complex group that will demand significant additional resources
from the agency. “They have many, many billions of dollars of
assets under management collectively.”  Venture capital fund advisers, foreign advisers without a
U.S. business and advisers with less than $150 million in assets
under management would be exempt from the heaviest requirements
of the new registration rule. About 3,200 advisers managing $25
million to $100 million would be moved from SEC oversight to
state-based regulation by June 28, 2012.  While SEC commissioners vote on the registrations rule
today, House lawmakers are considering whether to slash a major
component of it -- the registration of advisers to private-
equity funds. A bill being marked up in the House Financial
Services Committee would exempt those advisers from the
registration requirement.  The reduction of “burdensome and costly government
mandates” would help the funds continue to invest in small
businesses and create jobs, Representative Robert Hurt, the
Virginia Republican who sponsored the measure, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 