-- 
Egypt Cuts Budget Deficit to 8.6% of GDP in Revised Budget

-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a ,   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-06-22T20:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/egypt-cuts-budget-deficit-to-8-6-of-gdp-in-revised-budget-2-.html
Egypt  cut its budget deficit goal
for the next fiscal year after reducing spending in a revised
budget, decreasing the government’s need to tap foreign lenders
to finance its budget deficit, the  Finance Ministry  said.  The interim government  plans to reduce the gap  to 8.6
percent of gross domestic product in the year that starts July 1
from 9.5 percent in the fiscal year that ends this month, the
ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The government had
targeted an 11 percent deficit in a budget announced June 1.  “The government has decided not to finance the budget
deficit from external sources, at least for the time being,”
Deputy Minister of Finance Hany Kadry said in a telephone
interview. “Still, the economy has a financing gap” so this
“doesn’t exclude the possibilities of going forward on filling
that financing gap from abroad.”  Egypt has turned to the international community for
financial assistance as its economy contracted last quarter and
borrowing costs surged in the aftermath of the uprising that
ended the three-decade rule of President  Hosni Mubarak  in
February. The interim government has sought $9.5 billion in
budget support from international sources, according to a
document the  Finance Ministry  published on its website.  Available Resources  “The armed forces spared no effort to make some resources
available for the budget so that we don’t have to borrow from
abroad,” Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  told reporters in Cairo.
“Therefore, we won’t borrow from abroad for the time being.”  Shamshad Akhtar, the bank’s vice president for the  Middle
East  and North Africa said yesterday the  World Bank  will lend
Egypt $1 billion in 2011 and another $1 billion next year for
governance reforms and employment generation.  World Bank 
President  Robert Zoellick  said last month the agency plans to
provide as much as $4.5 billion to the country over the next two
years. Egypt agreed with the  International Monetary Fund  on a $3
billion loan on June 5.  “We have the best possible relationship with the bank and
the fund but this relationship has changed from the past. There
is no conditionality now,” Radwan said. “This is our
relationship with the bank and the fund, regardless of whether
we borrow or not.”  The Egyptian economy is unlikely to expand more than 3.5
percent next year, the ministry said in the statement. “These
are low rates that are not enough to create the needed jobs to
contain the new entrants in the job market,” it said.  Total spending next year will amount to 490.6 billion
pounds ($82.4 billion) in the budget, which is now awaiting
approval from the military council that’s ruling the country
until parliamentary and presidential elections this year.
Spending was 517.9 billion in the previous draft posted on the
ministry’s website.  The cuts included a reduction in energy subsidies to 95.5
billion pounds from 99 billion pounds, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  