-- 
Telekomunikacja Fined $184 Million for Thwarting Rivals

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-22T16:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/telekomunikacja-fined-127-6-million-euros-for-thwarting-rivals.html
Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , a unit of
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , was fined 127.6 million euros ($184 million)
by European Union antitrust regulators for shutting out
rivals from its high-speed Internet network.  Telekomunikacja,  Poland ’s biggest phone company,
“consistently refused” or hindered smaller competitors’ access
to wholesale Internet for more than four years, the European
Commission said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This case shows our determination to ensure that dominant
telecom operators do not systematically hinder competitors who
can make a real difference in the market to the benefit of
consumers and businesses,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  The European Commission has voiced concern about
competition problems at telecommunication companies in the 12
countries that have joined the EU since 2004. Rivals to
Telekomunikacja Polska are entirely dependent on access to the
company’s network to offer competing services, the EU said.  The commission’s decision is “surprising” and didn’t take
“sufficient account” of the company’s October 2009 agreement
to open up its networks to rivals, Telekomunikacja said in an e-
mailed statement.  Guarantee Access  Telekomunikacja agreed at the time to guarantee access to
its network, avoiding a forced breakup by Polish telecom
regulators, and pledged to increase investment in exchange for a
halt to cuts in some regulated prices.  Telekomunikacja shares sank 0.4 zloty, or 2.3 percent, to
16.9 zloty in Warsaw trading.  The company said today it will discuss possible follow-up
action with its lawyers. Companies can appeal an EU antitrust
decision within two months and ask the EU courts to reduce or
annul the fine.  The phone operator said in 2008 that the EU probe was
triggered by complaints from smaller competitors Netia SA and
Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa Sp. z o.o., controlled by  Deutsche
Telekom AG. (DTE)   “Telekomunikcja Polska has harmed Polish consumers for
many years by discriminating against its competitors,” Tom Ruhan, a member of Netia’s management board, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We hope that this deserved fine will deter TP from
continuing these practices.”  Poland has one of the lowest rates of Internet connections
in the 27-nation EU, the regulator said. Most Internet
connections are low-speed while prices are much higher than
other European countries, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 