-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Second Day on Greece Confidence Vote

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-22T21:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-second-day-on-greece-confidence-vote.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day as  Greece ’s government survived a confidence vote and
oil prices increased, outweighing the Federal Reserve’s lower
U.S. economic growth forecasts for this year and next.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.3 percent to
1,116.25 as of 4:31 p.m. in  New York . The gauge has gained 1.6
percent in the past two days, the first back-to-back advance
since the two days to May 31. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.3
percent and South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 0.8 percent.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.1 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa index dropped 0.4 percent as unemployment fell to the
lowest ever for the month of May, prompting speculation the
country’s central bank will raise  interest rates  next month.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government won a
vote of confidence yesterday and now must gain parliamentary
approval of budget cuts necessary to obtain a 12 billion euro
($17 billion) loan payment from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  which is needed to avoid default.  “Investors seem to be betting that Greece will move one
step closer to securing further international financial aid, but
the process would be far from smooth as strong protests by
citizens against austerity measures will follow,” said Lim Chang Gue, a  fund manager  in Seoul at Samsung Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $30 billion.  European stocks fell and U.S. shares declined, ending a
four-day rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the
 Federal Reserve  said it will end its $600 billion bond-purchase
program while maintaining record monetary stimulus. The U.S.
central bank lowered its 2011 growth forecast to 2.7 percent to
2.9 percent, down from April’s forecast of 3.1 percent to 3.3
percent.  ‘Moderate Pace’  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee had expected,”
the Federal Open Market Committee said today in a statement
after a two-day meeting in  Washington .  Oil rose 1.3 percent to settle at $95.41 a barrel in New
York as a government report showed U.S. supplies fell a third
week and refineries bolstered operating rates to the highest
level in 10 months.  Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, added 0.8 percent. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, increased 0.1 percent.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS each lost 2.1 percent
in Istanbul and yields on the country’s two-year benchmark bond
rose 13 basis points on bets that the central bank will increase
lender reserve requirements in a meeting tomorrow to curb loan
growth and contain the current-account deficit.  South Africa   The rand weakened 1 percent on speculation South African
policy makers won’t raise interest rates even after consumer
inflation quickened more than economists’ expectations in May.  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese mobile-phone maker that counts
 Europe  as its second-biggest market, gained 5.4 percent to the
highest close in more than a week. Samsung Electronics Co., for
which Europe is the third-largest customer, climbed 1.5 percent
in Seoul.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 1.8 percent, the most in a
month, after  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose stock indexes are tracked by
investors with about $3 trillion in assets, delayed its decision
on whether to raise the United Arab Emirates and Qatar to
emerging-market status until December.  The  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. gained 0.7
percent and Agricultural Bank of China’s advanced 1.9 percent
after valuations of bank shares on the Shanghai Composite Index
approached the lowest levels in four years.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 313, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose four basis
points to 202.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  