-- 
Essar Kenya Denies Report It’s Up for Sale; Sees Sales Doubling

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-22T10:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/essar-telecom-kenya-denies-report-it-s-up-for-sale-sees-revenue-doubling.html
Essar Communications Holdings Ltd.’s
Kenyan unit, the nation’s second-biggest provider of mobile-data
connections, denied a report it is being sold and said revenue
may double this year as it targets more Internet customers.  Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd. , which trades under the yu brand,
has invested $400 million in East Africa’s biggest economy since
it began operations in November 2008 and plans to spend more in
Kenya, Country Manager Madhur Taneja said in an interview in
Nairobi, the capital, yesterday. The Economic Times of  India 
 reported  last week that Essar is looking for a buyer for its
Kenyan operations.  “Our expectations for Kenya have not changed, our outlook
on Kenya has not changed and our commitment to Kenya as a market
continues,” Taneja said. “We have already invested substantial
monies and we will continue doing so.”  Yu competes in Kenya with  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , Kenya’s largest
mobile operator; Airtel Kenya Ltd., the domestic unit of Delhi-
based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ; and Telkom Kenya Ltd., a division of
 France Telecom SA. (FTE)  As of December, yu had 680,494 Internet
customers, compared with Safaricom’s 3.71 million, according to
 Communications Commission of Kenya  data. The Essar unit had 1.59
million mobile-phone subscribers in the period, giving it a
market share of 6.4 percent compared with 6.7 percent three
month earlier, the regulator said on its website.  “We are moving our focus from subscribers to revenue, which
means we are focussing on quality rather than quantity,” Taneja
said. “At the end of the day what you take home is not
subscribers, it is revenue.”  Data Revenue  Kenyan mobile-phone companies are trying to generate more
income from data after the industry regulator in August ordered
mobile-phone operators to cut by half the rates they charge each
other to transmit calls across networks. That triggered a round
of reductions in call costs by companies to as low as 2
shillings (less than 1 cent) per minute.  Earlier this month, President Mwai Kibaki ordered a halt to
further cuts in mobile-phone call tariffs after companies
including Safaricom and Telkom  Kenya  opposed the reductions,
 Business Daily  reported on June 8. Charges had been expected to
drop to 1.44 shillings per call at the beginning of July from
2.21 shillings, it said.  “There is further room for a drop in prices,” Taneja said.
“The regulator needs to decide what is more important: private
companies’ profitability versus growth of the economy?” While
lower call costs might result in reduced revenue for the
government, this would be offset by increased revenue from
higher productivity in other industries, he said.  Double Sales  Yu expects to boost data revenue by relying on “a network
which is top class, which we already have, and of course
cutting-edge  customer service ,” Taneja said. “Definitely there
will be an increase in revenue by more than 100 percent” this
year.  In Kenya, yu is the only mobile-phone company that doesn’t
have a license to operate a third-generation, or 3G, network and
has no immediate plans to apply for one, he said. Of the three
operators with 3G licenses, only Safaricom has built a network
so far, while Telkom Kenya plans to switch on its network later
this year.  3G enables faster data transmission and allow mobile-phone
users to download music and video to their handsets. As many as
80 percent of Kenyan subscribers use their mobile phones to read
e-mail and browse the Internet, both of which can be done with
the speeds provided on a so-called 2.5G network that yu
operates, Taneja said.  The company expects data to contribute 12 percent of
overall sales within two years, compared with 8 percent now,
 Atul Chaturvedi , yu’s former country manager, said in March.  Taneja, who has headed the Kenyan unit for three months,
was previously in charge of Essar Telecom’s Ugandan operations,
which were sold to the United Arab Emirates-based Dhabi Group
earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 