-- 
EU Fund Sells 3 Billion Euros Bonds for Portugal Rescue

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-22T13:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/eu-fund-starts-selling-4-billion-bonds-for-portugal-rescue-1-.html
The European Union’s bailout fund
sold 3 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of Portugal rescue bonds in
its second debt offering this month.  The European Financial Stability Facility notes due
December 2016 were priced to yield 6 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, the fund said in a statement today. That’s
the same spread EFSF offered on 5 1/2-year notes it sold in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The EFSF offered the bonds after Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  survived a confidence vote, improving his
chances in pushing through austerity measures needed to get
international aid. The EFSF, which is overseen by euro-area
nations and has a AAA rating, has raised 10 billion euros since
January to fund the bailouts of Portugal and Ireland.  “The bonds look expensive, but investors are still buying
it,” said Christophe Herpet, a Paris-based senior portfolio
manager at AXA Investment Managers, which oversees about 516
billion euros of assets. “Investors are focused on safe
havens” and the EFSF bonds “enjoy the guarantee of  Germany ,
 France  and other core governments.”  BNP Paribas SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc managed the sale. More than 7 billion euros of
orders were received in less than two hours, including 550 million
euros from  Japan 's government, according to the EFSF statement.  EFSF Support  “Despite volatile market conditions, the response of the
investor base to the announcement of the transaction, the speed
of the bookbuilding process and the high quality placement
confirms the continued support for EFSF amongst the global
investor base,” Chief Financial Officer Christophe Frankel said
in the statement.  Today’s transaction follows EFSF’s 5 billion-euro sale of
10-year bonds on June 15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to buy the
securities is 17 basis points more than the swap rate, unchanged
from the spread when they were issued, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Portugal  will get 2.2 billion euros from the proceeds of
the sale, while the remainder will be kept in the fund as a cash
reserve supporting the top credit ratings of the notes, EFSF
said in the statement.  Tighter Spread  The EFSF first sold bonds in January when it priced 5
billion euros of notes due July 2016 at 6 basis points more than
swaps. The spread has narrowed to 5 basis points.  Euro-area finance ministers boosted the EFSF’s lending
capacity to 440 billion euros from around 250 billion euros at a
meeting in Luxembourg on June 20.  The overall guarantees for the EFSF were increased to 726
billion euros, which excludes  Greece , Ireland and Portugal,
which don’t contribute as aid recipients. The three countries
have received aid totaling 256 billion euros since May 2010 from
the euro area and  International Monetary Fund .  “Ireland and Portugal, like Greece, may require EU or IMF
funding for a longer period than that envisaged in the original
bailout programmes,”  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at
Evolution Securities in  London , wrote in a note today.  The EFSF will sell four year bonds this year to keep
funding the bailouts for Ireland and Portugal, according to
today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 