-- 
European Stocks Decline as Philips Plunges; Man Group Climbs

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-22T16:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/european-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-philips-h-m-may-move.html
European stocks fell, retreating
after the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s biggest gain in two months,
as Royal Philips Electronics NV tumbled on deteriorating demand
for lighting and consumer electronics.  Philips plunged the most in more than two years after the
world’s biggest maker of patient-monitoring systems forecast
“low single-digit” sales growth at its lighting business.
 Merck KGaA (MRK)  lost 2.8 percent after halting development of a
multiple sclerosis pill.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  climbed 4.9 percent as
analysts recommended the world’s largest publicly traded hedge
fund manager.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 slid 0.6 percent to 268.07 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The measure has tumbled 7.9 percent
from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 as U.S. economic data trailed
forecasts, adding to concern that  Greece  will fail to repay all
its debt.  “Recession fears are coming back into the market and
problems around sovereign debt also bring the market in a bad
shape,” said Philipp Musil, who helps manage about $12 billion
at Semper Constantia Privatbank AG in Vienna. “Investors are
uncertain of what is coming next. We’re still quite optimistic
and we’re thinking it’s a normal consolidation, but it can
change quite fast if we get more confirmation of a recession.”  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee concludes its two-
day meeting today, and will release a statement after the close
of European markets.  BOE Rates  Bank of England  officials voted 7-2 to keep  interest rates 
on hold this month as some of the majority saw a risk that they
will need further bond purchases to stoke the economy, according
to minutes of the June 8-9 meeting published today.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of
confidence from 155 out of 300 lawmakers over night. He still
needs parliamentary approval next week for a 78 billion-euro
($112 billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default.
About 3,000 people, who were protesting outside Parliament,
threw water bottles, cans and fruit at police when they learned
of Papandreou’s victory.  European leaders will discuss Greece’s needs at a two-day
summit in Brussels starting tomorrow and finance chiefs will
decide on July 3 whether Greece has met the conditions for its
next aid payment.  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.1 percent, while
 France ’s CAC 40 slid 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell less
than 0.1 percent. Sweden’s OMX Stockholm 30 slid 1.7 percent as
 Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  retreated.  Philips Tumbles  Philips sank 8.8 percent to 16.41 euros, its biggest drop
since March 2009. The company said it will need to deepen cost
cuts to arrest deteriorating consumer demand for lighting and
consumer electronics. The lighting unit will report “low
single-digit” sales growth in the second quarter.  Electrolux, the world’s second-biggest appliance maker,
sank 3.4 percent to 147.80 kronor, the lowest since August.  Merck KGaA lost 2.8 percent to 73 euros as the drugmaker
said it will no longer seek approval for the experimental
Cladribine medicine after regulators said it would have to start
a new clinical trial program.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  dropped 2.3 percent to 209.80 kronor,
its lowest price since March. The world’s second-largest
clothing retailer said the rising cost of making garments led to
an 18 percent decline in second-quarter profit, missing
analysts’ estimates.  Remy Cointreau Downgrade  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  slipped 1.7 percent to 56.04 euros, the
first retreat in four days, as the maker of Remy Martin cognac
was downgraded to “underweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Man Group climbed 4.9 percent to 241.8 pence, extending
yesterday’s 4.1 percent increase. The hedge fund manager was
raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at Credit Suisse Group
AG and rated “buy” in new coverage at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Separately, the  Daily Mail  said JPMorgan Chase & Co. may be
preparing a 400 pence-a-share friendly takeover offer for Man.
The newspaper did not cite anyone.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  surged 7.7 percent to 16.53 pence, ending
the longest falling streak in three months. The London-based
Times reported that Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer
electronics retailer, may be interesting in bidding for its U.K.
competitor.  Renault Rises  Renault SA (RNO) , which owns a 43 percent stake in Nissan Motor
Co., rose 2.9 percent to 39.17 euros. Nissan,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, forecast that sales in the fiscal year ending
March 2012 will be “significantly higher” than a year earlier,
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in  Tokyo .  Celesio AG (CLS1) , Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, jumped 3.6
percent to 13.22 euros as Manager Magazin reported that Markus Pinger, board member of Beiersdorf AG, will become Celesio’s
chief executive officer. The German magazine cited unidentified
people close to the situation.  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  soared 4 percent to 23.66 euros, the highest
price in at least 12 years. The maker of sugar, starch and
bakery additives forecast that revenue will increase to about
6.5 billion euros and operating profit to more than 600 million
euros in its financial year ending in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  