-- 
European Industrial Orders Increased in April, Led by Germany

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-22T09:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/european-industrial-orders-increased-in-april-led-by-germany.html
European industrial orders rose in
April, as increasing demand in  Germany  helped counter a slump in
France and  Italy , suggesting the euro region’s economic
expansion maintained some momentum into the second quarter.  Orders in the euro area advanced 0.7 percent from March,
when they fell 1.5 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a gain
of 1 percent, the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Orders jumped 8.6 percent from a year earlier.  European manufacturers are powering the euro region’s
expansion as booming Asian markets boost export demand.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, said on June 17 that
May deliveries jumped 17 percent. With governments stepping up
budget cuts, the economy is showing some signs of slowing down
after expanding 0.8 percent in the first quarter.  “We won’t reach past growth rates anymore,” said Uwe Duerkop, an economist at Landesbank Berlin. “Still, we’ll see
further gains in orders. The second quarter will be weaker in
the euro region with moderate economic growth.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4399 at 11:01 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent.  ‘Distinct Growth’  Euro-area orders for durable  consumer goods  rose 2.6
percent in April from the previous month, when they dropped 5.9
percent, today’s report showed. Orders for capital goods
increased 1.7 percent, while those for intermediate goods
slipped 0.1 percent. Total orders excluding heavy transport
equipment such as ships and trains fell 0.6 percent.  The  European Central Bank  on June 9 forecast the euro-
region economy to expand about 1.9 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2012 with exports increasing 7.7 percent and 6.6
percent, respectively.  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
on June 17 that he expects further “distinct growth” even as
global conditions remain “challenging.” Andrea Formica,  Fiat
SpA (F) ’s head of sales, told reporters earlier this month that the
European market “shows signs of recovery” and that Italy,
Spain and Greece “are still facing difficulties.”  “This was the most successful May the company has ever
reported,”  Ian Robertson , sales chief at Munich-based
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars, said on June 8. “We are looking forward to even more
momentum at the end of the year.”  Irish Orders Surge  Industrial orders in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
jumped 2.4 percent from March, when they fell 2.5 percent,
today’s report showed. In France and Italy, orders dropped 1.2
percent and 2.6 percent, respectively. Irish orders surged 11.2
percent in April, the biggest gain among the 17 euro states,
while Greece reported an increase of 0.2 percent.  The euro-region economy may struggle to maintain its
momentum after expanding at the fastest pace in almost a year in
the first quarter. European economic sentiment weakened in May,
manufacturing growth slowed and German investor confidence
dropped more than economists forecast in June.  European policy makers earlier this week failed to agree on
releasing the latest tranche of  Greece ’s 110 billion-euro
($158.5 billion) rescue funds, saying further aid hinges on
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  delivering more budget cuts,
asset sales and structural reforms.  Papandreou yesterday won a vote of confidence, bolstering
his government’s chances of pushing through further austerity
measures. Former Greek Finance Minister Nikos Christodoulakis
told Francine Lacqua in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today that it ends a “period of political uncertainty.”  “Undoubtedly, the confidence vote buys Greece time,” said
Tullia Bucco, an economist at UniCredit Bank AG in Milan in an
e-mailed note today. “However, the road ahead looks long and
bumpy as challenges remain formidable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  