-- 
Euro Declines Versus Dollar on Greece; Pound Slides Following BOE Minutes

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-06-22T14:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/euro-pares-decline-versus-dollar-on-greece-pound-slips-before-boe-minutes.html
The euro fell against the majority
of its most-traded peers amid speculation Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  will struggle to pass additional austerity
measures, even after winning a confidence vote yesterday.  The dollar fell versus most counterparts, including the
Swiss franc, before the  Federal Reserve  issues a statement after
a two-day meeting and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gives a press
conference. The pound weakened for the first time in four days
against the greenback as minutes of the last Bank of England
meeting showed some officials saw a risk more bond purchases may
be required.  “It was a given that he would pass the vote, and what’s
not a given is how to pass the austerity measures,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York, said of Papandreou. “There could be doubts on
the austerity measures, and that would have an adverse effect on
the euro. As soon as the Greek vote was over, the focus shifted
to the Fed meeting today.”  Europe ’s shared currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.4435 at
10:39 a.m. in New York, after earlier rising to $1.4442, the
strongest level since June 15. The euro was little changed
against its Japanese counterpart at 115.55 yen. The dollar
declined 0.2 percent to 80.03 yen, from 80.21.  The franc strengthened 0.7 percent to 83.45 centimes per
dollar, from 84.05 centimes yesterday.  The euro has dropped 1 percent over the past three months
versus nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The franc has
climbed 5.9 percent as investors sought a haven from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Austerity Package  Papandreou will seek approval next week for a 78 billion-
euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and asset sales to
help ensure more financial aid from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  and stave off the threat of default.  The IMF, contributor of a third of the bailout money for
Greece and the two other euro-area countries that have received
bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU leaders that a
failure to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks
triggering “large global spillovers.”  “What happened yesterday has bought the Papandreou
government a couple of weeks to push through budget cuts and
austerity measures,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “The
scenario is negative; there’s no positive. The euro is weaker
than where it was before the vote and is likely to head lower.”  Fed Statement  The Fed is scheduled to release a statement at 12:30 p.m.,
followed by Bernanke’s press conference at 2:15 p.m. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  will keep the benchmark interest rate at
zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The committee will “firm up” language about keeping
borrowing costs low for an extended period and apply that to its
balance sheet as well, BNP Paribas SA analysts led by New York-
based Ray Attrill wrote in a note to clients.  The Fed’s second round of quantitative easing, a program to
purchase $600 billion in Treasuries, is scheduled to end this
month. Futures show the likelihood policy makers will increase
the target rate by March 2012 dropped to 20 percent, from 30
percent a month ago.  “I don’t think the FOMC decision will support the
dollar,” said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “While they will signal the
end of the current quantitative easing scheduled at the end of
June, that’s fully anticipated.”  Pound Weakens  The pound slid 0.7 percent to $1.6140 and was 0.8 percent
weaker at 89.45 pence per euro.  The majority of the Monetary Policy Committee said the
“current weakness of demand growth was likely to persist for
longer than previously thought,” according to minutes of the
June 8-9  Bank of England  meeting published today in  London .
Europe’s debt crisis highlighted the potential for further
shocks, and for some members, it “was possible that further
asset purchases might become warranted,” the notes showed.  Norway’s krone extended an advance versus the euro as the
Norges Bank kept its benchmark interest rate on hold at 2.25
percent and said gradual increases are projected for the second
half of the year.  The krone gained 0.8 percent to 7.8453 per euro and
appreciated 1 percent against the dollar to 5.4327.  Greek Contagion  The euro may fall in the second half of the year to levels
last seen in February on risks that contagion from  Greece  will
affect countries including Ireland and Portugal, Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc said.  “The European situation is not just about Greece,” said
Anthony Michael, the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific fixed
income at Aberdeen Asset, which manages $103 billion of
investments in the region. “It’s also about Ireland, Portugal
and  Spain , and the risk of contagion out of Greece and across
the banking industry throughout Europe.”  The 17-nation currency may drop to as low as $1.35 in the
second half of the year, which would be the weakest since Feb.
16, the firm said. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey is for it to trade at $1.41 by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  