-- 
Even Internet-Age Companies Need Ferment of City: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/even-internet-age-companies-need-ferment-of-city-edward-glaeser.html
Over the past month, we have heard
reports that  UBS AG (UBSN)  may move the staff of its U.S. investment
bank from  Stamford ,  Connecticut , to Manhattan by 2015. The
Boston Globe recently reported that  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  is bringing
its headquarters and more than 500 jobs back to Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , from Weston, where it moved less than a year ago.
And Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc.  will build a publishing team
in New York, with the help of a former publisher and literary
agent, Laurence Kirshbaum.  The common theme of these stories is that cities and
spatial proximity still matter in the Internet Age. Amazon.com
specializes in long-distance salesmanship, but when it comes to
producing intellectual content, it wants a physical footprint in
 New York City , right at the center of America’s publishing
cluster.  Biogen is a global biotechnology firm, founded in Geneva in
1978, but its chief executive officer, George Scangos, needs a
temporary office in Cambridge. Apparently, the 30-minute drive
from the company’s Weston headquarters to its Cambridge-based
research and development facilities is just too long.  The  New York  Times reported that UBS’s possible move would
serve “mostly to be closer to clients,” and that “a suburban
location has become a liability in recruiting the best and
brightest young bankers, who want to live in  Manhattan  or
 Brooklyn .”  Proximity to MIT  None of these stories is anywhere near finished. Biogen
still has a long lease on its Weston headquarters, and it hasn’t
yet found enough affordable space in the research-rich
neighborhood near the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
Amazon’s New York publishing venture may fail or move elsewhere.
Stamford and Connecticut will fight hard for UBS, and there is
speculation that the bank floated the proposed move only as a
way to get a better tax deal.  Yet the three stories together tell a collective tale that
contradicts the view that ever-better electronic connections
will mean the end of face-to-face contact, along with the cities
that make that contact easier. At the dawn of the Internet Age,
cyber-seers, such as Alvin Toffler and William Knoke, saw a
future in which we would inhabit “electronic cottages” in a
“spaceless world.” But while new technologies are even more
miraculous than promised, space continues to matter. Companies
are still willing to put up with the price of a  Manhattan 
location in order to gain the benefits of being near brilliance.  Information Transmission  Fifteen years ago, I raised the possibility that
“telecommunications are not a substitute for face-to-face
interactions, but in fact these two forms of information
transmission are  complements ,” which would mean that better
electronic connections make in-person connections more, not
less, important.  The techno-prophets were surely correct in predicting that
some personal interactions would become obsolete; Amazon.com
undoubtedly has reduced the number of times that book buyers
come in direct contact with salespeople.  But I suspected then that better electronic communications
would also cause people “to start more relationships and make
more contacts,” and while these connections may start with
phones and Facebook, they eventually lead to face-to-face
meetings. If electronic media increase the value of in-person
meetings by creating a more interactive economy, then better
technology would lead to a world where space matters more, not
less.  Global Outreach  In my book “ Triumph of the City ,” I advanced a more
important reason why electronic innovations have made personal
contact more valuable. New technologies and globalization have
steadily increased the returns to knowledge and new ideas.
Amazon.com can make more money from better books because its
electronic retailing enables it to sell on the other side of the
planet. The returns to brainpower in finance have only increased
as that industry has globalized and become more technologically
intense. A vast literature has documented the improved financial
returns to measures of skills, such as years of education.  Yet the value of new ideas makes cities more important
because we are a social species. We get smart by being around
other smart people. Anyone who has ever taught can confirm that
knowing your script is the easy part -- the hard part is getting
your ideas across, and being there really matters.  Face-to-Face Cues  During millions of years of evolution, humans have acquired
rich cues for communicating comprehension or confusion. These
become more important when ideas get complicated, and they are
too often lost in cyberspace. Certainly, the ever-increasing
number of applications to traditional universities, such as
Harvard, shows the robust demand for face-to-face learning from
faculty and peers.  But the most important reason that young people want to be
at the center of the action is that they are exposed to a wealth
of unplanned experiences that couldn’t possibly be picked up
over the ether. No industry has better access to communications
technology than software, yet Silicon Valley is the most famous
example of a spatial cluster in the world today.  The Googleplex may be the most physically connected
innovation hub on the planet. Young software engineers know that
they will pick up invaluable insights by being there, by seeing
what does and doesn’t work, by making connections that count.
UBS’s young investment bankers who value New York similarly
value the human capital that comes from local learning.  Borrowing Old Ideas  Facebook is a flat-world phenomenon that enables effortless
long-distance social connection, but it was invented in the
idea-rich corridors of Cambridge. It is normal for new ideas to
borrow from old ones, and density enables chains of connected
creativity. We shouldn’t be surprised that Biogen wants to be
near MIT.  Cities continue to face enormous challenges, from the
fiscal woes in the U.S. to the unclean water in the
megalopolises of the developing world. But the urban future is
far brighter than it was 30 years ago, when it seemed
globalization would hit knowledge-workers, such as those on  Wall
Street , just as hard as it hit city-based manufacturers, such as
New York’s garment industry, once America’s largest industrial
cluster.  Today, Manhattan doesn’t make many garments, but it does
produce plenty of fashion designs, and that’s likely to continue
as new technologies magnify the importance of humankind’s
greatest asset: our ability to learn from people around us.  (Edward Glaeser is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Edward L. Glaeser at  Eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@ bloomberg.net. 