-- 
Mexico Captures Alleged Leader of Violent Familia Cartel

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-22T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/mexico-captures-el-chango-leader-of-familia-drug-cartel-1-.html
Mexican authorities arrested
yesterday the alleged leader of the Familia drug trafficking
organization, based in President Felipe Calderon’s home state of
Michoacan in western  Mexico .  Jose de Jesus Mendez, known as “El Chango,” or “The
Monkey,” was listed as one of the nation’s most-wanted
traffickers with a 30-million-peso ($2.55-million) reward for
information leading to his capture. He was captured in the
central state of Aguascalientes by the federal police,
government security spokesman  Alejandro Poire  said in Mexico
City yesterday.  Poire said the arrest was the government’s “strongest
blow” against the cartel, which a U.S. congressional report
last month classified as “an extremely violent drug trafficking
organization.”  The arrest may intensify violence in the region as rival
cartels fight for territory in Michoacan, a state that hosts one
of the country’s largest ports and produces marijuana, heroin
poppies and methamphetamine, said Jose Reveles, author of the
2010 book, “The Uncomfortable Cartel.”  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year and total more than 34,000 since
Calderon took office in December 2006. The government estimates
the violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  Mendez had caused a split in the Familia by seeking an
alliance with the Zetas, a cartel based in northeastern Mexico
that is also known for violent tactics, Reveles said. Mendez
took control of the organization after the death last year of
Nazario Moreno Gonzalez, known as “El Chayo,” he said.  Extortion, Kidnapping  La Familia has operated in Michoacan since 2000, Poire said
Dec. 10 after announcing the death of Moreno, who wrote texts
describing the doctrine cartel members must follow. The group
produces and transports narcotics and is also involved in
extortion and kidnapping, Poire said.  La Familia claims to protect Mexicans, preaching against use
of methamphetamine in Mexico in favor of sending it to the U.S.,
according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. The cartel
also hands out free toys to children in Michoacan.  Violence has intensified in the state since Calderon took
office in 2006. Seven people were killed and more than 100
injured during Independence Day celebrations in 2008 when
grenades exploded in a crowd in the central square of Morelia,
the capital, 210 kilometers (130 miles) west of Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  