-- 
Federal Reserve Frets Over Fiscal Recklessness Behind Calm of 0.09% Yield

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-22T17:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fed-frets-over-fiscal-recklessness-behind-calm-of-0-09-yield.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is stepping up his call for the government to rein in
the federal deficit -- just not now.  The central bank chief and his lieutenants are expressing
concern that Congress’s failure to close what Dallas Fed
President Richard Fisher called the nation’s “fiscal sinkhole”
puts the economy at risk. At the same time, they say that acting
too quickly may choke off a recovery hobbled by an  unemployment
rate  above 9 percent.  Concern that government spending cuts will inhibit economic
growth may prompt the Fed to maintain record stimulus well
beyond the completion of its $600 billion bond purchase program
this month, said  Dean Maki  of  Barclays Capital . Should the
economy weaken further, there’s little more the Fed can do to
spur growth and create jobs with interest rates near zero and
the balance sheet at a record $2.83 trillion.  “The Fed is not inclined to do more easing in the form of
asset purchases, and it would create something of a dilemma for
them if there’s such a dramatic near-term fiscal tightening put
in place that it prevented the Fed from achieving its mandate”
for full employment, said Maki, chief U.S. economist at Barclays
in New York. The prospect of fiscal tightening “certainly is a
factor pushing the Fed to delay its exit strategy.”  The Federal Open Market Committee’s meeting yesterday and
today in  Washington  was the last one before Aug. 2, when the
Treasury Department says it will no longer be able to borrow to
finance government operations unless lawmakers agree to raise
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  ‘Extended Period’  Policy makers today affirmed a decision to end bond
purchases and repeated their pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate close to zero for an “extended period.”  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee would like,” the
FOMC said in a statement today. Bernanke is scheduled to meet
the press at 2:15 p.m.  Lawmakers such as Senator Pat Toomey, Republican of
 Pennsylvania , and Senator  Ben Nelson , Democrat of  Nebraska , are
insisting on spending cuts as a condition for an agreement to
raise the debt limit. Bernanke, in a June 14 speech, said the
limit shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip to force cuts, and
that failing to raise the cap could cause “severe disruptions”
in financial markets.  “I urge the Congress and the administration to work in
good faith to quickly develop and implement a credible plan to
achieve long-term sustainability,” Bernanke said.  Enhancing Performance  Such a plan “would not only enhance economic performance
in the long run, but could also yield near-term benefits by
leading to lower long-term interest rates and increased consumer
and business confidence,” he said.  So far, the concern about the deficit hasn’t driven U.S.
borrowing costs to above-average levels. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.98 percent at 1:40 p.m. in
 New York  today. That’s below the average of 7 percent since 1980
and the average of 5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. Treasury six-month bill
rates were at 0.08 percent.  Lawmakers and investors shouldn’t take comfort in low U.S.
borrowing costs because markets are often “complacent” about
the risk from excessive deficit spending, said  James Bullard ,
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis .  “When it does blow up it will be too late,” Bullard said
in an interview last month in New York. “When markets lose
confidence in the U.S. and say that they don’t trust us any
more, rates will skyrocket and the crisis will be upon you.”  Greek Yields  He cited  Europe  as an example. Greek 10-year bond yields
were 17 percent yesterday, up from 5.77 percent on Jan. 1, 2010.
The cost of insuring against default on Greek, Irish and
Portuguese government debt surged to records in the last week
after European Union talks stalled on a second bailout for
Greece and police deployed tear gas to break up anti-government
protests in Athens.  Some Republican lawmakers, including Representative Joe Walsh of  Illinois , have scoffed at warnings that failing to
raise the debt limit would trigger a financial catastrophe.
Obligations to bondholders can be met with the  tax revenue  that
will continue to pour into the Treasury, and the government’s
other bills can be delayed or cut without panicking financial
markets, the Republicans say.  Bernanke last week dismissed notions that Treasury payments
could be “prioritized” to avoid a default, saying delaying any
government payments could create “serious concern” about the
nation’s creditworthiness.  Politics of Budget  The Fed is “concerned with the playing around and the
politics of the budget,” said Robert Eisenbeis, former head of
research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and now chief
monetary economist at Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland
Advisors Inc. “Their belief is that fiscal stimulus is the way
to get out and get the economy growing faster.”  While Fed officials are urging lawmakers to adopt a long-
term plan to lower budget deficits and the debt, they are
warning against cutting too quickly.  “No issue is more important than a credible commitment for
getting our fiscal house in order, but at a pace that does not
forestall a sustained recovery,” William C. Dudley, president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in a June 7
speech.  Payrolls Slow  Companies boosted payrolls in May at the slowest pace since
June 2010, Labor Department figures released June 3 showed.
Autos sold last month at the weakest pace since September,
retail sales dropped for the first time in 11 months and
manufacturing grew at the slowest pace since September 2009,
other data showed this month.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks declined 5
percent to 1,295.52 yesterday from its 2011 peak on April 29 as
concern also escalated that  Greece  would default on its debt,
sparking a European crisis that would hamper the U.S. recovery.
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told Charlie Rose
last week that Greece’s crisis has the potential to push the
U.S. into another recession.  Bernanke, in a speech on June 7, said that “accommodative
monetary policies are still needed” to boost a recovery that’s
“frustratingly slow.”  Policy makers “are saying we want to maintain what we’ve
got for a while and we can’t afford to pull away any of the
stimulus right now,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Threat to Recovery  Budget cuts threaten to further sap the recovery, says
 Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  Harris forecasts that a fiscal contraction, including $50
billion in spending cuts, will reduce economic growth by one
percentage point next year, to 3 percent. That assumes the U.S.
doesn’t default on its debt, he said.  “The Fed is worried they’re in the process of losing their
partner in fighting this bad economy,” Harris said. “That’s
the problem with premature fiscal tightening -- it’s not like
we’re in a normal world where the Fed’s got plenty of ammunition
and political support to do the right thing.”  The Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600 billion of bonds --
dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative easing --sparked
the harshest political backlash in three decades.  Asset Bubbles  Republican lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner
of  Ohio , said the program risks accelerating inflation,
weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles. The last time
the Fed faced such a backlash was in the late 1970s and early
1980s, after a plummeting dollar and surging inflation prompted
the central bank to raise interest rates as high as 20 percent.  “If everyone on the planet criticizes the Fed every time
they act, you sharply reduce the benefits of Fed policy,”
Harris said. “QE2 was severely undercut by the severe criticism
it faced, so the Fed would rather not be riding to the rescue
again on the rather sore-footed horse that they’re riding right
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  