-- 
FedEx Says Full-Year Profit May Exceed Estimates as Shipping Demand Gains

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-06-22T20:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fedex-says-full-year-profit-may-exceed-estimates-as-shipping-demand-gains.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  predicted a fiscal 2012
profit that may exceed analysts’ estimates as a strengthening
economic recovery buoys demand for international air-cargo
shipments and jet-fuel costs ease.  The earnings forecast of $6.35 to $6.85 a share compares
with an average of $6.54 from 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
FedEx, operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, and  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  deliver goods ranging from financial
documents to pharmaceuticals, making them economic bellwethers.  “The near-term softness in the economy will be temporary
as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs and the
Japanese economy recovers,” Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith 
said on a conference call after FedEx posted a quarterly profit.
“Going forward, we see stronger economic growth.”  FedEx gained $2.31, or 2.6 percent, to $91.44 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since May 5.  International shipments in the Memphis, Tennessee-based
company’s express division, along with gains in the ground unit,
will drive growth in the year ending May 31, Chief Financial
Officer Alan Graf said on the call. The express unit’s revenue
per package, or yield, increased 10 percent to $22.69 in the
quarter through May.  Quarterly Profit Gain  “They see the flow of packages daily,”  Peter Nesvold , a
New York-based analyst with Jefferies and Co. said in a
telephone interview. “Based on their insight from that, they
think that what’s happened in the last couple months or so is
more or less temporary.”  FedEx expects the  U.S. economy  to grow 2.5 percent in
calendar 2011 and 3 percent the year after, Mike Glenn, a
company spokesman, said on the call.  Net income in the fiscal fourth quarter climbed 33 percent
to $558 million, or $1.75 a share, from $419 million, or $1.33 a
share, a year earlier, the company said. Analysts had projected
net income of $1.71 a share, the average of 12 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  The express unit’s gains were led by a 15 percent volume
increase in domestic shipments outside the U.S. International
priority shipment volume climbed 6 percent.  “Volumes were pretty good across the board, particularly
international out of  Asia ,” said  Kevin Sterling , an analyst
with BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond, Virginia, who has a
“buy” rating on the shares. “So they continue to have a
strong international presence and are benefitting from that.”  The company posted profit of $1.45 billion, or $4.57 a
share, on sales of $39.3 billion in the year through May.
Quarterly revenue climbed 12 percent to $10.6 billion.  FedEx, which spent 44 percent more on fuel during the
quarter through May as  oil prices  rose amid unrest in the  Middle
East , recoups that expense through a surcharge with a two-month
lag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  