-- 
Fed to Keep Stimulus After Asset Purchases End, Sees Slowdown as Temporary

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-06-22T23:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/federal-reserve-to-maintain-record-stimulus-after-ending-asset-purchases.html
Federal Reserve officials decided to
keep the central bank’s balance sheet at a record to spur the
slowing economy after completing $600 billion of bond purchases
this month.  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press
conference after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .
Bernanke and his colleagues on the panel cut their growth
forecasts for this year and next and raised their estimates for
the unemployment rate, driving stocks lower.  Bernanke said that unemployment, now at 9.1 percent, will
come down “very painfully slowly” even after the pace of
economic growth picks up starting in the second half of the
year. Some of the reasons for the slowdown, such as higher
commodity prices and supply-chain disruptions caused by the
March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , will be temporary, he
said. Others, including declines in  home prices  and financial-
sector weakness, may be more long-lasting.  “Some of these headwinds may be stronger and more
persistent than we thought,” Bernanke said. “We don’t have a
precise read on why this slower pace of growth is persisting.”  Stocks fell, ending a four-day rally. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declined 0.7 percent to 1,287.14 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
was 2.98 percent, little changed from late yesterday.  Fed’s Options  Bernanke said the Fed has options to further stimulate the
economy, such as undertaking additional bond purchases or
strengthening its commitment to holding rates lower for longer.  “They have their own costs,” he said. “But we’d be
prepared to take additional action, obviously, if conditions
warranted,” he said.  At the same time, he stressed that the economy has improved
since last August, when he first indicated that the Fed might
embark on a second round of large-scale asset purchases to stave
off the threat of a broad-based decline in prices.  “The current outlook is significantly different than what
we were facing in -- in August of last year,” he said. “We no
longer have a deflation risk.”  Bernanke is keeping his options open on the Fed’s next
step, said Jerry Webman, chief economist and senior investment
officer at OppenheimerFunds in New York.  On the Horizon  “It’s pretty clear that they don’t see anything on the
horizon that would get them to adjust policy one way or the
other,” said Webman. “There has got to be a wait-and-see
period to see what effects some of these temporary exogenous
factors will have.”  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008, and
repeated a pledge to keep it there “for an extended period.”
The decision was unanimous.  In his press conference, Bernanke said an “extended
period” means the Fed would maintain rates at low levels for at
least two or three meetings. The Fed meets eight times a year.  “The thrust of extended period is that we believe we’re at
least two or three meetings away from taking any further
action,” he said. “And I emphasize at least. But depending on
how the economy evolves, and inflation and unemployment, it
could be, you know, significantly longer.”  Securities Holdings  The Fed will aim to keep the domestic securities holdings
in its System Open Market Account at about $2.654 trillion,
according to separate a statement today from the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York .  “They want to keep as accommodative as possible for as
long as they can to hopefully add some juice to the economy and
raise demand until the recovery is on a firmer footing,” said
Sam Bullard, a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “They acknowledged economic
conditions have deteriorated since the April meeting.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in
the first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2010, and recent data have shown manufacturing and consumer
and business sentiment weakening.  Fed governors and regional-bank presidents now say the
economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year,
down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based
on the median range of projections. Growth in 2012 will range
from 3.3 percent to 3.7 percent, compared with forecasts of 3.5
percent to 4.2 percent in April, the Fed said.  Unemployment Forecasts  Central bankers raised their forecast range for the U.S.
 unemployment rate  to average 8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011, compared with projections of 8.4 percent
to 8.7 percent in April. For the fourth quarter of 2012, the
rate will average 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent, versus prior
forecasts of 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent.  Inflation excluding food and energy prices will range from
1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this year, the projections today
showed, up from 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent in the April
forecasts. That’s based on the Commerce Department’s core
personal consumption expenditures price index.  “Inflation has moved up recently, but the Committee
anticipates that inflation will subside to levels at or below
those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate as the
effects of past energy and other commodity price increases
dissipate,” the statement said.  Bernanke said on June 7 that policy makers will “closely
monitor” inflation, while predicting that price increases will
ease in the medium term. The  consumer price index  rose 3.6
percent for the 12 months ending in May, the most since October
2008, as food and fuel prices drove the benchmark higher. So-
called core CPI, the index excluding food and fuel, rose 1.5
percent during the same period, the most since January 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  