-- 
Fibrocell Wins FDA Backing on Cell-Based Wrinkle Drug

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T19:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fibrocell-wins-fda-backing-on-cell-based-wrinkle-drug-correct-.html
Fibrocell Science Inc. (FCSC)  won U.S.
approval for an injectible wrinkle treatment that uses a
patient’s own cells to restore elasticity to the skin.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared azficel-T, the
Exton, Pennsylvania-based company said today in a statement.
Fibrocell plans to sell the drug under the name LaViv.  The drug will be Fibrocell’s initial marketed product and
the first wrinkle smoother made from a patient’s cells. The drug
will compete with Allergan Inc.’s Botox, a toxic injection that
relaxes facial muscles, and wrinkle fillers such as Allergan’s
Juvederm and  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX) ’s Restylane that use
animal collagens or chemicals.  “The concept of using a patient’s own collagen-making
cells is a revolutionary way” to help reduce the creases that
extend from the sides of the nose to the corners of the mouth,
Robert Weiss, a clinical associate professor at Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine in Baltimore, and an investigator in the
drug’s clinical trials, said in the company statement.  Fibrocell gained 10 cents, or 8.6 percent, to $1.26 at 3:17
p.m. in over-the-counter trading. The shares have more than
doubled this year before today. Allergan, based in  Irvine ,
 California , declined 64 cents to $82.13 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  LaViv failed to win FDA approval in 2009 and the agency
asked for more safety data. The company conducted a new study
and submitted the results last December, saying they didn’t
raise safety concerns.  Patient Registry  As a condition of approval, the company will create a
registry of about 2,700 patients to further evaluate the drug’s
safety, according to today’s statement.  LaViv uses regenerative cells known as fibroblasts to treat
the wrinkles known as smile lines. The cells are  extracted  from
behind a patient’s ear and sent to Fibrocell’s laboratory, where
they are multiplied and harvested in a process that takes about
50 days. The new cells are then injected into the wrinkle site,
where they produce collagen and elastin to add strength and
support to the skin.  Two late-stage clinical trials showed the drug,
administered in three sessions about five weeks apart, reduced
the appearance of wrinkles for six months after the third
treatment. The medicine’s effectiveness after six months is “a
topic of further study,” the company said.  Fibrocell also is  testing  LaViv as a treatment for acne
scars, burn scars and periodontal disease, according to the
company’s website.  Outside advisers to the FDA said in 2008 that wrinkle
fillers made from animal collagens or chemicals can cause
scarring, tissue damage and other serious complications that may
take months to appear.  Botox, a purified form of the poison botulinum, relaxes
muscles by blocking connections to nerves. The FDA ordered
Allergan in 2009 to strengthen warnings that Botox may cause
muscle weakness and life-threatening breathing or swallowing
difficulties if the toxin spreads beyond the injection site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  