-- 
FIFA Report Says Compelling Evidence on Warner, Bin Hammam in Bribe Case

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-22T19:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fifa-report-says-compelling-evidence-on-warner-bin-hammam-in-bribe-case.html
FIFA suspended former vice-president
 Jack Warner  and Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of Asian soccer,
because it had “compelling” evidence against them in a bribery
investigation, a report into the case said.  Evidence was found that Bin Hammam tried to bribe officials
to vote for him in a presidential election, and that Warner was
“an accessory to corruption,” according to a summary sent to
Warner by FIFA’s ethics committee and seen by Bloomberg News.  Warner quit the soccer ruling body this week after almost
30 years with the Zurich-based organization as a fuller
investigation by former FBI Director Louis Freeh continues. The
men were suspended May 29 after the ethics body heard
allegations that Warner arranged a meeting where  Bin Hammam 
offered gifts of $40,000 to Caribbean officials for their votes
in FIFA’s presidential election. Sepp Blatter retained the post
unopposed after Bin Hammam withdrew.  “It appears rather compelling to consider that the actions
of Mr. Bin Hammam constitute prima facie an act of bribery, or
at least an attempt to commit bribery,” said a section of the
full report that led to Bin Hammam and Warner’s suspension.
There was compelling evidence that Warner “had knowledge of the
respective payments and condoned them.” FIFA didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  Corruption Allegations  The ethics committee reached a primary conclusion that Bin
Hammam appeared to have intended to influence Caribbean Football
Union member associations’ votes in his favor in the FIFA
presidential election on June 1 by the alleged gifts of money.  Bin Hammam, in a text message today, denied all the
allegations against him. He failed in an appeal to lift the
suspension 10 days ago.  Warner, in an e-mail today, said the process against him
was “designed as a fait accompli.”  “Moreover, if there’s ‘comprehensive, convincing and
overwhelming’ evidence, as the report says, why then did FIFA
accept my resignation and drop all investigations on me?” he
added.  In an interview two days ago he said he was quitting all
his posts in soccer, including heading the Concacaf regional
body since 1990, because people within FIFA and  Concacaf 
“sought to undermine me in ways that are unimaginable.” The
disciplinary action against him was dropped after he resigned.  “It is now evident that there are those in a section of
the FIFA fraternity who are not only pathologically mendacious,
but in the face of FIFA’s stated position and its voluntary
recognition of my contribution to world football and by
definition to FIFA, will stop at no length to destroy my legacy
and destabilize the Caribbean region,” Warner said in a
statement today.  The suspensions of Warner and Bin Hammam, two of soccer’s
most senior officials, came amid corruption allegations against
several members of FIFA’s hierarchy.  Part of FIFA History  Sponsors and partners including European soccer’s governing
body  UEFA  have demanded FIFA take reform measures. Blatter, who
was re-elected to a fourth term, announced the creation of new
panels to deal with unethical behavior.  Warner told Bloomberg News in the interview that although
he was unaware of Bin Hammam offering money to officials, cash
gifts had been part of FIFA’s history for as long as he’d been
with the organization.  “It’s not unusual for such things to happen and gifts have
been around throughout the history of FIFA,” Warner said.
“What’s happening now for me is hypocrisy at the highest
level.”  The 17-page report detailing the case against Warner was
faxed to the Trinidadian on June 14, with a separate report
going to Bin Hammam. It contains witness testimony from some of
those present at a meeting of the Caribbean Football Union at
Port of  Spain ’s Hyatt Regency hotel, where Warner arranged for
Bin Hammam to address soccer officials in May.  Brown Envelopes  The report said witnesses from the Bahamas,  Bermuda  and the
Turks and Caicos provided “credible and correspondent”
testimony that they were handed brown envelopes containing
$40,000 in four stacks of $10,000 made up of $100 bills. Fred Lunn, a soccer official in the Bahamas, photographed the cash
and submitted the pictures to FIFA.  Warner provided written and oral evidence to FIFA’s ethics
committee, headed by Namibian judge Petrus Damaseb, before its
decision. FIFA’s report said his defense contained “mere self-
serving declarations” that “failed to provide the FIFA ethics
committee with a plausible explanation.”  Still, in confirming Warner’s resignation, FIFA in a
statement said his “presumption of innocence is maintained”
and that the 68-year-old would no longer be under investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  