-- 
FIFA Probe Tells of $40,000 Payments in Warner, Mohamed Bin Hammam Case

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-22T16:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fifa-probe-tells-of-40-000-payments-in-warner-mohamed-bin-hammam-case.html
FIFA’s ethics committee found
there’s evidence to support allegations that payments of $40,000
were offered to Caribbean soccer officials as an inducement to
back Mohamed  Bin Hammam  in presidential elections at the soccer
ruling body.  Asian soccer head Bin Hammam and former FIFA vice-president
Jack Warner were suspended after the allegations.  The findings of the committee were laid out in a document
sent to Warner by FIFA on June 14 and seen by Bloomberg News.  Warner resigned two days ago after almost 30 years with
FIFA, which has now closed the case against him. Ex-FBI Director
Louis Freeh’s investigation into the case against Bin Hammam and
other officials continues. Bin Hammam and Warner have denied the
allegations.  Officials proved guilty of offering cash gifts could face a
life ban from soccer. Witnesses at the Caribbean Football Union
meeting in Trinidad in May told the committee they received four
stacks of $10,000 each in an envelope.  The following are excerpts from the ethics committee’s
report. The document refers to Warner, who was also head of the
CFU, as “the accused.”  On allegations that gifts of $40,000 were distributed to
Caribbean officials:  “At this stage the FIFA Ethics Committee considers that it
appears that on the occasion of the CFU meeting of May 10-11,
2011, $40,000 in cash were offered to each of CFU’s member
associations. This assumption is based not only on detailed
statements and affidavits of the witnesses, mentioned before,
but also on the objective evidence in the form of photographs
and transcripts of cellphone text messages.”  On Warner’s statement that he didn’t know of the $40,000
payments:  “The  FIFA  ethics committee deems it simply inconceivable
that the accused -- given his position within CFU and his role
in the context of the special meeting -- would not have known
anything about the money offered to the attendees of the meeting
concerned.”  On what the money would be used for:  “Given that the accused appears to have had knowledge of
the payments made to CFU members by Mr. Bin Hammam, it might
seem also clear to the accused that Mr. Bin Hammam appears to
have intended, by delivering the respective money, to influence
the voting behavior of the CFU member associations at the FIFA
presidential election of June 1, 2011, in his favor.”  On why Bin Hammam offered cash to CFU members:  “It appears rather compelling to consider that the actions
of Mr. Bin Hammam constitute prima facie an act of bribery, or
at least an attempt to commit bribery.”  On Warner’s role:  “The comprehensive, convincing and overwhelming evidence
permits to conclude prima facie that the accused has initiated
and arranged a special meeting of the CFU member associations
for Mr. Bin Hammam. Furthermore, on the occasion of this
meeting, it seems Mr. Bin Hammam offered, at least indirectly
and under the pledge of secrecy, to each of the member
associations an envelope containing $40,000.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  