-- 
Food Is Showing Element of ‘Overshoot,’ Economist Lawson Says

-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-06-22T16:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/food-is-showing-element-of-overshoot-economist-lawson-says.html
There is an element of “overshoot”
in food markets, and “therefore there is pressure worldwide,
both in the States and in  Europe , to look at ways to regulate
markets,” Brian Lawson, an economist at Exclusive Analysis,
told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”
His comments follow.  “Politicians feel very strong pressure at the moment. In
January, when we saw the Middle Eastern crisis developing, we
looked very hard at the role of food as a contributing factor.
It’s important to note that a less than 5 percent change in the
supply of wheat led to an over 70 percent move in its price.
That quite clearly had enormous impact on countries such as
Tunisia and  Egypt .  “Politicians felt that pressure as early as the first
quarter this year. President Sarkozy spoke of the possibility of
food related riots. We’ve already seen this. And the danger in a
market where demand is growing consistently, where  living
standards  and population are rising, and also as living
standards rise, people consume more meat, putting even greater
pressure on the grain market. Ultimately there is the tendency
for a systematic rise in prices and unless something is done to
alter that balance, politicians are going to feel greater and
greater pressure. So they’re looking for ways to calm markets
and to feed the growing population.  “There have been a lot of different studies made as to the
possible role of speculation in exacerbating food price
movement. We certainly felt that the last spike was not driven
initially by speculation. It was driven by crop failure in
countries such as  Russia . However, we did see a doubling of open
futures contract interest, for example, in Chicago wheat. And
through what are quite natural investment processes, we could
argue that there is an element of overshoot taking place within
markets. And therefore there is pressure worldwide, both in the
States and in Europe, to look at ways to regulate markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Francine  Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  