-- 
Ford Beefs Up Technology Team on Demand for Mobile Apps in Cars

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-06-22T03:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ford-beefs-up-technology-team-on-demand-for-mobile-apps-in-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, is beefing up its technology staff as more
drivers seek to use mobile-phone software applications such as
Internet radio and voice commands in their vehicles.  The company has already hired software engineers from
Microsoft Corp., Nokia Oyj and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , and is
looking for a chief technologist as well as developers who can
work on mobile apps, said Doug VanDagens, director of Ford’s
connected service solutions. He recently got permission to
quadruple the size of his team globally.  “I laid out the product opportunities that we had with our
senior management here at Ford, and asked for an even more
aggressive growth curve,” VanDagens said in an interview.
“After seeing the product plan, everyone was all in.”  Technology expertise is in demand in Motor City, as
automakers replace car stereos with Internet radio and gasoline
engines with lithium-ion batteries.  Detroit  was the fastest-
expanding region for technology job postings last year,
according to website Dice Holdings Inc. Ford is also working to
fix software glitches as it integrates new technology, such as
touch-screen and voice controls, into its cars.  Ford’s AppLink software, which lets drivers control
smartphone apps with the company’s voice-activated
communications system, called Sync, will be available on 10
models this year, after debuting on one in December.  App Developers  In the past six months, the number of app developers that
have applied to create programs for Ford’s vehicles has
increased by 150 percent to more than 2,500, said Alan Hall, a
spokesman for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford.  “The ability to utilize some of these apps in the car is
becoming very desirable by consumers, particularly Internet
radio,” said Phil Magney, vice president of automotive research
for  IHS ISuppli . “Ford is very aggressive -- I would have to
give them credit to be first to fully capitalize on the latest
trend.”  Yesterday, the automaker said it was addressing complaints
about its MyFordTouch and Sync technology and improving the
software, after its Explorer sport-utility vehicle this month
was ranked 17th out of 19 models in its class reviewed by
 Consumer Reports , which called the touch-screen controls
“complicated and distracting.” J.D. Power & Associates said it
had received reports of the screens blanking out.  “We’re largely back on track on some of these early
issues,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, said
yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has worked to improve
the automaker’s quality, helping Ford report $9.28 billion in
profit the past two years, rebounding from $30.1 billion in
losses from 2006 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  