-- 
Fourth Rothstein Associate Pleads Guilty in Fake Lawsuit Settlement Scheme

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-06-22T14:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fourth-rothstein-associate-pleads-guilty-in-fake-lawsuit-settlement-scheme.html
A fourth associate of convicted
fraudster Scott Rothstein admitted to his role in a $1.2 billion
investment scheme involving fake lawsuit settlements.  William Corte, 38, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
 wire fraud  today in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , federal court
before U.S. District Judge William Dimitrouleas.  Prosecutors say Corte and Curtis Renie, 38, worked for
Rothstein’s law firm as technology specialists and set up a fake
TD Bank website showing Rothstein had $1.1 billion in a trust
account. Renie pleaded guilty last week. Rothstein used the site
to convince potential investors their investments would be safe,
prosecutors said.  “The investors, relying on this information, ended up
investing in excess of $35 million,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Lawrence LaVecchio told the judge.  Corte’s attorney, Alvin Entin, said that while his client
didn’t know the website was being used in an investment scheme,
prosecutors would be able to prove he was part of the
conspiracy. Sentencing is set for Sept. 8.  Rothstein pleaded guilty last year to five counts of
racketeering,  money laundering  and wire fraud, admitting he sold
investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-harassment
and whistle-blower suits. He was sentenced to 50 years in
prison.  Two other men, an attorney at Rothstein’s firm, Howard
Kusnick, 59, and a friend, Stephen Caputi, 53, pleaded guilty
this month to conspiracy to commit wire fraud for their roles in
the scheme.  The cases are U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123; U.S. v. Kusnick, 11-
60125; and U.S. v. Caputi, 11-60124; U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in  West Palm Beach , Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  