-- 
France’s Sarkozy Urges Action Against the ‘Plague’ of Food Price Surges

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-22T19:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/france-s-sarkozy-urges-action-against-the-plague-of-food-price-surges.html
World food prices that rose 37
percent in a year, driving 44 million more people into poverty,
are a “plague” that need action from world leaders now, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  Group of 20 farm ministers are meeting in Paris today and
tomorrow to discuss  food security  and proposals for regulating
the global agricultural markets.  France , which holds the G-20
presidency, wants a central database on crops, limits on export
bans, international market regulation, emergency stockpiles and
a plan to raise global output. The proposals to limit export
curbs and start a database will be “especially sensitive,”
French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said last week.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as Russia and
 Ukraine  curbed exports after drought decimated crops, adding to
record global food prices the  World Bank  says put 44 million
more people into poverty since June. Nations will spend $1.29
trillion on food imports this year, the most ever and 21 percent
more than in 2010, the  United Nations  estimates.  “Volatility is a plague on farmers and consumers,”
Sarkozy said. “It also imperils agricultural productivity in
the future. Which farmer can make large investments when he
risks losing a third of his revenue the next year?”  A lack of transparency in global physical agricultural
markets is adding to price swings, which in turn threaten the
global economic recovery and future food output, Sarkozy said.  “The surge in commodity prices today threatens the global
recovery,” Sarkozy said. “It can plunge entire populations
into famine and poverty.”  He called for renewed spending on agriculture to boost
production.  Food Supply Rules  World leaders risk making this “the century of hunger”
unless they can agree on new rules on  food supply , Le Maire said
before the meeting.  France’s position on the main proposals being put to the
G-20 ministers is that either all are agreed on or there is no
accord, Le Maire said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
on June 20.  Brazil  backs the proposal to create a shared
database on food stocks and crop forecasts, said Wagner Rossi,
the Brazilian agriculture minister.  “We don’t want to dilute the action plan,” Le Maire said.
“Either the G-20 members are able to find consensus on
something which would help us to fight against excessive
volatility and to fight against hunger in the world,” or “it
would be a failure,” he said.  Trade Restrictions Debate  The ministers will most likely balk at the proposal on
trade restrictions, said Robert Carlson, international relations
director at the Washington-based National Farmers Union.
“That’s going to be a tough one,” Carlson said in an interview
in Brussels. “Probably the last thing you get agreement on is
the agreement to let somebody else control the borders of your
country.”  The last time prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more than
60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S. State
Department.  The G-20 countries account for 65 percent of all farmland
and 77 percent of global grain output, according to a statement
on the website of the G-20 presidency.  Corn futures advanced 82 percent in the past 12 months in
Chicago trading, a global benchmark, rice gained 39 percent and
sugar jumped 65 percent. There will be shortages in corn, wheat,
soybeans, coffee and cocoa this year or next, according to
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep. Prices also rose
after droughts and floods from  Australia  to  Canada  ruined crops
last year. European farmers are now contending with their driest
growing season in more than three decades.  Financial Market Regulation  Growth in agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous
decade, the United Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization 
and Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said in a report this month.  France will only sign an agreement that includes regulation
of financial markets for agricultural commodities, Le Maire
said. The details will be discussed by G-20 finance ministers
later this year, he said.  “A market that is not regulated is not a market, it’s a
lottery in which fortune smiles on the most cynical, instead of
rewarding hard work, investment and the creation of value,”
Sarkozy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  