-- 
France May Face Legal Action Following Shale Gas, Oil Ban

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-22T07:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/france-may-face-legal-action-following-shale-gas-oil-ban.html
France  risks legal action by energy
companies over a planned ban on a method of extracting oil and
natural gas from shale rock, according to Environment Minister
Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet.  “There could be court cases,” she said on LCI television
today, adding that a  law  approved last night by deputies in the
National Assembly was designed to “minimize legal risks”
although it could “open the way” to compensation claims.  The bill would allow the cancellation of exploration
permits if companies plan to use hydraulic fracturing, which
government ministers and industry representatives say is the
only method available to get hydrocarbons from the rock. The
Senate is scheduled to vote on the ban June 30 and if approved
it would become law.  Fracking, widely used in  North America , uses a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals injected under high pressure to break
dense rock to release oil and gas trapped within. Green groups
and politicians led protests across France, saying the method
could cause environmental damage.  France has already granted permits to companies including
 Total SA (FP) ,  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) ,  Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  and
Schuepbach Energy LLC for shale oil and gas exploration. Shares
of Toreador, which has the most permits to explore for shale oil
around Paris, have dropped about 76 percent since the start of
the year.  Hydraulic fracturing requires large quantities of water abd
risks water pollution, Kosciusko-Morizet said during a
parliamentary debate yesterday. She also said exploration for
the energy leads to more truck traffic, which could disturb
local residents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  