-- 
Fukuyama Says Abyss Awaits Blathering Deficit Demagogues: Books

-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/fukuyama-says-abyss-awaits-demagogues-blathering-over-deficit-book-review.html
There’s an old Soviet joke about a
Radio Moscow listener calling in with a question.  “Comrade,” he says. “One day you tell us America is on the
edge of a precipice. The next day you say we’re going to
overtake America. I don’t get it.”  This joke came to mind while reading  Francis Fukuyama’s 
latest book, “ The Origins of Political Order: From Prehuman
Times to the French Revolution .” Fukuyama, a senior fellow at
 Stanford University  and the author of “The End of History and
the Last Man,” tells us why some countries and not others have
achieved liberal democracies, but it’s not all just a pat on the
back. Those democracies, he adds, may not endure for all time.  A sobering message, but then this is a truth-telling book.
The argument is complex, sometimes convoluted, but for me what
Fukuyama is saying is that there is little use expecting swift
new strides toward democracy in countries where the cultural or
historical background is lacking.  For progress toward a modern political order, he says,
three things are necessary: the existence of a state with
centralized power and a monopoly on the means of coercion, as
distinct from warring tribes or kinship groups; the rule of law;
and accountable government. One or two of the three, he insists,
won’t do without the other.  China , for example, was the earliest and strongest state
the world has seen, dating from 221 BC, but the powers that be
-- yesterday the Emperor Qin Shi Huangdi, today the Communist
Party -- are accountable to no one.  Indian Democracy  India , with its quarrelsome religions and hard-wired caste
system, had no real state before the British came. Today it is a
democracy of sorts, though with a shaky rule of law,
institutionalized corruption and a large number of
parliamentarians wanted on criminal charges.  Muslims had a vision of a global state of believers -- the
ummah -- yet were riven by tribalism from the start: that’s what
gave rise to the Shiite/Sunni schism, all too visible today.  In  Europe , state power was balanced earlier than elsewhere
by the rule of law.  Russia , on the other hand, had been
barbarized by the Mongol invasion. So while serfdom was being
relaxed in the West, in Russia it was viciously reinforced.  At the same moment in Europe a literal-minded reading of
the Bible was promoting a message of equality before God.
Historically the consequences for Russia are plain to see: Just
as the Qin dynasty paved the way for the totalitarianism of  Mao Zedong , so Ivan the Terrible was a foretaste of  Josef Stalin .  ‘Getting to Denmark’  Fukuyama is not saying that the past invariably dictates
the future. Though the recent bolstering of authoritarian rule
in Putin’s Russia and communist China might suggest otherwise,
nations are not stuck in backward modes forever. Yet political
advance will not be smooth or quick. Tribalism, despotism and
religious bigotry have tenacious roots, and “Getting to  Denmark ”
-- a country seen by students of politics as a model democracy
-- can take what seems forever.  Modern communication technology can speed things up, but
the risk is that institutional change will remain on the surface
while more atavistic instincts operate underneath. High levels
of tribalism and corruption in Afghanistan and  Iraq  are evidence
enough of that. Let’s hope we’re not saying the same thing soon
about the Arab Spring.  To revert to our Soviet joke: How is it possible that
liberal democracies, once established, can tumble into the
abyss? By political decay, says our author. In the U.S. everyone
sees the need to tackle long-term fiscal problems but powerful
interest groups can terminally stymie the democratic process. In
other words, America’s massive deficit could end up bringing
down American democracy. Unlikely, in my view, though not in
Fukuyama’s.  A promised companion volume, covering the 18th century to
the present, will no doubt elaborate on how best to encourage
other nations to take to the democratic road, while ensuring we
hold fast to it ourselves.  “The Origins of Political Order” is published by Farrar,
Straus & Giroux in the U.S. and Profile in the U.K. (585 pages,
$35, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( George Walden , a former U.K. education minister, diplomat
and member of Parliament, is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
George Walden in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 