-- 
Gabon Bribery Defendants Are Caught ‘Red-Handed’ on Video, U.S. Tells Jury

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-23T00:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/gabon-bribery-defendants-caught-red-handed-on-video-u-s-tells-jury.html
Four security-industry executives
knew they were breaking the law when they agreed to make
payments to a Gabonese government minister, prosecutors said at
the close of trial in the biggest U.S. prosecution of
individuals for bribing foreign officials.  The four men, on trial in federal court in  Washington , are
part of a 22-defendant kickback conspiracy case resulting from a
sting operation and a fake $15 million weapons deal. Prosecutors
showed jurors about a dozen video clips today while making their
closing arguments in the case.  “The evidence is irrefutable,” Laura Perkins, a U.S.
Justice Department trial attorney, told the jury. “The
defendants were caught red-handed committing these crimes on
audio and videotape.”  Prosecutors allege the men sought to provide guns, grenades
and uniforms for the presidential guard of Gabon in violation of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The defendants -- John Wier
III, Andrew Bigelow, Lee Tolleson and Pankesh Patel -- have
denied any wrongdoing.  Defense lawyers accused the government of engineering the
conspiracy, breaking  Federal Bureau of Investigation  rules about
handling informants, and obscuring from their clients that the
deal involved a kickback payment by calling it a commission.  “They went out of their way in this case to hide the
illegality of the transaction from the participants,” Patel’s
lawyer, Matthew Menchel of Kobre & Kim in Miami, told jurors.  Competitors  Menchel, during closing arguments, said the defendants were
separate, independent suppliers who were competing against each
other and weren’t engaged in a conspiracy.  Lawyers for the other three defendants are scheduled to
make their final arguments tomorrow and jurors may begin
deliberating next week.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded telephone calls and videotaped meetings with FBI agents
posing as representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-
biggest oil producer.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a
$3 million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be paid to the country’s defense minister.  The four defendants on trial in U.S. District Court in
Washington each face one conspiracy count and one to two counts
of bribery. The FCPA conspiracy and bribery charges carry
maximum five-year prison sentences.  Smith & Wesson  Also arrested in what the government said was the biggest
prosecution for foreign bribery by number of individuals were
Amaro Goncalves, a former sales executive for  Smith & Wesson
Holding Corp. (SWHC) , based in Springfield,  Massachusetts , and R. Patrick Caldwell, a former U.S. Secret Service official who was
chief executive officer of Protective Products of America Inc.,
based in Sunrise,  Florida . The two men pleaded not guilty.  Three defendants pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate.
U.S. District Judge Richard Leon has grouped the remaining 19
defendants into four trials.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty last year to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers.  BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s largest arms company, bought
Armor Holdings in 2007 for $4.53 billion. Bistrong began
cooperating with prosecutors in 2007, according to court
records.  Embezzlement, Drugs  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the FBI, he recorded
telephone and in-person meetings with the defendants. He also
introduced them to Pascal Latour, an FBI agent posing as a
representative for Gabon’s defense minister.  Menchel recited a list of crimes that he said the
government knew Bistrong had committed, including embezzlement,
 tax evasion , illegal use of drugs and frequent use of
prostitutes.  The FBI allowed Bistrong to remain in business and make
more than $1 million while also working as an informant, Menchel
told jurors. Bistrong was never called to the witness stand.  “They didn’t care,” Menchel said, “As long as Richard
Bistrong was selling ice to Eskimos in this deal, he could do
whatever he wanted.”  FBI Tool  Perkins told jurors that the FBI used Bistrong as a tool to
root out corruption in the industry and said that it was better
that he was allowed to earn money “legitimately” than use
taxpayer dollars.  Patel, 45, of the U.K., is managing director of
Quartermaster’s Ltd., a company that sells military and law
enforcement uniforms, according to court papers. Bigelow, 42, of
 University Park , Florida, was the managing partner and director
of government programs for Heavy Metal Armory, a Sarasota,
Florida, company that sells machine guns, grenade launchers and
other firearms.  Tolleson, 27, of Mountain Home,  Arkansas , was director of
acquisitions and logistics for ALS Technologies, a company that
sells law-enforcement and military equipment. Wier, 48, sold
tactical and ballistic equipment through his company in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, according to court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  