-- 
Galliano Can’t Recall Anti-Semitic Rant

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-22T15:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/galliano-can-t-recall-anti-semitic-rant.html
John Galliano, the designer fired by
 Christian Dior SA (CDI)  over a video recording of his saying “I love
Hitler,” told a Paris court he was addicted to alcohol, valium
and sleeping pills and doesn’t remember anti-Semitic and racist
attacks bar patrons claim he made.  When he was previously questioned by police, Galliano
denied making the statements outright because, “I was still
taking those pills. I was in complete denial.”  The 50-year-old, Gibraltar-born designer said he began
receiving addiction treatment at a clinic in  Arizona  in February
and is now in treatment in  Switzerland .  Galliano’s accusers at today’s trial claim he uttered the
slurs at a cafe in Paris’s fashionable third arrondissement.
Within days of that Feb. 24 incident, an undated video of a
slurring Galliano praising  Adolf Hitler , and saying “people
like you would be dead,” was posted on the website of the U.K.
tabloid The Sun. Galliano was fired by the Paris fashion house
the next day, less than a week before he was to host the fashion
house’s women’s ready-to-wear show.  Under sentencing rules for hate speech, Galliano faces a
maximum 22,500-euro ($32,500) fine and six months in prison if
found guilty. His lawyer, Aurelien Hamelle, has said similar
cases “most often” result in fines rather than jail time.  Geraldine Bloch, who filed a complaint over the February
incident, testified that Jewish “was one of the terms said the
most” in Galliano’s slurs against her. “I don’t know if he was
drunk. He was a bit bizarre. He sweated a lot.”  Galliano’s addictions can’t excuse his statements, Eric
Zerbib, a lawyer for  LICRA , an international organization
opposed to racism and anti-Semitism, said before today’s
testimony.  Wine, Truth  “It doesn’t explain and it doesn’t excuse anything,” said
Zerbib. “In vino, veritas. In wine, the truth. Wine has a
liberating effect which allows one to know an individual’s real
personality, and given that the deeds were repeated several
times, thus we know  John Galliano ’s personality.”  The designer said alcohol and drugs helped him deal with a
heavy workload at the two labels for which he designed, Dior and
Galliano.  “After every high there was a crash,” he told the three
judges. “The drink would help me escape.”  Galliano said the 2007 death of his partner at Dior, Steven
Robinson, made the situation worse.  “The workload increased enormously,” he said. “And right
around this time I lost my beloved friend Steven Robinson.
Steven protected me from everything so I could focus on design.  “When Steven died, with his parents I buried him, we went
to the crematorium and I went back to do a fitting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  