-- 
Gasoline Gains as Stockpiles Fall Unexpectedly, Imports Slide

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-06-22T19:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/gasoline-futures-advance-after-api-reports-inventory-decline.html
Gasoline rose the most in six weeks
as the Energy Department reported U.S. stockpiles of the motor
fuel declined for the first time since April and imports slid.  Futures jumped 3.2 percent as supplies fell 464,000 barrels
to 214.6 million, the report showed. The median forecast of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a gain of 1 million
barrels. Gasoline imports dropped 22 percent to an average
867,000 barrels a day, the fewest in five weeks.  “This is bullish for gasoline,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Gasoline for July delivery advanced 9.07 cents to settle at
$2.9733 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 5.6 percent this month and 4.3 percent in the second
quarter.  Gains widened as Federal Reserve officials said they will
maintain record monetary stimulus and that the “economic
recovery is continuing at a moderate pace, though somewhat more
slowly than the committee had expected.” Fed policy makers
reduced their economic-growth projections while raising
forecasts for the jobless rate this year and next.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said  Greece  can
count on extra aid from the euro area if it pushes through
deeper budget cuts. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
survived a confidence vote, bolstering his new government’s
chances of pushing through austerity measures to secure further
international financial aid.  “We’re getting some decent news out of the Fed and more
confidence since the Greek situation subsided,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in  New York .
“Brent crude is strong and gasoline is going to lead the way
because we’re in the summer months.”  Best Performer  Gasoline was the best performer on the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities. The index fell
0.1 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in New York.  Gasoline stockpiles in U.S. East Coast, or Padd 1 region,
were 4.1 percent below year-earlier levels.  Stockpiles of reformulated gasoline, or RBOB, in the region
were 25 percent lower than a year earlier, department data
showed. The Nymex futures contract covers RBOB delivered to New
York Harbor.  “East Coast stocks are still running a deficit,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “The real tightness continues to be
in RBOB.”  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline demand, measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
fell 0.5 percent to 9.32 million barrels a day. On a four-week
average, consumption was 0.9 percent above a year earlier.  “The market sees a draw in crude and gasoline, which is
generally bullish, and gasoline demand is up on the four-week
average,” said  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston.  Travel by automobile during the five-day July 4 holiday
period will fall 3 percent to 32.8 million from 33.7 million a
year earlier, according to a forecast today by AAA, the biggest
U.S. motoring organization.  Regular gasoline at the pump declined 1.1 cents to $3.626
yesterday, according to AAA data on its website. It’s the lowest
level since March 31.  Refinery Rates  Refinery rates and gasoline production rose to the highest
level since August, department data showed. Plants increased
processing by 3.1 percentage points to 89.2 percent, boosting
output of the motor fuel to 9.54 million barrels a day.  “We expect the trends of lackluster demand and seasonally
rising production levels to continue in the coming weeks, which
should result in higher gasoline and distillate inventories this
summer,” Jacques Rousseau, managing director of energy research
at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said today in a research
note to clients.  Gasoline and heating oil premiums over crude oil on Nymex
increased as  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
gained more than West Texas Intermediate oil. Refineries on the
East Coast, where Nymex gasoline futures are delivered,
primarily use oil from Europe and West Africa, which are priced
versus Brent.  The August premium, or crack spread, for gasoline increased
$2.92 to $27.60 a barrel on the exchange, while the August
heating oil crack spread gained $1.48 to $29.37.  “It’s trading with Brent, and heating oil is getting
dragged up with gasoline,” Knight said.  The WTI-Brent spread, based on August futures, was $18.80 a
barrel, up from $16.78 yesterday.  Distillate Supplies  Supplies of heating oil and diesel jumped 1.17 million
barrels to 142 million, a five-week high. The survey projected a
rise of 550,000 barrels. Demand for industrial, trucking and
home-heating fuels sank 5.1 percent to 3.42 million barrels a
day, a 10-month low.  Heating oil for July delivery added 6.49 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $2.9549 a gallon, the largest increase in
four weeks. Heating oil traded at a 1.84-cent discount to
gasoline, the first time gasoline has been stronger this month.
Prices are down 3.3 percent in June and 4.4 percent in the
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  