-- 
GE Labor Contracts Offer 12% Pay Gains as Health Care, Vacations Increased

-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d
-- 
2011-06-22T19:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ge-unions-report-details-of-proposed-labor-contracts.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s tentative
four-year labor agreements with its two largest unions offer pay
gains of 12 percent and a new health-care plan that expands
coverage.  The agreements between Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, the
IUE-CWA and the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of
America would cover more than 15,000 employees. Both unions must
vote on the proposals by June 30, GE said.  “The voices of our members, joined together in solidarity,
were heard loud and clear by the company,” Bob Santamoor,
chairman of IUE-CWA’s conference board, said in a joint
statement with GE. The board recommended today that its members
ratify the agreement.  The agreements offer wage increases of 2.25 percent in June
2012, 2.5 percent in June 2013 and 3 percent in June 2014, as
well as eight cost-of-living adjustments, GE said. Health-care
revisions expand coverage and financial protection and offer
company-provided funds to help with expenses in two of three
options, the company said.  Vacation time would rise to three weeks after an employee’s
fifth anniversary from two and a half weeks now, said Susan Bishop, a company spokeswoman. Paid sick leave and personal time
would increase as well.  The proposal “keeps the company competitive and positions
us to win orders while helping to retain and create more
manufacturing jobs in the U.S.,” GE Vice President John Loomis
said in the statement.  GE is the world’s biggest maker of jet engines, power-
generation equipment, medical imaging machines and locomotives.
Its total employees dropped 5.6 percent worldwide last year to
287,000 as the company shed some overseas businesses, including
at its GE Capital division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  