-- 
Geithner Says Agreement by Congress on Debt Limit Would Boost Confidence

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-22T18:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/geithner-says-agreement-by-congress-on-debt-limit-would-boost-confidence.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to refer to deficit
reduction.)  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said a bipartisan agreement on the deficit would help
small-business lending.  “If Congress can find a way to reach a bipartisan,
comprehensive, balanced agreement to bring down long-term
deficits that would help. It would be a sign that Washington
works, is able to come together to solve some problems,”
Geithner said today at a hearing before the House Small Business
Committee. “That would improve overall confidence across the
country.”  Lawmakers met again today to reach a deal on the debt limit
before the Aug. 2 deadline Geithner has set for legislation. The
hearing largely focused on Treasury’s $30 billion Small Business
Lending Program that’s yet to distribute funds. Geithner
recognized the program has been slow to start and said it would
begin distributing funds soon. Treasury has received 869
applications for $11.6 billion in funding.  “We’re a little a little disappointed too and a little
surprised it’s been slower than we thought,” Geithner said.
“We’re slower than we thought but we are close to moving ahead
and I’m confident you are going to see a very meaningful impact
on the institutions that are eligible and we’re close to being
able to release that impact.”  Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle said the program is
moving too slowly.  “Throughout my discussions with Treasury staff I was told
the program would be up and running in six months,” committee
ranking member Nydia Velazquez, a Democrat from  New York , said.
“I am quite disappointed that still not a single money has been
dispersed to the small companies.”  No Response  “I’m talking about creditworthy institutions who cannot
get a response from Treasury, your office, about whether or not
they are approved or not approved,” said Jaime Herrera Beutler,
a Republican from Washington.  The $30 billion small-business lending program was set up
in September by Congress and the administration of President
 Barack Obama  to provide low-interest capital injections to
community banks that increase their lending to small companies.
The program permits them to use the new capital to essentially
refinance their TARP debt.  Geithner said the program’s delay is due to the narrow
focus of institutions and regulatory scrutiny of applicants.  “What this program tries to do is reach a subset of the
banking system that can’t raise capital on their own but are
still viable institutions,” Geithner said. “That’s not going
to be a bulk of banks but is going to be a meaningful
fraction.”  ‘Being Careful’  “The reason we are a little behind schedule is because we
are being careful. The regulators are being careful and that’s
what you want us to do,” he said.  Lawmakers also asked whether the Dodd-Frank Act is harming
small businesses.  “Dodd-Frank was very carefully designed to make sure that
small businesses were not the object of a huge increase of or
meaningful increase of regulation,” Geithner said.  Allen West, a Florida Republican, said small companies have
suffered “collateral damage” from Dodd-Frank and the right
balance needs to be reached.  “The crisis caused a huge amount of damage,” he said.
“It’s going to take years for us to dig our way out of that
hole. A lot of the damage was concentrated in construction where
a lot of small businesses operate,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  