-- 
Germany, France Begin Talks With Banks on Greek Rollover

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-06-22T16:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/germany-said-to-meet-with-banks-insurers-on-greece-today.html
Germany, France and the Netherlands
have begun talks with banks and insurers on getting private
investors to participate in a Greek rescue.  A meeting between German Finance Ministry officials and
representatives of companies including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was set
for this afternoon in Frankfurt, said people with knowledge of
the matter who declined to be identified. A French official said
details of a Greek debt rollover package will be completed by a
July 3 meeting of European finance ministers.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy agreed last week to pursue a Vienna-style
solution for  Greece , encouraging creditors to roll over expiring
bonds to buy time until the country’s austerity program shows
results or a permanent rescue fund kicks in from mid-2013.
Questions remain about what incentives banks might demand to
participate in a rollover, and how such an agreement would work
without prompting ratings companies to declare a default.  “It’s a prisoner’s dilemma,” said Corne van Zeijl, a Den
Bosch, Netherlands-based portfolio manager at SNS Asset
Management who oversees about 1.1 billion euros ($1.6 billion).
“If you could be certain everyone will participate, agreeing on
cooperating is no problem. But if some parties don’t agree,
there’s no point for you in saying ‘yes.’”  Merkel said June 17 that she’ll work with the  European
Central Bank  to seek a voluntary contribution from bondholders
in a second Greek rescue. Germany’s state-owned and private
banks said earlier this week that they want incentives to
encourage investors to participate in an effort to reduce
Greece’s debt.  The Vienna initiative encouraged western European banks to
keep funding their units in eastern  Europe  during the financial
crisis in 2009, while maintaining lending at the same level. A
rollover involves reinvesting the proceeds from maturing bonds
in new securities.  ‘Quantifiable’ Contribution  Deutsche Bank,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  DZ Bank , HVB Group, WestLB
AG, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, WGZ Bank, DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale, HSH Nordbank AG,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Munich Re  are
among the companies invited to the talks, according to the
people. Spokespeople for the banks and insurers either declined
to comment or couldn’t immediately be reached by phone.  The talks, reported earlier today by Reuters, are
exploratory and no concrete results are expected, the people
familiar with the discussions said.  Germany is pursuing discussions with private industry on
encouraging banks and insurers to participate on a voluntary
basis in a second Greece bailout, and a “target date is July
3,” the finance ministry said, declining to comment on today’s
meeting.  “One is trying at the national and international level to
get into talks with the private sector in order to make the
voluntary contribution by the private sector quantifiable,”
ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin
today.  Dutch Talks  France  held meetings with financial industry executives
today. The Netherlands has also initiated discussions with the
country’s financial industry on a voluntary rollover of
outstanding Greek debt, a person familiar with the situation
said today.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told reporters on
June 19 that ministers meeting in Luxembourg would discuss
incentives for bondholders to roll over their investments in
Greece.  Government guarantees for new Greek bonds used to replace
maturing debt would be one option to encourage debtholders to
voluntarily participate, the Association of German Banks and the
VOeB association, which represents public-sector lenders, said
earlier this week.  Offering a guarantee or collateral for Greek bonds issued
to replace maturing debt may be a viable way of including
bondholders in a second bailout for the nation, Nomura
International Plc analysts said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  