-- 
German E. Coli Strain Combined Two Dangerous Traits, Study Finds

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-22T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/german-e-coli-strain-combined-two-dangerous-traits-study-finds.html
The German E. coli epidemic was more
deadly than previous outbreaks because it combined dangerous
characteristics of two different strains of the bacteria,
researchers said.  The bacteria produced a poisonous by-product called Shiga
toxin and had the ability to stack together and stick to the
gut, researchers led by Helge Karch, director of the  Hygiene
Institute  at the University of Muenster, said in an article
published online today in  The Lancet Infectious Diseases 
journal. Karch’s team found both characteristics in all 80
patients they tested.  The unusual combination of traits made it more likely for
infected people to develop a potentially fatal kidney
complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, the
researchers said. As of yesterday, the outbreak had sickened
3,601 people, including 815 with HUS, and killed 39, according
to the  Robert Koch Institute . About 1,000 Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli infections and 60 HUS cases typically occur in Germany
each year, the researchers said.  “It’s really moved into a new kind of era for these kinds
of organisms,” Hugh Pennington, an emeritus bacteriology
professor at the University of Aberdeen, said in a telephone
interview. “Let’s hope we won’t see it again, but it’s too
early to tell.”  Karch and colleagues “speculate very reasonably” that the
blending of the two traits could explain why so many of the
infected people developed the kidney disorder, Pennington wrote
in a comment published alongside the research today. To find out
how likely it is that the strain will emerge again, health
officials must try to determine how prevalent it is in farm
animals and how widespread it is around the world, he said.  The combination cropped up in  Germany  10 years ago, in a
child with HUS, the researchers said.  German authorities determined this month that organic
sprouts from a farm about 35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of
Hamburg were the likely culprit. Produce from the property,
 Gaertnerhof Bienenbuettel , was recalled, and its customers were
informed. Authorities had initially blamed Spanish cucumbers for
the outbreak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  