-- 
Ghana’s Economic Growth Accelerates to 23% as Offshore Oil Starts Flowing

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-06-22T10:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ghana-gdp-growth-accelerates-more-than-estimated-to-23-on-oil-production.html
Ghana ’s economic growth accelerated
to an annual 23 percent in the first quarter as the West African
nation began producing oil for export, the country’s statistics
agency said.  Growth compared with 9.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
 Grace Bediako , head of the  Ghana  Statistical Service, told
reporters in the capital, Accra, today.  “The commencement of oil production will accelerate the
growth momentum,” Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan Africa economist
at  Renaissance Capital , said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “In
addition to that we are likely to see an increase in activity in
the industrial and construction sectors, the transportation
sector, and financial and business services sector.”  Ghana began production of oil from its offshore Jubilee
field in December. Output is about 70,000 barrels a day and may
climb to 120,000 next month, according to the field’s operator,
London-based  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW)  Growth may taper off in 2012 as the
boost from oil settles, while remaining above the sub-Saharan
Africa average of 5 percent, Mhango said.  The economy expanded 7.7 percent last year, up from 4
percent in 2009, the statistical agency said May 11.  Faster growth does not pose a threat to the Bank of Ghana’s
 monetary policy , Sampson Akligoh, an economist at Accra-based
Databank Financial Services Ltd., said in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  “Monetary policy has enough room to accommodate the growth
target of 2011, especially with the ongoing disinflation
process,” Akligoh said.  The inflation rate fell for a third month in May, reaching
8.9 percent, the statistical service said June 15. The central
bank cut its key lending rate to 13 percent from 13.5 percent
last month, after leaving it unchanged for three consecutive
meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 