-- 
Goldman Estimates Fall as Analysts See Weak Trading Revenues at U.S. Banks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-22T13:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/goldman-estimates-fall-as-analysts-see-weak-trading-revenues-at-u-s-banks.html
Bank investors may have to wait at
least another quarter for trading to rebound as analysts expect
lower trading revenue in the current period, the fifth straight
year-over-year drop, amid weaker volume and market declines.  Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S. banks likely will fall
30 percent from the first quarter, while equities trading will
drop 15 percent,  Keith Horowitz , a  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst, wrote
in a report this week. Seven analysts have cut their earnings
estimates for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley in the
past four weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wall Street  faced lower trading volumes as clients stepped
back amid concerns that the Greek debt crisis will spread to
other European nations and evidence that U.S. economic growth is
slowing. Declining trading revenue expectations have fueled
share declines of more than 10 percent at each of the six
largest U.S. banks since March 31.  “There are a number of headwinds and the markets haven’t
really been cooperating,” said  James Ellman , president of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Seacliff Capital LLC. “This trend
can turn around in a moment if clients become more active, and
you get more volume and volatility in generally rising markets,
but we haven’t seen that yet.”  Total trading revenue at the five biggest Wall Street banks
-- Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Citigroup, and Morgan Stanley -- may drop to $21.7 billion, a
4.4 percent decline from the second quarter of 2010 and 17
percent from last quarter, according to estimates by Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. Trading
accounted for almost a quarter of the firms’ revenue last year.  ‘Sluggish’ Environment  The second quarter likely saw “a continuation of the
sluggish risk-on/risk-off environment that we have had for the
past four quarters,” Kotowski wrote in a report this week. His
figures exclude charges tied to the firms’ own debt.  Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities, or
FICC, has been hindered this quarter by weak trading volumes,
low levels of client leverage, widening credit spreads in high-
yield and sovereign assets, and declining volatility, Horowitz
said. Banks also are starting to see the effects of the absence
of proprietary-trading groups that were shut down to comply with
new rules, Ellman said.  “It’s not just the trading activity, it’s the shrinking of
these prop businesses,” Ellman said. “As you shut those areas
down, you lose some of the more profitable areas of FICC.”  Fixed-income trading revenue at the five banks fell 25
percent in the first quarter, compared with the first three
months of 2010, according to company filings. Equities trading
revenue dropped 4.5 percent.  Jefferies’s Profit Falls  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the New York-based investment bank
that’s been expanding its advisory and fixed-income businesses,
yesterday reported that profit fell 3.8 percent in the fiscal
second quarter ended May 31 as trading revenue decreased.  “The general climate pretty much throughout the quarter
was one of clients being uncertain of direction of positions and
basically not being very active on the trading side,” Jefferies
Chief Executive Officer Richard Handler, 50, said during a
conference call with investors. “As a result, you just do not
get the natural flow that we enjoyed during the first quarter.”  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities, has cut his
second-quarter earnings estimates for all five banks over the
last two weeks. Fixed-income trading likely will fall 16 percent
from the first three months of the year, while equities trading
will probably fall 14 percent, he wrote in a note today.  ‘Turbulent Macro Environment’  “Overall, cash equities trading volume is expected to
decline in the second quarter compared to a seasonally strong
first quarter,” Trone said in the note. “The decline will be
challenged further by the turbulent macro environment which
should further dampen investor activity as the appetite for risk
decreases.”  Banks are turning to cost-cutting measures amid the lack of
revenue growth.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said earlier this month that the firm has commenced a
three-year program to reduce expenses by $1 billion. Morgan
Stanley may also cut 300 brokers in its wealth-management unit.  Goldman Sachs is aiming to reduce $1 billion in non-
compensation expenses over the next 12 months, according to a
person familiar with the matter who declined to be identified
because the plan hasn’t been publicly announced.  Wall Street Cuts  Weak trading revenue so far this year is likely to lead to
cuts on Wall Street, analysts including  Meredith Whitney  and
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s  Glenn Schorr  have said. U.S. banks may
accelerate announced job reductions after eliminating 11,400
positions in the first five months of the year, a 21 percent
increase over 2010, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas
Inc.  Managing directors in the fixed-income trading divisions
are likely to be cut, Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview last week. The ratio of managing directors on staff at
investment banks is going to drop to about 10 percent from 15
percent at well-run firms and from 20 percent at those that are
poorly run, Hintz said.  “You don’t have to fire lots of people, you just need to
fire expensive people,” said Hintz, adding that the 40 percent
of compensation that goes to managing directors isn’t
sustainable. “You are going to change the shape of the
pyramid.”  Fixed-Income Revenue  After reporting record investment-banking and trading
revenue for 2009, banks have had declines in those businesses
for four straight quarters compared with year-earlier periods. A
fall in fixed-income trading revenue, the biggest capital-
markets business for the banks, largely spurred the decreases.  Aggregate fixed-income revenue for the five U.S. banks and
four international rivals --  UBS AG (UBSN) , Credit Suisse Group AG,
Barclays Plc, and Deutsche Bank AG -- dropped to $101 billion
last year, from a record $146 billion in 2009, according to
Schorr, a Nomura analyst in New York.  Commodities trading revenue for 10 of the largest U.S. and
European banks rose about 55 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, according to a report last month by London-based
research firm Coalition Development Ltd. That led commodities to
contribute 7 percent of overall fixed-income trading revenue in
the quarter, up from 4 percent in the first quarter of 2010,
Coalition said.  Commodities trading probably won’t provide the same boost
in the second quarter, Citigroup’s Horowitz said. That may lead
to Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which have large commodity
businesses, reporting larger FICC revenue declines than their
competitors, he wrote.  Crude Oil   Crude oil has fallen 12 percent to $93.65 so far this
quarter, which would be the largest drop since the fourth
quarter of 2008. Silver prices dropped 28 percent in a week in
May as CME Group Inc., owner of Comex, raised margin
requirements.  Average daily equity-trading volume on the largest U.S.
exchanges is down 32 percent from the second quarter of 2010,
and is on pace to fall 9.8 percent from last quarter. Dollar
volume of high-yield corporate bonds has declined 17 percent
from a year earlier, while volume of investment-grade bonds rose
6.1 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Trading volume, an indicator of performance, may not
correlate directly with firms’ revenue because banks make money
on changes in the value of the securities they hold and
transaction fees that may not be related to volume.  Trading accounted for 23 percent of the five firms’ total
revenue last year, ranging from 56 percent at Goldman Sachs to
16 percent at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,
according to company filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  