-- 
Goldman Among Banks Holding $432 Million LBO Loan Auction

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-06-22T14:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/goldman-sachs-among-banks-holding-300-million-euro-leveraged-loan-auction.html
Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  are seeking buyers for a client selling about 300 million
euros ($432 million) of leveraged loans such as Formula One
Holdings Ltd., Eircom Group Ltd. and  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) ,
according to two people with knowledge of the trade.  Goldman Sachs, Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are inviting bids for senior and
second-lien loans from 66 European companies, said the people,
who couldn’t be identified because the auction is private. The
deadline for bids is Friday at 2 p.m.  London  time.  Investors are shedding riskier assets on rising concern
that  Greece ’s debt burden will further roil Europe and depress
the global economy. Actively-traded credits in Standard & Poor’s
Leveraged Commentary & Data composite for  Europe  fell 42 basis
points last week to an average 99.25 percent of face value.  The debt is being sold in a so-called “bid wanted in
competition,” or BWIC, process, whereby buyers submit auction-
type bids and the highest above the reserve price wins.  Leveraged loans are typically those to buyout targets that
have been saddled with debt by their private-equity firm owners.
Included on the list are loans to Apax Partners LLP’s Trader
Media Group and Gala Coral Group Ltd., the U.K. gaming company
run by creditors led by Apollo Global Management LLC. Irish
phone company Eircom plans to start talks with creditors this
month to restructure 3.75 billion euros of debt.  Barclays Capital  spokesman Jon Laycock declined to comment.
Officials at Goldman Sachs, RBS and Credit Suisse didn’t
immediately return calls and emails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 