-- 
Goldman Sachs Says Libya Oil Exports May Rise, Near-Term Prices ‘Choppy’

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-22T03:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/goldman-sachs-says-libya-oil-exports-could-rise-to-585-000-b-day.html
Libyan oil exports could rise by as
much as 355,000 barrels a day in the short term from the
opposition-controlled part of the country after rebels pledged
to resume shipments, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, has seen
production drop from about 1.6 million barrels a day in January,
before fighting started between opposition forces and troops
loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , to 200,000 barrels in May,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Libyan rebels expect to
produce 100,000 barrels of oil a day from fields they control,
Ali Tarhouni, the rebel finance minister, said June 9.  “Over the short term, the opposition forces could resume
about 200,000 barrels a day of crude exports as some fields and
their related export terminals are largely intact,” Goldman
analysts including New York-based  David Greely , said in a report
dated June 21. “A further 155,000 barrels a day could
potentially be exported at a later stage from a second loading
port under their control.”  Exports could climb as high as 585,000 barrels a day if
Qaddafi is removed from power and production is resumed from
western fields currently held by the government, the bank said.
Bringing back the remaining 1 million barrels a day of exports
will be “much more challenging”, according to the report.  “Not only are the export terminals currently under the
control of the Qaddafi government, but news reports also suggest
that some of the installations have been severely damaged,” the
analysts wrote in the report.  Light Crude  The loss of light, low sulfur crude from  Libya  has driven
the price of similar supplies higher relative to other global
benchmark grades. Refiners favor this type of oil because it
yields a larger proportion of gasoline and diesel after basic
processing than heavier crude.  Brent, the European marker grade, has climbed to a record
$22.29 a barrel over  New York ’s West Texas Intermediate oil
futures and to a premium of $8.35 to Middle East Dubai, the
highest for data going back to August 2006.  Oil prices  are likely to remain “choppy in the near-term”
before rising over the second half of the year, according to the
report. New York futures have dropped 5.8 percent since June 14
on concern that the  U.S. economy  is slowing and  Europe ’s debt
crisis is threatening growth.  “Our economists view the current slowdown as largely
transient and we expect upward pressure on oil prices to
increase in the second half of 2011 as slower, but sustained,
oil demand growth draws on inventory and OPEC spare capacity,”
the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 Christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  