-- 
Golf, Rory McIlroy and Northern Irish Identity: Glenn Patterson

-- B y   G l e n n   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T19:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/golf-rory-mcilroy-and-northern-irish-identity-glenn-patterson.html
Last weekend was a pretty
good weekend to be young in  Belfast . On Saturday, the
city’s new Lord Mayor, Niall O Donnghaile of Sinn Fein,
hosted his first Lord Mayor’s parade. O Donnghaile is 26,
the youngest person to hold the office in Belfast’s 400-
year history.  On Sunday, Rory McIlroy, four years the Lord Mayor’s
junior, became the youngest winner of the U.S. Open since
1923.  I have no interest in golf. The victory of another
Northern Irishman,  Graeme McDowell , in last year’s U.S.
Open more or less passed me by. I have, though, an
interest in narrative, and McIlroy’s progress to the
first of his majors (for there will be many more) has, in
simple story terms, been compelling. His father, who
worked long hours as a barman at the Holywood Golf Club
where Rory started to play, placed a bet seven years ago
that his teenage son would win the  British Open  by 2014.
(He got odds of 500-1, odds that after events at the
Congressional Country Club no sane bookmaker on Earth
would offer.)  Then there was that dramatic collapse on the final
day of the  Masters Tournament  back in April. McIlroy
sounded utterly convincing when he said he would learn
from the experience. He did not sound as though it was
the end of his world. But that’s being young for you:
There will be other opportunities.  Niall O Donnghaile has already seized the
opportunity of his first days as Lord Mayor to visit the
Protestant Shankill Road, a significant gesture for a
Sinn Fein politician. His appointment (the Lord Mayor
here isn’t directly elected but rather is nominated by
the victorious party in local elections) was criticized
by some who complained that he wouldn’t know how things
worked in our  City Hall .  No Excess Baggage  “ Brilliant ,” wrote one commentator not renowned for
her sympathy with  Sinn Fein . Finally we might have a
leader who wasn’t weighed down by the “excess baggage” of
the past.  O Donnghaile’s electoral ward is Pottinger on the
east bank of the River Lagan across from Belfast City
Centre and at the start of the road that arrives five
miles further on in Holywood. I am, geographically
speaking, somewhere in between. Chronologically, I am O
Donnghaile’s age and McIlroy’s combined, and then a few.  I didn’t go so far as to watch the Open -- it is
still golf, a game played by men in slacks -- but I did
follow Sunday’s final round online, shot by shot, until
it seemed mathematically impossible for an implosion of
Masters proportions to recur.  Lead Story  The overnight victory was the lead story on every
news bulletin here on Monday morning. It was the lead
story on every lunchtime bulletin and all the talk radio
programs in between. The tourism minister was interviewed
about the possible effects on “golf tourism” -- what with
our previous staple, “Troubles tourism,” apparently in
decline, and with the  Titanic  centenary extravaganza
another year away.  I had stopped listening to the news by the time, in
the late evening, the story changed to the more familiar
one of rioters on the streets of east Belfast,
specifically around that part of the Pottinger ward where
the Protestant Newtownards Road runs up against the
Catholic Short Strand. (We still, alas, refer to
districts as Protestant and Catholic.) The first I knew
of the trouble was when I woke in the early hours to the
sound of police helicopters. In my confusion I thought it
might be a  U.S. Open  winner being escorted home. It was
my wife who reminded me that we had seen people bolting
metal grilles to the windows of houses along the Short
Strand “interface” as we drove from town the previous
evening.  ‘Community Tensions’  The implication that the violence wasn’t the
spontaneous outburst of what are usually referred to as
“community tensions” was borne out by the police, who
laid the blame at the door of the Ulster Volunteer Force.
The UVF came into existence around the time that the
Titanic was being launched and re-emerged in the 1960s as
the most deadly of the several Protestant terrorist
organizations. Like all the others, the UVF was supposed
to have left the stage some time ago.  A mural celebrating the building of the Titanic can
be seen in the background of many of the photographs of
the rioting that began on Monday night and continued into
Tuesday: East Belfast is home to the famous Harland &
Wolff shipyard that built the doomed vessel. The rioters
in the foreground are mostly masked, but many appear to
be considerably younger than even  Rory McIlroy  --
younger, some of them, than our 17-year-old  peace
process . Although, as I never tire of saying, anything
that processed can’t have a lot of good left in it.  Rory McIlroy Appears  On Tuesday evening, Rory McIlroy himself finally
flew into George Best Belfast City Airport. (The airport
is named for another of the city’s -- and the east’s --
sporting greats, the prodigiously talented but fatally
flawed star of  Manchester United  and several Major League
Soccer clubs.) In the photographs of McIlroy standing on
the tarmac with the Open trophy you can glimpse the
Harland & Wolff cranes.  As so often in Northern Ireland, it all depends on
how you look at it.  To McIlroy this is the “best place in the world,”
which a cynic might say is the kind of thing you can
afford to think when you spend half your life away. A
recent  survey , however, seemed to suggest that increasing
numbers share his fondness for it, with more than 50
percent of Catholics now in favor of a  Northern Ireland 
within the U.K. over political reunification with the
rest of Ireland.  Sinn Fein disputes the findings, but for what it’s
worth, and even after this week’s riots, my money is on
the further development of a shared sense of Northern
Irishness, symbolized by the likes of McIlroy and by
Niall O Donnghaile’s visit to the Shankill. And on Rory
winning the British Open, of course. Just not, sadly, at
500-1.  ( Glenn Patterson , a novelist, is the author, most
recently, of “Once Upon a Hill: Love in Troubled Times.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Glenn Patterson at  glenn.patterson@ntlworld.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  