-- 
Google’s Page, Schmidt May Be Subpoenaed by Senate Antitrust Probers

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/google-faces-senate-subpoena-threats-to-get-testimony-from-page-schmidt.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s reluctance to provide
a top executive for testimony to a Senate panel probing its
market power has prompted threats of subpoenas for Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page  and Chairman Eric Schmidt.  In a letter dated June 10, the Democratic chairman and
leading Republican on the antitrust subcommittee asked Google to
provide one of the company’s two senior executives before
Congress’s August recess. The letter urged a resolution “by
agreement” to avoid “more formal procedures,” according to a
copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  The threat of subpoenas is one of the ways the committee is
pressuring  Mountain View , California-based Google to send Page
or Schmidt, according to two people familiar with negotiations
between the panel and the company. The possibility of subpoenas
was discussed with Google in connection with the letter, the
people said. The letter asked Google to respond by June 15.  Subpoenas would require approval by the full Senate
Judiciary Committee.  Google has offered to have Chief Legal Officer David Drummond appear at the hearing, according to the letter.  The subcommittee would “strongly prefer” Page or Schmidt
at the proceeding, “which will address fundamental questions of
business operations rather than merely legal issues,” U.S.
senators  Herb Kohl  and  Mike Lee  wrote. Kohl, a Wisconsin
Democrat, is chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Antitrust,
Competition Policy, and Consumer Rights, and Lee, of  Utah , is
the panel’s ranking Republican.  Best for Questions  Mistique Cano, a Google spokeswoman in Washington, said in
an e-mail that the company will “send them the executive who
can best answer their questions,” and that’s Drummond. The
company is still in talks with the subcommittee, she said.  Drummond, who is also the company’s senior vice president
for corporate development, oversees Google’s legal affairs,
government relations, corporate development and new business
development teams.  He first worked for Google in 1998 as an outside lawyer
with  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati , when he helped
incorporate the company, before joining Google in 2002,
according to his profile on Google’s website.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “I’m very disappointed in Google’s response to the request
to have Larry Page or  Eric Schmidt  testify at our subcommittee
hearing,” Lee said in an e-mailed statement after discussions
with the company yesterday. “I’m committed to work with Senator
Kohl and others on the committee to ensure we have the
opportunity to investigate these issues thoroughly and receive
adequate responses from Google.”  Kohl’s spokeswoman, Lynn Becker, said the senator “feels
it’s imperative that Mr. Schmidt or Mr. Page participate and is
hopeful their attendance can be confirmed soon.”  Google is coming under increasing scrutiny by regulators in
the U.S. and  Europe  for some of its business practices. The
Federal Trade Commission is preparing a broad antitrust
investigation of the company, two people familiar with the
matter said in April, while the antitrust division of the U.S.
Justice Department is reviewing its $400 million purchase of
Internet advertising company Admeld Inc., two people familiar
with the matter said last week.  The European Union and the state of  Texas  also have begun
investigations of the company’s dominance in search and
advertising practices.  List of Priorities  Kohl put an examination of Google’s Internet dominance on a
list of priorities for the subcommittee March 10.  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat from  Connecticut  who
is also on the committee, has expressed concerns about the owner
of the Internet’s most popular search engine. In May, Google set
aside $500 million related to the possible resolution of a
Justice Department investigation of its advertising business,
resulting in lower first-quarter profit.  “It does look as though there is some ganging up on Google
going on,” said Stanley Brand, a  Washington  attorney who served
as legal counsel to the  House of Representatives  from 1976 to
1983.  “There’s a reluctance on the part of companies to open up
their executives to that kind of questioning when there are
federal investigations under way,” said Brand, who added that
there could also be “serious legal consequences” for the
government if there is any indication that the probes aren’t the
result of “good faith independent judgment.”  “Most companies don’t want to fight with Congress, but
sometimes they don’t have a choice,” Brand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 