-- 
Grain Prices Plunge as Favorable Weather May Revive Crops in U.S., Europe

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-22T19:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/grains-plunge-as-weather-revives-crops.html
Corn fell the maximum allowed by the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, wheat plunged to an eight-month low and
soybeans tumbled on signs that changing weather conditions may
improve crop prospects in the U.S. and  Europe .  Hot weather next week in the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter of all three crops, may be shorter than forecast,
aiding newly planted corn and soybeans, according to World
Weather Inc. Rain is forecast in Ukraine and Russia, and
moisture this month in Europe may limit wheat-crop damage caused
by drought in France and Germany, Alfred C. Toepfer
International GmbH, a grain trader, said in a report.  July corn futures, the contract closest to delivery, are
down 15 percent in Chicago since touching a record June 10.
Wheat has slumped 14 percent this month, and soybeans touched
the lowest in five weeks. In the past year, prices jumped as
global demand rose faster than output, eroding grain
inventories, while drought limited production in Europe and too
much rain delayed planting in the U.S. and Canada.  “It’s looking more like a classic performance of a  bull
market  having run out of gas,” said  Dale Durchholz , the senior
analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington. “Buying interest is
lacking with the good grain harvests expected out of the Ukraine
and Russia this year and U.S. crops improving.”  Corn futures for December delivery plunged the 30-cent
limit, or 4.4 percent, to settle at $6.5025 a bushel at 1:15
p.m. on the CBOT. The July, September and March contracts also
fell by the daily maximum, as did July 2012.  Soybean futures for November delivery declined 17.25 cents,
or 1.3 percent, to $13.325 a bushel on the CBOT, after touching
$13.2375, the lowest for a most-active contract since May 17.  Crop Conditions  About 70 percent of the corn crop and 68 percent of
soybeans were in good or excellent condition as of June 19, the
U.S.  Department of Agriculture  said this week.  “The crops are getting better,” said  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa.
“The government ratings are likely to show further improvement
next week. Rain and warmer temperatures are just what the crops
need.”  Wheat futures for September delivery slid 32.25 cents, or
4.6 percent, to $6.7325 a bushel in Chicago, after slumping as
much as 7.8 percent to $6.5025, the lowest since Oct. 5.  Milling-wheat futures for November delivery tumbled 15.75
euros, or 7.4 percent, to 196.75 euros ($282.79) a metric ton on
NYSE Liffe in Paris.  “It’s a race to the bottom between the EU market and U.S.
market,” said Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global Commodity
Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette,  Indiana . “The Northern
European areas getting rain is still being talked about.”  Greek Crisis  Grain and soybean prices also fell amid speculation that
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will struggle to pass
additional austerity measures, even after winning a confidence
vote yesterday. The potential for defaults by Greece may dim
prospects for the European economy, while growth in  U.S.
government debt  risks a second financial crisis, said  Allan Meltzer , a professor at  Carnegie Mellon University   “Concern over sovereign credit is growing in international
banking circles,” Bill Gary, the president of Commodity
Information Systems Inc. in Oklahoma City said in a report.
“With the EU in serious trouble and unsustainable debt problems
in  Japan  and the U.S., fears are growing of a general
retrenchment from risk-taking in many global markets.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest, valued at $13 billion, behind
hay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in New York at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  