-- 
Greece Vote Turns Spotlight Back on Germany, ECB to See Who Blinks First

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-06-22T12:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/greece-vote-turns-spotlight-back-on-germany-ecb-to-see-who-blinks-first.html
The Greek Parliament’s vote of
confidence in Prime Minister  George Papandreou  shifts the
spotlight back to  Germany  and the  European Central Bank  as key
to Greece’s quest for further international financial aid.  Lawmakers in Athens supported Papandreou in a 155-143 vote
after the prime minister shuffled his Cabinet and sought the
chamber’s approval. The vote may bolster Greece’s chances of
securing a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion) loan payment, which
hinges on support from European leaders and on Greece’s ability
to push through 78 billion euros in additional budget cuts next
week.  “The question that’s still lingering is the old cage match
between the ECB and Germany, and who’s going to give and who’s
going to blink, and how much,” said Ilan Solot, currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in  London .  The Frankfurt-based central bank and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government have clashed over the role of private
creditors in the Greek rescue, with the ECB resisting Germany’s
calls to require investor participation.  European leaders will discuss Greece’s needs at a two-day
summit in Brussels starting tomorrow and finance chiefs will
decide on July 3 whether Greece has met conditions for the next
aid payment. Investors are watching to see if the ministers will
clear the payment, which is contingent the Greek Parliament
approving the extra budget cuts, or prolong the uncertainty in a
bid to increase pressure on the lawmakers.  ‘Difficult Situation’  The confidence vote “removes an element of uncertainty
from an already very  difficult situation ” and allows Greece to
focus its attention on the austerity measures, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in a statement. If
Parliament approves the budget cuts, it will clear the way for
“rapid disbursement” of the aid payment, he said.  Germany and the ECB continue to spar over the role of
bondholders in the Greek rescue. German officials including
Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are calling for
more certainty over private-sector participation, even as they
have backed down from demands to mandate investor losses.  The central bank led by President  Jean-Claude Trichet   has
maintained that any participation by private investors in a new
aid package for Greece must be voluntary. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said on June 20 that holders of Greek bonds
must not be pressured to roll over their debt.  Bondholder Contribution  A bondholder contribution was “always meant to be
voluntary,” Merkel told a German Parliament committee today in
Berlin. She said no solution is possible without the support of
the ECB, which warned that a compulsory role risked triggering
Greek default and contagion.  If European leaders reach a deal on aid for Greece, “that
would be great for the markets,”  Brown Brothers ’ Solot said.
“It might serve as the carrot instead of the stick for the
government to pass this proposal.”  Other analysts warned that European heads of state and
government have strong incentives to stand back until Greece has
shown it will move forward with spending cuts.  “The austerity that is required in Greece is just
enormous,” said Guntram Wolff of the Brussels-based Bruegel
Institute. “They do want to put a lot of pressure on Greece.
It’s quite possible they may wait another week.”  Additional Support  Outside  Europe , policy makers have criticized the
uncertainty over whether and how additional support for Greece
will be provided. The  International Monetary Fund , contributor
of one-third of the bailout money for  Greece  and the two other
euro-area countries that have received rescue packages, has
warned EU leaders that a failure to take decisive action on the
debt crisis risks triggering “large global spillovers.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday
called for Europe to speak with a “clearer, more unified
voice” on its strategy. The public disagreements make it hard
for global investors to understand Europe’s plan, he warned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  