-- 
Greece Needs a Brady-Style Rescue Plan, Says Weinberg: Tom Keene

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-22T17:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/greece-needs-a-brady-style-rescue-plan-says-weinberg-tom-keene.html
Greece  should seek to implement a
policy reminiscent of the Brady Plan to restructure its debt and
end the country’s fiscal crisis, said Carl Weinberg, chief
economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd.  Such a program, inspired by the program devised under
former U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady in 1989, would
require an investment bank or another entity to buy Greek bonds
on the open market, announcing the purchases ahead of time to
push up the price of the debt. The buyer would then swap the
bonds with the Greek Finance Ministry for new 30-year bonds and
longer maturities that it would then sell back to the market,
Weinberg said.  Brady bonds enabled countries in  Latin America ,  Africa ,
 Asia  and Eastern Europe to swap bad loans for new debt, some of
which was backed by zero-coupon Treasuries. The countries had to
implement “substantial economic reform,” according to a
 description  of the plan on the website of Darby Overseas
Investments Ltd., the private-equity company of which Brady, 81,
is chairman and a division of Franklin Resources Inc.  The plan “has to be part of the next step,” Weinberg,
whose private forecasting company is based in Valhalla, New
York, said on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. If the program is
implemented “there is no default. Nothing get’s triggered. It’s
a simple investment-banking solution.”  Budget Cuts  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is facing the task of
getting Greek lawmakers to approve a 78 billion euro ($112
billion) package of budget cuts. European finance ministers said
this week that they will withhold a 12 billion euro payment to
the country until passage of the plan.  Lawmakers in  Athens  supported Papandreou in a 155-143 vote
yesterday after he shuffled his cabinet and sought the chamber’s
approval in a confidence vote. The vote was expected to bolster
Greece’s chances of securing a 12 billion euro loan payment,
which hinges on support from European leaders and on Greece’s
ability to push through the budget cuts next week.  Elected in 2009, Papandreou first sought a financial rescue
in April 2010 to avoid default as investors refused to finance a
record budget deficit. The conditions attached to the aid have
helped deepen a slump that has driven the economy into recession
for a third year and lifted unemployment to 15.9 percent.  Rescue Plan  The governments of  Germany ,  France  and the Netherlands have
begun talks with banks and insurers on getting private investors
to participate in a rescue plan for Greece. A meeting between
German Finance Ministry officials and representatives of
companies including Deutsche Bank AG was set for this afternoon
in Frankfurt, said people with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified. A French official said details of a
Greek debt rollover package will be completed by a July 3
meeting of European finance ministers.  German government adviser  Peter Bofinger  said on June 1
that a Brady-style rescue by euro-region members could solve
Greece’s debt problems.  “There is still a lot of risk out here,” said Weinberg,
who founded High Frequency in 1988 and previously worked for the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. “We
brought it down a notch, but we have other irons under the
fire,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  