-- 
Pimco’s Gross Says Fed May ‘Hint’ at QE3 to Cap Rates

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-22T16:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/gross-tweets-that-fed-may-hint-at-qe3-to-cap-rates-at-next-jackson-hole.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a
Twitter posting that the  Federal Reserve  may hint in August of
plans for additional monetary stimulus.  “Next Jackson Hole in August will likely hint at
QE3/interest rate caps,” he wrote referring to the Fed’s annual
symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in a 10:24 a.m.  message.   The use of yield ceilings has precedent. The Fed maintained
a limit of 2.5 percent on long-term Treasury bonds in the 1940s
for almost a decade. In 2002, then Fed Governor Ben S. Bernanke,
in a  speech  to the National Economics Club in  Washington 
entitled, “Deflation: Making Sure ‘It’ Doesn’t Happen Here,”
said he preferred the tool as a means of lowering long-term
rates.  Bernanke said last year at the Fed gathering in  Wyoming 
that “additional purchases of longer-term securities, should
the FOMC choose to undertake them, would be effective in further
easing financial conditions,” hinting of an upcoming second
round of quantitative easing. The Fed began a program of $600
billion in Treasury purchases in November that ends this month.  Gross said during a June 3 interview on Bloomberg Radio
that “we don’t see a QE3,” referring to the policy that’s
become known as quantitative easing. He added that given the
current pace of growth and inflation the Fed “will speak to a
fed funds rate that persists for an extended period of time,
which in effect caps interest rates in the process.”  ‘Moderate Pace’  Fed officials said they will maintain record monetary
stimulus to support a flagging economic recovery after
completing the bond-purchase program as scheduled.  “The Committee will complete its purchases of $600 billion
of longer-term  Treasury securities  by the end of this month and
will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its securities holdings,” the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today in a statement after a two-day meeting in
Washington. “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate
pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee had
expected.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, didn’t immediately respond to telephone
and e-mail requests for additional comment. Pimco, a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed $1.28 trillion of
assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  