-- 
Michigan Citizens Sue Governor Snyder to Block Emergency-Powers Measure

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-06-22T22:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/michigan-citizens-sue-state-governor-over-emergency-powers.html
Michigan  Governor Rick Snyder was
sued today by 28 residents who asked a court to declare
unconstitutional a new law granting state-appointed financial
managers emergency powers over local governments.  Snyder said the law, signed March 16, would help keep
Michigan communities out of bankruptcy. Michigan has emergency
managers running the schools in Detroit, as well as the cities
of Pontiac, Ecorse and  Benton Harbor . The law allows emergency
managers to terminate employee contracts and suspend collective
bargaining.  The law “effectively establishes a new form of local
government within the state of Michigan,” the residents said in
the lawsuit filed in state court in Lansing. The law allows
cities or other municipalities to be “ruled by one unelected
official,” they said in the complaint.  The residents said the law violates Michigan’s constitution
and asked the court for an injunction barring its
implementation. Another challenge to the law was filed in
federal court in April by  Detroit  public employee pension
boards.  The earlier lawsuit was “on the effect on pension
issues,” said attorney John Philo, who filed today’s complaint,
brought by 28 citizens throughout Michigan. “Ours is about the
basic constitutional right of all Michigan citizens to have the
rights to democratically elected government.”  Contract Rights  The pension board lawsuit also named Snyder as a defendant
and claimed the law would “impermissibly modify the Detroit
city charter and various collective bargaining agreements
between the city of Detroit and its uniformed and non-uniformed
workers.” The law authorizes “the modification and termination
of constitutionally protected contract rights and the seizure of
control of retirement systems,” according to the complaint.  Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for the governor, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours.  The case is Brown v. Snyder, 11-685-CZ, Circuit Court,
Ingham County, Michigan (Lansing).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  