-- 
Middle East Tanker Rates Gain 5th Day as Supply Matches Demand

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-06-22T17:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/middle-east-tanker-rates-gain-5th-day-as-supply-matches-demand.html
The cost of shipping Middle East oil
to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained for
a fifth day in London as the supply of ships stayed matched with
demand.  Charter rates for 2 million barrel-hauling very large crude
carriers, or VLCCs, on the industry’s benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to
Japan route rose 0.4 percent to 59.48 Worldscale points,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. Rental income from
the voyage, which varies with changes in fuel costs, slid 0.9
percent to $16,439 a day.  The availability of vessels is “balanced” with likely
demand for July loadings, and charter rates will probably stay
little changed, Oslo-based Fearnley Consultants A/S said in an
e-mailed report today.  Strengthening Chinese demand for Middle East oil helped
keep the supply of supertankers that can collect crude from the
world’s largest cargo-loading region near the lowest level since
February. There are 10 percent more VLCCs for hire over the next
30 days than there are likely cargoes, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of five shipbrokers and two
owners yesterday. The excess came to 9 percent, the lowest level
since Feb. 18, as of June 10.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
transporting refined oil product cargoes, rose 0.7 percent to
758 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 