-- 
Time Warner Cable, Viacom Agree to Halt Lawsuits, Seek Accord, Court Told

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-06-23T04:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/time-warner-cable-viacom-agree-to-halt-lawsuits-seek-accord.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and Time Warner Cable
Inc. told a judge that they’re trying to settle litigation over
broadcast rights on portable electronic devices including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The two companies, which sued each other in Manhattan
federal court in April, told U.S. District Judge Leonard B. Sand
that they’ve reached a so-called standstill agreement “in an
attempt to resolve this and other litigation and potential
litigation.” Their lawsuits are now on hold, they said in court
papers filed yesterday.  In its suit, New York-based Time Warner Cable, the second-
largest cable television operator in the U.S., sought a ruling
that its contract with Viacom allows it to deliver Viacom’s
programming to customers’ iPads and other devices. Time Warner
Cable, also based in  New York , provides video, high-speed data
and telephone services to more than 14 million subscribers,
according to its  website .  In a separate suit, Viacom asked for damages and an order
blocking Time Warner Cable from distributing its programming,
including Black Entertainment Television,  Comedy Central , CMT,
MTV, Nickelodeon, Spike and VH1, via broadband without its
permission.  Time Warner Cable released a computer application for the
iPad on March 15 that allows customers to stream Viacom’s
copyrighted entertainment programs directly to iPad tablets.  Viacom spokeswoman Kelly McAndrew declined to comment on
the status of negotiations between the companies. Time Warner
Cable spokeswoman  Maureen Huff  also declined to comment.  The cases are Time Warner Cable Inc. v. Viacom
International, 11-cv-002376, and Viacom International Inc. v.
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , 11-cv-02387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  