-- 
India’s Lack of Female Bankers a ‘Concern,’ De Sequeira Says

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/india-s-lack-of-female-bankers-a-concern-de-sequeira-says.html
Aisha De Sequeira, head of
 investment banking  at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Indian unit, speaks of
her experiences as a female executive in the county.  Sequeira, who joined Morgan Stanley in 1995 and has worked
with the  U.S. bank  in  New York  and Mumbai, is among 14 of the
most senior women in  India ’s financial industry.  On the lack of female employees in investment banking teams:  “It’s a very interesting phenomenon in India, a lot of the
leaders of Wall Street firms are women but their teams don’t
share that demographic profile at all. That’s a concern going
forward. You keep hearing about the same names over and over
again, who have been in the news for the last three to four
years.”  On the longevity of India’s top women in business:  “The good thing about women in India is not only that they
have risen to the top but they sustain there for a very long
time. In the U.S. you hear cases like  Carly Fiorina ; she made it
to the top very quickly but within two years she was out. Here
you see women make it to the top and be successful for a very
long time.”  On emerging markets seeing more female leaders in finance:  “At Morgan Stanley, at one stage all our investment
banking teams at the emerging markets offices were run by women.
Russia and  China  are still run by women, both of whom are
locals.”  On the importance of role models for female professionals:  “For women to see other successful women is extremely
important. Formal mentoring doesn’t work because if you force
two people together who don’t have the right chemistry, you’re
never going to get the right form of mentors.  “When you recruit, it has to be a conscious decision to
recruit both men and women, you can’t just leave it to chance.”  On how to play the part of banker even if you don’t look it:  “Women build traction with clients over time, there are
certain people who completely look the part of a banker. If I
was to walk into a room, I don’t think people would immediately
say ‘she’s a banker.’ But if there was a man -- tall, suited --
maybe they would. In the U.S., there is a stereotype of what a
banker looks should look like.  “A woman needs to lead with her content. Women are
generally viewed to be quieter than men, so one advice given to
me was to always make sure not to go to a meeting and say
nothing. Sometimes that doesn’t come naturally for women.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  