-- 
Ministers Clash With Activists as Bid to Forge India Corruption Bill Fails

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-06-22T04:18:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/indian-government-clashes-with-social-activists-over-anti-corruption-bill.html
India ’s government failed to reach
an agreement with social activists asked to help draft an anti-
corruption bill, prolonging a standoff over graft that has
dented the government’s reputation and business confidence.  After the ninth and final round of talks, the two sides
couldn’t bridge differences on six issues surrounding the powers
of a proposed agency, known as the Lokpal, to target corruption
among politicians and bureaucrats. The two sides will now
distribute separate drafts of the bill to political parties for
feedback before India’s cabinet takes a decision.  “I am deeply disappointed by the model of Lokpal that the
government has proposed,” Prashant Bhushan, a lawyer in the
 Supreme Court  and one of the activists, said in televised
comments in  New Delhi  yesterday. He urged the government to pass
an “effective bill” in the next session of Parliament
beginning Aug. 1.  Tougher laws to counter corruption have been pending before
India’s Parliament for more than 40 years. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  is under pressure to tackle corruption after
high-profile alleged scams led to nationwide street protests.
About 72 percent of business leaders said corruption allegations
will slow economic growth, according to a poll published by the
Economic Times last week.  The activists are pushing for the proposed body to have
powers to investigate the prime minister, senior members of the
judiciary, politicians’ conduct in parliament and all Indian
bureaucrats.  ‘Parallel Government’  Government ministers negotiating the bill argue such
proposals would override rights enshrined in the constitution
and Parliament’s sovereignty. The government and activists also
disagree on how the agency’s members will be selected and funded.  Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal , one of five
members of the cabinet on the Lokpal committee that began work
in April, said the government wasn’t prepared to grant powers
superseding the democratic framework established when the
country gained independence from Britain in 1947.  “We don’t want to compromise the very delicate
constitutional balance provided for in the  constitution  by our
forefathers, they were far wiser than us,” Sibal told reporters
yesterday evening. “We cannot have a parallel government.”  Singh, in the third of a five-year term, has been damaged
after the jailing of a government minister and company
executives linked to a 2008 sale of permits to run mobile-phone
services, which the country’s auditor says may have cost the
exchequer $31 billion.  The government agreed to draft a new anti-corruption bill
after a septuagenarian social activist, Anna Hazare, staged a
five-day hunger strike on the streets of Delhi in April modeling
his protest on those of independence icon  Mahatma Gandhi . Draft
proposals for a corruption ombudsman, first introduced in
Parliament in 1968, have never been passed because of a lack of
political will.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  