-- 
Sensex Index Swings Between Gains and Losses on Monsoon Forecast, Greece

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-06-22T11:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-climb-on-optimism-greece-to-avert-debt-default.html
India’s benchmark stock index was
little changed after swinging between gains and losses. A
forecast of a below normal monsoon outweighed optimism that
 Greece  may avoid a default on its debt.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , India’s biggest home-products
maker, dropped the most in five months. Monsoon rain in India
will be below normal for the second time in three years, the
weather office said yesterday, potentially lowering farm output
and stoking inflation which is the highest among Asia’s major
economies. Infosys Ltd., a software exporter that earns 22
percent of its revenue from  Europe , rose the most in two weeks.
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  secured a parliamentary
confidence vote, sparking a rally in global equities.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, was
little changed at 17,550.63 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.
The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange climbed
less than 0.1 percent to 5,278.30 and its June futures settled
at 5,283. The BSE 200 Index fell 0.2 percent to 2,178.43.  “A weak monsoon will lead to a further spike in inflation,
which is being driven by rising commodity and crude  oil
prices ,” said Gaurang Shah, assistant vice president at  Geojit
BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. (GBNP)   Hindustan Unilever lost 3.6 percent to 310.75 rupees, its
biggest slide since Jan. 27.  Rainfall will be 95 percent of the 50-year average in the
June-September season, the  weather office  said yesterday after
the markets closed. That compares with 98 percent predicted by
the state-owned forecaster in April. A variation of 4 percent
from the long-term average is deemed normal by the agency.  Record Harvests  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is relying on adequate rain
to harvest record quantities of food grain and oilseeds for a
second year and cool inflation, which has led the central bank
to raise rates 10 times since mid-March 2010. Farming makes up
almost 14 percent of the economy and a reduced farm output can
also lower rural incomes, hurting sales of tractors and cars.  Infosys increased 1 percent to 2,755.05 rupees and its June
futures settled at 2,760 rupees.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index rose 0.8 percent. A total of
155 lawmakers supported the motion in the 300-seat parliament in
 Athens , bolstering Papandreou’s chances of pushing through
austerity measures to secure international financial aid for
Greece. The  International Monetary Fund , contributor of a third
of the bailout money for the nation, has warned EU leaders that
a failure to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks
triggering “large global spillovers.”  “Markets may see a dead-cat bounce on good news from
Greece but it will not sustain in the long term,” Geojit BNP’s
Shah said.  ‘Gloomy Horizon’  The Sensex has declined 14 percent in 2011, the worst
performer in Asia. The stocks on the gauge are valued at 14.2
times estimated earnings, compared with 10.8 for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  “The horizon is still gloomy,” said Deepak Chatterjee,
managing director of SBI Funds Management Pvt., which manages
$9.3 billion in assets. “Inflation doesn’t seem to be tamed and
we’re not at the end of the rate-increase regime. The government
has to try to fix the structural problems. It is a question of
sentiment rather than fundamentals.”  The central bank raised the repurchase rate to 7.5 percent
from 7.25 percent on June 16, extending the longest streak of
tightening in a decade, joining its peers from  China  to  South
Korea  in stepping up the fight against surging living costs.  Rising borrowing costs have begun to crimp demand and hurt
corporate earnings.  India ’s $1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8
percent in the three months through March 31, the slowest pace
in five quarters. Some 33 percent of companies in the Sensex
reported profits that missed analysts’ estimates in the March
quarter, compared with less than a quarter last year.  Overseas investors sold a net 5.51 billion rupees ($122.7
million) of Indian stocks on June 21, taking their total
withdrawals from equities this year to 21.5 billion rupees,
according to data  from  the  Securities and Exchange Board of
India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  