-- 
Insurers Post Biggest Underwriting Loss Since 2008 Storms

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-06-22T20:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/insurers-post-biggest-underwriting-loss-since-2008-on-catastrophe-claims.html
U.S. property and casualty insurers
posted the biggest underwriting loss since 2008 as carriers with
business outside the country paid claims tied to natural
disasters such as the March earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Net underwriting losses widened to $4.46 billion in the
first quarter from $1.78 billion a year earlier, ISO, a unit of
 Verisk Analytics Inc. (VRSK) , said today in a  statement . That’s the
worst result since the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, when
Hurricanes Ike and Gustav fueled an underwriting loss of about
$14 billion industrywide.  Catastrophes during the first quarter, including the
disaster in Japan and flooding in  Australia , erased underwriting
gains at  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and the insurance
operations of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Travelers
Cos.,  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and other insurers have faced losses in the
second quarter as tornadoes in the U.S. contributed to $14.7
billion in direct insured losses to property, according to ISO.  “There’s no denying that insurers continued to face
substantial headwinds in their core business -- underwriting,”
said Michael Murray, ISO’s assistant vice president for
financial analysis, in the statement.  Insurers remained profitable in the period as income from
bond portfolios and gains on stocks increased. Net investment
income rose to $12.6 billion in the first quarter from $11.6
billion a year earlier.  Natural disasters outside the U.S. cost the country’s
insurers between $2 billion and $5 billion in the first quarter,
according to the statement, which was released with the
 Insurance Information Institute  and the  Property Casualty
Insurers Association of America .  Buffett’s Loss  “We probably had the second-worst quarter for the  insurance
industry  in terms of catastrophes around the globe,” Buffett
said April 30 at Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .
“Normally the third quarter of the year is the worst because
that’s when the hurricanes tend to hit.”  Hurricane Katrina 
contributed to record losses in 2005.  The underwriting results include a smaller gain tied to
reserves. Insurers recorded a $4.5 billion benefit in the first
quarter after determining more funds than necessary had been set
aside to pay claims. The figure was $5.6 billion a year earlier.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, said last week that catastrophes in April and May,
including tornadoes in  Alabama , cost the insurer $2 billion
before tax. Travelers reduced share repurchases after saying
that about $1 billion in losses tied to natural disasters will
wipe out second-quarter operating profit.  USAA  Tornadoes and storms in the U.S. have contributed to “one
of the worst second quarters ever,” said Kristi Matus, chief
financial officer of policyholder-owned insurer USAA in an
interview today at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . In
addition to rising claims costs, insurers face investment yields
near record lows and consumers scaling back on coverage. That
may lead some carriers to raise rates, she said.  “You’re going to see upward rate pressure,” Matus said.
“We’re going to try to hold ours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  