-- 
International Personal Finance Shelves Ukraine, Bulgaria Plans

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/international-personal-finance-shelves-ukraine-bulgaria-plans.html
International Personal Finance Plc (IPF) ,
a U.K. lender that makes unsecured loans to low-income
households in eastern Europe, shelved plans to open in Ukraine
and Bulgaria because of concern about their markets.  The lender, known as IPF, instead aims to enter markets
such as Spain, Turkey and Chile by 2014, Chief Executive Officer
John Harnett said in an interview. Ukraine and Bulgaria had been
top priorities as recently as March and the company now doesn’t
plan to expand in any new country this year, he said.  “In Ukraine the financial markets are not yet sufficiently
stable to guarantee the availability of local currency
funding,” Harnett, 56, said on June 21. “It will change, but
this means Ukraine is on the back burner for now.”  IPF  hasn’t started lending in a new market since 2007, when
it opened in  Russia  and  South Africa . The financial crisis
prompted it to pull out of Russia in 2009, while it quit South
Africa the same year after deciding it wouldn’t be profitable.  The company, based in Leeds, northern  England , was spun off
from Provident Financial Plc, the U.K.’s largest subprime
lender, in July 2007. It aims to double the number of customers
to 4 million by 2015 and then double it again by 2020, Harnett
said. IPF, which has twice has many clients as it did five years
ago, currently lends in  Poland , the  Czech Republic ,  Hungary ,
Slovakia, Romania and  Mexico .  Adding Markets  IPF, whose 26,000 agents typically collect payments from a
client’s home, has put entry into  Bulgaria  on hold to look at
“bigger prizes” such as Spain and Turkey, said Harnett. It had
2.2 million clients at the end of the first quarter.  “The strategy is pretty simple, we are growing pretty
rapidly and we want to add in more countries,” Harnett said in
an interview. “Countries like Spain, Turkey and Chile have the
highest per capita income. We are also looking to take Mexico
further, where there’s room for quite a lot of expansion.”  While Spain is a more developed economy than any of the
others where IPF operates, the company reckons there may be a
gap in the market that has increased since the credit crunch, he
said. The lender plans to complete its research on  Spain  over
the next three months before making a decision, he said.  IPF shares have lagged behind the U.K. stock market average
this year, falling 11 percent compared with a 1.7 percent drop
for the FTSE All-Share Index. Of the 15 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg who cover the company, nine recommend buying the stock
and six rate it “hold.”  IPF, which has a market value of 869 million pounds ($1.4
billion), has more than quadrupled over the past two years as
the economies recovered following the financial crisis. The All-
Share Index rose 38 percent over the same period.  More Mexicans  The lender has 800,000 customers in Mexico and sees scope
to increase that to 3 million, making the country the company’s
largest market, Harnett said. Other countries he’s considering
include  Indonesia ,  India ,  Egypt ,  Argentina  and Vietnam.  “We have looked at India and in time it may be one where
we would go,” Harnett said. “The problem with Argentina is
that it’s economically unstable.”  Harnett didn’t rule out starting up in Ukraine, which has
the highest inflation in  Europe  at 11 percent, or Bulgaria,
which has the lowest economic output per capita among the 27
countries in the European Union, in the future.  Because of start-up costs, it takes about five years before
IPF starts making a profit in a new market. Net income jumped 80
percent last year to 59.2 million pounds as revenue rose 11
percent driven by growth in Hungary and Mexico, it said on March
2. Poland was the biggest market, contributing 49 million pounds
of 92.1 million pounds of pretax profit.  Loans typically last one year, with borrowers paying an
interest rate of 25 percent, Harnett said. More than 90 percent
of borrowers choose to pay as much as 75 percent in return for
no additional penalties for missed payments and a weekly visit
from an agent to collect the money, he said.  A 52-week loan is on average repaid over 60 weeks, Harnett
said. IPF had an impairment rate of 27 percent of its revenue in
the first quarter. IPF will start a trial in Slovakia next month
waiving the additional charges for customers taking subsequent
loans it they repay the original on time, Harnett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 