-- 
Missouri’s St. Louis Airport Sells as Low-Rated Debt Attracts: Muni Credit

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/missouri-s-st-louis-airport-sells-as-low-rated-debt-attracts-muni-credit.html
St. Louis is selling $30.5 million
of A- rated airport securities tomorrow as the extra yield that
investors demand to own lower-rated municipal bonds has declined
to the least since April.  Investors are seeking riskier munis after a two-month rally
reduced yields on top-rated state and local government debt.  “The choice at this point is I either go really high grade
and accept really low yields or I loosen up my reins a little
bit,” said Matt Dalton, who oversees $750 million of municipal
bonds as chief executive officer of Belle Haven Investments Inc.
in  White Plains , New York.  The spread, or the extra yield, that investors demand to
hold A- rated general obligations maturing in 10-years versus
top-rated muni debt declined to 1.42 percentage points on June
16, the lowest since April 25, according to Bloomberg data.  Yields on top-rated securities maturing in 10 years reached
2.565 percent on June 9, the lowest since mid-November, as state
and local government borrowing declined by half since last year
and as the default scenario of Meredith Whitney, the banking
analyst, failed to materialize.  “People are stepping away from the apocalyptic vision of
munis stepping off the cliff left and right,” said Thomas Dalpiaz, who manages $280 million for New York-based Advisors
Asset Management Inc.  Whitney told CBS Corp’s “60 Minutes” show in December
that she expected hundreds of billions of municipal-bond
defaults.  Default Total  Issuers have defaulted on about $640 million through mid-
June according to Distressed Debt Securities newsletter.  Last week, investors added $39 million to U.S. high-yield
municipal-bond mutual funds, making it the fifth out of the last
six weeks that high-yield funds showed inflows, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in a June 17 report, citing Lipper data.  By contrast, investors have withdrawn more than $30 billion
from muni-bond mutual funds from mid-November through last week.  The spread on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch revenue
bond index has rallied to 1.1 percentage points more than top-
rated municipal securities, the report said. Airport debt has
returned 5.074 percent through May compared with 3.88 percent
for AAA rated munis, according to Merrill Lynch indexes.  Lambert-St. Louis International Airport  issued revenue
bonds in 2007 backed by Assured Guaranty Ltd. for an AA+ rating.
Those yielded 4.109 percent on June 17, or 1.47 percentage
points more than 10-year top-rated general obligations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This week’s issue won’t
be insured and is graded five levels lower.  Refinancing Bonds  St. Louis  is borrowing $30.5 million to refinance higher
cost debt issued in 1998 and 2009, according to an offering
statement. The bonds are backed by net airport revenue, which
rose 18 percent to $93 million for the year ending June 30,
2010, according to the offering statement.  The airport’s terminal 1 was hit by a tornado on April 22
that blew out windows and caused extensive damage to the roof,
gate areas and shops, the offering document said. Flights were
disrupted for three days. The airport expects insurance will
cover the damage.  Passenger traffic passing through the airport has declined
at an average annual rate of 8.3 percent after reaching a five-
year high of 7.7 million people in 2007, according to a report
by  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Weak’ Coverage  The debt-service coverage ratio, or the amount of cash
available to meet $72 million in annual debt service is 1.14,
according to the rating company.  “Coverage levels are weak compared with similar facilities
rated in the ‘A’ category,” S&P said. “However, we note that
coverage has remained relatively stable despite the weakened
enplanement trends and despite the fact that debt service
increased nearly 15 percent in 2010.”  The airport has cut 56 jobs this year and last through
attrition and plans to cut another 15, S&P said. The airport has
also deferred construction of a maintenance facility and
reconstructing a baggage claim system saving $55 million.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK  CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY, which funds
capital needs of the most-populous U.S. city, will sell $200
million in tax-exempt building-aid revenue bonds and $100
million in taxable qualified school construction bonds as soon
as today. The securities, which carry the fourth-highest
investment grade from Moody’s Investors Service and S&P, will be
issued through competitive sales.  (Added June 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  