-- 
Japan to Extend Parliament Session as Kan Aims to Prolong His Premiership

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-06-22T07:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/japan-to-extend-parliament-session.html
Japan  extended parliament’s session
until the end of August, enabling Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to
try and achieve his legislative goals before fulfilling a pledge
to step down.  The lower house lengthened the term that was scheduled to
end today by 70 days, as proposed by the ruling  Democratic Party
of Japan . The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  had
sought a shorter extension of 50 days.  The length of the session may be an indication of how long
Kan, who is under pressure from inside and outside the DPJ to
step down, remains in office. DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada today failed to win opposition backing for Kan’s agenda,
which includes legislation to fund a second stimulus plan to
rebuild from the March earthquake and tsunami.  “The DPJ’s conflict is deepening,” said Atsuo Ito, an
independent political analyst. “There’s no guarantee Mr. Kan
will step down after 70 days while most DPJ members want him out.
The political vacuum will continue for a while.”  Kan is seeking to pass a second reconstruction package of
about 2 trillion yen ($25 billion), as well as legislation
authorizing 44.3 trillion yen in  government bonds  to fund the
world’s largest debt. He is also promoting a renewable energy
bill in the wake of the disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant which was crippled by the quake and tsunami.  No LDP-DPJ Agreement  Okada met with officials in the LDP and the New Komeito
party, who declined to give their support for any of the
legislation. Okada said a third stimulus bill was likely to be
drafted by “a new regime.” He declined to say whether that meant
under a new prime minister.  “There’s been no final written agreement by the three
parties,” Okada said, adding that “extending the session and the
timing over when the prime minister will change are separate
issues.”  Kan survived a June 2 no-confidence vote after pledging to
quit at an unspecified time. His approval rating was 31 percent,
according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published June 6. Almost
80 percent of voters said they don’t trust the government’s
pronouncements on the nuclear crisis. The DPJ was supported by
25 percent of respondents, while 19 percent backed the LDP. The
paper polled 1,057 people and provided no margin of error.  Former DPJ premier  Yukio Hatoyama  called on Kan to step
down by the end of this month and allies such as Okada and Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano have sought to limit his tenure.
LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has repeatedly called on Kan to
resign immediately.  While the LDP backed the first stimulus, it has called for
Kan to step down as a condition for supporting additional
legislation. The LDP also refused to pass bills allowing the
sale of the deficit-covering bonds to help fund about 40 percent
of this year’s budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  