-- 
Jewish Group Cedes Artifacts to Leipzig After Heir Protests

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T15:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/jewish-group-cedes-163-artifacts-to-leipzig-museum-after-protests-by-heir.html
The  Jewish Claims Conference  agreed
to cede ownership of a collection of antiquities to the Leipzig
museum that has housed them for 80 years, ending a dispute with
the grandson of Georg Steindorff, the Nazi-era owner.  After winning a 16-year legal battle against  Leipzig
University  to secure the 163 artifacts, the Claims Conference
said today that the collection will remain where it is. A Berlin
court  ruled on May 26  that the sale was made under duress and
thus invalid. It ordered the collection to be transferred to the
Claims Conference -- against the wishes of the heir.  Eighty-eight-year-old Thomas Hemer of  Nevada  had sought to
keep the collection in the Leipzig University Egyptian museum
named after his grandfather, as reported by Bloomberg on May 21.
Steindorff, an eminent Egyptologist of Jewish origin, escaped
 Nazi Germany  in 1939. Hemer argued that the university
department was his grandfather’s life work and his legacy should
stay in its museum.  “Important for us is determining that the loss was due to
persecution,” Roman Haller, the director of the Claims
Conference in  Germany , said in a statement sent by e-mail. The
court judgement “sends a special signal to all museums,
galleries and auction houses,” he said. “The circumstances
under which the cultural assets reached the museums must be
transparent: We owe this to the victims.”  The antiquities include a 4,000-year-old Nagada bowl,
ancient clay figures, early Islamic ceramics and Greek and Roman
objects. Steindorff sold those acquisitions to the university
for 8,000 Reichsmarks (about $3,200 at the time) in 1937 and
they have been there ever since.  ‘Happy Outcome’  “There are no financial transactions in this agreement,”
Dietrich Raue, the curator of the Leipzig museum, said in a
telephone interview. “It is an outcome that everyone can be
happy about.”  Steindorff led archaeological excursions to  Egypt  between
1903 and 1931. He complemented his own finds with objects that
he purchased for his teaching practice and integrated into the
university collection. He remained in Germany until March 1939,
eventually obtaining a passport through connections and leaving
for the U.S. via Bremen. He died in 1951 at the age of 90.  The Claims Conference, which describes its mission as
“securing a measure of justice for Jewish victims of Nazi
persecution,” also has a legal remit to recover property
confiscated from Jews before World War II in eastern Germany in
cases where no heirs have stepped forward to stake a claim.  According to its website, the group has used more than $1
billion of revenue from such claims to fund social, educational
and research programs.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 