-- 
Jon Huntsman Is Smooth Candidate on Bumpy Ride: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/jon-huntsman-is-smooth-candidate-on-bumpy-ride-margaret-carlson.html
Jon Huntsman ’s presidential campaign
announcement yesterday qualified as both impressive stagecraft
and political curiosity. Huntsman arrived at Liberty State Park
in  New Jersey  accompanied by the most photogenic political
family since the Kennedys.  A huge (and seemingly enthusiastic) contingent of reporters
were lured to the event in part by a quirky series of  Web videos 
that Huntsman had aired in the days leading up to it. They
featured a lone motorcyclist tearing through the rugged
mountains of Utah to the accompaniment of winsome country music.  Following Reagan  In swapping “On the Road” for “What It Takes,” Huntsman
poses some fundamental questions -- to himself and his party.
Like  Ronald Reagan  in his 1980 general election campaign,
Huntsman used the Statue of Liberty as his backdrop. But the
location seems a provocation this political season; now more
than ever, there is little quarter in the  Republican Party  for
your tired, poor or huddled masses.  Huntsman, 51, is either willfully obtuse or a bolder
Republican than we’ve seen lately. He appears unwilling to
pledge fealty to the Christian right, which doesn’t trust his
Mormonism or his moderate stance on social issues, or to the Tea
Party, which is suspicious of his big-tent Republicanism and his
service to President  Barack Obama  as ambassador to China, a post
he resigned earlier this year.  No Sweat  In a party enamored of unpolished politicians, Huntsman 
looks the opposite -- groomed, refined, composed and to the 
manor born, which, as the oldest of nine children of a wealthy
industrialist, he was. (His father struck it rich inventing the
clamshell container for McDonald’s hamburgers.) In Portsmouth,
 New Hampshire , Huntsman’s second stop yesterday, the candidate
seemed to be the only one who didn’t sweat.  Huntsman’s positions are even more incongruous. He has
acknowledged the existence of global warming, something that
will please climate scientists but repel Republican base voters.
He has supported cap-and-trade to slow greenhouse gas emissions
and civil unions for gay people, and he once told a reporter he
would be willing to back an individual mandate to fix the health
care system. (Lots of Republicans supported an individual
mandate before the Democrats adopted one for their health-care
reform -- including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
who enacted one. But it doesn’t help to be on the record about
it.)  Staying Civil  In a 2009 interview, Huntsman said Republicans would have
to appeal to “the intelligentsia” to be a real party. That’s
poison to the activists who use “professor” as an epithet.
Huntsman is making a point of being civil, saying, “I don’t
think you need to run down somebody’s rep in order to run for
the office of president.” To  Rush Limbaugh  and Sean Hannity, the
shadow leadership of the GOP, such restraint smacks of wimpy
accommodation -- or treason.  Huntsman joins a Republican field that looks chock full,
but isn’t. The party continues to search for more appealing
candidates. Texas Governor  Rick Perry  got a rapturous ovation --
replete with chants of “Run, Rick, run” -- at the Republican
Leadership Conference in  New Orleans  last weekend. Perry, who
has flirted with secession and other far-right tropes in recent
years, says he will make a decision in July.  Huntsman hopes to satisfy the yearnings of a quieter, more
establishment crowd -- the sort of moderate Republicans
sometimes labeled “extinct.” With the brainy governor of
 Indiana ,  Mitch Daniels , opting not to run, the Chamber of
Commerce types may conclude that Huntsman is a fine alternative
-- especially if Romney appears vulnerable (in no small part due
to that individual mandate). Huntsman’s staff swears he can
raise enough money to be competitive in the race.  Huntsman’s Valhalla  Huntsman says he has created jobs in the private sector --
although his family company created many more jobs in  China  than
in the U.S. During his gubernatorial tenure, unemployment in
Utah was about 5 percent, which sounds like Valhalla compared
with the jobless rate under Obama. On taxes and spending,
Huntsman  told  ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos that he would have
supported Representative Paul Ryan’s plan to cut taxes (blowing
an even bigger hole in the budget over the short- and medium-
term) and privatize Medicare.  The Multilateralist  On foreign policy, he’s seemingly mindful of the country’s
drift toward isolationism, questioning U.S. engagement in  Libya ,
arguing for fewer troops in  Afghanistan  and laying out a more
cautious approach to intervention in general. He says he would
cut defense spending, relying on special forces to fight more
nimbly (and more cheaply) than tens of thousands of U.S. boots
on the ground. A multilateralist, he believes we should identify
common interests with allies, reward them when we can and enlist
them to advance our cause.  In sum, Huntsman is the kind of moderate, erudite,
business-friendly candidate who might have thrilled the
Republicans of yesteryear. Looking around, you can see how such
an appealing candidate could win the presidency in 2012. You
just can’t see how he could win his party’s nomination.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  For more Bloomberg View columns:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/view/columns/   To contact the writer on this story:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 