-- 
K + N Pushes Maersk to One-Click Shipping in Ryanair Mold: Freight Markets

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-06-22T22:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/k-n-pushes-maersk-to-one-click-shipping-in-ryanair-mold-freight-markets.html
Freight forwarders led by Kuehne +
Nagel International AG are prompting shipping firms including
 Maersk Line , the world’s biggest, to rethink their strategies
after grabbing a chunk of the seaborne container market.  Kuehne + Nagel, the top sea-freight forwarder, and fellow-
Swiss competitor  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN)  are joining
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Global Forwarding and Deutsche Bahn AG’s
 DB Schenker  unit in shifting focus from trade routes to target
key industries such as pharmaceuticals, where shipments need
close control throughout the journey.  The strategy has helped the cargo brokers, which act as
middlemen between freight companies and manufacturers, to take a
35 percent share of boxed sea freight. That’s still far short of
their near-domination of air markets, where forwarders handle 95
percent of cargoes, leaving “huge scope for expansion,” said
Damian Brewer, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London .  “The shipping lines’ market share will drop below 50
percent in the next four to seven years,” Kuehne + Nagel Chief
Financial Officer Gerard van Kesteren said in an interview at
the company’s headquarters near Zurich. “They can’t fight it
because they can’t offer the end-to-end solutions that global
clients need.”  Kuehne + Nagel stock is down 3.6 percent this year,
compared with a 15 percent decline in A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,
of which Maersk Line is a unit. Panalpina, also based in
 Switzerland , has lost 7.9 percent in the period.  Less Power  While shipping companies will still reap revenue from
carrying containers, the rise of the forwarders will diminish
their bargaining power over rates, said Janne Vincent Kjaer, an
analyst at Jyske Bank A/S in Silkeborg,  Denmark . It also means
the shipping lines will have to better target the forwarders,
which could soon hold sway over more than half their income.  “Freight forwarders are a large part of our business and
it’s absolutely important that we produce solutions that are
attractive to both forwarders and cargo owners,” Michael Blach,
Maersk Line’s vice president for key client management, said in
a June 20 telephone interview.  Maersk Line is responding by overhauling a business model
that has barely changed in 35 years and swamps clients with
paperwork, the Copenhagen-based company said.  The revamp will see Maersk seek to boost direct bookings
with “one-click shipping,” imitating the web-based model,
which discount airlines such as Ryanair Holdings Plc used to cut
costs and strip traffic away from more established carriers
reliant on travel agents, Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding
said in a  video  posted June 7.  Late Shipments  The system will also aim to boost reliability -- one in two
containers shipped by sea currently arrives late -- and help
cargo owners track consignments, Kolding said.  Still, Maersk and its peers can’t match the flexibility of
top freight forwarders in meeting the needs of specialist
industries such as drugs and technology, according to Kuehne +
Nagel and Basel-based Panalpina, the fourth-largest forwarder.  “We have experts who can design the whole supply chain, an
end-to-end solution for customers in specific industries,”
which isn’t something most shippers can offer, Panalpina Chief
Executive Officer Monika Ribar said in a May 24 interview.  Mirroring an industry trend, Panalpina adjusted its
management structure last year to tailor products for
“verticals,” or industries like pharmaceuticals, autos and
technology, she said.  Temperature Control  “Verticals are the future,” Kuehne + Nagel’s CFO said.
“Take pharmaceuticals. You need highly temperature-controlled
transportation. We have to prove to the customer that the
temperature is not above or below strict limits.”  Kuehne + Nagel is also working on shipping electronic
 laptop computers  by sea in a bid to boost its share of the high-
tech market, van Kesteren said.  DHL is targeting the health care, technology, and energy
sectors, said Thomas Nieszner, DHL’s European chief. The
Deutsche Post unit is also offering customer-specific solutions
in the automotive and retail industries.  “Our objective is to become the logistics partner of
choice in selected target industry sectors,” Nieszner said in a
written response to questions. “We see quite a shift from air
to ocean and/or multi-modal transportation, which gives us great
expansion opportunities.”  The integrated approach has led Kuehne + Nagel to make
profit-sapping investments. The broker has added a European
trucking network that barely breaks even and a contract
logistics service that has a return on capital of less than 20
percent, compared with more than 100 percent for sea and air.  “It’s true that these investments are influencing our
overall profit,” van Kesteren said. “But we have identified
contract logistics and road freight as essential parts of the
supply chain. It is because of these businesses that we can
offer end-to-end solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  