-- 
Kenyan Shilling Needs ‘Bold’ Policy Action, Standard Chartered’s Khan Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-22T11:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/kenyan-shilling-needs-bold-policy-action-standard-chartered-s-khan-says.html
Kenya  should tighten monetary policy
in order to stem the shilling’s decline to the weakest on record
and curb inflation that may quicken to 22 percent “later this
year,” according to  Standard Chartered  Bank Plc.  Kenyan policy makers have “exacerbated” the shilling’s
depreciation to a 17-year low by not sending a decisive signal
to investors that it’s addressing the issue,  Razia Khan , the
head of African research at Standard Chartered, told a
conference today in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi. The central bank
should raise its  key lending rate , allow  interest rates  to rise,
and sell foreign currency, Khan said.  Kenya’s shilling has lost 11 percent against the dollar
this year, ranking as the world’s third-worst performing
currency after Suriname’s dollar and Maldives’ rufiyaa. Drought,
which is pushing up food prices, is partly to blame for surging
 inflation , which quickened for the seventh consecutive month to
13 percent in May.  “There’s been a policy of almost completely hands off,”
Khan said. “What needs to be seen is evidence of greater
resolve to rein in the shilling’s depreciation because of the
impact it has on inflation. Very bold action is required.”  The central bank’s monetary policy committee, chaired by
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate to
a record low in January, and then reversed the decision two
months later. At the committee’s last meeting in May, the MPC
raised the rate by a quarter percentage point, and increased the
amount of cash that lenders must hold in reserve. The MPC, which
convenes every two months, is scheduled to meet in July.  Food, Fuel Pressure  Imported inflationary pressure coming from higher global
fuel and commodity prices, is also hurting disposable income and
threatening to weaken economic growth, Khan said.  Inflation may peak at 22 percent, or “possibly higher,”
later in the year if the shilling continues depreciating and
food and fuel prices stay high, she said.  Kenya has no plans to “interfere” in the  currency market 
even as the government is concerned about the shilling’s drop,
Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said on June 17.  The shilling gained as much as 2.2 percent to 89.58 per
dollar and traded 0.4 percent stronger at 91.25 by 1:47 p.m. in
Nairobi after reaching 91.83 yesterday, the weakest intraday
level since March 1994, when the nation abolished exchange
controls and allowed the currency to trade freely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  