-- 
Killers Boost Volume; Ai Weiwei’s Outspoken Art: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/killers-boost-volume-in-hyde-park-celebrate-ai-weiwei-art-london-weekend.html
Hyde Park’s festival summer season
gets off to a noisy start, with U.S. band the Killers headlining
the weekend-long  Hard Rock Calling  event.  The Friday night Killers show provides an urban alternative
to Glastonbury, the world’s biggest greenfield festival 100
miles (160 kilometers) to the west where the opening day
features U2.  Londoners get a distinctly mixed lineup.  Imelda May 
performs alongside veterans Ray Davies, Rod Stewart, Stevie Nicks and Adam Ant. Rockers Bon Jovi and Kaiser Chiefs also
star. While Hard Rock Calling will never be as cool as Glasto,
there’s plenty of talent scattered across its three stages. At
least  London  fans can avoid camping in a sea of mud.  Information:  http://www.hardrockcalling.co.uk/2011/   There are many food stalls at the festival, though those
seeking somewhere quieter and drier can visit restaurants around
Marble Arch. For a casual place to eat, try Vinoteca, a wine bar
with London-wide fans.  You can pick from 25 wines by the glass, and the food is
simple and inexpensive: Barrel-aged feta, fennel, broad bean &
mint salad is 6 pounds. Information:  http://bit.ly/f7KS07  and
+44-20-7724 7288.  Saturday  Celebrate Ai Weiwei’s release after almost three months in
detention by viewing a selection of his works around London.  Ai, who is now free on bail after police questioning, has
long been one of  China ’s most outspoken critics.  Ten tons of his handcrafted porcelain sunflower seeds,
arranged in a cone-shaped heap, have just gone on show on Level
3 of Tate Modern. A dozen bronze heads representing Chinese
astrological animals line the courtyard at  Somerset House 
(through June 26).  A dedicated show at Lisson Gallery includes 31 Han Dynasty
vases that he decided needed to be coated with industrial paint.
The Lisson also shows Ai’s hefty surveillance camera -- made of
gray marble (recently showcased at the Art Basel fair).  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk ,
 http://www.somersethouse.org.uk/ ,  http://www.lissongallery.com .  Phoenix Palace is a large, old-style Chinese restaurant
near the Lisson, popular with Chinese and Westerners alike. Its
long menu of more than 300 dishes caters to most tastes. Dim sum
is served daily until 4:45 p.m. Information:
 http://bit.ly/iKnQby  and +44-20-7486-3515.  Saturday Night  Dominic West -- better known as Detective Jimmy McNulty
from the HBO series “The Wire” -- plays the self-loathing lead
in Simon Gray’s 1971 comedy “Butley.” Reeling from a collapsed
marriage and desperately lonely, he hides the pain with jealous
rants and bouts of bad behavior.  “Butley” is at the Duchess Theatre. Information:
 http://www.butleylondon.com  or +44-844-412-4659.  Sunday  Australia ,  New Zealand  and the South Pacific are the stars
of this year’s City of London Festival, an annual celebration of
music and arts in the capital’s financial district.  The festival opens Sunday with a 15-piano performance of
best-known works by Australian composer Percy Grainger. The
instruments will be placed outside  St. Paul’s Cathedral .  On July 1, a genuine Maori war canoe, with an all-Maori
crew of 16, rows the Thames River from Tower Bridge to
Blackfriars before performing the traditional haka dance outside
St. Paul’s.  Information:  http://www.colf.org  or +44-845-120-7502.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 