-- 
King Abdullah’s Drive to Put Saudis to Work May Rebound on Egypt

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-06-22T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/king-abdullah-s-drive-to-put-saudis-to-work-may-rebound-on-egypt.html
Halah Alduhaylib strolls among the
recruitment stands at a jobs fair in  Riyadh  where there are
10,000 positions available. Only Saudis need apply.  “This is my second fair this week, it’s a great chance for
me,” said Alduhaylib, 28. With a masters in computing from the
U.K.’s  Manchester Metropolitan University , she’s well-placed to
benefit from the kingdom’s drive to reduce unemployment, a cause
of unrest in many Middle Eastern countries, by forcing companies
to hire more Saudis. Nine out of ten non-government employees
are foreigners.  After deploying troops, money and religion to stave off
protests in the world’s top oil exporter, King Abdullah this
month imposed quotas that may force employers to cut foreign
staff. While that’s good news for Alduhaylib, it will raise
costs for Saudi businesses and hurt poorer Arab countries which
earn foreign currency from expatriate workers in the Gulf.  “ Saudi Arabia ’s ability to absorb labor from the region
will be reduced,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at
Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank . “Oil-importing nations
of the region have struggled at a time of rapid  population
growth  to absorb people into productive employment.”  Kotilaine cited  Egypt  as an example. Another is  Tunisia :
Mohamed Bouazizi, the 26-year-old whose self-immolation helped
trigger the regional revolution, was unemployed.  Egypt received $8.9 billion of net private transfers,
mostly from Egyptian workers abroad, in the nine months through
March, according to the central bank. The Saudi contribution was
$1 billion last year, John Sfakianakis, chief economist at
 Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , wrote in a June 14 report.  Egypt Finance Gap  That’s a problem for an Egyptian government seeking to
repair finances after the revolt against  Hosni Mubarak  scared
off tourists and shut down factories. One-year bond yields rose
to 13 percent this month. Saudi stocks, by contrast, have
recouped most of the 19 percent loss that the  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX)  posted in the three weeks after Mubarak’s fall.  Egypt projects a budget gap of 11 percent of economic
output, and is seeking international help. Saudi Arabia
cushioned the potential blow from lost remittances with $900
million of grants and loans under an accord signed this week.  Saudi Arabia is the second-biggest global supplier of
worker remittances after the U.S., sending $26 billion last
year, Banque Saudi Fransi said. Neighboring Yemen, pushed close
to civil war by five months of protests, is another recipient.  Foreign Workers ‘Worried’  “All foreign workers here in the showroom are worried
about their jobs,” said Mohammed al-Rashidy, 23, a Yemeni
administrator at  Saks Fifth Avenue  in Riyadh.  About one-third of Saudi adults have jobs, government
figures show. Sfakianakis said the kingdom has the second-
highest youth unemployment in the region, behind  Iraq .
Meanwhile, almost 1 million work visas were issued to companies
in 2009, more than double the 2005 number.  “Saudi companies prefer the lower paid, better skilled
foreign workers,” said Paul Gamble, head of research at Riyadh-
based Jadwa Investment Co. Now, “they will probably pay more
for less productivity.”  Quotas for Saudi nationals range from 65 percent at larger
companies such as  Saudi Investment Bank (SIBC)  -- one of those hiring
at the fair -- to 10 percent for small retailers. Companies
falling short won’t get permits for foreign workers. It’s the
first time the government has “explicitly linked visas to
employing Saudis,” Gamble said.  ‘Only Saudis’  At the Riyadh jobs fair,  Ismail Abudawood Trading Co. , the
Saudi distributor for  Procter & Gamble Co . and Quaker Oats Co.,
has openings for 35 women and 125 men. “We are only looking for
Saudis,” said Mohammed al-Okaili, its human resources manager.
“The king’s decree has really changed things.”  Gender, as well as nationality, is an issue. Saudi Arabia’s
Wahhabi version of Islam requires segregation in many
workplaces. One of the first questions asked by Shady Hanafy,
who’s recruiting for New Jersey-based construction manager  Hill
International Inc. (HIL) , is whether applicants would work with the
opposite sex.  Responses varied. Saleh Alfreihi, seeking an interior
design job for his daughter, said he wouldn’t mind a “mixed
environment.” Abdullah al-Hussein, a 26-year-old Islamic law
graduate, said he preferred separation though “would work with
women in the right job.”  King Abdullah has vowed to get more Saudi women working,
and his government is hiring too. He pledged 66,000 jobs in
teaching and health care, mostly for women, as part of $130
billion of extra spending announced in February and March.  Show of Force  Religious institutions that denounced protest as un-Islamic
got some of Abdullah’s cash. Accompanying the handouts was a
show of force: police deployed throughout Riyadh on March 11 to
deter a planned demonstration. The protests that did take place
that month were mostly in the eastern region, including
Alduhaylib’s home of al-Qatif, where most of the Shiite Muslim
minority live.  Alduhaylib says she doesn’t mind working with men and is
willing to travel if  King Abdullah ’s plan helps her land a
position in  information technology . “If I find the right job in
Riyadh, I would move here,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 