-- 
Korea to Tighten Loan-Deposit Ratio Rules for Banks to Tame Household Debt

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-06-22T23:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/korea-regulator-to-tighten-loan-deposit-ratio-rules-to-tame-household-debt.html
South Korea ’s finance regulator
plans to tighten rules related to banks’ loan-to-deposit ratios
as the government seeks to rein in rising household debt in
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  The Financial Supervisory Service will more closely
monitor lending at the country’s financial institutions’ and
tighten control of the loan-deposit ratio, FSS Governor Kwon Hyouk Se told lawmakers today at a forum in Seoul, according to
an e-mailed copy of his speech. The FSS didn’t disclose details
on how the ratio will change.  South Korea’s household debt has risen eight straight
quarters through March to a record 801.4 trillion won ($746
billion). The government is set to announce measures to control
borrowing by the end of this month, the Financial Services
Commission said last week.  “While there’s no immediate threat of deterioration of
household loan quality, it’s highly likely that the  household
debt  issue can be a burden in the future,” Kwon said.  The FSS, a privately funded agency that enforces polices
set by a government regulator, aims to contain reckless
household debt growth and will encourage lenders to change
lending structures to help borrowers meet debt obligations if
rates increases, it said today.  As of September 2010, the average ratio among 15 nationwide
banks stood at 99.3 percent, the FSS said in November. The
regulator in March 2010 advised domestic lenders to cut the
ratio to 100 percent by the end of 2013 after the ratio rose as
high as 127 percent following 2008 global financial crisis.  The loan-to-deposit ratio is used to assess a bank’s
liquidity. A high ratio may indicate a lender may not have
enough liquidity to cover unforeseen funding requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  