-- 
Naked Access, Debit Card Rules, JPMorgan, True, Electric Cars: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-22T11:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/naked-access-pcaob-reports-jpmorgan-electric-cars-compliance.html
The four largest U.S. stock market
operators asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to delay
implementation of rules governing how brokers send orders to
venues, including a ban on unsupervised, or “naked” market
access given to some high-frequency traders.  In a letter to the SEC dated June 20,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings
Inc. asked the regulator to extend to Nov. 30 the date by which
broker-dealers routing orders for other securities firms must
comply with the rules. The current deadline is July 14.  The SEC in November proposed banning unfiltered or
“naked” access to markets. The rule applies to all forms of
securities trading, including the routing of orders to markets.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined
to confirm or comment on the letter. Stacie Fleming of Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats, declined to comment. Robert Madden of Nasdaq
OMX in  New York  couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.
Michael Boccio of Sloane & Co., which represents Direct Edge,
said the market operator co-signed the letter from the
exchanges. Direct Edge is based in Jersey City, New Jersey.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
whether implementation would be delayed.  Compliance Policy  EU Working With U.S. on Electric-Car Rules, De Gucht Says  The U.S. and the European Union are close to setting joint
standards for electric vehicles in a move that would foster
development of the low-polluting cars, the EU’s top trade
official said.  EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht made the remarks in a
speech in Washington yesterday.  De Gucht, who is in Washington to meet with U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, other administration officials and
business executives, didn’t elaborate on what the standards
would be. They may be announced when he returns to Washington
for a meeting with White House officials late this year.  De Gucht also made a pitch to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business lobbying group, for a long-stalled
Doha Round of the World Trade Organization, saying the trade
arbiter should come up with some smaller package to agree to
before the end of the year. That agreement should include rules
for facilitating trade in poor nations and a standstill
guaranteeing that no nation raises tariffs while a full accord
is still pending.  U.S. Watchdog Weighing Proposal to Make Auditors Explain Work  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is seeking
comment on proposed changes that may require auditors of U.S.-
registered firms to explain their findings rather than simply
saying whether rules were followed.  The PCAOB, the Washington-based watchdog for firms that
review companies’ books, issued a statement yesterday on
“possible enhancements” of the model for the auditor’s report,
which it called a primary means for communicating with
investors.  PCAOB Chairman James Doty said the release is a significant
move for investor protection in response to the 2008 financial
crisis and the first step toward reforms designed to improve the
relevance, transparency and reliability of the audit process.  The regulator, created by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission, will
accept comment on the concept release through Sept. 30 and plans
to hold a public meeting on the proposal later this year.  EEX Says it Accepts FSA Qualifications for New Energy Traders  The  European Energy Exchange  AG accepts trader
qualifications from the U.K. Financial Services Authority for
access to its energy contracts, Oliver Maibaum, managing
director of the Leipzig, Germany-based exchange, said.  The European Energy Exchange provides a single market of
exchange regarding energy trading.  U.S. Regulators May Ease Swaps-Database Legal Safeguard Rules  U.S. regulators looking to simplify sharing of derivatives
information may release market databases from certain Dodd-Frank
Act requirements if they register for business with both
domestic and overseas watchdogs.  Foreign regulators wouldn’t need to indemnify the swap-data
repositories or U.S. regulators for litigation costs if the
databases have dual registration, the heads of the  Securities
and Exchange Commission  and  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
said in a letter. Indemnification also wouldn’t be needed when
overseas officials seek information from the two agencies.  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler and SEC chief Mary Schapiro made
the statements about indemnification and dual registration in
the June 8 letter to Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial markets
commissioner.  Dodd-Frank, the U.S. regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
requires the databases as part of derivatives oversight aimed at
reducing risk and boosting transparency in the $601 trillion
swaps market. The law requires repositories to have protection
against legal costs before sharing information with regulators.  European officials and repositories such as the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. have questioned the provision, saying it
may cause the global swaps market to become too fragmented.  Larry Thompson, DTCC’s general counsel, said  in testimony 
for a May 25 House Agriculture Committee hearing that the
measure may lead overseas jurisdictions to set up their own
repositories to escape U.S. rules.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan to Settle SEC Probe of CDO Sale for $153.6 Million  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay $153.6 million to settle
U.S. regulatory claims it misled pension funds and a Lutheran
group while selling a product linked to risky mortgages as the
housing market unraveled.  The company, the only major Wall Street bank to remain
profitable throughout the financial crisis, didn’t tell
investors that hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC helped pick
assets linked to a synthetic collateralized debt obligation in
2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission wrote in a fraud
case filed yesterday at Manhattan federal court. Magnetar,
betting housing prices would fall, stood to profit if assets
defaulted.  “JPMorgan marketed highly complex CDO investments to
investors with promises that the mortgage assets underlying the
CDO would be selected by an independent manager looking out for
investor interests,” the SEC’s enforcement chief,  Robert
Khuzami , said in a statement. “With today’s settlement, harmed
investors receive a full return of the losses they suffered,”
he said in the statement yesterday.  “The SEC has not charged the firm with intentional or
reckless misconduct,” JPMorgan said in a statement. The bank
booked $900 million in losses on the CDO, known as Squared, and
after an internal review voluntarily made $56 million in
payments to investors of a separate CDO called Tahoma I.  The SEC won’t bring claims over that investment, Khuzami
told reporters on a conference call yesterday. Asked why
JPMorgan executives weren’t sued, he said, “we look hard and
long at the conduct of individuals and make our decisions based
on the evidence.” JPMorgan Chase’s deal to settle a U.S.
regulator’s claims that the bank misled buyers of mortgage-
linked securities before the housing market collapsed echoed a
case brought last year against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The SEC is targeting firms in the mortgage industry. Like
Goldman, JPMorgan’s brokerage unit, JPMorgan Securities LLC,
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in settling. Unlike Goldman, the
claims against the firm relied solely on a section of the
 Securities Act  of 1933 that connotes a “lesser violation,”
said Ed B. Horahan, a Washington-based securities lawyer.  Goldman Sachs settled under a section of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that says the accused firm knew what it was
doing, while JPMorgan’s case is closer to negligence, Horahan
said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment yesterday.  For more on JPMorgan, click here.  For a video report, click here.  For audio of an interview with Robert Khuzami, click here.  For more on Goldman Sachs, click here.  EU Said to Consider Releasing Stress Tests When Markets Closed  The European Union’s top securities regulator is
recommending the release of the bank stress-test results at
night or on a weekend when global stock markets are closed,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority  wrote to the
 European Banking Authority , the London-based EU agency carrying
out the tests, calling for publication of results while markets
are shut, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. While a date for the results hasn’t been
set, regulators expect them to be released in mid-July, the
person said.  The stress-test results were published on July 23 last year
while U.S. markets were still open. If it opts to release the
data on a weeknight, the EBA has a two-hour window to coordinate
publication. U.S. markets close at 9 p.m. U.K. time and the New
Zealand exchange opens two hours later.  Officials at ESMA didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Franca Rosa Congiu, an EBA spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Federal Reserve  to Hold Meeting on Debit-Card Rules June 29  The Federal Reserve Board is scheduled to meet next week as
it prepares to implement caps on debit-card swipe fees paid by
retailers by July 21.  Notice of the June 29 Fed meeting was posted on the central
bank’s website yesterday.  U.S. banks have challenged in court a provision of the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law that limits the amount of
debit-card swipe fees on the grounds that it is “confiscatory”
and therefore unconstitutional. The case is pending before the
U.S. Court of Appeals in St. Louis.  True Asks Thai Telecom Regulator to Revoke Total Access License  True Corp. Pcl, Thailand’s third-largest mobile-phone
company, asked the industry’s regulator to revoke  Total Access
Communication Pcl (DTAC) ’s operating license, claiming the company is
in breach of foreign ownership rules.  The  National Broadcasting and Telecommunications
Commission ’s board will discuss the issue and consult with the
commerce ministry, because the agency isn’t authorized to revoke
licenses, Takorn Tantasith, the regulator’s acting secretary-
general, said yesterday in Bangkok.  True has filed complaints to the police and Thailand’s
commerce ministry alleging that Total Access is majority-owned
by foreign investors, said Supasorn Honchaiya, a legal
representative for True’s mobile-phone unit True Move Co.  Total Access Chief Executive Officer Jon Eddy Abdullah said
last week that the company, controlled by Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,
complies with all Thai laws and regulations. Thai investors hold
51 percent of Total Access, the Bangkok Post reported last week,
citing the government’s Department of Business Development.  Bair Says Resolutions Panel Has Wide Range of Expertise  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  and
members of the agency’s  Advisory Panel on Systemic Resolutions 
met in Washington yesterday to map strategy to deal with too-
big-to-fail firms in the event of a collapse.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker and former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  co-Chairman John Reed are serving on the panel
along with executives including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  fixed-income
chief Peter Fisher and  Standard & Poor’s  President Deven Sharma.  For the video, click here.  EPA Extends Comment Time on Mercury and Air Toxics Proposal  The Environmental Protection Agency said it will extend the
public comment period for a proposed mercury and air toxics
rule, responding to calls from lawmakers to give companies more
time to weigh in on the standards.  The EPA will extend the comment timeline by 30 days,
according to a statement yesterday. The November deadline for
issuing final standards will remain the same.  The extension gives utilities, manufacturers, environmental
groups and other interested parties 120 days to comment, double
the current schedule.  Interviews/Speeches  Amar Bhide Says Bank Capital Cushions Are ‘Irrelevant’  Amar Bhide, a professor at Tufts University, talks about
Basel III bank capital requirements and the Dodd-Frank financial
regulation overhaul.  Bhide described the capital adequacy issue as a “fake
debate” because “nobody knows what the risk-weighted assets
are,” and capital cushions are therefore irrelevant. Amar, who
concluded that the regulations didn’t go far enough, spoke with
Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Insurers Need Global Capital Standards, OSFI’s Dickson Says  Insurance regulators must settle on global capital and
accounting standards to enhance risk management, said Julie
Dickson, Canada’s financial services regulator.  Dickson, superintendent of the  Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions , made the remarks during a speech
yesterday at the  International Insurance Society  conference in
Toronto.  In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the  International
Association of Insurance Supervisors  hasn’t made as much
progress as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on
“international harmonization” in the banking industry, said
Dickson, 53.  Swartz Says Groupon’s Pre-IPO Jokes Not a Good Idea  Matthew Swartz, partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP, talked about Groupon Inc.’s actions during its pre-initial
public offering quiet period.  Swartz, who spoke with Emily Chang and Cory Johnson on
Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West,” discussed Groupon’s
use of the “talking cat” and the law in general regarding the
“quiet period” after announcement of a public offering.  For the video, click here.  Obama Nominee Bryson Sides With Republicans on Taxes, Rules  John Bryson, President Barack Obama’s nominee for  Commerce 
secretary, sided with Republicans in Congress, saying companies
need lower taxes and that a labor complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA) 
was “not sound.”  Bryson, facing questions from lawmakers who said Obama has
produced costly regulations and failed to spur job growth, said
yesterday he would push as Commerce secretary to curb rules
burdening companies, cut taxes and spur trade.  “I‘m committed to helping simplify regulations that are
difficult to understand, eliminate regulations that are
ineffective and speed up regulatory decisions so American
businesses can have the certainty they need,’’ Bryson testified
to the  Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee .  Bryson, 67, is a founder of the Natural Resources Defense
Council, an environmental group, and former chief executive
officer of  Edison International (EIX) , the owner of California’s
largest utility. Senators read a letter of support for Bryson
from the Business Roundtable, which represents CEOs of companies
such as Boeing. While Republicans questioned Obama’s policies,
none said they would oppose Bryson’s nomination because of
concerns over his willingness to stand up to Obama’s ‘‘anti-
business administration.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 