-- 
New Jersey Government Workers’ Union Sues State Over Pension Contributions

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-22T19:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/new-jersey-union-sues-state-alleging-illegal-worker-pension-contributions.html
The Communications Workers of
America  Local 1033  sued New Jersey today, claiming Governor
 Chris Christie  seeks to illegally require government employees
to pay more for pensions.  The governor, a first-term Republican, is trying to
“unlawfully shift” to union members the “cumulative costs of
the state’s chronic failure to fund required contributions” to
pension plans, according to a complaint filed in federal court
in Trenton, New Jersey.  Christie’s proposal, which would also raise the  retirement
age  to 65 from 62 and freeze cost-of-living adjustments, is
scheduled to go before the Assembly tomorrow. The Senate
approved it June 20 by a vote of 24-15. One provision, not
addressed in the CWA lawsuit, would require employees to pay
more for health insurance.  Thousands of teachers, government workers and firefighters
have protested outside the state Capitol against the plan.  Local 1033, which represents 7,000 members in the Public
Employees’ Retirement System and the Teachers’ Pension and
Annuity Fund, claims the pension benefits payable under those
plans are promises made by the state.  ‘Contributing Factor’  Christie said today that his decision to skip a
contribution to the state pension system, which had a deficit of
$53.9 billion as of June 2010, was due to the economic
recession. He said it was the “most responsible” choice to
make. He also said that skipped payments by previous governors
and his administration was a “contributing factor” to the
problems.  “Every governor who came before me, and now me, has to
bear some responsibility,” said Christie, 48, at a town-hall
meeting in Fair Lawn. “I don’t shrink for a moment from what
I’ve done.”  The local claims that skipping pension payments violates a
U.S. constitutional provision saying that no state shall pass
any “law impairing the obligation of contracts,” and that it
runs afoul of a similar provision in the  New Jersey 
constitution. The union also says that the indefinite suspension
of cost-of-living increases would violate the U.S. and state
constitutions.  “This was a methodical process of starving the proverbial
beast,” Anthony Miskowski of Somerset, one of nine CWA members
who joined the suit, said at a news conference at the local’s
headquarters in Trenton. “Well, the beast did not die. The
beast only grew to be angry, and now the beast is in the
position to gobble up the budget of the state of New Jersey.”  Missed Payments  Christie has said the overhaul is needed to shrink the
pension deficit. The state hasn’t made contributions for most of
the past decade, and skipped a $3 billion payment last year. The
government will make a $759 million contribution to the plan
once lawmakers approve the benefits overhaul, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said last month.  Democrats including Senate Majority Leader Barbara Buono,
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo  and Assembly
Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan  oppose the measure, saying it would
gut collective-bargaining rights. Buono and Sarlo voted against
it.  The case is CWA Local 1033 v. State of New Jersey, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey,
 at   tdopp@bloomberg.net . 