-- 
New Zealanders Neurotic on Growth: Economist

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-23T03:01:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/new-zealanders-neurotic-on-growth-economist.html
New Zealanders’ worries about their
economy resemble a neurotic Woody Allen character whose
depression and complaints are unjustified, U.S. economist
Sebastian Edwards said.  The population is convinced “the future looks bleak,”
Edwards, professor of international economics at the  University
of California ,  Los Angeles , said in a paper prepared for a
Treasury Department forum today in Wellington. “Yet by almost
every possible metric New Zealand is a success.”  Confidence slumped after the historic heart of Christchurch
city was shattered by a magnitude-6.3 earthquake in February,
and a report this week showed the nation experienced the most
prolonged loss of migrants in a decade, including a surge in
people moving to Australia. Even so, the local dollar is the
best three-month performer among Group of 10 currencies and the
nation’s  government bonds  are in demand from foreign investors.  Edwards characterized New Zealand’s pessimism as “Woody
Allen Syndrome,” in reference to the  director and star  of films
such as Annie Hall in which characters overcome self doubt to
re-establish their lives. Like them,  New Zealand  has areas that
could be honed, such as reducing its external debt and boosting
incomes closer to levels in Australia, Edwards said.  ‘Pessimistic Observers’  Still, “prospects are rosier than what pessimistic
observers have intimated,” he said. “Economic conditions
continue to be solid” and while New Zealand’s net external debt
is high, it is declining, he said.  A government  report  yesterday showed the nation’s net
international investment deficit narrowed to 81.5 percent of
gross domestic product at Dec. 31, 2010, from 86.5 percent a
year earlier.  Foreign demand for government bonds prompted the country’s
Debt Management Office to increase its offer of bonds in the
year to June 30 to NZ$20 billion from a planned NZ$15 billion.  Still, the country’s consumer confidence fell to a two-year
low in March after the Feb. 22 temblor devastated Christchurch,
killing at least 180 people. Three months earlier, 29 workers
were killed after an explosion at Pike River Coal Co.’s mine on
the South Island’s West Coast, the nation’s worst mining
disaster in 96 years.  Reconstruction Difficulties  The government is still grappling with how to rebuild
Christchurch, as the nation’s second-largest city is struck by
aftershocks on an almost daily basis. It announced a relief
package today that included purchasing 5,000 damaged homes
located on land deemed too dangerous to rebuild on.  A June 21 report showed more migrants left New Zealand than
arrived for a third straight month in May, and there was a 45
percent jump in the number of citizens relocating permanently to
 Australia  in the 12 months through May.  Even so, Edwards said economic growth is likely to be
“relatively robust” in the next few years.  The economy’s rebound is being driven by record prices for
New Zealand’s milk, meat and lumber exports in the past year on
increased demand from  China . That helped the currency gain 10.2
percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past three months.  GDP will increase 2.1 percent in the year ending March 31,
2012, according to the average estimate of 11 economists
surveyed by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc.
Growth may quicken to 4 percent in the year through March 2013,
the survey showed.  “As my Woody Allen analogy suggests, I think the situation
is better than what many local analysts seem to believe,” said
Edwards. “There is no imminent danger of a crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  