-- 
NFL’s Ravens Move Training Camp Because of Potential Dalays From Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-22T20:16:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/nfl-s-ravens-move-training-camp-because-of-potential-dalays-from-lockout.html
The  Baltimore Ravens  moved preseason
training camp to their year-round practice facility, the first
National Football League team to make such a change because of
the lockout that has shuttered the sport since March.  Fans won’t be able to attend practices at the team’s Owings
Mills,  Maryland , facility because it’s prohibited by the Ravens’
lease agreement with Baltimore County, the team said today in a
statement.  Bob Eller, the team’s vice president of operations, said
the Ravens couldn’t coordinate with McDaniel College, hotels and
other parties in their longtime training site of Westminster,
Maryland, without a firm idea of when training camp may start.
Camps generally open in late July.  “We delayed the decision as long as we could,” Eller said
in the statement. “Right now, we don’t know dates for camp and
we’ve been forced to make other plans.”  The team said about 110,000 fans last summer visited
Westminster, where the club has held preseason camp since 1996.  Representatives of the NFL and players are meeting today in
the Boston area, according to a person familiar with talks who
asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
discuss them publicly.  Owners met outside  Chicago  yesterday for a briefing on the
outline of a potential deal that would give players about 48
percent of a projected $9.3 billion in revenue next year, a
person familiar with the negotiations said.  Management of the most popular U.S. sport locked out
players in March, with the players suing the league in federal
court charging wage-fixing and antitrust violations.  Vikings’ Deadline  The  Minnesota Vikings  said last week that they had until
July 18 to inform Minnesota State University in Mankato whether
their preseason camp would be held as scheduled at the school.  Owings Mills couldn’t accommodate the kind of traffic the
Ravens usually attract for preseason workouts, team President
Dick Cass said.  “We don’t have the parking spaces for the fans, and the
roads could not safely handle the type of crowds we attract,”
Cass said in the statement.  Ethan Seidel, vice president of administration and finance
at McDaniel College, said the school knew that “the closer we
got to training camp, the less likely it would be logistically
to pull it off this year.”  “When the NFL has its new agreement, we look forward to
speaking to the Ravens about continuing our partnership with
them,” Seidel said.  Jeff Pash , the NFL’s chief negotiator, said he didn’t know
how long it would take to reopen the NFL, start up practices and
grant about 500 players free agency once the sides reach a
handshake agreement.  “The players would want it to be soon and we would want it
to be soon,” he told reporters at the NFL meeting yesterday in
Rosemont,  Illinois . “So we would move as quickly as we could.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 