-- 
Mobile Ads Come of Age in Cannes With Heineken Soccer Feature

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T17:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/nike-google-herald-mobile-advertisement-hurricane-at-cannes-conference.html
Technology and advertising
executives have been talking up the potential of ads on mobile
handsets since before  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced the iPhone in 2007.
Now, they may finally be ready to use them.  At this week’s  Cannes Lions  media conference, sports goods
company  Nike Inc. (NKE)  is featuring an application that uses the
global positioning system to track a user’s run on iPhones and
Facebook Inc.’s website. Friends send audible “cheers” by
commenting on the runner’s page. Brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA)  is showing
its ‘StarPlayer’ app that lets soccer fans interact in real time
while watching the European Champions League matches.  Functions to track consumers’ locations, social coupons
such as those provided by Groupon Inc., and the spread of large-
screened smartphones may finally make mobile advertising a
ubiquitous reality as early as this year. Wireless ad revenue
worldwide will more than double in 2011 and increase by more
than fivefold to $20.6 billion by 2015, according to a report by
Gartner Inc.  “One of the things that’s driving it is sheer growth in
the penetration of smartphones,” said John Delaney, research
director of consumer mobile at IDC in  London . “There’s only one
way of sending somebody a coupon if they walk past a store. Once
those types of inventory start to become widely available, they
have significant potential to put steam under mobile
advertising.”  Patch Sites  Web companies are helping fuel the growth.  AOL Inc. (AOL) , for
example, is working on improving its mobile offerings using geo-
location, and through its Patch local-news sites to attract
advertisers for specific markets, CEO  Tim Armstrong  said. The
company is running about five different tests of such
technologies, he said.  The increase in mobile advertising revenue will be fastest
in western Europe, where it’s set to exceed 800 percent in the
next four years, according to Gartner. Asia, which includes the
fast-growing wireless markets in  China  and  India , will maintain
its top spot, accounting for a third of global spending, the
researcher estimates.  “Mobile is just coming at us like a hurricane,” saidDave Senay, CEO of PR agency Fleishman Hillard. “Look at all the
emerging countries. What have they skipped over? Hard-wired
infrastructure.”  200 Million Minutes  The adoption of smartphones and tablet computers will drive
the expansion by potentially giving advertisers the location of
a customer, through GPS functions, and the ability to
communicate via the devices’ Internet capabilities. Search and
map functions will deliver the highest revenue, while more
traditional video and audio marketing will grow the fastest,
Gartner says.  Game developers, too, are closely watching that space.
“Angry Birds,” the hit mobile-phone game with more than 200
million minutes played per day, would make the perfect platform
for advertisers, according to its developer Rovio Mobile Oy.  “When a person is playing the game they are much more
involved with the content,” Rovio CEO Mikael Hed said in an
interview. “When you display an ad it’s much more likely to be
taken notice of than something on TV which is a passive
experience. Plus you’re much closer to the point of purchase.”  Wireless carriers and the makers of operating systems that
run more advanced smartphones are attempting to push the market
for mobile ads forward through joint ventures.  Payment Venture  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, which has become
the most popular software for smartphones worldwide, has joined
with  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in the U.S. The
venture will let customers pay by tapping their phones on a
special reader and the software will also deliver advertisements
and coupons.  In the U.K.,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Europe’s former state
phone monopolies will form a venture by the end of the year to
create a common platform for mobile payments. The group, which
includes  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Everything Everywhere, a partnership
between  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , will also
function as a single contact for advertisers, the companies said
this month.  Previously, advertisers had to approach wireless carriers
individually for ads deals, which has held back growth in
mobile, IDC’s Delaney said. Umbrella organizations like that in
 Europe  could help the medium take off by giving marketers one
platform and contact for their ads.  Staying Relevant  M&C Saatchi Plc, the U.K. marketing agency, is partnering
with a company in China to offer customers free access to their
e-mails in return for opting into ads. M&C Saatchi is expanding
its mobile marketing arm into cities including  New York ,
Shanghai and  Sao Paulo , CEO Moray MacLennan said in an
interview.  Still, to make them pay off for marketers, mobile ads will
have to be better-targeted and less intrusive than any format
that’s come before.  “What’s exciting is that we can finally really do
interesting, integrated things on mobile platforms,” said
Johnny Hornby, founder of ad agency CHI & Partners. “The bigger
challenge is, you can do that, but it doesn’t mean people are
going to thank you for it. These messages have to be relevant,
targeted, and not annoying to people.”  Finding a way to gauge how effective ads are has also
presented a problem for companies that want to know whether
their marketing budget is well spent, Delaney said. Measuring
customers who click on ads becomes difficult when they move from
a mobile network to Wi-Fi, forcing tracking companies like  Media
Metrics  to reach agreements with a number of different providers
to evaluate the same ad, Delaney said.  “If you look at social media, it’s becoming largely a
mobile thing,” said Alexis Nasard, chief marketing officer at
Heineken, the world’s third-largest brewer by volume, which
 introduced  the “StarPlayer” application in April. “There has
to be a lot of trial and error.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Cannes,  France , via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in Cannes, France via 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  