-- 
No Emerging-Market LinkedIns as Share Sales Slump in Brazil, Russia, India

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-06-23T00:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/no-emerging-market-linkedins-as-inflation-curbs-ipos-from-russia-to-brazil.html
The emerging-market initial public
offering boom, predicted for  Brazil , Russia and India, is
fizzling as inflation sends  interest rates  up, share prices down
and prompts companies to scale back or cancel sales.  While Brazil’s stock exchange chief, Russia’s biggest
underwriter and India’s government projected IPOs would rise
threefold this year to $64 billion, issues are falling. Brazil
dropped 29 percent from the year before to $2.7 billion and
India sank 74 percent to $753 million, the least for the period
for both since 2009, data compiled by bourses and Bloomberg show.
Russia rose 16 percent to $3.3 billion and China slid 4.3
percent to $32 billion.  “It’s not wise to be looking at companies that are
subscale, subpar,” said Aquico Wen, who oversees $1 billion at
Esemplia Emerging Markets in  London . “There are far too many
other chances in the market.”  The landscape for share sales is different elsewhere.
Social-networking website LinkedIn Corp. of  Mountain View ,
 California  soared 109 percent on its May 19 trading debut while
HCA Holdings Inc., a Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain,
has gained 12 percent since a $4.35 billion offer in March. The
developing-nation cancelations are following their stock markets
as Brazil’s Bovespa index and India’s Sensex post the biggest
declines this year among the world’s 20 largest markets.  “The markets have been weak,” said John Ditieri, who
helps manage about $13.5 billion in developing-nation stocks at
Arlington, Virginia-based Emerging Markets Management. “IPOs in
the next few months will need to be priced attractively to get
investors in.”  Brazilian IPOs  Brazilian companies are still lining up deals. Brazil
Pharma SA, a Sao Paulo-based pharmaceuticals retailer, and
Qualicorp SA, the health-insurance broker controlled by  Carlyle
Group , are seeking to raise a combined 2.4 billion reais ($1.5
billion) this month. Perenco Petroleo & Gas do Brasil
Participacoes SA, a unit of  France ’s Perenco, plans to raise as
much as 1.1 billion reais next week.  Brazil Pharma is selling as many as 27 million shares,
including possible supplementary offerings, for 17.25 reais each
to raise as much as 465.8 million reais, the company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  OAO PhosAgro,  Europe ’s largest maker of phosphate
fertilizers, expects to raise as much as $1 billion, Chief
Executive Officer Maxim Volkov said June 17. The Moscow-based
company’s offer will be priced July 15, according to a term
sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  Canceled Sales  At least five Russian and four Brazilian companies have
scrapped offerings while Rio de Janeiro-based oil and gas
producer QGEP Participacoes SA and Moscow-based HMS Hydraulic
Machines & Systems Group Plc sold below their price ranges.  Russia ’s canceled sales have reached $4 billion while
companies worldwide raised at least $112 billion, up from $98.4
billion in the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. IPOs totaled $121.3 billion in all of 2009.  While gains in commodities have been a boon in the past for
Brazil and Russia by swelling export revenue, they have proved a
bust for equity investors this year. As Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 commodities advanced 32 percent in the past year,
developing-nation policy makers have raised borrowing costs to
slow accelerating inflation and contain credit growth.  Brazil’s central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
seven times to 12.25 percent from a record low of 8.75 percent
in April 2010. Bank Rossii has boosted the fixed overnight
deposit rate four times since December to 3.5 percent. India has
raised borrowing costs 10 times since March 2010 to 7.50 percent.
The People’s Bank of  China  has increased its deposit rate four
times since September to 3.25 percent.  ‘Biggest Headwind’  Benchmark equity indexes slumped 11 percent in Brazil this
year, 2.8 percent in Russia, 14 percent in India and 5.7 percent
in China. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 countries is
down 3 percent while MSCI’s World Index of developed markets has
climbed 1.8 percent.  “Inflation has probably been the biggest headwind,” said
Tim Hall, who helps oversee about $800 million as managing
director at Deltec Asset Management in  New York . “Concern over
the reaction by central banks to that inflation, whether they
take a step too far and tighten too much or whether they’re
behind the curve and don’t tighten enough.”  The biggest exception to the developing-nation IPO drought
has been Internet companies.  Renren’s Swoon  Yandex NV, owner of Russia’s most popular Internet search
engine, jumped 55 percent on its May 24 trading debut in New
York after selling shares above the projected price range. Qihoo
360 Technology Co., the Beijing-based provider of computer anti-
virus products and Web browsers, has advanced 25 percent in New
York since raising $201.9 million in a March IPO that priced
above its range.  After climbing 29 percent in its May 5 debut in New York,
Renren Inc., China’s biggest social-networking website by page
views, is down 48 percent from its IPO. Two other Chinese
Internet companies that sold equity in New York last month,
NetQin Mobile Inc. and Jiayuan.com International Ltd., are also
trading below their offer prices.  Speculation that developing nations would post stronger
economic growth than U.S. and Europe had prompted the
projections for a deluge of IPOs, said Ditieri at Emerging
Markets Management.  Indian Sales  Elena Khisamova, the head of equity markets at VTB Capital,
Russia’s largest stock underwriter, forecast in November $20
billion in IPOs this year, saying any Russian listing of
“significant” size would succeed. Khisamova said in a June 21
telephone interview that she expects $20 billion in combined
follow-on and initial offerings this year, of which $9.2 billion
have already taken place.  The Indian government raised 221.4 billion rupees ($4.9
billion) from share sales of state companies in the fiscal year
ended March 31, less than its 400 billion-rupee goal. It set the
same target for the current fiscal year. Seventeen of the 20
largest IPOs in  India  since last year trade below their offer
price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Edemir Pinto, the head of the  Sao Paulo  exchange, said in a
January interview that IPOs were likely to beat 2007’s record of
55.6 billion reais. He abandoned that estimate after at least
four companies canceled sales this year, according to an
official at the exchange who asked not to be named in accordance
with internal policy. Three of this year’s seven IPOs priced
below range. Two sold at the bottom of the range.  Delayed IPO  QGEP, the energy exploration and production unit of
Brazilian holding company Queiroz Galvao SA, sold shares at 19
reais apiece in February after projecting a range of 23 reais to
29 reais. QGEP is down 13 percent since the offering.  OAO Koks, Russia’s largest pig-iron exporter, is turning to
the  debt market  after postponing an IPO this year. The company
issued $350 million of bonds overseas and 5 billion rubles ($179
million) of debt this month.  Pump manufacturer and service provider HMS Hydraulic
Machines & Systems sold global depositary receipts in February
at $8.25 apiece, missing its target range of $9.25 to $12 each.
The GDRs have slipped 14 percent since then.  “Some investors are not willing to participate in emerging
market IPOs as recent experiences have not been overwhelmingly
positive,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $30 billion at Van
Eck Associates in New York. “Nothing kills the prospects for
new paper than a dead deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  