-- 
Jaroslovsky: Fitbit Tracks Health Habits for $100

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-06-22T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/no-sweat-fitbit-tracks-health-habits-for-100-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When it comes to exercise and
fitness, the saying goes, you only get out what you put in.  Speaking for couch potatoes everywhere, I want to get out
more than I put in. Can’t technology help?  Well, maybe. For the last several weeks, I’ve been using a
$100 gadget called a  Fitbit . It offers a limited but enticing
glimpse of a future when the computing power already surrounding
us works to keep us healthy -- even when we aren’t consciously
doing anything to deserve it.  The Fitbit is an activity tracker about the size of a money
clip and weighing next to nothing. You can stick it on a belt or
bra, put it in your pocket or wear it on your wrist. Like a
pedometer, it counts your steps and measures distance traveled.
It also includes modes that estimate calories burned and monitor
your sleep patterns.  Best of all, the Fitbit doesn’t depend too much on you.
It’s simple, unobtrusive and automatically uploads the data it
collects to the Internet without your having to do anything more
taxing than walk past your computer.  Missed Opportunities  The consumer-technology industry has barely scratched the
surface in the health-and-wellness market, making it one of the
least-tapped opportunities in the tech bazaar. Most of us
already carry around supercomputers, disguised as smart phones
and tablets, that are capable of monitoring when we exercise,
what we eat and how well we sleep. Yet for the most part they
sit there, wasted on phone calls and  text messages .  Meanwhile, sensors are growing smaller, cheaper and more
powerful all the time. The typical mobile device has an
accelerometer (the thing that makes it flip its screen when you
turn it sideways) and a gyroscope, which orients it in three
dimensions. Game devices like Nintendo Co.’s Wii and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Kinect controller for the Xbox only begin to suggest the
uses to which motion-sensing technology can be used to help get
us on our feet.  It’s easy to imagine a day in the not-too-distant future
when cheap, unobtrusive, wearable sensors constantly monitor our
 heart rate ,  blood pressure  and activities and wirelessly
communicate that data through our smart phones to the Internet,
where it can be collated, analyzed and shared. Where we use our
phones to snap pictures of our meals, which are instantly
analyzed for calorie count and nutritional value, then added to
our online health profile. Where...sorry, I got carried away
there.  Nike’s GPS Watch  The Fitbit does none of that. Nor is it likely to satisfy
serious fitness enthusiasts, who have a range of more elaborate
and expensive devices to choose from, such as  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s $199
SportWatch for runners, which includes a built-in GPS system.  What Fitbit does do is keep track of your normal daily
activities, giving you a benchmark and, perhaps, an incentive to
do more.  The sensor has a single button, which performs a multitude
of functions; a tiny glowing blue display provides what passes
for a user interface. Push the button once, and the Fitbit gives
you a quick reading on your general activity level for that day
in the form of a flower icon; the more active you’ve been, the
more leaves on the flower’s stem. Keep pushing the button, and
you’ll get readings on the number of steps you’ve taken today --
10,000 is Fitbit’s default goal -- as well as distance covered
and calories burned.  Monitoring Sleep  A single long push puts the device into event-recording
mode, useful for both tracking the effect of a specific activity
-- how long a walk is it from here to town? -- and monitoring
your sleep.  The device comes with a belt clip, a base station and a
cloth wristband. The thumb-size base station, which plugs into a
USB port on your computer, uses a low-power wireless technology
called  ANT , from a unit of  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) , that grabs information
from the sensor and sends it to your personal Fitbit Web page.  There you can supplement the data with any additional
information you want to enter yourself, ranging from activities
the Fitbit isn’t good at sensing -- cycling is one -- to what
you’ve had to eat. You can also choose to share your data via
Facebook or  Twitter , or upload it to a personal health file at
 Google Health  or  Microsoft HealthVault .  The base station also serves as a power charger, though
you won’t have to use it often in that role. In my tests, I got
over a week of use on a single charge, and still had battery
life to spare.  Noticing Patterns  Over time, I began to notice some patterns. One is the
general benefit of simply getting up from my desk and taking a
stroll. My 2.5 mile roundtrip walk from the office to an  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  press event burned as many calories as a half-hour on the
bike at the gym. I also learned that while I usually get only
about six hours of sleep a night, I’m an efficient sleeper,
rousing only a few times during a typical night.  Several things about the Fitbit need work. It still
requires a lot of tedious manual data entry to get the most out
of it. (Let’s see, what did I have for lunch Tuesday?) There’s
no iPhone or Android app, just a mobile website, and no way for
the Fitbit unit to use your phone to upload data.  The very obviousness of those shortcomings points the way
forward for the consumer-technology industry. Fitbit is a good
first step.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 