-- 
Northern Ireland Riots Test Peace Process

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/northern-ireland-riots-test-peace-process-amid-marching-season.html
Northern Ireland  is enduring some of
its worst rioting in a decade, heightening sectarian tensions as
the region prepares for the climax of the marching season that
every year tests the peace process.  Over two nights starting June 20, shots were fired and
masked rioters threw petrol bombs in east Belfast, a traditional
Protestant stronghold in the city, as police tried to prevent
them entering the Catholic Short Strand estate.  The Ulster Volunteer Force, a Protestant terror group,
coordinated the violence, police say. The eruption damped the 
celebrations for Northern Ireland golfer  Rory McIlroy , who won 
the  U.S. Open  on June 19, and cast a shadow over the region’s 
efforts to emerge from recession.  “These riots are the last thing Northern Ireland needs as
we are out there competing for international business,” Glyn
Roberts, chief executive of the Northern Ireland Independent
Retail Trader’s Association, said in a telephone interview. “We
are in the headlines again for all the wrong reasons.”  The unrest adds to the pressures on the region’s assembly
in which parties representing both Protestants and Catholics
share power. Unemployment has more than doubled and  house prices 
have fallen around 40 percent since 2008.  Against that backdrop, the region’s leaders are pushing the
U.K. government for a reduction in the company-tax rate to
revive an economy that’s still battered by three decades of
violence at the end of the last century.  Skirmish  About 400 people were involved in the rioting and dissident
republicans shot a press photographer amid skirmishes in the
areas, police said.  Police fired almost 70 plastic-baton rounds, and the
violence left dozens of homes in the Short Strand estate and
nearby Protestant streets with broken windows as rioters
attacked each other and police.  Petrol bombs left scorch marks on walls and roads, as
rioters pelted missiles at police from a side street with a
mural commemorating the Titanic, the ship that sank after
hitting an iceberg on its maiden voyage in 1912 and was built in
the east  Belfast  shipyard,  Harland and Wolff .  Everybody “will be horrified with what’s happening,”
Peter Robinson, leader of the pro-U.K. Democratic Unionist Party
and Northern Ireland’s first minister, told reporters in
Belfast. “They will recognize the reputational damage that it
is doing.”  It’s unclear what’s behind the outbreak of violence,
Alistair Finlay, assistant chief constable of the Police Service
of Northern Ireland, told  RTE  radio yesterday. He said he
“couldn’t pinpoint a single incident.”  Trouble  The  UVF , which killed about 425 people during the conflict
that largely ended with a peace deal in 1998, decommissioned its
weapons two years ago. A split has now opened up within the
organization, sparking the latest violence, according to Peter
Shirlow, a politics lecturer at Queen’s University Belfast.  The power-sharing  assembly  was revived in 2007, with former
political enemies pledging to work together. Since then
sectarian violence has abated in the region, which is majority
Protestant with a minority Catholic community.  The trouble may yet spread. Northern Ireland’s marching
season culminates on July 12, commemorating a 17th-century
victory by Protestant over Catholic forces at the Battle of the
Boyne. Many Catholics traditionally leave the region at that
time. The Orange Order, a Protestant-only organization with
around 40,000 members, organizes around 3,000 such marches
between April and September.  “It isn’t looking good,” Shirlow said in a telephone
interview. “There is a schism within the UVF. Often that leads
to attacks on Catholics. It’s a big test for the assembly. Once
the can of worms is opened, there is a capacity for the violence
to spread if it isn’t stopped quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  