-- 
Novo Settled NovoSeven Case to Avoid Long Court Battle, CEO Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-06-22T14:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/novo-settled-novoseven-case-to-avoid-long-court-battle-ceo-says.html
Novo Nordisk A/S settled drug
marketing allegations this month to avoid a court battle with
the U.S. government and can’t guarantee such charges won’t arise
again, Chief Executive Officer Lars Rebien Soerensen said.  “We still maintain that we have done nothing wrong but a
potential lawsuit with the government would be lengthy and
costly and, considering the amount we would settle for, not in
the interest of the company,” Soerensen said today by phone.  Novo Nordisk agreed to pay $25 million to settle a civil
lawsuit and a probe by the U.S.  Department of Justice  that it
marketed its hemophilia treatment NovoSeven for unapproved uses
including trauma. Novo’s improper promotion of the drug caused
false claims for reimbursement to be filed with government
health-care programs and prompted the  Department of Defense  to
buy the treatment for troops wounded in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,
the department said in a June 10 press release.  The drugmaker supplied funding for research to foundations
that had been created by the U.S. military, Soerensen said. The
foundations ensure that money goes to the military, not to
individual doctors, so “therefore we believe we have done
nothing wrong,” he said.  Whistleblowers who reported the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
company will get more than $3.5 million, the  Department of
Justice said .  “Given the current legal system in the U.S., where you
have these huge incentives for individuals to gain from raising
allegations, I cannot exclude this wouldn’t happen again,”
Soerensen said.  Novo made changes to improve compliance with marketing
procedures after allegedly making improper payments to an Iraqi
ministry to secure business from 2000 to 2003, Soerensen said.
Novo, which denied any wrongdoing, paid more than $18 million to
settle the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  