-- 
Basel Rules Force Nykredit to Seek China, Mideast Investors

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T14:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/nykredit-ceo-sees-international-investors-doubling-on-new-basel-bank-rules.html
Europe ’s biggest issuer of covered
bonds backed by mortgages said it will double the international
holders of its securities as a result of global liquidity rules
forcing local banks to sell the debt.  Nykredit A/S will approach investors in  China , the Middle
East, Europe and the U.S. to bring foreign ownership of its
mortgage-backed bonds to as much as 25 percent, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Engberg Jensen said.  “We need to reach that in a few years and have to make a
big effort to get there,” Engberg Jensen, 58, said in an
interview in Copenhagen yesterday. International investors today
account for about 12 percent, he said.  Denmark  is leading efforts to persuade the European Union to
ease liquidity rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  that the Nordic country says penalize the world’s
third-largest mortgage-bond market. While the EU has signaled it
may accommodate some of the demands, standards scheduled to take
effect by 2015 are still likely to treat covered bonds as less
liquid assets than government debt, Engberg Jensen said.  “I don’t think we can totally avoid a haircut” on how
banks treat covered bonds in their liquid assets, he said. “I
don’t think that we’ll end up with rules where covered bonds and
government bonds are equal.” This means “we need to find a
broader investor base. We want to be stronger in Europe and we
have also started in the Middle East and the  Far East .  We’ve
had investors for many years in the U.S. and Europe.”  Ratings Cloud  Nykredit will rely on international investors to step in as
Moody’s Investors Service warns Denmark’s mortgage-bond market
may be exposed to refinancing risks on securities carrying
adjustable rates. Moody’s on June 10 lowered the so-called
timely payment indicator to “high” from “very high” and
raised refinancing margins, citing a “refinancing risk and the
issuers’ dependence on regular  market access .”  At the same time, Denmark’s central bank has recommended
phasing out interest-only mortgage debt, arguing the securities
exacerbate swings in the  property market . The bank’s concerns
were echoed by the European Commission in a  June 7 report .  Nykredit has since announced it will keep funding for
adjustable-rate  mortgage loans  separate from other securities to
protect its fixed-rate business from any rating cuts.  ‘Significant Weakness’  Basel’s liquidity coverage ratio, designed to ensure banks
hold enough easy-to-sell securities to survive a 30-day credit
squeeze, requires lenders to limit so-called Level 2 assets,
including covered bonds, to 40 percent of liquid assets. It
places no cap on government debt. The Basel committee also wants
Level 2 assets to be listed at 85 percent of their market value.  Danish mortgage bonds returned 0.8 percent this year, not
including re-invested interest, according to Nykredit’s Index of
the securities. That compares with a 1.25 percent loss in the
same period for German government debt, according to Merrill
Lynch prices.  “As far as the Basel rules on liquidity are concerned, all
 government bonds  are as good as each other,” Danish central
bank Governor Nils Bernstein said in a June 20 interview.
“This, in my view, is a significant weakness in the rules.
We’re still working hard to ensure that Danish mortgage bonds
can be used as a liquidity instrument to fulfill the liquidity
coverage ratio set by Basel.”  The European Commission is due to provide an update on how
it will implement the Basel rules locally next month.  China, Mideast  “If we get the new rules, most Danish banks will have to
restructure to sell mortgage bonds and buy government bonds,”
Engberg Jensen said.  While Danish banks have relied on the country’s covered
bonds to generate liquid assets, lenders in Germany and  Asia 
have room to purchase the securities without breaching Basel’s
40 percent limit, Nykredit estimates. The company wants to sell
its bonds to banks in those regions to make up for the selloff
it expects to see in Denmark, Nykredit Group Managing Director
Karsten Knudsen said in the same interview.  “Over time we’ll have a larger proportion of fixed-
interest rate loans in our portfolios and then the traditional
big investors in continental Europe will come in,” he said.
“It will be the big German investors, pension funds, the  Middle
East . And we recently got on the approved list of the central
bank of China. We see a lot of possibilities and we know these
people already.”  Nykredit announced in May it set up a fixed-income unit in
 Sweden . That move gave the company pan- “Scandinavian access to
European and international bond markets,” Engberg Jensen said.  ‘Not Right’  Trading in Denmark’s short-term covered bonds -- securities
backed by the  cash flow  from a pool of mortgage loans -- rose
during the financial crisis, both in the total value of bonds
traded and in the median size of individual trades, according to
a study published last year by the Danish central bank. It was
easier to trade short-term mortgage bonds than government notes,
the study found.  “It is about having something liquid to sell if needed,”
Engberg Jensen said. “That’s what it should be about. I know
it’s much easier to say covered bonds only account for 40
percent and government bonds 100 percent, but it’s not the right
thing to do.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  