-- 
Obama Gets 30% of Americans Certain to Support Re-Election in Economy Poll

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/obama-gets-30-of-americans-certain-to-support-re-election-in-economy-poll.html
Americans are growing more
dissatisfied with President Barack Obama’s handling of the
economy and say it will be hard to vote to re-elect him without
seeing significant progress over the next year and a half.  By a margin of 61 percent to 37 percent, a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted June 17-20 shows Americans say they 
believe that Obama will have had his chance to make the 
economy “substantially better” by the end of 2012.  Only 30 percent of respondents said they are certain to
vote for the president and 36 percent said they definitely
won’t. Among likely independent voters, only 23 percent said
they will back his re-election, while 36 percent said they
definitely will look for another candidate.  “As far as the economy goes, I don’t see that he has
delivered on the change that he promised,” said Sharon Ortiz, a
38-year-old independent voter from Hampton,  Virginia , who
supported Obama in 2008. “The jobs that he promised -- I
haven’t seen it.”  At the same time, Americans are skeptical that Republican
control of the White House and Congress will be a better
prescription for their economic wellbeing. Sixty percent said
that any Republican candidate will need to move so far to the
right on fiscal and social issues to win their party’s
nomination that it will be very hard to back the nominee.  Voter Intensity  Even so, the intensity among respondents who strongly
agreed about judging Obama on his record of  job creation  was
higher -- 45 percent versus 33 percent -- than those worried
about a Republican nominee pushed to the right.  With unemployment and jobs ranking as the most important
issue facing the country and lawmakers mired in debates to cut
the nation’s long-term debt, the poll’s findings underscore a
central challenge for Obama’s re-election team: making the 2012
campaign a choice between competing visions for the country’s
future rather than a referendum on his job performance.  “So far Obama’s doing an OK job, not as great as I was
hoping for,” said Pam Kaltenbach, 62, a Democratic voter from
Chillicothe,  Ohio , who supported Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain  in 2008. “But now the Republicans don’t
understand the working man. They don’t tax the rich more, they
just want to take away the programs that are needed by the
middle class.”  Medicare Worries  In the poll, 49 percent of respondents said they’re worried
about Republicans gaining control of the White House and
Congress and following through on pledges to slash funding for
benefit programs like Medicare and Medicaid, outnumbering the 40
percent who said they are concerned about another term for Obama
and a continuation of current spending policies. Among
independents, 47 percent said they are worried about a
Republican takeover compared with 37 percent who are concerned
about maintaining the status quo.  “I still want them to cut the deficit and debt, but it’s
been growing for years,” said Mark Rawls, 44, an independent
voter from  Orlando ,  Florida . “If you cut the deficit now, you
might cut the legs of people who are trying to get jobs and on
Medicare.”  The poll of 1,000 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  Reagan Ratings  Obama’s ratings dip is reminiscent of former President
 Ronald Reagan ’s early years in office when he was struggling to
manage a slowing economy. Seventeen months before Election Day,
Reagan’s presidential approval rating was 43 percent -- and he
won a second term in a landslide. Obama’s overall job approval
stands at 49 percent, with 44 percent disapproving.  The only performance category in which Obama’s approval
ratings were higher than his disapproval ratings was dealing
with terrorism. Less than two months after the killing of al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, 69 percent of Americans --
including 51 percent of Republicans -- said they approved of his
performance on terrorism, while 27 percent didn’t.  With the president poised to announce his plans for
withdrawing troops from  Afghanistan , the poll found that 53
percent of Americans support a gradual pullout over the next
couple years compared to 30 percent who want them to come home
immediately.  It’s the Economy  Ultimately, the survey showed, Obama’s presidential
campaign will hinge on whether the economy improves rather than
national security issues.  Recent data shows the recovery losing steam and, with a
jobless rate of 9.1 percent, the president has few fiscal
options to stimulate the economy. Lawmakers are debating how to
cut the nation’s long-term deficits and raise the $14.3 trillion
debt-ceiling.  Vice President  Joe Biden  is leading talks with
congressional leaders to reach a deal on reducing the federal-
debt ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline, when the Treasury Department
projects the government risks defaulting on its obligations --
which Obama has warned would be “disastrous.”  Republicans are insisting on trillions of dollars in savings
and no tax increases in exchange for a vote to increase the debt
ceiling. Democrats have refused to allow major cuts to the
Medicare government health insurance program for the elderly,
which is contributing to the debt.  Debt Default  Americans are split, 45 percent to 46 percent, on whether
Republicans should hold out for more spending cuts even if the
delay leads the government to default on its obligations. Only
19 percent say such an outcome would be catastrophic, suggesting
such warnings from lawmakers, economists and Wall Street
executives aren’t resonating with the public. Still, 52 percent
of Americans say a default would be a serious problem.  “Maybe I don’t really understand what all that means if
the U.S. defaults, but I do know the other route and I do know
what that means,” said Jerry Reynolds, 66, a Democratic voter
from Apache Junction,  Arizona , who won’t vote again for Obama.
“They need to do more on this budget, they need to quit
spending money on these wars that are not doing us any good.
It’s costing us people and its costing us money.”  By a slight margin, Republicans would be held more
accountable than Obama should the financial markets fall as a
result of a failure to raise the debt ceiling. Forty-four
percent said they would fault Republicans for digging in their
heels on spending cuts, while 41 percent would blame Obama for
resisting their demands.  Economy Performance Ratings  Obama’s performance ratings drop significantly when the
focus turns to his management of the economy, jobs and deficits.
By a margin of 61 percent to 32 percent, Americans disapprove of
the job Obama is doing to tackle the  budget deficit . Fifty-seven
percent of respondents disapproved of his efforts to create jobs
and overall 57 percent disapproved of his handling of the
economy.  “I voted for him in 2008 because of the financial crisis,
the housing crisis and he was new and fresh and it seemed like
he had energy and ideas to make headway in this,” said Rawls.
“He needs to bring the unemployment numbers down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 