-- 
Obama to Pull 30,000 Troops From Afghanistan

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-22T21:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/obama-said-to-order-30-000-soldiers-out-of-afghanistan-by-summer-of-2012.html
President  Barack Obama  is directing
the U.S. military to withdraw at least 30,000 troops from
Afghanistan by the end of next summer, as public and
congressional support for the war wanes, an administration
official said.  Obama tonight will outline a plan to reduce U.S. forces in
Afghanistan by the number of troops sent in during the surge he
ordered in 2009, the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity before the president makes the announcement.  The withdrawals will come in two phases with 10,000 troops
redeployed by the end of this year and the rest pulled out by
September 2012, according to a congressional official who was
briefed on Obama’s plan.  The president is coming under pressure from the public,
lawmakers and some of the Republicans vying to run against him
in 2012 to accelerate U.S. disengagement from  Afghanistan  as
support for the war wanes. The calls for drawing the Afghan
campaign to a close have increased since the killing of al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden and as attention is focused on the
nation’s debt and the cost of the war.  Obama is scheduled to outline his plans in an address from
the White House at 8 p.m. Washington time.  The withdrawal timeline was reported earlier by the New
York Times.  Troop Levels  Obama’s plan would still leave about twice as many U.S.
military personnel in Afghanistan as there were when he was
elected in 2008 on a promise to end combat operations in  Iraq 
and focus on the battle against al-Qaeda and the Taliban.  Almost 100,000 U.S. forces are now serving in Afghanistan,
along with more than 40,000 from  other nations . In November
2008, when Obama won the presidency, the U.S. had roughly 30,800
personnel in the country.  In a Dec. 1, 2009, speech at the U.S. Military Academy at
 West Point ,  New York , Obama announced his plan to deploy 30,000
more troops to Afghanistan, saying U.S. security was at stake.
At the same time, he vowed to begin bringing U.S. troops home by
this July and turn over full security responsibility to Afghan
forces by 2014.  War Cost  The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan together have cost the
lives of 6,089 U.S. personnel and more than $1 trillion,
according to Defense Department figures. The cost figure doesn’t
include as much as $100 billion the Pentagon lists as not war-
related, such as intelligence spending, or the long-term costs
for Veterans Administration care and disability costs for the
44,266 wounded Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.  Admiral Michael Mullen and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  are scheduled to testify about the president’s strategy
at congressional hearings tomorrow. General David Petraeus, the
top commander in Afghanistan, also may be questioned about it at
a confirmation hearing on his nomination to become director of
the Central Intelligence Agency.  Richard Fontaine, a senior fellow with the Center for a New
American Security in Washington, said the timing of withdrawals
is important because the military wants to preserve “the
maximum combat power it can bring to bear throughout the
fighting season” this year and in 2012. The fighting season in
Afghanistan typically runs from late spring through autumn.  Fighting Capability  Withdrawing 10,000 troops during this year’s fighting
season would limit U.S. capabilities more than withdrawing 5,000
now and another 5,000 after the fighting season ends, said
Fontaine, who is a former foreign policy adviser to Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican.  Fontaine also said he expects most of the first withdrawals
to be personnel that provide support, rather than combat troops.
War costs, which have contributed to a trillion-dollar federal
 budget deficit  that both the Congress and Obama have promised to
cut, also have figured into the debate.  From a cost-savings perspective, if most of the withdrawals
come in late 2012, Fontaine said, it will mean “you’re still
talking about a war that’s north of $100 billion a year
stretching through 2012.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who is set to leave his
post on June 30, said during his visit to Afghanistan this month
that the drawdown shouldn’t jeopardize the past year’s gains to
stem Taliban advances. Gates pushed for any drawdown of the
surge to cover the next 18 to 24 months.  Negotiations With Taliban  Gates said the Taliban might be more willing to negotiate a
reconciliation with the Afghan government led by President  Hamid Karzai  by the end of this year if the U.S. can maintain military
pressure.  A survey released yesterday by the Pew Research Center
found for the first time a majority of Americans, 56 percent,
want to bring U.S. troops home as soon as possible rather than
wait until the Afghan situation has stabilized.  That reflects an 8-point increase since May and a 16-point
increase from a year ago. The survey of 1,502 adults was
conducted June 15-19 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.5 percentage points.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20 found almost
one-third of Americans want an immediate withdrawal; 53 percent
support withdrawal over the next couple of years.  A group of 27 senators, including two Republicans, signed a
letter to Obama last week calling for a “sizable and
sustained” reduction of the U.S. presence in Afghanistan.
Citing bin Laden’s death, the senators say the main U.S.
objectives in Afghanistan have been met.  Another senator,  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said in a statement
yesterday that “conditions on the ground” should allow Obama
to withdraw at least 15,000 U.S. troops by the end of the year.  Separately, the U.S. Conference of Mayors approved a
resolution this week urging the withdrawal of troops from
Afghanistan and Iraq to bring “war dollars home” to create
jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  