-- 
OCBC’s Bank of Singapore Unit Boosts Managed Assets, Sees Further Growth

-- B y   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 
2011-06-22T10:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ocbc-s-bank-of-singapore-unit-boosts-managed-assets-sees-further-growth.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.’s
private-banking arm said its assets under management and loans
will continue to grow after expanding more than 30 percent on an
annualized basis in the first five months of the year.  Bank of  Singapore  Ltd.’s so-called earning asset base
reached $36.3 billion on May 31, an increase of $4.3 billion
from the end of last year, Chief Executive Officer Renato de Guzman said in a presentation today. The increase has been
“broad-based” and the focus will remain on the greater China
region, the Philippines, Singapore, Southeast Asia and the
Indian subcontinent, he said.  Wealth in Asia, excluding  Japan , is expected to rise at
about double the global rate of almost 6 percent through the
next five years, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a May 31
report. Singapore will become the world’s top wealth management
center by 2013, overtaking Switzerland and  London , according to
a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study published yesterday.  “I don’t know if in two years we will be able to do
that,” Guzman said, referring to the PwC report. He said
investors from outside the region are “attracted to Asian
opportunities,” diversification and the strong  Singapore
dollar .  The Singapore dollar has gained about 19 percent against
the U.S. currency in the past two years and about 14 percent
against the euro in the same period.  Oversea-Chinese Banking was ranked as the world’s strongest
bank in the June issue of the Bloomberg Markets magazine.  Wealthy Chinese, Indians  The private bank, which has about 780 employees, plans to
start operating under OCBC China by the end of the third quarter
to tap the growing number of wealthy Chinese.  Bank of Singapore also aims to attract more of the 150,000
Indian millionaires living outside India, a group that holds
more than $500 billion of wealth, the bank said, citing a
Capgemini/Merrill Lynch  Asia  Pacific Wealth report.  The bank has about 100 employees in offices in Dubai,  Hong
Kong , London and Singapore, who focus on clients from the Indian
subcontinent.  Singapore has the highest proportion of millionaire
households at 15.5 percent, followed by Switzerland with 9.9
percent, according to Boston Consulting Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  