-- 
Office Depot-OfficeMax Deal Eyed as $13 Billion Lost: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i ,   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-22T13:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/office-depot-officemax-deal-eyed-as-13-billion-lost-real-m-a.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) 
may need to merge after heightened competition for office-supply
sales and a 26-year high in the U.S. unemployment rate helped
wipe out almost $13 billion of  shareholder value .  Office Depot, the second-largest U.S. office-supply chain,
has plunged 90 percent to $1.16 billion in the last five years,
more than any American retailer that still has a market value
greater than $500 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. OfficeMax was valued at $664 million yesterday after
plummeting 78 percent, the third-steepest drop. Both trade at 10
cents or less per dollar of sales -- one-tenth of the industry
average and ranking in the bottom five of 126 retailers.  With businesses spending less on paper and printers as the
U.S. jobless rate hovers at 9 percent, combining Office Depot
with OfficeMax may reduce costs by almost $500 million, said
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. Regulatory approval won’t be a
hurdle because of more competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT)  since  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  was blocked from buying Office
Depot in 1997, said BB&T Capital Markets. Money-losing Office
Depot of  Boca Raton ,  Florida , hired interim Chief Executive
Officer Neil Austrian in May after a seven-month search.  “Office Depot needs OfficeMax,” said Anthony Chukumba, an
analyst with BB&T in New York. “They need to combine so they
can scale up to better compete with Staples. For them to bring
in a guy who’s been on the board forever and who has been CEO
twice before on an interim basis, that just smacked of them
saying, ‘We’re going to try to sell the company.’”  Jennifer Rook, a spokeswoman for OfficeMax, didn’t respond
to a phone call or e-mail requesting comment.  ‘Consider All Options’  “We have been saying on a consistent basis (for the last
four years) that, in a market as fragmented as ours,
consolidation makes sense,” Brian Levine, a spokesman for
Office Depot, said in an e-mailed statement. “At this point in
time, we are focusing on executing our strategic plan and
restructuring our operations to drive improved performance and
grow the company in the future. That said, we will continue to
consider all options that are in the best interests of our
shareholders.”  Office Depot named Austrian as its permanent chairman and
CEO on May 23 after he’d served in the roles on an interim basis
since November following Steve Odland’s resignation. Austrian,
71, has been on the board since 1998 and previously served as
the company’s interim head in 2004 and 2005.  Austrian is “very open” to industry consolidation and a
potential transaction with OfficeMax, Brian Nagel, an analyst
with Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , wrote in a June 20 report
after meeting with him last week.  ‘Lot of Sense’  “What I’ve said for a long time is that a consolidation
makes a lot of sense in the office products space,” Nagel said
in an interview yesterday.  Both companies run retail outlets and sell directly to
businesses. Office Depot, which operated 1,279 retail stores as
of March, generated 29 percent of its sales last year outside of
 North America . Naperville, Illinois-based OfficeMax has 991
stores and a smaller international presence, with only 19
percent of total 2010 revenue coming from outside the U.S., data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Scale is the key. Without it, I don’t think either can
survive long-term,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1
billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “Both are really too small on their own.
The climate is not improving for retailers.”  Great Depression  In the last five years, Office Depot’s market value has
shrunk by $10.3 billion. The company reported losses the past
three years as businesses cut back on office supplies amid the
worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression and price
pressure from other office-supply retailers, including Wal-Mart,
Target and online sellers.  While the recession ended in June 2009, job growth has
remained sluggish. The  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in May,
1 percentage point less than the 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009, data from the Labor Department show.  “As businesses have been reluctant to hire, it becomes
incumbent on these firms to really manage down costs,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.7 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois . “The larger they are,
obviously the greater influence they have over their suppliers
and their ability to keep their cost of goods as low as
possible.”  Merging the two companies may lead to $300 million to $500
million in cost cuts from advertising, overhead spending, better
prices from suppliers and closing retail stores, said Bradley Thomas, an analyst with KeyBanc in New York.  Lost Market Value  As of yesterday, OfficeMax lost $2.3 billion in market
value since June 2006. That’s the third-biggest drop on a
percentage basis among 128 U.S. retailers that still have market
values above $500 million, after Office Depot and Liz Claiborne
Inc.  OfficeMax closed at 0.09 times sales yesterday, while
Office Depot was valued at 10 cents per dollar of sales. The
industry average is 1.01 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OfficeMax rose 3 cents to $7.75 at 9:43 a.m. New York time,
as Office Depot gained 2 cents to $4.21.  Still, OfficeMax also hired a new CEO, Ravi Saligram, in
November and started working on a five-year plan last year to
boost revenue by offering more services and products tied to
computers and catering more to women. Sales declined in each of
the past three years.  ‘In OfficeMax’s Court’  “The ball is probably in OfficeMax’s court,” regarding a
merger, said Mike Balkin, a  fund manager  in  Chicago  at William
Blair & Co., which oversees $41 billion. He co-manages the Small
Cap Growth Fund, which includes Office Depot shares. “It’s been
talked about for a long time. I’m not sure that the OfficeMax
guys are there yet.”  In 1997, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission derailed
Staples’s attempt to acquire Office Depot for $4 billion after a
federal judge ruled the takeover violated antitrust laws and
would allow Staples to increase prices or maintain prices at an
“anti-competitive level.”  “You’re now talking about the No. 2 and No. 3 players
merging and still being considerably smaller than the No. 1
player,” said BB&T’s Chukumba. “I don’t foresee antitrust
being a major obstacle.”  Staples, the largest U.S. office-supply chain, had a market
value of $11 billion yesterday, dwarfing Office Depot and
OfficeMax, and traded at 0.45 times its $25 billion in sales in
the last 12 months.  ‘Absolute Necessity’  Staples Chairman and CEO Ronald Sargent said a merger
between Office Depot and OfficeMax would be “natural.” The FTC
is more likely to allow such a combination than if Framingham,
Massachusetts-based Staples were to buy either company, he said
at a June 3 analyst conference.  “The landscape has changed dramatically since 1997, when
the FTC blocked the Staples/Office Depot merger,” Office Depot
said in the e-mailed statement yesterday. “However, government
approval is certainly not a given.”  Combining Office Depot with OfficeMax would be a “smart
move,” said  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in New York.  “The industry needs the consolidation because we need to
get rid of stores,” he said. “It’s just an absolute
necessity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 