-- 
Toll Brothers Buys Manhattan Condominium Land at Auction for $35.5 Million

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-06-22T23:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/toll-brothers-buys-manhattan-condominium-land-at-auction-for-35-5-million.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S.
luxury homebuilder, bid $35.5 million to win a bankruptcy
auction for a vacant lot in  Manhattan ’s Gramercy Park area,
where it plans to build a condominium tower.  The company plans to develop about 80 condos with ground-
floor retail on the site at East 22nd Street and Third Avenue,
said David Von Spreckelsen, president of the Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based builder’s City Living division.  The cost for the site, authorized for 105,000 square feet
(9,800 square meters) of construction, is $338 per buildable
square foot, Von Spreckelsen said. It will take at least nine
months to design the project and gain approvals before
construction can begin, he said.  The land, formerly owned by Kaish & Taub Development Group,
was repossessed by the lender, a division of  UBS AG (UBS) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, Von Spreckelsen said. About “a half
dozen” bidders participated in the auction, Von Spreckelsen
said.  Manhattan condos sold for an average $1,216 a square foot
in the first quarter, up 5.4 percent from a year earlier,
according to appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc . and broker Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate. In the neighborhood that includes
Gramercy Park and Union Square, the average condo price was
$1,211 per square foot.  “I’d expect newly developed condos to cost more,”
 Jonathan Miller , president of  Miller Samuel , said in a telephone
interview today.  ‘Best Performer’  Toll Brothers’ City Living division, which has built condos
in the New York area for seven years, accounts for about 15
percent of the company’s business and “is the best performer of
any segment,” Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. said.  “It’s a much more risky business than building houses one
at a time in the farm field,” Yearley said at a June 16
investor conference in  New York . “Once you start that 40-story
tower, you can’t get halfway up in a bad market and stop.”  The Gramercy Park purchase was reported earlier today by
Dow Jones Newswires and the Real Deal Online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  