-- 
Hong Kong’s Li Says Exchange Will Avoid Worst of China Accounting Scandals

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T21:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/hong-kong-s-li-says-exchange-will-avoid-worst-of-china-accounting-scandals.html
Chinese companies in  Hong Kong  are
less likely to fool investors than those in the U.S. because the
city’s bourse does more to prevent fraud, said Charles Li, chief
executive officer of Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  The MSCI China Index of 147 stocks available to foreign
investors is down 10 percent since reaching a five-month high on
April 21. That compares with a 28 percent plunge by Chinese
companies that went public through U.S. reverse mergers, in
which a closely held company buys a publicly traded shell and
retains the U.S. listing. While bearish bets on the MSCI China
have climbed to a record, Li says companies listed in Hong Kong
are subject to too much scrutiny to deceive the market for long.  “I’m not saying we have a superior system, but we do have
a more prescriptive system for vetting issuers and we have a
more prescriptive and sometimes a little more burdensome
process,” said Li in an interview from Hong Kong. For some
Chinese companies that listed in the U.S, “particularly through
reverse takeovers, I don’t know how they ended up there,” he
said, without referring to any specific offerings. “They
wouldn’t have seen the light of day here.”  China’s reputation among investors was strained after short
sellers said companies from  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT) 
to  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  were exaggerating operations. Sino-Forest
has slumped 84 percent in Canadian trading since June 1, the day
before Carson Block of Muddy Waters LLC said it overstated
timber holdings.  Reverse Mergers  Li, the 50-year-old former editor of the government-run
China Daily newspaper who was named CEO of Hong Kong Exchanges
in January 2010, said companies with share structures that
concentrate voting power with management and that don’t directly
own their operating subsidiaries may not be eligible for listing
in Hong Kong. The exchange also cited rules that subject some
companies using takeovers to go public to the same vetting
process as initial offerings.  John Nester , a spokesman for the
SEC in  Washington , declined to comment.  There are 98 Chinese reverse-merger companies listed on
U.S. exchanges, according to data compiled by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the
biggest American bourse operator.  Nasdaq  Stock Market has 70,
NYSE Amex has 21 and the New York Stock Exchange has seven, the
data show.  More Screening  “Nasdaq takes seriously the concerns which have arisen
with reverse merger transactions and has responded by adopting
enhanced screening procedures in our initial listing process,”
Wayne Lee, a spokesman for New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,
wrote in an e-mail. The exchange operator has also sent the
“SEC a proposal to apply more rigorous listing requirements to
companies which go public through reverse merger transactions,”
he said.  “We review all listing applicants to assess compliance
with financial, corporate governance and qualitative listing
standards as set forth in our rules, pursuant to a rigorous,
risk-based due diligence process,”  Richard Adamonis , a
spokesman for New York-based NYSE Euronext, which runs NYSE Amex
and the New York Stock Exchange, wrote in an e-mail.  Americans face obstacles to getting information on Chinese
companies, said James Angel, a professor at  Georgetown
University  in Washington.  Hong Kong’s Advantage  “Hong Kong has the advantage of being much closer to the
mainland language-wise and culturally,” he said. “If I were
going to run a fraud, I would find the most gullible people and
if the locals in my backyard know that I don’t have a business
here, then I will go abroad.”  Li said investors in Hong Kong aren’t immune to fraud,
either.  “Regulation can always improve and it’s there to prevent
detectable fraud, but when you have people that are determined
to scheme the system, there’s only so much regulators and
professionals can do,” Li said. “No matter how stringent your
regulatory system works, the bad apples will still exist.”  The former management of  China  Forestry Holdings Co.
falsified bank documents and logging permits, the company said
in an April 29 filing with the Hong Kong stock exchange. China
Forestry halted trading in its stock in January and replaced
Chief Executive Officer Li Han Chun. Li was detained by police
in China’s Guizhou province in February for allegedly embezzling
30 million yuan ($4.6 million).  ‘Lower Quality’  “While there’s a great macro story about China, the micro
story is still one of lower-quality companies,” said Nicholas Yeo, the Hong Kong-based head of China and Hong Kong equities at
Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees $290 billion. “It’s
only now that investors are starting to wake up and pay
attention to the individual companies. You can’t go in
blindly.”  About 4.8 percent of shares available for trading among
companies in the  MSCI China (MXCN)  have been shorted, the highest level
on record, according to data compiled by  Data Explorers  since
2006. That compares with 2.9 percent at the beginning of the
year. Short investors bet against a stock by selling borrowed
shares with the hope of buying them at a lower price.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  in Washington
rejected Hong Kong-based Zhonglei CPA Co.’s application to
become a U.S. auditor on June 10, citing an inability to inspect
its work for companies based in China. It was the first time the
PCAOB blocked an auditor since toughening rules in October.  The SEC has increased its focus on Chinese-based companies.
The agency cautioned investors on June 9 about buying stakes
when they gain listings through reverse mergers.  ‘Shadowy’ Operations  “A lot of the reverse takeovers and shadowy shareholder
operations, which is a very unique territory, it’s a breeding
ground for issues,” said Li. “It’s easier to go to a place
where the entire ecosystem is less familiar and less experienced
in dealing with China and has less opportunity to verify and
cross check some of the stories.”  Longtop Financial has fallen 48 percent this year. The
maker of banking and insurance software said on May 23 that
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. resigned as its auditor after
finding falsehoods in the company’s financial records. The SEC
is investigating matters related to Deloitte’s claims, the
company said.  “Inconsistencies” have been found in the valuation of
Sino-Forest’s holdings in China’s Yunnan province,  Canada ’s
Globe and Mail said June 18, citing Chinese government officials
and forestry experts it didn’t identify. Sino-Forest’s primary
listing is on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  ‘Robust’ Standards  “Our initial listing standards are robust,” Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for TMX Group Inc., which owns the bourse,
said in an e-mail.  Paulson & Co. sold all its stock in the Hong Kong and
Mississauga, Ontario-based company, which owns tree plantations,
according to a June 20 regulatory filing.  John Paulson ’s New
York-based hedge fund, which made $15 billion in 2007 wagering
against subprime mortgages, was previously Sino-Forest’s biggest
shareholder.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to
comment.  “He’s probably absolutely top-notch in figuring out
subprime, but in figuring out China, he’s probably most like
everyone else on the other side of the Pacific,” Li said of
Paulson. “The investor base, the practitioners and the
professional advisers here have done a lot more with the Chinese
companies because when you live here and you speak the language,
you can easily check in the same time zone and smell out the
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  