-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses; Li & Fung Jumps

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-06-22T09:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/hong-kong-stocks-gains-on-greece-debt-optimism-li-fung-jumps.html
Hong Kong stocks swung between gains
and losses as  Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  jumped after saying it plans to
increase business with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and banks declined.  Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. and  Europe  as its biggest
markets, jumped 5.6 percent.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  increased
2.8 percent after Standard Chartered Plc boosted its rating on
the stock. PetroChina Co., Asia’s largest oil and gas producer
by market value, slid 0.4 percent after walking away from a deal
to buy 50 percent of  Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s Cutbank Ridge shale-gas
assets in Canada. Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
Asia’s biggest bank by market capital, fell 0.7 percent, leading
a decline by lenders.  The Hang Seng Index closed little changed at 21,859.97,
reversing an earlier gain of as much as 0.9 percent. The gauge
last week entered a so-called correction from its April high,
tumbling more than 10 percent, on mounting concern Greece will
default on its debt and slow global economic growth. Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won a parliamentary confidence vote,
boosting confidence that the country’s debt crisis may be
resolved without a default.  The Greek Prime Ministerial vote “took one uncertainty off
the table,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry
International Trading Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There are still a lot
of bearish concerns on  China  tightening, and risk conviction is
still not overly solid.”  China Enterprises Index  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’
H shares was also little changed at 12,148.94.  Li & Fung gained 5.6 percent to HK$15.58, the biggest gain
on the  Hang Seng index. (HSI)  The shares jumped after the company said
its business supplying Wal-Mart will grow and may be profitable
as early as this year.  “This is a very well managed company,” said  Alex Au , Hong
Kong-based managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd.,
which oversees $300 million of assets, whose fund is considering
buying Li & Fung stock as the share price has fallen to
attractive levels. “If they give more guidance and information
to the investors and show that there is a positive outlook on
that part of the business, it will definitely help their
shares.”  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at
Greece’s Piraeus port, advanced 1.5 percent to HK$13.80.  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the handset manufacturing unit of a
contract electronics maker, increased 1.2 percent to HK$3.34.  In Athens, 155 lawmakers in the 300-seat parliament
supported the confidence motion, with 143 voting against,
speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said. Attention now turns to
whether Papandreou can push through parliamentary approval next
week of a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts
to stave off the threat of default.  ‘Much at Stake’  “Papandreou surviving the confidence vote is welcome, but
there are still a few steps to go,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-
based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion. “At the end of the day,
it is in the interests of the European Union to resolve the
crisis. There’s too much at stake for the European banking
system.”  Hang Lung Properties increased 2.8 percent to HK$30.75
after Standard Chartered analyst John Y. Chan raised his rating
on the stock to “outperform” from “inline.”  PetroChina fell 0.4 percent to HK$11.04 after yesterday
walking away from what would have been its biggest overseas
acquisition, a C$5.4 billion ($5.5 billion) purchase of natural-
gas assets in Canada. Encana and PetroChina failed to agree on a
joint operating agreement, according to Alan Boras, an Encana
spokesman based in Calgary.  Banks Slide  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  dropped 0.7 percent
to HK$5.80, leading a decline by banks, which fell the most
among the four industry groups on the Hang Seng Index.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  slid 0.6 percent to HK$6.40 while Bank
of China Ltd. slumped 0.3 percent to HK$3.76.  China’s top economic planning agency said inflation will
accelerate this month, bolstering analysts’ forecasts for the
rate to reach 6 percent, the highest level since July 2008.  “The overall level of prices remains high and inflation
will remain elevated for some months although the overall
situation is controllable,” the National Development and Reform
Commission said on its  website  today.  The Hang Seng Index fell 5.1 percent this year through
yesterday on concern Greece’s debt, Japan’s nuclear crisis and
China’s monetary-policy tightening will hamper the global
economic recovery. Shares in the gauge traded at 11.8 times
forecast earnings on average at the previous close, the lowest
level since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index were little changed at
21,832. The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for  Hong
Kong  stock options, dropped 4.4 percent to 20.47, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 5.9 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 