-- 
Regions Explores Morgan Keegan ‘Alternatives’ After Probe

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-22T20:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/morgan-keegan-to-pay-200-million-on-claims.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  said it will
consider “strategic alternatives” for its Morgan Keegan
division after the unit resolved claims by federal, state and
industry regulators over subprime mortgage-backed securities.  The bank, based in Birmingham, Alabama, hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to evaluate options for Morgan Keegan, ways to manage
capital and increase  shareholder value , it said today in a
statement. Two Morgan Keegan units reached a package of
settlements with regulators that may total $210 million in
payments, the company said.  “A sale would be the main alternative at this point only
because it’s a unit that’s got a considerable franchise in the
Southeast,” Kevin Fitzsimmons, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill
& Partners, said today in a phone interview. “It’s in a number
of different businesses within capital markets and I’m sure
there are some players out there who are looking to expand into
that or get into that specific geography.”  The accord resolves claims brought last year by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority and state regulators, the SEC said today in
a separate statement. Regulators last year said the firm misled
clients about asset values and risks of bond funds that caused
investor losses during the mortgage crisis. The company settled
the SEC’s complaints without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Fund manager James Kelsoe told employees in 2007 to make
“price adjustments” that were “arbitrary and did not reflect
fair value,” the SEC said in an order today. Kelsoe also
determined whether third-party price confirmations were to be
used or ignored, the SEC said.  States Involved  Kelsoe “fraudulently prevented the Morgan Keegan fund
accounting department from reducing the net asset value of the
funds during the deterioration in the subprime market,” William Hicks, associate regional director for the SEC, said today on a
call with reporters. Morgan Keegan’s actions may have resulted
in $1.5 billion of losses, Joseph Borg, director of the  Alabama 
Securities Commission, said on the call.  The SEC and Finra said the settlement amounts to $200
million. Regions, Alabama’s biggest bank, said it may also have
to pay as much as $10 million to states that join the accord.
Five states involved in the case initially included Alabama,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  South Carolina  and  Tennessee , according
to the company. Regions said it already set aside funds to cover
the settlement payments.  Regions acquired Morgan Keegan in 2001. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based subsidiary has more than 300 offices in 20
states and provides brokerage and investment-banking services.
Founded with five workers in 1969, Morgan Keegan now has more
than 4,000 employees, according to its website.  TARP Funds  Regions holds $3.5 billion in government bailout funds, and
investors are expecting that the bank will need to raise capital
to exit the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Fitzsimmons said. A
sale of Morgan Keegan would help raise that capital, he said.  “For the company as a whole, it’s not a huge earnings
driver,” he said. “Any kind of unlocking of value or capital
boost it can get from the sale of a unit like this might be
viewed as essentially reducing what they would have to raise,
reducing the dilution that would come with such a raise.”  Regions fell 9 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $6.21 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 