-- 
Morparia Says ICICI Did ‘Something Special’ for Female Workers

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/morparia-says-icici-did-something-special-for-female-workers.html
Kalpana Morparia, chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Indian unit, comments on her
experiences as a senior female manager in the country.  Morparia, who joined Indian lender ICICI Ltd. in 1975, is
among several women who worked at the bank and then moved to top
roles elsewhere.  On why ICICI produced so many female leaders:  “One of the reasons why people attribute success to so
many women leaders in ICICI is that we actually did not have too
many transferable jobs.  “By always assuming that the field is level and the only
criteria that will be followed for hiring, firing, promoting,
compensating and giving job assignments is merit, maybe we did
something special.  On how  India ’s reforms helped career growth:  “We actually built a very good bench of men and women.
With the growth that India witnessed particularly after the
reforms of 1991 you found that you were growing so rapidly and
hiring this very talented pool, some of whom left but then
another bright batch came in.  “You ended up with some organizational gaps, you had a few
senior people who had been around for 10 to 15 years and then
you had a very talented bench below at the junior level. But
there were gaps in mid-level managers.  “There were two approaches one could take at that time for
existing business: Do mass-scale lateral recruitment or promote
junior talent. ICICI leadership took the call of promoting young
talent to assume leadership positions.  “In some ways I think Indian banks offered a huge growth
opportunity for career progression. You were entrepreneurial but
you had the luxury of an institutional framework in which to
harness your entrepreneurial skills.”  On what JPMorgan does for female employees:  “There is a general feeling that women don’t network as
compared to their male colleagues. Women, at the first
opportunity, run home as they need to manage domestic issues.  “Because of this, we at JPMorgan created women networking
sessions so you have a forum where you all sit together and
network, pick up a topic which is of interest and therefore
create a platform where bonding can take place.  On dealing with “awkward situations” at work:  “I joined the workplace in 1975. I have two awkward
situations that I had to deal with and one sexist comment a
third party related to me. Three, in a career of 37 years. All
three were client situations. It never got ugly, and a rap on
the knuckles was all it required to deal with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  