-- 
Mortgage Principal Write-Downs Lagging

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/mortgage-principal-write-downs-lagging-even-with-states-paying.html
When Javier Gonzalez saw that the
value of his Hawthorne,  California , townhouse had fallen below
what he owed on his mortgage, he decided he had three choices.
He could make payments he might never recover, walk away from
the loan, or get his lender to reduce his principal.  When Gonzalez, 39, a communications consultant who bought
the home for $450,000 in 2007, had no luck with his bank, he
decided it was a bad investment. He stopped making payments and
moved out in October 2009.  “The bank laughed when I said I wanted a principal
reduction,” Gonzalez said.  Three years after the collapse of the housing bubble, one
of the questions weighing on the real estate market is whether
and when to write down the value of outstanding mortgages.
Millions of houses, including almost a third of California’s
mortgaged homes,  are worth less  than what was borrowed on them,
according to CoreLogic, a real estate data company in  Santa Ana ,
California.  While several states and the Federal Housing Administration
have developed programs to encourage write-downs, the number of
principal reductions remains small and suggests the problem goes
beyond the reticence of banks.  Widespread principal reduction remains a key goal for state
attorneys general and the  Justice Department , which are in
settlement talks with servicers over botched foreclosures.
Prosecutors want banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to spend billions writing
down principal. The banks and mortgage servicers have refused.  Possible Settlement  On June 21, Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said states
might get to choose how they spend their share of any
foreclosure settlement with banks, including on write-downs.  Last year, California, Arizona and Nevada developed a
single set of rules and offered up to $50,000 in matching funds
per loan to make write-downs work financially for loan servicers
and investors.  “It’s better for communities to encourage people to stay
in their homes,” said Diane Richardson, program director for
 Keep Your Home California , the state program. “It’s better for
their kids to keep them in the same schools. We wanted to try to
find a way to encourage them to stay put.”  Despite the states’ offer, only one national loan servicer,
Bank of America, is cooperating and borrowers are proving
reluctant. Fewer than 300 Californians have applied. Nevada has
completed just 114 principal reductions and  Arizona  just three,
according to state officials.  Fannie and Freddie  Banks that service home loans say one reason for the
underwhelming response is that government-sponsored mortgage
investors Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , who own most of their
mortgages, forbid principal write-downs, as do many private
mortgage investors. About 70 percent of all mortgages are held
in securities, not on bank portfolios, complicating efforts to
alter the terms.  Moreover, reducing loan balances could work at cross-
purposes to other government goals, including conserving Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac assets, which are 80 percent owned by the
government and managed by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .
FHFA bans write-downs because lowering principal would lower the
value of the two companies’ assets at a time when they continue
to rely on taxpayer aid to operate, FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco said in a March letter to lawmakers.  At Wells Fargo, the nation’s largest mortgage originator,
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac own two-thirds of the loans the
company services.  ‘Off Limits’  “Those are off limits. We have to confine our efforts to
other areas,” Wells spokesman Tom Goyda said. The bank
considers foreclosure “a last resort,” and as such has reduced
principal on some loans it owns, including pay-option
adjustable-rate mortgages, or pick-a-payment loans.  “Because of the product structure and the geographic
concentration of the pick-a-payment loans we have more
aggressively used principal reduction for those loans,” Goyda
said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan and
other executives also cite the “moral dilemma” of debt
forgiveness. Should underwater homeowners behind on their
mortgage payments get aid while their responsible neighbors who
suffered the same drop in home values get nothing?  Moreover, if the primary goal is to secure more affordable
monthly payments for individual borrowers, that can be
accomplished by deferring debt, extending loan terms, or
reducing  interest rates , banks say.  Not Broad Basis  “We do not see principal reduction as a solution that
should or can be used on a broad basis,” Bank of America
spokesman  Rick Simon  said.  States aren’t the only ones struggling to get banks on
board. A year-old  Federal Housing Administration  effort that
pays lenders to write down second liens and refinance underwater
debt has drawn only 207 takers so far.  In all, banks wrote down principal on fewer than 5,000
loans in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  About 23 percent of U.S. homes have negative equity
totaling about $750 billion, as reported by CoreLogic. In
contrast, the biggest banks combined hold a total of $717
billion in  Tier 1 capital , according to Bloomberg data.  As states continue to negotiate with banks, they also are
coping with borrowers who seem fatigued by a flood of aid
programs that so far haven’t helped much.  Lukewarm Response  “I thought when we announced the program that everybody
who had a mortgage would be calling to see if they qualify,”
California’s Richardson said. “They’re not. I’m a little
surprised at the work we have to do to get the phone to ring.”  Gonzalez said he would have leapt at the opportunity. “I
would have stayed in the house for $40,000 or $50,000,” he
said. “I needed just a few hundred dollars more of
discretionary income a month.”  State write-down programs are limited to low- and middle-
income homeowners who can make their payments and who haven’t
taken cash-out loans against their homes. Banks are granted up
to $50,000 in matching funds, meaning eligible borrowers could
shrink their mortgages by as much as $100,000.  The states have hired marketing consultants to get
borrowers’ attention. California this month began airing public
service announcements on radio and television.  Given the small number of reductions so far, there’s no
evidence they work, said Lon DeWeese, director of  Nevada ’s
program, the  Hardest-Hit Fund Corp .  Data Not ‘Profound’  “It’s hard to justify principal reduction,” DeWeese said.
“The data so far available is not profound enough on the ground
to convince the banks.”  Moreover, the math still doesn’t add up for lenders. For
houses mortgaged at twice or more of their value, the cost of
principal reduction “is gigantic relative to the cost of a
foreclosure,” he said.  Still, consumer advocates say such aid is long overdue.
Homeowners innocently swept into the run-up in  home prices  are
now bearing the financial and psychological burden of a mortgage
they might never be able to repay.  “There was a lot of money put into rescuing the banks and
not nearly the resources put into rescuing regular folks,” said
Bruce Mirken of the Greenlining Institute, an economic policy
group in Berkeley, California. “A fair number of these loans
were written based on fantasy values. It’s better for everybody
concerned to have a mortgage market and a housing market that
has some connection to reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 