-- 
Overseas Companies Seek U.S. Tax Rewrite Minus Tougher Rules

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-22T15:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/overseas-companies-seek-u-s-tax-rewrite-minus-tougher-rules.html
Companies based outside the U.S.
such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  are lobbying Congress on an
overhaul of the U.S. tax code with a different set of priorities
than those of their U.S.-based counterparts.  Non-U.S. companies tend to care little about issues that
have dominated the tax overhaul debate in Washington, such as
discussion about the taxation of U.S. multinationals’ overseas
profits. They join in the corporate consensus for lower tax
rates and a simpler tax system.  Their most specific interest is preventing Congress from
enacting tougher rules against so-called earnings stripping,
which they would view as discriminatory taxation against non-U.S. companies. Earnings stripping is a tax technique in which
U.S. subsidiaries of overseas companies use interest deductions
to lower their taxable income and shift the profits to places
where they are taxed lightly or not at all.  “We can’t budge on that,”  Nancy McLernon , president and
chief executive officer of the Organization for International
Investment, told Bloomberg Government. The  Washington-based
trade group  includes the U.S. arms of companies such as  Heineken
NV (HEIA) ,  Nestle SA (NESN) , and  Unilever NV. (UNA)   The non-U.S. companies that McLernon represents soon will
receive more attention. A House Ways and Means subcommittee is
scheduled to  hold a hearing  tomorrow on the potential effect of
changes in the tax code on foreign direct investment.  Treatment of Subsidiaries  McLernon will testify, along with Alexander Spitzer, a
senior vice president at Nestle, and Claude Draillard, chief
financial officer of Dassault Falcon Jet Corp., which is part of
 Dassault Aviation SA. (AM)  Other witnesses include  Gary Hufbauer ,
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute of International
Economics, and Bret Wells, a law professor at the University of
Houston.  In many ways, subsidiaries of non-U.S. companies are
treated like their domestic counterparts under the U.S.  tax
code . They face the same 35 percent top  tax rate , and they are
eligible for deductions that helped reduce the average effective
tax rate for large U.S. corporations to about 27 percent in
2008, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  The potential changes to the code, which are being explored
by the administration and by lawmakers, have prompted companies
from around the world to lobby Congress. In addition to pushing
for specific tax provisions, companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
Case New Holland Global NV, a subsidiary of Fiat Industrial SpA,
reported in public filings this year that they are lobbying on
the proposed overhaul. Spokesmen for Siemens, HSBC, SAP and Case
New Holland either declined to comment or didn’t return a
request for comment.  Attracting Investment  Major changes to the  corporate tax  code, along with
enactment of the administration’s other economic priorities,
would help attract more foreign investment, said  Austan Goolsbee , chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of
Economic Advisers, during a June 20 conference call with
reporters to promote  international investment .  “All of those would be additional ways to incentivize the
foreign direct investment,” he said.  The tougher question for lawmakers will be whether they can
or should impose new rules on U.S. subsidiaries of foreign
companies that are seeking access to the world’s largest
economy. Companies trying to sell beer, chocolate, cars and soap
want to reach U.S. consumers, regardless of the tax rate.  Minimum Level  Reuven Avi-Yonah, a professor of law at the University of
Michigan, said he supports changes that would impose a minimum
level of taxes on U.S. subsidiaries of companies based overseas
to prevent them from lowering their U.S. tax rates too far.  “I don’t see Toyota or Honda pulling out of the American
market if we impose more taxation on them,” he said. “The
market is too important.”  McLernon said the most intense competition for investment
that is most sensitive to  tax policy  occurs over corporate
subsidiaries that manage global businesses and could be located
elsewhere.  “These are the kinds of decisions that we miss out on
because of the high marginal rate,” she said. “Those are the
ones we can drive away.”  McLernon said members of her group would fight attempts to
impose new rules designed to limit earnings stripping. The
group’s lobbying clout helped defeat a 2007 attempt by
Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat, to impose
withholding taxes on certain cross-border payments by companies.  Separately, the Obama administration has proposed changes
to the earnings stripping rules that would impose a higher
burden on formerly U.S.-based companies such as Cooper
Industries Plc and  Noble Corp. (NE)  that inverted themselves and
became foreign-based.  The proposal cites a  2007 study  by the Treasury Department
that found “strong evidence” of earnings stripping among
inverted companies, namely low U.S. profits. That same study
didn’t find conclusive evidence of similar profit-shifting among
non-inverted companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  