-- 
How My Wi-Fi Scale Adds to America’s Class Divide: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/how-my-wi-fi-scale-adds-to-america-s-class-divide-peter-orszag.html
I now have more health
information on my wrist than my doctor had about me 10
years ago, and I’m hopeful that it’s going to help keep me
healthier.  But it’s worrisome, too, because the same
technological change that allows any of us to walk around
with all this personal data at a glance may wind up
exacerbating the growing gap in  life expectancy  between
people with high levels of income and education and those
without.  New technologies allow us to collect our own health
data and store it in an online record. When combined with
information from doctors and other providers, it can
present a picture of someone’s well-being more nuanced than
anything available before.  I know from experience, for example, that if I weigh
myself most days, I am more likely to eat nutritious foods
and maintain my weight. But I’ve never succeeded in
recording the results consistently, which is unfortunate
because doing so would provide a useful history for my
doctor, signaling potential health risks.  The admittedly minor hassle of looking down at the
scale and then walking over to a computer to type in the
numbers was apparently so onerous that I would do so for
only a couple days and then stop.  Technology has overcome that obstacle. My wife and I
now have a new  Withings Wi-Fi  scale: When I step on, it
transmits my weight and body-fat readings to the computer
over our home Wi-Fi network. The information is then
automatically linked to my personal online health record. A
similar wireless blood-pressure monitor has just become
commercially available.  High-Tech Pedometer  The striking part comes when that information is
combined with other data sources. Enter new devices like
the Garmin Forerunner 610 watch and the  Fitbit  pedometer,
both of which I use. The watch records my daily runs,
including distance and pace, along with pulse and calories
burned. The pedometer measures how many steps I take each
day, and if I wear it on my wrist at night it can also
measure the length and quality of my sleep. Both devices
transmit their results wirelessly to my computer whenever I
walk by it, and that information, too, is automatically
deposited into my health record.  My online record thus contains an extraordinarily rich
array of information about how much I exercise, how well I
sleep, my  blood pressure  and my body mass. It also pulls
data on my prescriptions and other more traditional health
metrics, such as blood-test results.  Emergency Bracelet  And much of this information can be accessed by yet
another new wristband device. As I write this, I’m wearing
something called a  VITAband , which is an emergency ID
bracelet that is linked to online information about who I
am, my allergies, my blood type, whom to contact in case of
an emergency and so on. Importantly, with appropriate
permission, it can also tap into my increasingly detailed
online health record. (A particularly clever feature that
isn’t directly connected to better health, except in the
psychological sense, is the VITAband’s built-in debit card,
which lets me make purchases or, if something goes terribly
wrong when I’m out for a run, pay for a cab ride home.)  As you might be able to tell, I’m quite enthusiastic
about these innovations. But I’m also aware of their risks,
which may only increase as the technology advances.  Privacy Concern  One of these is a potential loss of privacy. Imagine,
for example, if someone’s personal health record is hacked.
I wouldn’t care if anyone found out how many calories I
burned yesterday. But since the multiple sources of
information about my health are now linked, anyone who
could inappropriately obtain access to one bit of data may
have a better chance of getting into the entire record,
unless the system is explicitly designed to minimize that
risk. Presumably, all of this new information should be
private, not available even to my doctor or health-
insurance company without my permission.  A longer-term worry is that the new technologies may
widen gaps in life expectancy. Americans are living longer
than ever -- but, as documented in a recent National
Academy of Sciences report (“Explaining Divergent Levels of
Longevity in High-Income Countries”), people with more
education and income are enjoying much more rapid increases
in longevity than others are.  Life-Span Gap  Among 50-year-old men, for example, those in the
highest education group are now projected to live almost
six years longer on average than those in the lowest
education group -- and this differential has been rising
sharply.  The widening gap in life expectancy is also
evident geographically. In 2007, men living in the American
counties with the greatest average longevity could expect
to live more than 15 years longer than men in the lowest-
ranked ones. In 1987, that gap was less than 12 years.
Sadly, life expectancy in some counties actually declined
over that period.  The leading explanations for this involve health
behavior -- including diet, exercise and smoking. For
example, men 50 and older without a high-school education
are more than twice as likely to smoke as those with a
college degree. Exercise behavior also varies
substantially. Among 45- to 54-year-olds in one study, only
16 percent of those without a high-school degree exercised
vigorously at least once a week, whereas 56 percent of
college graduates did.  Need for Technology  If the new personalized health technologies wind up
being used disproportionately by people with more education
and income, driving that group toward even better health,
they will probably cause the gap in life expectancy to
widen still further.  The true health-improving potential of devices such as
the VITAband and the Fitbit will be realized only if they
are used by those who most need to change their health
behavior -- the same people who have been lagging in life
expectancy. If not, just as technology has helped expand
 income inequality  over the past four decades, it may
likewise play a major role in expanding life-span
inequality.  ( Peter Orszag  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  