-- 
Pakistan Holds More Army Officers in Probe of Militants’ Role

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-22T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/pakistan-holds-more-army-officers-in-probe-of-militants-role.html
Pakistan ’s army says it has detained
four majors as well as a brigadier in an investigation of how
widely an Islamic militant group may have placed supporters
within the country’s nuclear-armed military.  The army is holding the officers in its probe of the Hizb
ut-Tahrir, army spokesman Major General Athar Abbas said in an
exchange of  text messages  yesterday. Abbas earlier confirmed the
arrest of Brigadier Ali Khan for alleged links to Hizb ut-Tahrir,
a group that seeks to overthrow governments of Muslim states and
that is banned in Pakistan.  The rare announcement of disciplinary actions against mid-
ranking and senior officers for such ties follows statements by
U.S. officials that Pakistan’s armed forces have connections to
militant organizations. Khan was assigned to Army General
Headquarters in Rawalpindi, Abbas said June 21.  Khan’s arrest “means that Hizb ut-Tahrir has been having
more success than we realized in its strategy of penetrating the
government structures,” said Arif Jamal, an independent
Pakistani  analyst and author  on Islamic movements. “Hizb ut-
Tahrir works by recruiting within the institutions of the state
-- the army, bureaucracy, politicians -- to eventually overthrow
it from within.”  Khan is the highest-ranking military official known to have
been detained for alleged involvement in militant activities
since Pakistan backed the U.S. effort to dismantle al-Qaeda
after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. While his arrest underscores
the army has been infiltrated, “this Islamist penetration has
not moved beyond the individual level and the Pakistani military
as an institution remains sound,” U.S. political risk
assessment firm  Stratfor  said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Party of Liberation’  Abbas declined to comment June 21 on a report by the BBC
Urdu Service that Khan had been detained since disappearing on
May 6, or to discuss other details of the investigation. An army
colonel and two civilians also have been arrested as part of
Pakistan’s move against Hizb ut-Tahrir, the Austin, Texas-based
Stratfor reported, citing sources it did not name.  Hizb ut-Tahrir , or the Party of Liberation, was founded in
1952 to establish an Islamic caliphate, or theocracy, to rule
the world’s 60-plus largely Muslim nations. The party has
adherents from Central Asia to Western Europe, and operates
legally in the U.K and U.S. Germany banned the group in 2003,
saying it calls for the destruction of  Israel  and the killing of
Jews. Russia outlawed it as a terrorist organization in 2006.  The group “does not undertake any physical actions nor any
violent acts,” the organization’s  website  says.  Pakistan Focus  “Hizb ut-Tahrir does not seem to have yet come close” to
gaining the influence necessary to overthrow any Muslim state,
Jamal said. The group focuses heavily on Pakistan, he said, with
a  separate website  dedicated to its campaign in the country.  Noting that Pakistan holds “the world’s seventh-largest
army, nuclear capability, sixth-largest population in the
world,” and agricultural and mineral resources, the group’s
 Manifesto for Pakistan  describes the country as “the starting
point” for its goal of a caliphate stretching from North Africa
to  Southeast Asia . “The current system in Pakistan can never
succeed because it collides with the very belief of the
Muslims,” the manifesto says.  Concerns over possible infiltration of Pakistan’s army, one
of the world’s 10 largest with 600,000 members on active duty,
revived after the May 2 killing by U.S. commandos of al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in a Pakistani garrison town and the May
15 raid on a naval air station by guerrillas who destroyed high-
tech surveillance aircraft.  Covert Support  Beginning in the weeks before the attack on bin Laden’s
compound 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Islamabad, U.S.
officials have spoken openly about the Pakistani military’s
backing for violent Islamic militant groups.  Pakistani and American analysts, including Pakistani
ambassador to the U.S.  Husain Haqqani  and author Ahmed Rashid
have said that the army’s decades-old policy has been to
covertly support selected guerrilla groups as proxy forces in
neighboring  Afghanistan  and the disputed region of Kashmir.  The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral
Mike Mullen, said April 20 that Pakistan’s main military spy
agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, still “has
a longstanding relationship with the Haqqani network,” a
Taliban faction led by Jalaluddin Haqqani that a recent Defense
Department report called “the most significant threat” to U.S.
forces fighting in eastern Afghanistan.  The U.S. didn’t disclose the bin Laden raid to Pakistan out
of concern some Pakistani officials would have warned him,
aggravating bilateral tensions.  Bhutto Plot  The New York Times this month reported that Pakistan
arrested an army major for aiding the CIA search for bin Laden.
Pakistan’s army denied the report.  U.S. lawmakers have questioned Pakistan’s commitment to
fighting militants and have said further aid should be tied to
actions against al-Qaeda and the Taliban.  Pakistan’s army announced in 2004 the conviction of two
low-ranking soldiers for joining an Islamic militant attempt to
assassinate the country’s military ruler at the time, General
Pervez Musharraf. The last arrest of officers at Khan’s rank
came in 1995, when a brigadier and other army men were accused
of plotting to overthrow then-Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  