-- 
Papandreou Wins Confidence Vote

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T10:42:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/papandreou-wins-confidence-vote.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s victory in a confidence vote bolsters his new
government’s chances of pushing through austerity measures to
secure further international financial aid for the country.  A total of 155 lawmakers supported the motion in the 300-
seat parliament in Athens early this morning, with 143 voting
against. Papandreou reshuffled his Cabinet and sought the
approval of the chamber after fending off a revolt within his
socialist Pasok party last week. After the vote, police used
tear gas to disperse thousands of Greeks protesting budget cuts.  Papandreou now turns his attention to clinching
parliamentary approval next week of a 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default. European
finance ministers and the  International Monetary Fund  this week
said they would hold back a 12 billion-euro payment due in July
until passage of the plans to cut the deficit, sell state assets
and impose a “crisis levy” on wages.  “The pressure is now on the EU to come up with concrete
assurances on financing for the next 12 months,” HSBC Holdings
Plc Chief European Economist  Janet Henry  said in a note to
investors today. “Only then is the IMF expected to agree to the
next disbursement of funds.”  Can’t Pay Wages  Greece won’t be able to pay wages and pensions after July
15 if the government doesn’t secure the EU financing, government
spokesman Elias Mossialos said in an interview with Skai
Television yesterday before the vote.  “If we don’t vote through the implementation law, there
will be no fifth tranche and that means a halt in payments,” he
said.  The euro was little changed at $1.4388 at 12:29 p.m. in
 Athens , after reaching a one-week high of $1.4423 during trading
yesterday. Greek two-year bonds gained for a third day with the
yield falling 19 basis points to 27.45 percent. The yield on the
10-year bond fell 7 basis points to 16.9 percent.  “This is a solid victory by Papandreou,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at the Eurasia Group in London. “The first
hurdle has passed. The second -- approval of the medium-term
fiscal plan -- will be more difficult but the government should
manage to get it approved.”  Papandreou will meet his counterparts at a summit in
Brussels starting tomorrow that will discuss a new financing
package to shield  Greece  from record borrowing costs for as many
as three years.  German ‘Pre-Condition’  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking in Berlin today
to parliament’s European Affairs Committee, welcomed the vote of
confidence.  “This is an important step,” Merkel told the public
hearing. “But the next step, in which Greece approves the
additional measures it must undertake, lies ahead next week.
Only under that condition can we even begin debating additional
aid.”  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the result
of the vote “removes an element of uncertainty from an already
very difficult situation.” He said in an e-mailed statement
from Brussels it was “good news for Greece and for the European
Union as a whole.”  The IMF, contributor of a third of the bailout money for
Greece and the two other euro-area countries that have received
bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU leaders that a
failure to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks
triggering “large global spillovers.”  Restore Public Finances  Acting IMF Managing Director  John Lipsky  said Greece’s
parliament must endorse the measures to restore the country’s
public finances for the fund to continue its aid.  “At the heart of the Greek program is the policy
adjustment,” Lipsky said at the  American Academy  in Berlin
yesterday evening. “If they are not approved, the bedrock of
the program doesn’t exist.”  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said Papandreou must use
the EU summit in Brussels to “explain how and to which extent
Greece intends to fulfill the conditions set by the European
Union.”  “Without fulfilling those conditions another tranche can’t
be approved,” Faymann said in a statement sent to the OTS wire.  Fallout from the debt crisis is already affecting markets
outside  Europe . BES Investimento do Brasil SA, the Sao Paulo
unit of Portugal’s largest publicly traded bank, is posting the
biggest slump in the Brazilian  bond market  on concern the parent
may have to repatriate funds. The top U.S. prime money-market
funds have about half their assets in securities issued by
European banks, according to a report by  Fitch Ratings .  ‘Daunting Prospect’  “The adjustment itself is still a very daunting prospect
but at least we have some more time,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said by phone.
“We have had such a change in mood in just a few days; in the
middle of last week we were on the brink of catastrophe.”  Papandreou, 59, has 155 seats in the 300-seat chamber after
one Pasok deputy on June 14 resigned from the party to protest
the government’s economic policies. Two days later, two
socialist lawmakers quit parliament, prompting Papandreou’s
party to demand an emergency meeting and stoking investor
concern that his grip was slipping and the chance of default
growing.  “Approving the austerity measures is not going to be a
problem now,” Nikos Christodoulakis, a finance minister with a
previous Pasok government, said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg  Television’s “Countdown.” Asked about the
possibility of default, he said, “I don’t think so. One of the
reasons why Greece has fallen into this debt trap is the lack of
growth.”  ‘Change the Recipe’  Papandreou’s plan wouldn’t work because it wouldn’t restore
growth to the economy, opposition  New Democracy  party leader
Antonis Samaras told lawmakers before the vote. “We want to
change the recipe,” Samaras said.  In an effort to shore up political support, the premier
replaced finance minister  George Papaconstantinou  in the
reshuffle on June 17 with Evangelos Venizelos, his defense
minister and one-time rival for the party leadership.  Papandreou will hold meetings with his ministers today to
discuss the draft law for the government’s fiscal plan, his
office said yesterday. That’s one of two laws that has to be
passed by parliament by the end of the month to qualify for EU
aid.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the new austerity
measures and want early elections. Almost 35 percent said the
package should be approved. Protests outside Parliament House
have been held on a daily basis.  Unions have called strikes against the measures. The trade
union at  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  began rolling 48-hour strikes on
June 20, forcing the company to conduct scheduled power cuts to
prevent a blackout.  Athens Protests  About 3,000 mostly young people outside Parliament last
night hurled water bottles, cans and fruit at police when it was
learned that Papandreou won the vote at about 1 a.m. in Athens.  Papandreou has promised to call a referendum later this
year on changes to the country’s political system and
constitution to allay demonstrators’ concerns.  Elected in 2009, Papandreou first sought a financial rescue
in April 2010 to avoid default as investors refused to finance a
record budget deficit. The conditions attached to the aid have
helped deepen a slump that has driven the economy into recession
for a third year and lifted unemployment to 15.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  