-- 
Papandreou Budget Hole Threatens to Swallow Europe, Defies Fix

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-22T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/papandreou-budget-hole-threatens-to-swallow-europe-defies-debt-crisis-fix.html
George Papandreou  was staring into a
20 billion-euro ($29 billion) hole.  It’s common for freshly minted leaders to discover that
there’s not enough money to pay for their campaign promises. So
when Papandreou’s new Greek government woke up to a looming
budget disaster within days of taking office in October 2009,
the alarm bells were slow to ring in European capitals.  Don’t “overrate” the problem, said German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, later to play a pivotal role in the debt saga
that continues to rock the 17-nation euro area. “There are
deficits in other parts of the world as well.”  That initial reaction foreshadowed European leaders’
failure to tame a crisis that is entering its 21st month and has
world leaders growing anxious over the prospect of a new
financial tsunami as they shake off the effects of the last one.
On June 7, President  Barack Obama  told Merkel it was her job to
stop an “uncontrolled spiral of default.”  China ’s central bank
warned on June 14 of a “major risk” incubating in Europe.  “This has unravelled badly,” said Paul de Grauwe, an
economics professor at the Catholic University of Leuven in
 Belgium  and a two-time candidate for a European Central Bank
post. “The most favorable scenario is that we can bridge the
next six months. The less favorable scenario is this gets out of
control.”  The 256 billion euros in aid committed to Greece, Ireland
and Portugal have done little more than buy time against a
looming default, says  Andrew Balls , Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s head of European portfolio management. The cost
to insure senior debt of 25 banks and insurers has climbed to
162 basis points from 120 on April 8, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. prices. Insurance against a sovereign default, the
most expensive in the world, indicates a chance of more than
three in four that  Greece  will be forced to restructure its debt.  ‘Pretty Hopeless’  “If you just look at the economics, it looks pretty
hopeless for Greece. It would make you think that a default
would already have happened,” Balls told Bloomberg Television
June 21. “If you can quarantine Greece, Ireland and Portugal,
take these countries out of the market, have them do their
adjustments, then you can buy time for  Spain , buy time for banks
to recapitalize.”  At a Brussels summit tonight and tomorrow, the stewards of
the world’s second-largest economy will have another go at the
Greek dilemma, debating the size of new loans to the  Athens 
government and how to get holders of Greek bonds to chip in.  Already, European Union leaders are playing down the
prospects of a lasting fix at the summit -- and this, three
months after proclaiming a “comprehensive” solution to a
crisis that, for all the angst, has been limited to countries
with a combined 6 percent of the euro area’s gross domestic
product.  ‘Reform Fatigue’  “Times are difficult,” EU Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said on June 20. “Reform fatigue is
visible in the streets of Athens, Madrid and elsewhere, and so
is the support fatigue in some of our member states.”  Police in Athens used tear gas to break up protests against
austerity measures last week. Demonstrators who have camped in
front of the Greek parliament for four weeks have labelled a
poster of Papandreou as the International Monetary Fund’s
“employee of the year.”  Europe’s debt chain reaction exposed what Romano Prodi, who
as Italian prime minister shepherded  Italy  into the euro, called
a “half-baked” setup. The monetary half run by the  European
Central Bank  has delivered low inflation. The fiscal and
economic management half has been all over the map.  North-South Split  Another split is emerging, between the wealthier, more
export-driven and fiscally restrained north and the poorer south,
now facing years of subpar growth, according to the Centre for
Economics and Business Research.  “Euro to break up -- not this week but probably by 2013,”
the London-based CEBR headlined on June 20, adding a voice to
those who have been wrong so far. Greece will be the first to go,
opting for growth and jobs over euro-mandated austerity, the
research firm predicted.  The accident that Merkel didn’t see coming -- and the EU
still sees as a cash squeeze, not an existential matter of
solvency -- intruded on the EU leaders’ agenda for the first
time on Feb. 11, 2010, in the century-old Solvay Library in
Brussels at what was billed as a brainstorming session on a 10-
year economic strategy, focused on productivity and innovation.  At the time, Greek 10-year bonds yielded 6.03 percent. The
extra yield over German bonds, a measure of the risk of
investing in Greece, was 283 basis points.  Emergency Lender  Three months later, with the risk spread nearing 1,000
basis points, jousting among Merkel, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yielded a decision
to establish an emergency lender to prop up debt-wracked states.
In so doing, the leaders set aside a core euro principle that
each country was the master of its own finances.  At 2 a.m. on May 10, as markets opened in  Asia , the details
were set.  Europe  created two funds, of 60 billion euros and 440
billion euros, and the IMF put up 250 billion euros. The ECB
went into the bond-buying business.  The first phase of the crisis was over and the markets
settled down.  In October, they awoke with a clatter. In an Oct. 18 tete-
a-tete in Deauville, on  France ’s English Channel coast, Merkel
and Sarkozy decided it was time to shift the costs of saving the
euro from taxpayers to bondholders. Merkel won French backing
for a permanent rescue fund with the option of putting states
into default.  Investor Flight  Investors didn’t like what they heard. While Merkel’s
“private investor participation” provisions wouldn’t kick in
until mid-2013, the mere floating of the idea made bonds of
deficit-plagued states such as Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain less
attractive.  Phase two of the crisis was under way, with a front opening
over how creditors would contribute to the rescues.  From the latter half of October into November, investors
dumped bonds of countries on Europe’s periphery. Ten-year Irish
yields rose from 6 percent on Oct. 18, the date of the Merkel-
Sarkozy beachside promenade, to 9.2 percent on Nov. 26,
prompting Ireland’s capitulation. The yield is now 11.7 percent.  Ireland’s 67.5 billion-euro bailout package on Nov. 28 came
along with what Trichet called a “useful clarification”:
chastened by the plunge in Irish, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian
and Belgian securities,  Germany  diluted demands for a future
“orderly default” procedure.  Armistice  What at first looked like peace with the bond markets
turned out to be a short-lived armistice. In Brussels and
European capitals, work proceeded on upgrading the temporary
rescue fund, setting up the permanent one and tightening the
“stability pact” that had proven toothless in enforcing the
euro area’s deficit and debt rules.  Politics in Germany and Finland delayed agreement on the
strengthened rescue mechanism until June. Each country now plans
to boost its guarantee, enabling the fund to tap the full 440
billion euros promised on the dramatic May weekend, and to buy
bonds directly from straitened governments.  “Crises thrive on uncertainty, and the officials are
providing that in large doses,”  Alessandro Leipold , a former
acting director of the IMF’s European department, said on
Bloomberg Television. “The decisions are too politicized. It
really is time for once for them to surprise us on the upside
and actually anticipate the market.”  All the while, there was a slow burn in Portugal, the
originator of Europe’s “Lisbon agenda” of 2000 that set the
goal of turning the EU into the world’s most competitive economy
by 2010.  Portugal’s Miss  Few countries landed wider of that mark. Portugal’s GDP per
capita, a measure of wealth and productivity, was 81 percent of
the EU average in 2010, the lowest in western Europe and barely
ahead of the ex-communist  Czech Republic , at 80 percent.  Portugal’s implosion ended the taboo against European
authorities intervening in national politics. With the crisis
triggering early elections, the euro area and IMF forced both
main parties to sign up to budget cuts in the heat of the
campaign as a condition for 78 billion euros in loans.  By then, Germany and the bond market were falling out. It
began April 14 when Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  hinted
at the need for a Greek debt restructuring in a Die Welt
newspaper interview. A day later, Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer told Bloomberg News that a restructuring “would not be a
disaster.”  Germany’s thrust came with Greece’s 10-year yield premium
at 948 basis points, virtually unchanged since New Year’s Day.
It quickly deteriorated. By May 16, the day of Portugal’s
bailout, it was 1,250 basis points. It peaked last week at 1,503
basis points.  Germany Yields  German musings about shoving Greece into default met
pushback from the ECB and France, the country most exposed to
Greek debt. A new confrontation over bond contracts and market
psychology played out, ending in a German climbdown.  Merkel blinked on June 17. With Sarkozy at her side, she
dropped the idea of a compulsory Greek debt exchange that would
lead rating companies to place Greece in default. “Let me make
that perfectly clear,” Merkel said. The ECB now had a veto over
the method for getting bondholders to roll over Greek debt.  It was the squabble and not the agreement, though, that
raised eyebrows.  “It’s very hard for people to invest in Europe, within
Europe and outside Europe, to understand what the strategy is
when you have so many people talking,” U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner said June 21. “It would be very helpful to
have Europe speak with a clearer, more unified voice.”  Falling Short  In the meantime, Greece was failing to keep up its end of
the bargain. While Papandreou delivered 20 billion euros of EU-
and IMF-ordained budget cuts in 2010, the resulting 4.5 percent
economic slump squeezed tax revenue, leaving the deficit above
target and debt on an upward trajectory.  Already at a European record of 142.8 percent of GDP, Greek
debt is set to rise to 157.7 percent this year and 166.1 percent
next year, the EU predicts. It prodded Greece to get serious
about selling 50 billion euros of state assets to pay off
creditors, pushing the government to the breaking point.  Unable to lure the opposition into a unity coalition,
Papandreou, 59, the Minnesota-born scion of a political dynasty,
replaced his finance minister last week, stiff-armed an inner-
party rebellion and staked his future on a confidence vote.  Papandreou Hangs On  The interim climax came early yesterday. As 10,000
protesters besieged the parliament in Athens, hurling bottles
and fruit at riot police, the Socialist convert to spartan
economics warned the assembled lawmakers that Greece had run out
of alternatives.  The government survived, by a margin of 155 to 143. Votes
next week will determine the fate of 78 billion euros in budget
cuts, the price demanded by the EU and IMF in exchange for a 12
billion-euro loan installment to banish the specter of default,
at least through August.  Risks are rising of “a Lehman-esque event rippling out
from Europe,” said  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High
Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla,  New York . “Things are out
of control. We’ve been reduced to a game of chicken between
Greece and the governments of Europe to see who blinks first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  