-- 
Paulson Not Alone as ‘Mistake’ on Sino-Forest Hurts Davis Funds

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-06-22T17:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/paulson-is-not-alone-as-sino-forest-mistake-hits-31-billion-davis-fund.html
John Paulson  isn’t the only
prominent fund manager who has been hurt by the plunge in Sino-
Forest Corp. shares.  Christopher Davis, a value investor who researches stocks
and holds them for long periods, owned 13 percent of the Chinese
tree-plantation owner as of April 29 through his Tucson,
Arizona-based Davis Selected Advisers LP. The value of that
stake has since dropped 92 percent, or more than $600 million,
as Muddy Waters LLC, an investment firm run by Carson Block,
said Sino-Forest overstated its timber holdings.  “Davis generally has a good long-term record but that
doesn’t mean they are immune to mistakes,” Russel Kinnel,
director of mutual fund research at Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview. “This may be another of
their mistakes.”  Davis New York Venture Fund, the firm’s flagship mutual
fund with assets of $30.8 billion, struggled in the past five
years as bets on financial companies including insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  backfired, while beating the majority
of its peers over the longer term. Davis’s firm, with $71
billion in assets, held 30.9 million Sino-Forest shares as of
April 29, making it the second-biggest owner before Paulson &
Co. dumped its stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Laura Berger, a spokeswoman for Davis, said the firm
doesn’t comment on individual holdings.  Allen Chan, chief executive officer at Hong Kong-based
Sino-Forest, has denied the allegations from Muddy Waters, which
had bet against the stock. Chan established an independent
committee to investigate and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP to assist.  Stock Blow-Ups  Sino-Forest dropped 74 cents, or 27 percent, to C$1.99,
yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock closed at
C$18.21 on June 1, the day before  Muddy Waters  published its
report.  “When you run a diversified portfolio there are going to
be individual stocks that blow up from time to time,” Ronald Sugameli, chief investment officer at Weston Financial Group
Inc. in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview.
Sugameli said his firm, which manages $1.7 billion, doesn’t plan
to dump its shares in Davis New York Venture, which is co-
managed by Christopher Davis and  Kenneth Feinberg .  Paulson, best known for his lucrative bet against subprime
mortgages during the global credit crisis, held 34.7 million
shares of Sino-Forest as of April 29, according to a company
filing that cited information available on public records.
Paulson & Co., based in  New York , had disposed of the entire
stake as of June 17, according to a filing this week.  Paulson’s Losses  Paulson’s stake would have been worth C$815.8 million
($838.6 million) at the end of April. The value declined to
C$110.7 million ($113.8 million) by the end of last week, though
Paulson probably reduced losses by selling some shares earlier,
according to a letter sent to clients June 3. Paulson’s largest
fund lost about 13 percent in the first half of June, bringing
declines this year to about 20 percent, as bets on Sino-Forest
and U.S. bank stocks soured, two investors said last week.  Paulson declined to comment, said Chris Gillick, a
spokesman for the firm, in an e-mail.  Davis’s Sino-Forest shares were valued at C$726 million
($746.3 million) at the end of April, the latest date for which
his holdings were reported. Yesterday they traded at about
C$61.5 million ($63.2 million).  Most of the shares were owned by Davis New York Venture
Fund, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sino-Forest was
the fund’s 25th-largest holding as of Jan. 31, when it held 21
million shares.  Generational Hand-Off  Davis Selected Advisers was founded in 1969 by Shelby M.C.
Davis, whose father, Shelby Cullom Davis, turned an investment
of $100,000 in the late 1940s into more than $800 million by the
end of his career in the early 1990s, according to the firm’s
website.  Christopher Davis, 45, who followed his father and
grandfather into the money-management business, joined the firm
in 1989. He is currently chairman.  Davis and Feinberg serve as portfolio managers on the $7.1
billion Selected American Shares Fund and the $1.2 billion
Clipper Fund. Selected American Shares trailed 74 percent of
rivals over the past five years, according to Morningstar data,
while Clipper underperformed 94 percent of peers.  ‘Durable Businesses’  “We seek to purchase durable businesses at value prices
and hold them for the long term,” the firm said on its website.
Davis New York Venture Fund has a turnover ratio, the frequency
with which the portfolio changes, of 13 percent, compared with
an average of 90 percent for all U.S. equity funds,  Morningstar
Inc. data show .  The fund beat 79 percent of rivals that own a blend of
large-company growth and value stocks over the past 10 years and
88 percent over 15 years, Morningstar data show. Davis New York
Venture lagged behind 77 percent of rivals over the past five
years.  Davis and Feinberg, in a 2010 annual review of the fund
posted online, said the slump was caused by 2008 investments in
a handful of financial stocks, such as New York-based AIG.  “Our loss in AIG was substantial and permanent,” they
wrote. AIG was the world’s biggest insurer before it had to be
rescued by the U.S. government in September 2008 after credit-
default swaps soured.  Davis New York Venture Fund held $1.6 billion of AIG shares
as of Jan. 31, 2008, according to regulatory filings. A year
later the stake was worth about $41.3 million.  Financial Slump  “A lot of bright people saw the financial collapse coming
and a lot of bright minds didn’t,” Steven Roge, a portfolio
manager with Bohemia, New York-based R.W. Roge & Co. Inc., said
in a telephone interview.  Roge, whose firm manages $225 million for clients, said
Davis’s managers generally do a good job of evaluating
companies.  “They own a lot of the best of breed,” he said.  New York Venture Fund’s top holdings as of Jan. 31 included
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and New York-based
 American Express Co. (AXP)  The fund had 26 percent of its equities in
financial companies, Morningstar data show. Financials are the
worst performer out of 10 industry group in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year with a decline of 4.9 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  Davis New York Venture lost 0.7 percent through June 20,
worse than 86 percent of its peers, according to Bloomberg.  Morningstar’s Kinnel said Davis avoided investing in Enron
Corp. even as other fund managers plunged in before the Houston-
based energy trader collapsed. Enron filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2001 after revelations of widespread accounting
fraud.  “How much could an investor have known in advance?”
Kinnel said of the Sino-Forest troubles. “Some things are very
difficult to catch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  