-- 
Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Blood Thinner Tops Warfarin in Stroke

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-23T20:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/pfizer-blood-thinner-matches-longtime-treatment-in-prevention-of-stroke.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s experimental blood thinner apixaban prevented more
strokes with less major bleeding than traditional treatment in
patients with irregular heartbeats in a key study.  The results position apixaban, expected to trail two rivals
in gaining approval, to leap into the lead in a $7 billion
market for warding off strokes in patients with the condition
known as atrial fibrillation, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
with ISI Group, in a note to investors. Pfizer and Bristol-Myers
plan to file for regulatory approval in the U.S. and  Europe  by
year’s end, the New York-based companies said yesterday in a
statement summarizing the study’s data.  Apixaban will compete against Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
 Pradaxa , approved last year, in the contest to replace the half-
century-old drug warfarin, a sensitive medicine that requires
regular laboratory tests to ensure patients get the proper dose.
Xarelto, another rival from Bayer AG of Leverkusen,  Germany , and
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , is awaiting
U.S. approval.  “Since apixaban looks very likely to be the only blood
thinner with superior efficacy and safety, we think it could
take as much as 50 percent” of the market for atrial
fibrillation, Schoenebaum wrote. “At peak that represents
worldwide sales of $3.5 billion” in the heart condition alone,
and increase from a $1.4 billion estimate before yesterday’s
data, he wrote.  ‘Superior Label’  Atrial fibrillation is the biggest single market for the
new blood thinners, according to Schoenebaum. Apixaban, to be
marketed under the brand name Eliquis, was approved in Europe
last month to prevent clots after surgery to replace hips or
knees, another major market for the medication.  Pfizer rose 37 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $20.65 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. Bristol-Myers gained $1.59,
or 5.7 percent, to $29.33, its biggest single-day increase in
more than a year.  Bayer declined 6.3 percent to 54.40 euros at the close of
Frankfurt trading, the biggest drop since March 2009 on concerns
that the study results would harm the market for Xarelto.  Apixaban may offer the best of all possible drugs, said
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston ,
in a note to clients. Pfizer and Bristol-Myers are marketing
powerhouses, the drug appears to be the best in the class and
the market is untapped territory that could generate billions in
sales, he said.  Surpassing Warfarin  “Bristol-Myers/Pfizer should be able to claim superiority
on efficacy to warfarin or aspirin with major bleeding rates
superior to warfarin and comparable to aspirin,” Fernandez
wrote. “With a marketing pedigree that includes the two biggest
cardiovascular blockbusters, Pfizer with Lipitor and Bristol-
Myers with Plavix, we believe BMY/PFE can deliver apixaban’s
full potential.”  Apixaban has been shown effective in treating the minority
of atrial fibrillation patients who aren’t candidates for
warfarin, according to results published in the March 3  New
England Journal of Medicine . It is better than aspirin in
preventing strokes in these patients, the study found.  The new study, called Aristotle, compared twice-daily
apixaban to warfarin in 18,206 patients with atrial
fibrillation, according to a March 2010 description of the trial
in American Heart Journal. The drug met its primary goal of
showing apixaban was not inferior to warfarin in preventing
strokes and clots that cause blood-vessel blockages.  Secondary Goals  It also was successful in two secondary goals: showing the
drug was more effective than warfarin and leading to fewer cases
of major bleeding, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers said in yesterday’s
statement. Pradaxa, currently the drug’s biggest rival from
closely held German drugmaker Boehringer, was more effective
than warfarin with similar bleeding at a high dose and as
effective as warfarin with less bleeding at a lower dose.
Apixaban was more effective and safer, the companies said.  Spokesmen for Pfizer and Bristol-Myers declined to provide
additional details about the study results. The findings will be
presented at the  European Society of Cardiology  meeting in Paris
in August.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 