-- 
Philips Drops as Electronics, Lighting Decline Hurts Profit

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-06-22T17:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/philips-predicts-low-single-digit-lighting-unit-comparable-sales-growth.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV, the
world’s biggest maker of light bulbs, dropped the most in more
than two years in Amsterdam trading after saying it needs to
deepen cost cuts to combat deteriorating demand for lighting and
consumer electronics.  Philips fell 8.8 percent to 16.405 euros, the biggest
decline since March 2009. Chief Executive Officer Frans  Van Houten  has taken control of the lighting unit, which will report
“low single-digit” sales growth in the second quarter, the
Amsterdam-based company said in a statement.  Van Houten, who became CEO in April, faces the challenge of
boosting profit against a backdrop of slowing markets for
lighting and traditional electronics in western  Europe  and
stiffening competition from low-cost Asian manufacturers. A
construction slump and weak  consumer spending  hurt sales of
lighting and audio, video and multimedia products.  “The new management is digging through the company to see
what’s going on,” said  James Stettler , an analyst at UniCredit
in  London . “While they have indicated there are issues, the
scope of the problems is still a severe disappointment.”  The Dutch maker of medical equipment, scheduled to report
earnings on July 18, has a market value of 16.6 billion euros
($24 billion) after today’s drop.  Siemens AG (SIE) , which is preparing
an initial public offering of its Osram lighting unit, the No. 2
behind Philips, declined 0.8 percent. Appliance maker  Electrolux
AB (ELUXB)  also fell.  Behind Schedule  Philips will announce further “decisive actions shortly,”
including a bigger version of the companywide savings program
named “Accelerate,” it said today. Van Houten warned in April
that Philips had fallen behind schedule to meet targets set out
in its Vision 2015 plan, unveiled in September. New targets will
be released later this year that reflect changes such as ceding
control of the TV business.  Van Houten is part way through a broad sweep out of
managers as he seeks to decentralize decision-making and spur
growth. By the end of this year, five of the six management
board members will have left the company. Lighting head Rudy Provoost in May announced his intention to move to French
electrical retailer Rexel SA in the autumn.  To avoid a “leadership vacuum” at lighting, Van Houten
and Chief Financial Officer Ron Wirahadiraksa will assume the
day-to-day running operations until new management can be
appointed.  Margins Under Pressure  Narrowing margins and lower sales growth will result in
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization at the lighting
unit of 85 million euros in the second quarter, Philips
predicted today. That compares with 210 million euros in the
year-earlier period, and a 165 million-euro estimate of analysts
at SNS Securities.  Profit at consumer lifestyle will be limited to about 50
million euros as a result of declining licensing revenue and
expenses on advertising, Philips said. Profit totaled 173
million euros a year earlier.  The company in September set a 2015 target for the lighting
unit of earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of 12
percent to 14 percent of sales.  Philips failed to provide a “credible explanation” for
the extent of the shortfall as the challenges, such as weak
demand for consumer electronics and lower TV licensing income,
have already been flagged by the company earlier, SNS
Securities’ Victor Bareno said in a note.  “The fact that Philips reports such a massive shortfall in
profits just before the end of the quarter is a blow to the
company’s credibility,” Amsterdam-based Bareno said. “We
expect the market to take skeptical view on the upcoming update
of the financial goals next October.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  