-- 
Polish May Retail-Sales Growth Slows, Supports Steady Rates

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-22T09:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/polish-may-retail-sales-growth-slows-supports-steady-rates-2-.html
Polish retail-sales growth slowed in
May, supporting expectations the central bank will leave
 interest rates  unchanged in coming months.  Sales rose 13.8 percent from a year earlier, compared with
18.6 percent in April, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw
reported today. The median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 13.1 percent. Sales fell 1.1 percent on the month.  The figures won’t change the stance of central bankers, who
said June 9 they planned to pause monetary policy tightening
after four rate increases this year, according to Bank Handlowy
SA. Sales growth was expected to slow because the April data
were inflated by comparison to depressed year-earlier figures,
when Poles mourned the death of President  Lech Kaczynski .  “After a series of rate increases in a short period of
time, I expect no raise in July,” Monika Kurtek, the chief
economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed
statement. “I still think a scenario of no more rate increases
until the end of the year is possible.”  A week after the central bank announced its rate pause, the
statistics office released figures showing the inflation rate
rose to 5 percent in May, the highest in almost a decade.  While investors on the  derivatives market  are betting
policy makers will leave rates unchanged next month, they expect
one more increase before the end of the year.  One-month forward rate agreements, used to lock in rates in
the future, are trading at 7 basis points above the three-month
Warsaw interbank offered rate. Six-month agreements are trading
at 34 basis points above Wibor.  The zloty traded at 3.983 per euro at 11:04 a.m. in Warsaw,
unchanged on the retail sales data and down from 3.9807 late
yesterday.  Unemployment fell to 12.2 percent in May from 12.6 percent
the month before, the statistics office said today in a separate
report, more than the 12.1 percent median estimate of 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  