-- 
Polish Food-Price Growth to Slow in Second Half, Sawicki Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-22T12:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/polish-food-price-growth-to-slow-in-second-half-sawicki-says.html
Polish inflation is likely to slow
in the second half of the year as the pace of food-price growth
loses momentum, Agriculture Minister Marek Sawicki said.  “The growth trend is losing steam and food prices are
unlikely to rise faster than 5 percent between July and December
from the same period last year,” he said in an interview
yesterday in Warsaw. A Russian ban on vegetables from the
European Union will boost supply locally, helping easing cost
pressures further, Sawicki said.  Food prices in the EU’s third-largest grain producer surged
8.8 percent in May from a year earlier, pushing the inflation
rate to 5 percent, the highest in almost a decade. The central
bank-led Monetary Policy Council raised the main interest rate
by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent on June 9, the fourth increase
this year, to keep food and fuel prices from triggering
inflation expectations and wage demands.  The annual core inflation rate, which excludes food and
energy prices, rose to 2.4 percent in May from 2.1 percent in
the previous month, the bank said today in an e-mail, matching
the median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers plan to wait before “making any more moves”
as they want to see what effect the increases will have,  central
bank  Governor Marek Belka said on June 8. Investors are betting
borrowing costs will rise again before the end of the year,
according to six-month forward-rate agreements, which are
trading 33 basis points above the three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate.  Frosts, Drought  Inflation should start slowing within the next two or three
quarters to return close to the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target in a year,  Andrzej Bratkowski , a member of the rate
panel, said on June 15.  Frosts from early May and a drought which has affected more
than 37 percent of municipalities pose no threat to this year’s
crops, Sawicki said.  Poland  will raise 27.5 million tons of
grain in the 2010-2011 season, according to Sawicki, compared
with 65 million tons for  France  and 44 million tons for  Germany .  “There are substantial periodic volatilities, but they
should be seen in light of a very weak base from May and June
last year, when prices of most food products were tumbling,”
Sawicki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  