-- 
Porsche Cayenne Surging in China as Deliveries of SUVs Increase 30%: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/porsche-cayenne-in-china-surges-on-30-suv-delivery-rise-cars.html
China  surpassed the U.S. as the
world’s largest car market on sales of sedans. Future growth
lies with sport-utility vehicles.  SUV deliveries rose 30 percent this year through May,
compared with a 6 percent gain for total passenger-car sales,
according to the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers .  Sales of SUVs in the world’s second-largest economy will
increase 33 percent in the two years through 2012, almost twice
the pace in the U.S. and four times that of Western Europe,
according to Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive, an
industry consultant. Porsche SE already sells more Cayennes in
China than anywhere else in the world.  “It’s the next great wave of consumer demand in China,”
said  Bill Russo , Beijing-based senior adviser at consulting
company Booz & Co. “First-time buyers buy sedans, second-time
buyers look for more variety.”  Chinese consumers will buy 4.3 million SUVs by 2018, or 86
percent of projected U.S. sales, up from 47 percent last year,
according to  Westlake Village , California-based  J.D. Power  &
Associates. SUVs accounted for 9.7 percent of China’s total
passenger-car sales last year, from 4.4 percent in 2006, data
from the nation’s automakers group show.  Practical Choice  “Historically China is a sedan market because it is
socially accepted and practical,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-
based managing director for Greater China at Synovate
Motoresearch, an industry consultant. SUVs are “extremely
attractive to those who are affluent and want to demonstrate
they are successful, modern and dynamic.”  China’s economy  will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and 9.5
percent next year, the fastest rate among major emerging
markets, according to International Monetary Fund projections.
Private wealth has grown with the economy, with the number of
Chinese millionaire households jumping 31 percent to 1.11
million in 2010, according to the  Boston Consulting Group .  Profit margins for SUVs are typically wider than sedans as
automakers can charge higher prices for additional features,
according to Russo.  ‘Bit of Fun’  For Jane Zhao, 38, trading her Volkswagen Jetta for a Jeep
Compass has made all the difference in Beijing, the city voted
by motorists in an International Business Machines Corp. survey
last year as having the most “onerous” commute.  “It adds a bit of fun,” said Zhao, works for a consulting
firm in the Chinese capital and spends three hours a day on the
road. “Driving it gives me a better view, which is very
important when stuck in endless traffic jams or trapped by
vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians on smaller roads.”  Sales of SUVs fell 4.1 percent in May, the first monthly
decline this year, after  Japan ’s record earthquake in March
caused automakers to halt production.  Honda Motor Co.’s CR-V sales fell by more than half last
month from a year earlier to 5,003 units, as the Tokyo-based
automaker suspended production for two weeks at its venture with
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. that month, said Zhu Linjie, Honda’s
Beijing-based spokesman.  “The May sales declines for SUVs was a short-term
fluctuation” due to the quake, said Zhang Guo, an analyst with
KGI Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It shouldn’t be taken as a
turning point that indicates a change in the market trend.”  Super-Luxury Sales  China’s super-luxury SUV market, defined by J.D. Power as
those costing more than 1 million yuan ($154,700), will expand
at a 17 percent annual rate over the next four years, according
to a report this month.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche delivered 8,612 Cayennes
in 2010, 14 percent more than the previous year, according to
data from the company. Prices start at 893,000 yuan in China.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz SUV sales more than doubled in
the first five months to 21,275 vehicles, the company said June
9. Mercedes may start assembling the GLK SUV in China as early
as this year, Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche
said in Shanghai in April.  Great Wall Motor Co.’s Hover, whose basic 1.3-liter model
starts at 43,900 yuan, was the best-selling SUV model in the
first five months, according to the automakers group. The
Baoding, China-based carmaker plans to add larger SUVs cater to
demand for more spacious models, said Shang Yugui, deputy
general manager of sales.  New Models  SAIC Motor Corp., China’s biggest automaker, aims to add
their first self-developed SUV model, the W5, this year.  Geely
Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  plans to introduce the EX7, its debut
SUV, in the third quarter.  General Motors Co. (GM)  said in April it
will introduce an updated version of its Chevrolet Captiva
compact SUV on the mainland this year.  “Surging SUV demand is a result of consumption
upgrading,” said Zhang at KGI Securities, who expects sales to
rise more than 20 percent annually over the next five years.
“In a big market like China, there’s still huge room for
demand.”  --Tian Ying in Beijing with assistance from Liza Lin in
Shanghai. Editor: Chua Kong Ho, Kae Inoue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  