-- 
Potato Chips Cited as Culprit in U.S. Weight Gain

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/potato-chips-add-pounds-while-yogurt-slims-harvard-study-finds.html
Putting aside a 1-ounce bag of
potato chips each day in favor of yogurt can save almost a pound
of weight gain every four years, according to a Harvard
University analysis of the dietary habits of 120,000 Americans.  People in the U.S. add almost 1 pound a year on average,
with those who consume lots of potato chips packing on the most
weight and yogurt eaters cutting heft, according to the report
published yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine. A
daily serving of potato chips over a 20-year period led to an
extra 1.69 pounds (0.8 kilograms) every four years, while yogurt
helped people lose about 0.82 pounds, the study found.  Researchers also analyzed how exercise and sleep affect
weight gain. The study reinforces previous findings and may help
people reassess their behavior to control their weight, said F.
Xavier Pi-Sunyer, director of the New York Obesity Research
Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center. About 68 percent
of American adults are overweight, raising their risk of
diabetes and heart disease, a 2008 U.S.  survey  found.  “These findings underscore the importance of making wise
food choices in preventing weight gain and obesity,” said
senior study author  Frank Hu , a professor of nutrition and
epidemiology at Harvard School of  Public Health , in a statement.
“The idea that there are no ‘good’ or ‘bad’ foods is a myth
that needs to be debunked.”  Starches Versus Nuts  Study participants gained about 3.35 pounds during a four-
year period, leading to weight gain of 16.8 pounds over 20
years. Those who ate more starches or processed foods, such as
potato chips, gained about 4 pounds more every four years than
those whose diets had more natural fiber, healthy fats and
proteins. Eating nuts, for example, lowered weight by 0.57
pounds; mashed, boiled or fried potatoes added 1.28 pounds.  The single worst food for weight gain may be French fries,
according to the study. When the researchers conducted a
secondary analysis focused on potatoes, they found that French
fries contributed to an extra 3.35 pounds every four years.  “Conventional wisdom often recommends ‘everything in
moderation,’ with a focus only on total calories consumed,
rather than the quality of what is consumed,” said study author
 Dariush Mozaffarian , an associate professor of medicine and
epidemiology at  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston , in a
June 21 e-mail. “Our results demonstrate that the quality of
the diet, the types of foods and beverages that one consumed, is
strongly linked to weight gain.”  Long-Term Studies  The researchers analyzed three studies -- the Nurses’
Health Study, the Nurses’ Health Study II and the Health
Professionals Follow-up Study. The report examined lifestyle
factors and weight gain every four years over 12 to 20 years.
The review included 120,877 U.S. women and men who at the start
of the studies weren’t obese and were free of chronic diseases.  The researchers also found that those who had the greatest
increase in physical activity gained 1.76 fewer pounds every
four years than those who had the greatest decrease in activity.  Adding an alcoholic drink a day increased weight as did
sleeping less than six hours or more than eight hours a night,
the study showed. Also, watching an additional hour of
television a day added 0.31 pounds.  People who quit smoking within the previous four years
gained 5.17 pounds versus those who had never smoked, the
researchers found.  The three studies included people who were educated and
mostly white. Pi-Sunyer said more research is needed to see if
the results are true in other populations.  “It’s another way to support a healthy lifestyle and that
also includes more physical activity, being less sedentary, less
beverages, whether it’s sweetened or alcohol, things that we’ve
know before,” Pi-Sunyer, who wasn’t an author of yesterday’s
study, said in a June 21 telephone interview. “It’s nice to
have such a long study confirming all this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net 
3252Z US <Equity> CN 