-- 
Prince Orders Dance Floor, Corea Revisits ‘Forever’ at Montreal

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/prince-orders-dance-floor-corea-revisits-forever-at-montreal-jazz-fest.html
Pianist Chick Corea, founder of the
pioneering 1970s jazz-fusion group  Return to Forever , has been
rehearsing with the fourth incarnation of the band before taking
the stage at the  Montreal International Jazz Festival  Sunday.  Return to Forever IV includes two previous players, bassist
Stanley Clarke and drummer Lenny White, and new members  Frank
Gambale , the Australia-born guitar wizard and member of Corea’s
Elektric Band, and violinist Jean-Luc Ponty.  “Over the years, people kept bringing up Return to
Forever,” said Corea, 70, by phone. “It was an encouragement.
It meant that people like that music.”  Corea is one of the headliners of the 32nd edition of the
world’s largest jazz festival, which opens June 25 and runs
through July 4. The festival’s 750 outdoor concerts and 250
indoor concerts attract more than 2.5 million each year.  Last week, Prince announced that he would play two shows,
on Friday and Saturday, at  Montreal ’s 2,300-seat  Metropolis ,
which quickly sold out. Former Led Zeppelin frontman Robert Plant also sold out his Friday night gig with his Band of Joy at
the Salle Wilfrid-Pelletier.  Other headliners include Tony Bennett,  John Legend , K.D.
Lang, Sade and singer-songwriter Marianne Faithfull.  The traditional jazz lineup features big names such as
 Canada ’s own Diana Krall, vocalists Dianne Reeves and Dee Dee
Bridgewater, a duet made up of pianist Brad Mehldau and
saxophonist Joshua Redman, and veteran bassist David Holland
collaborating with pianist Kenny Barron.  Song List  Corea said the preliminary Return to Forever song list will
have past hits such as “500 Miles High,” “Romantic Warrior”
and “Light as a Feather.” The group will also play one of
Clarke’s signature tunes, “School Days,” from the 1970s
recording of the same title.  “We carved out 6 days to put something real tight and
strong together,” said Corea, who will open the Return to
Forever tour in Northampton,  Massachusetts , Friday night
followed by a show in Syracuse,  New York , on Saturday. “When we
rehearse, it’s very, very open and everyone’s naturally
committed to perfecting what we’ve got.”  (The Montreal International Jazz Festival runs June 25
through July 4. Information:  http://www.montrealjazzfest.com )  (Patrick Cole is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 