-- 
Putin Opponents Barred From Russian Parliamentary Election

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-22T17:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/putin-opponents-barred-from-competing-in-parliamentary-election.html
Russia’s non-Communist opposition
criticized Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  after authorities
barred it from registering a party to compete in December
parliamentary elections.  “I regret that Putin decided not to allow our party to
participate in the elections,”  Mikhail Kasyanov , who served as
prime minister during Putin’s 2000-2008 presidency and is part
of a pro-democracy opposition grouping, said in a statement on
his website. “He’s obviously afraid of taking a risk.”  The Justice Ministry said today that it had refused to
register the party, Parnas, because it had violated federal
rules, including by submitting names of registered members who
are deceased.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the United States
was “troubled” and “disappointed” in the decision to bar
Parnas. She noted “reports of pressure from authorities
designed to intimidate Parnas supporters, prompting them to
resign positions or disavow their signatures on required
lists.”  “The right to hold free, fair, competitive elections is a
universal principle that the Russian government has repeatedly
endorsed,” Clinton said in the statement. “It is hard to
understand how this decision today by the Ministry of Justice is
consistent with  Russia ’s international commitments and recent
statements.”  ‘Alarming, Concerning Trend’  State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the U.S.
believes many of the “irregularities" cited by Russian
authorities  are ‘‘minor administrative errors."  ‘‘I think what we’re seeing is an alarming, concerning
trend," Toner said at a briefing in  Washington .  Kasyanov, together with  Boris Nemtsov , a deputy prime
minister under the late President  Boris Yeltsin , and two other
opposition figures, said they will use a popular vote to select
a joint candidate for the presidential election in March.  Kasyanov, 53, was disqualified from running in the 2008
presidential election, when Putin’s approved candidate,  Dmitry Medvedev , won with more than 70 percent of the vote and
Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov received 17.7 percent. In
2004, the leading pro-democracy candidate, Irina Khakamada, won
3.9 percent of the vote.  Putin, 58, relinquished the presidency to Medvedev in 2008
because the constitution prohibits three consecutive terms. He
hasn’t ruled out running for president next year.  ‘‘The elections won’t be free and fair and the Russian
authorities are continuing to violate the Constitution and the
country’s international obligations,’’ Kasyanov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  