-- 
Qantas Targets Ventures, Asia Demand After International Losses

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-22T06:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/qantas-forecasts-46-profit-jump-on-domestic-travel-rolls-royce-payment.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  said it plans to
form long-haul ventures with other airlines and target Asian
expansion after predicting losses of more than A$200 million
($212 million) on international routes next fiscal year.  “Qantas International is a great airline, but currently it
is a poor business,” Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said
today in a speech in Canberra. “To do nothing about it would
threaten the future of the whole company.”  Australia ’s biggest carrier today forecast an increase of
as much as 46 percent in overall pretax profit for the year
ended June as domestic services, budget unit Jetstar, and a
frequent flyer program offset losses on overseas routes.
Qantas’s market share on international services has tumbled to
about 20 percent from 35 percent in 2001 because of competition
from Emirates Airline and  Singapore  Airlines Ltd.  “Rivals can feed and disperse traffic over their
increasingly powerful hubs in southeast Asia or the  Middle
East ,” Derek Sadubin, chief operating officer at the Centre for
Asia-Pacific Aviation, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. Qantas
“will be looking to shift costs where they can.”  The carrier will announce plans the for its long-haul unit
on Aug. 24, alongside its full-year earnings, Joyce said. The
airline today forecast an A$200 million loss at the
international arm for the year ended June 30 and a bigger loss
for the next fiscal year.  Rolls-Royce Payout  Overall pretax earnings this fiscal year will be about
A$500 million to A$550 million, including compensation of A$95
million from Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc after an engine explosion
on an Airbus SAS A380 last year disrupted flights, it said in a
statement.  The carrier closed little changed at A$1.83 in Sydney
trading. It has dropped 28 percent this year, compared with a
4.5 percent decline for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Qantas has twice this year scaled back capacity growth
plans, including scrapping plane orders, as natural disasters
and rising fuel prices damp demand and push up costs.  A cloud of volcanic ash, which forced flight cancellations
in Sydney today and a shutdown of routes to  New Zealand , has
cost the airline A$21 million since disruptions began last week,
it said. Earthquakes in  Japan  and New Zealand earlier this year
will have an A$185 million effect.  Oneworld Ventures  The airline plans to deepen ties with other members of the
Oneworld alliance, including forming ventures, Joyce said,
without elaboration. The carrier already cooperates with British
Airways on Europe-to-Australia routes and it’s working on a
trans-Pacific accord with  American Airlines . Other carriers in
Oneworld include Japan Airlines Corp. and  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. (293)  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. will join next year.  “If they can turn a A$200 million loss this year into a
profit of a similar size, it translates to a big boost to
earnings,” said Don Williams, chief investment officer at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, which has A$1.8
billion under management.  Qantas has boosted its presence in  Asia  by opening a base
for budget unit Jetstar in Singapore. The carrier flies to
Australia from the city and it’s planning to add routes to
 Europe  and North Asia.  “The future will be about travel both to and within
Asia,” Joyce said. “Our customers want to be doing business in
Asia and so do we.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  