-- 
Greek $50 Billion Target for Property Sales Sends Bankers on Paper Chase

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-23T07:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/raising-50-billion-from-greece-s-real-estate-is-herculean-task.html
A wooden sculpture of a man’s head
locked in a vise sits behind  Aristotelis Karytinos , general
manager of real estate at  National Bank of Greece SA  and a
government adviser on making money from state assets.  “That’s how we’re all feeling lately,” Karytinos said of
the figurine perched on a cabinet in the central Athens office,
his desk covered in documents he must sift through.  Greece  has promised to raise 35 billion euros ($50 billion)
from state property by 2015 as part of plans to win more
international aid and avoid defaulting on its debt. Like with
other bailout conditions, from selling stakes in companies to
tax collection, there are complications and delays.  A group of nine domestic banks advising the government must
study each property individually to ensure that they are not in
litigation or lack permits, topographical studies or
restrictions governing their use, Karytinos said.  Greece is the only country in  Europe  without a centralized
registry of deeds. About 40 percent of registered state
properties are disputed and an additional 25 percent have
“questionable” legal status,  George Papaconstantinou , the
Greek finance minister until he was replaced on June 17, told
lawmakers earlier this year.  “It’s a herculean task,” Diego Iscaro, an economist at
research company  IHS Global Insight  in London, said by telephone
yesterday. “There are deep-rooted structural problems related
to the assets up for privatization and they can’t be addressed
in just a year or two.”  Confidence Vote  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a confidence
vote in parliament in the early hours of yesterday that may
improve his prospects of pushing through 78 billion euros of
budget cuts. The austerity measures are designed to secure a
further 12 billion euros of financial aid to avoid a default.  Karytinos and his colleagues now will redouble efforts to
urge the Greek government to enforce a fast-track system to
ensure that the real estate assets can make it to market.  “We have a very tight schedule and our major challenge is
to find the tools to make sure the process is carried out
swiftly and efficiently,” Karytinos, 55, said in an interview
at his office on June 7. “Or else it may take a long time to
get the property ready.”  There are already delays.  Red Tape  The government passed laws in November to speed up raising
money from state property and in December said it aimed to
appoint a general secretary for real estate. Nobody has yet been
named to the position, the Hellenic Real Estate Corp., the
state’s property management arm, said yesterday.  “Absolutely no red tape has been cut,” said  Yannis
Perrotis , managing director of Athens-based CB Richard Ellis
Atria, an affiliate of the world’s largest commercial property
broker.  In April, the  Finance Ministry  said it would present
investors with the first of four portfolios of real estate this
month. That’s now been postponed until December. On June 9, the
government handed the group of advising bankers a list of 99
properties comprising 115 million square meters (1.23 billion
square feet) to prepare for the market.  Officials at the Finance Ministry said yesterday they
weren’t available for comment. Papandreou named Evangelos Venizelos as finance minister last week.  Lease, Not Sale  Faced with daily protests in Athens against budget cuts and
the sale of state assets, the government hasn’t yet decided what
to do with the real estate, according to Karytinos. Among
options being considered are leases of up to 99 years, sale and
lease-back deals or packaging assets into publicly traded
securities for investors to buy stakes in.  The government hasn’t disclosed the locations of all the
properties, which include offices and Hellenikon SA, the former
airport in  Athens .  “The chances of success and the amount that could be
raised from the privatizations would be higher if the sales were
outright instead of as leases,” said Miltos Kambourides,
managing partner at Dolphin Capital Partners, which is
developing seven luxury  resorts  in Greece for 2 billion euros.  Dolphin, registered in the British Virgin Islands and whose
shares trade in London, won’t purchase any land from the state
if it’s through leasing, he said.  Greece is Europe’s wealthiest country based on state real
estate assets as a proportion of economic output, European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 6.  “If fully understood by observers and investors and market
participants, it might make a difference -- provided, of course,
that this privatization appears to be credible and processed in
a professional manner,” Trichet said.  Selling Stakes  The government exercised an option to sell a 10 percent
stake in phone company Hellenic Telecommunications Organization
SA to  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which already owned a stake, for 400
million euros and will sell as much as 34 percent of Hellenic
Postbank and 75 percent of its ports business before the end of
the year, the Finance Ministry said on May 24.  It’s a case of too little too late, according to Giada Giani, an economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London, who said that
company stake sales should have started a year ago under the
terms of the bailout.  “They’re going too slowly and sales won’t be carried out
within the stipulated timeframe,” Giani said.  According to Perrotis at CB Richard Ellis Atria, the amount
of property and land is too large for the banks to handle alone.  The government may need even more time to raise cash from
real estate, said  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London . “It would be a lot easier to sell stakes in
well-defined companies than to raise money from real estate that
isn’t quite so straightforward,” he said.  Occupied Assets  The  Hellenic Public Real Estate Corp.  has about 71,000
properties on its database alone, according to a 2010 study by
the  Andreas Papandreou Institute of Strategic Development
Studies , a political research center in Athens named after
Greece’s former premier and the incumbent’s father.  The report showed that only 10,000, or 13.5 percent, of
state-owned properties on the database are available for use.
About 40 percent are occupied and 12 percent are leased out
under concessions, the study found.  Professional Help  “The government needs to get two or three professional
property advisers on board to ensure this is done rapidly and in
a transparent way,” Perrotis said in an interview in Athens.
“So far that hasn’t happened.”  The number of vacant commercial premises in downtown Athens
has reached 23 percent, up from 17 percent in August, according
to the most recent survey by  National Confederation of Commerce 
conducted between Feb. 25 and March 7.  The oversupply has led to tenants such as banks, large
retailers and even the government to push for rent reductions of
as much as 20 percent, according to Ioannis Kaligiannakis, a
senior appraiser at  Colliers International  in Athens.  Back in his office at National Bank of Greece, the
country’s largest commercial bank, Karytinos was waiting for the
Finance Ministry to give him the list of real estate on June 9
so he could get to work. Around the corner in Syntagma Square,
protesters chanted and held up banners outside parliament.  “The government understands that it needs results and it
needs them as quickly as possible,” Karytinos said. “In the
end, the market will decide how to invest in the properties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 