-- 
Rand Reverses Gain to Dollar, Bonds Fall as Greece Worry Trumps Inflation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-22T14:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rand-reverses-gain-to-dollar-bonds-fall-as-inflation-accelerates-in-may.html
The rand reversed its advance
against the dollar as concern  Greece  won’t avoid a debt default
outweighed speculation the central bank will raise  interest
rates  after inflation quickened more than expected in May.  South Africa ’s currency slipped as much as 0.9 percent to
6.7909 per dollar and traded at 0.5 percent down at 6.7576 by
3:42 p.m. in Johannesburg. It weakened 0.3 percent to 9.7122 per
euro.  The euro fell against 10 of its 16 major peers amid
speculation Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will struggle
to pass additional austerity measures, even after winning a
confidence vote yesterday. The rand often tracks the euro, which
accounts for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports and 34 percent
of its imports, according to government data.  “With Greece’s government surviving the confidence vote,
they can now agree on another austerity plan,”  John Cairns  and
Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a research note. “The problem, however,
is that the plan will have to pass a parliamentary vote next
week. As such, the uncertainty continues, keeping any relief
rally after yesterday’s vote contained.”  Greece needs to pass the austerity package to ensure it
receives a 12 billion-euro ($17.2 billion) payment in July, part
of last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Inflation Data  Earlier, the rand rallied to its strongest level against
the dollar in almost two weeks after Papandreou won the
confidence vote.  The rand extended its decline and bonds fell after the
consumer inflation rate rose 4.6 percent in May, more than the
4.4 percent median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, from 4.2 percent the previous month, prompting investors
to increase bets on a central bank interest-rate increase this
year.  Forward-rate agreements for November, which investors use
to lock in borrowing costs, jumped 3.5 basis points, or 0.035
percentage points, to 6.04 percent today, indicating investors
are pricing in at least a 50 basis-point interest-rate increase.  “Our view that the repo-rate hiking cycling should start
later this year remains,” Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at
Cadiz Asset Management in  Cape Town , said in a research note.
“We see November as the likely month that sees the first hike,
and we remain of the view that the cumulative hikes over this
cycle is likely to be more aggressive than is generally
anticipated.”  Bonds Retreat  While the  Reserve Bank  predicts that inflation will breach
its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the first quarter of
2012, it has kept its key interest rate at 5.5 percent this
year, arguing price rises are driven by global fuel and food
prices. The monetary policy committee is due to announce its
next interest-rate decision on July 21.  Bonds declined, erasing earlier gains, on concern rising
prices will erode investors’ returns. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 dropped 7 cents to 89.18 rand, driving the
yield up one basis point to 8.40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  