-- 
Transocean Blames BP for Deepwater Horizon Rig Disaster

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-06-22T20:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/transocean-says-report-finds-gulf-disaster-due-to-bp-decisions.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said its internal
investigation found  BP Plc (BP/)  was largely responsible for last
year’s fatal drilling catastrophe in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
reiterated its refusal to help BP pay claims stemming from the
worst U.S. offshore oil spill.  Transocean, owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that was
destroyed in the April 2010 blowout of BP’s Macondo well, said
today in a statement that the disaster resulted from BP’s faulty
decision-making and inadequate attention to risk management.  BP employed a risky well design and skimped on heavy
drilling fluids needed to hold back high-pressure natural gas
surrounding the hole more than a mile (1.6 kilometers) beneath
the Gulf, Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said. BP and
contractor  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  failed to ensure that cement poured
around the steel pipe inside the well properly sealed off the
formation, Transocean said.  The  report  demonstrates that Transocean remains steadfast
in its refusal to help London-based BP cover tens of billions in
dollars in lawsuit claims, environmental fines and other
penalties,  Phil Adams , a senior debt analyst at Gimme Credit LLC
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  “If anything, these findings bolster Transocean’s position
that it is indemnified from liability in the contract” with BP,
 Brian Kennedy , a Transocean spokesman, said in a telephone
interview.  In response, BP released a statement describing the report
as “an advocacy piece” and said Transocean “cherry-picked”
facts to support its legal strategy. “Unlike BP, which has
stepped up to its responsibilities and cooperated with all
official investigations regarding the accident, Transocean
continues to take every opportunity to avoid its
responsibilities,” the company said.  Passing the Blame  MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, a part owner of the well, and
equipment provider Weatherford International Ltd. already have
settled with BP. Halliburton and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which
also owns a stake in the well, have rebuffed BP’s demands for
payment.  The report is the latest salvo between Transocean and BP
over who was to blame for the catastrophe 40 miles off the
Louisiana coast that killed 11 rig workers, sank the $365
million vessel and fouled the Gulf of Mexico with more than 4
million barrels of crude.  Deep-water exploratory drilling was halted for 10 months in
a region that accounted for 29 percent of U.S.  crude production
in 2009 , and prompted a government overhaul of offshore safety
rules.  ‘Grain of Salt’  “Investors should take any internal report a company puts
out with a huge grain of salt,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said today. “What
companies say about each other should be seen as inherently
biased. That’s not to say their conclusions are necessarily
wrong, but the market isn’t going to place a lot of credibility
in them.”  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said at a
conference in London earlier today that a June 20 agreement by
 Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  to pay $75 million to cover its
liability for the disaster shows BP was not solely responsible.
Weatherford, based in Geneva, provided pressure-control valves
and other equipment used in the well.  BP in September issued an internal report that said most of
the fault for the catastrophe laid with Transocean, Halliburton
and Weatherford. BP managers had direct involvement in just one
of eight judgment errors and equipment failures that led up to
the explosion, the company said in its report.  Settling Claims  MOEX, owner of a 10 percent stake in the well, agreed last
month to pay BP $1.07 billion to settle claims from the
explosion and spill. Mitsui & Co. owns a 69.91 percent stake in
MOEX’s parent, with the rest held by  Japan ’s government and 13
Japanese companies.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , has said it’s
“prepared to come to the table under the right circumstances”
to resolve liability claims.  Halliburton’s work on the well was completed in accordance
with BP’s specifications,  Teresa Wong , spokeswoman for the
Houston-based company said in an e-mail today.  “Deep-water operations are inherently complex and a number
of contractors are involved which routinely make recommendations
to a single point of contact, the well owner,” she said.  Cement Failure  Transocean faulted BP for changing its plans for Macondo
five times in the two weeks preceding the blowout. The revisions
were prompted by concern the rock formation was growing
increasingly unstable and that the “geological window” for
safe drilling was narrowing, according to the statement.  “The precipitating cause of the Macondo incident was the
failure of the downhole cement to isolate the reservoir, which
allowed hydrocarbons to enter the wellbore,” Transocean said in
today’s statement. “Without the failure of the cement barrier,
hydrocarbons would not have entered the well or reached the
rig.”  Even with a Transocean bias, the report is “pretty
convincing,” Adams said today in a note to clients. The
assertion that BP was worried the well could collapse,
threatening future oil production, “seems particularly
compelling.”  The National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil
Spill, the president’s group investigating the cause of the
accident, said in January that bad decisions by BP and its main
contractors, including Transocean, along with lax government
oversight, caused the incident.  Outside Investigators  “What matters are the findings of independent, outside
investigators,” said Molchanov, who has an “outperform”
rating on BP’s shares and doesn’t own any. The findings of a
joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior Department panel, scheduled to
be released by July 27, will be closely watched by investors, he
said.  Transocean said its report doesn’t represent the company’s
legal position, nor does it “attempt to assign legal
responsibility or fault.”  Transocean rose 19 cents to $62.08 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. BP fell less than a pence to
445.3 pence on the London Stock Exchange at 4:50 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  