-- 
Transocean Will Fight Norwegian Tax-Evasion Claim

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-06-23T07:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/transocean-to-challenge-claim-it-evaded-1-8-billion-in-taxes.html
(Corrects figure to show it refers to revenue instead of
tax claim in first paragraph in story published June 22.)  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore driller, said it will contest charges by Norwegian
authorities that it evaded taxes on 10 billion kroner ($1.8
billion) of revenue.  “Transocean rejects all of the accusations and intends to
fully clear its name in court,” the Vernier, Switzerland-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. “Transocean
believes the indictments are without merit and plans to
vigorously contest them.”  Transocean Inc. and Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling
Inc. are being charged with gross  tax fraud  and breach of the
Accounting Act, Oekokrim, the National Authority for
Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental
Crime, said in a statement today. The company may face a tax
claim of as much as 5 billion kroner, including interest, said
Morten Eriksen, senior public prosecutor at the agency.  “This is definitely the biggest criminal case and I’m
assuming the biggest tax case” in Norwegian history, Eriksen
said in a telephone interview. Two advisers who worked for the
rig company’s Norway unit are also being charged with  tax
evasion , the government said.  The charges relate to events from 2000 to 2002 regarding
tax dispositions in connection with the sale in 1997 and 2001 of
12 rigs by Transocean AS/ASA to affiliates in the  Cayman
Islands , according to the Oslo-based agency. Transocean’s
Norwegian units have since been shut.  Tax Havens  “Transocean is saying that the two Norwegian companies
were shut down around 2002 so no money can be collected,” said
Eriksen. “I find it hard to believe that the world’s biggest
rig company will run away from its bill, should it be convicted.
If they choose to hide behind tax havens, then no one will dare
to have anything to do with them again.”  The agency is seeking to get the case brought to court in
Oslo as soon as possible, Eriksen said.  “The indictment is based on an inadequate comprehension of
the facts,” Erling Lyngtveit, Transocean’s defense counsel,
said in the statement. It’s based on “peculiar and original
interpretations of Norwegian and international tax legislation.
We believe we have a strong case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  