-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Stay Below 3% as Fed Refrains From More Stimulus

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-22T21:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/treasuries-pares-advance-as-fed-maintains-stimulus-ends-bond-purchases.html
Treasury 10-year note yields stayed
below 3 percent for sixth day as the  Federal Reserve  refrained
from signaling more monetary stimulus, saying it would let asset
purchases end.  U.S. debt  fluctuated after the central bank lowered its
forecasts for growth and employment for this year and 2012. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press conference that the
“extended period” of very low  interest rates  means at least
two to three central bank policy meetings and could be
“significantly” longer.  “It seems that the market came off as he put the
possibility of QE3 to bed,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New
York at  Societe Generale , one of the 20 primary dealers that
deal directly with the central bank. “The Fed is not as dovish
as feared initially. It’s a slight bit more of a hawkish tone.”  The yield on the 10-year note was little changed from
yesterday’s closing price at 2.98 percent at 5:20 p.m. in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent security maturing in May 2021 closed at 101 6/32. The
10-year note yield fell on June 16 to 2.88 percent, the lowest
level since December.  The Fed said its $600 billion program of debt purchases,
known as QE2 for the second round of quantitative easing, will
end this month as scheduled. The central bank will maintain its
existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its
securities holdings.  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee had expected,”
the Fed said today in its statement following a two-day meeting
in  Washington .  Gross’s View  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a Twitter posting that
the Fed may hint in August of plans for additional monetary
stimulus.  “Next  Jackson Hole  in August will likely hint at
QE3/interest rate caps,” wrote Gross, referring to the annual
symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  The central bank held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, matching the forecast of
all except one of the 87 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The benchmark has stayed at that level since December 2008.  Fed governors and regional-bank presidents now say the  U.S.
economy  will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year,
down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, based
on the median range of projections. Growth in 2012 will range
from 3.3 percent to 3.7 percent, compared with forecasts of 3.5
percent to 4.2 percent in April, the Fed said.  Unemployment Outlook  Central bankers raised their forecast range for the U.S.
unemployment rate to average 8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011, compared with projections of 8.4 percent
to 8.7 percent in April. For the fourth quarter of 2012, the
rate will average 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent, versus prior
forecasts of 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent.  The jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent, the Labor Department
said June 3. Retail sales dropped for the first time in 11
months, and manufacturing grew at the slowest pace since
September 2009, other reports showed.  The central bank can take additional actions to stimulate
the economy “if conditions warranted,” Bernanke said today at
the press conference.  Potential tools, which have risks or costs, include
additional securities purchases or a reduction in the interest
rate on excess bank reserves, Bernanke said.  “The market move is more about what Bernanke didn’t say,”
said Russ Certo, a managing director and co-head of rates
trading at Gleacher & Co. in New York. “There was a Bernanke
QE3 risk, and there hasn’t been any explicit mention of that or
anything out of the ordinary.”  Fed’s Balance Sheet  The central bank will sustain its balance sheet at current
levels until October or later, according to 79 percent of 58
economists in a Bloomberg News survey last week.  Yields on 10-year notes increased five basis points on
April 27, when the Fed said it would finish purchases of debt in
June. Yields stayed lower after the central bank’s March 15
statement as  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami four days earlier
spurred demand for a refuge.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for the annual increase in consumer prices over the life of the
securities known as the break-even rate, was 2.17 percentage
points, down from a 2011 high of 2.67 percentage points.  The U.S. will sell $7 billion at a 30-year TIPS auction
tomorrow. At the last sale of the securities on Feb. 17, the
U.S. sold $9 billion at a yield of 2.19 percent.      Treasuries
rose earlier on concern  Greece  may not be able to pass budget
cuts to secure a loan payment after parliamentary vote of
confidence.  A total of 155 lawmakers supported the motion in the 300-
seat parliament in  Athens , with 143 voting against. Papandreou
now turns his attention to clinching parliamentary approval next
week of a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts
to stave off default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  