-- 
Rebel Leaders in Libya’s Misrata Curb Press Freedoms as Casualties Mount

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-06-22T15:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rebel-leaders-in-libya-s-misrata-curb-press-freedoms-as-casualties-mount.html
Rebel leaders in the besieged
western Libyan city of Misrata imposed restrictions on the
foreign press, marking a sharp contrast with their previous
openness and with the policies of their counterparts in Benghazi
in the east.  Journalists traveling to Dafniya, a village near Misrata on
the eastern frontline, are being turned back at checkpoints by
rebel fighters, who say they have been told by authorities that
some members of the western media may be spies.  Fast internet access has ended, journalists may only use
officially approved translators, and Misrata officials no longer
recognize the accreditation of the National Transitional
Council, the Benghazi-based rebel government known as the NTC.
The council has courted foreign media as its officials seek
assistance and loans from abroad.  The restrictions came into force this week as the casualty
toll from daily rocket attacks on the city by forces loyal to
Muammar Qaddafi mounts, and after reversals on the battlefield
where rebel offensives failed to enlarge the Misrata pocket. NTC
spokesmen in weren’t immediately available to comment about the
developments.  Mohammed Durat, head of the Media Center of the Misrata
City Council, said the changes are being imposed to help
journalists. “We want to care about your safety,” he said in
an interview today. “You should be happy about this.”  The attacks by pro-Qaddafi forces on Misrata come after at
least a month in which urban areas suffered no bombardment. The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization told government fighters June
14 to stop attacks or risk being targeted by Apache helicopters.  Misrata city authorities are struggling on other fronts.
State employees, including doctors and teachers, have not been
paid for five months and money is scarce. The City Council has
indefinitely closed banks, after saying they would open on June
19 to allow workers to be paid.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  