-- 
Republican EPA, House Officials Seek Fuel-Economy Increase

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-06-22T20:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/republican-epa-house-officials-seek-fuel-economy-increase-1-.html
U.S. average fuel-economy
improvement of 6 percent a year by U.S. automakers is
“achievable and cost-effective,” former Republican U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency administrators, governors and
members of Congress said in a letter to President  Barack Obama .  The letter, dated today and signed by EPA administrators
for every Republican president since  Richard Nixon , asked the
Democratic president to write “aggressive” fuel-economy
standards for 2017 to 2025. A rule is due to be proposed by the
end of September. Six percent would be “ideal,” said former
U.S. Representative Sherwood Boehlert, one of 15 people to sign
the letter.  “Republicans do care,” Boehlert, who represented  New York 
in Congress, said in a telephone interview. “So many people
think Republicans don’t care about issues like this.”  The EPA and  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
have said they’re evaluating average annual fuel-economy
improvements of 2 percent to 7 percent for each automaker’s
fleet of vehicles sold in the U.S. The proposal may force
automakers to more than double average fuel efficiency to as
much as 62 miles per gallon by 2025.  Former EPA administrators Christine Todd Whitman, Russell Train, Bill Reilly and Bill Ruckelshaus also signed the letter.  Raising standards by 6 percent “would effectively extend
the recession in the auto manufacturing sector through 2025,”
Gloria Bergquist, vice president of the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , said in an e-mail. The alliance’s members include
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) , Chrysler Group LLC and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “The targets advocated in this letter are not backed up by
thorough analysis, which is still ongoing," she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Detroit at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  