-- 
Retail Space Expansion Cools to 40-Year Low: Chart of the Day

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-22T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/retail-space-expansion-cools-to-40-year-low-chart-of-the-day.html
Store-space expansion has cooled to
a four-decade low, a sign retailers see little reason to add
outlets as American consumers slow spending.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows new retail square footage added
in 2010 plunged to the least since 1971, according to CoStar
Group, a commercial real estate data and analytics provider. The
12 million square feet of shopping center space developed last
year compares with an annual average of 132 million square feet
the past 40 years.  Companies “overbuilt” when money was plentiful and the
economy was growing prior to the financial crisis, said Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at California State University-
 Channel Islands . Retail construction slumped in response to the
credit squeeze during the recession and a slowdown in consumer
purchases, at the same time stores closed and vacancies
increased, he said.  “There is no incentive to add more retail space,” said
Sohn, who is also vice chairman of Forever 21 Inc., a Los
Angeles-based closely held clothing chain. “The probability of
getting financing for a mall is still low. Shoppers have become
more price-conscious and they’re looking more than buying.”  While retail sales have rebounded and exceeded pre-
recession levels, new shopping space may “continue to be
minimal,” said Chris Macke, senior real estate strategist at
Washington-based CoStar. A drop in vacancy rates at malls and a
rise in rental prices will depend on how quickly hiring picks
up, he said. Credit is “still difficult,” and “there just
isn’t a lot of demand to justify” store expansions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  