-- 
Trichet Says Risk Signals Are Flashing Red as Debt Crisis Threatens Banks

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T09:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/trichet-says-risk-signals-red-as-debt-crisis-threatens-banks.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said risk signals for financial stability in
the euro area are flashing “red” as the debt crisis threatens
to infect banks.  “On a personal basis I would say ‘yes, it is red’,”
Trichet said late yesterday in Frankfurt after a meeting of the
European Systemic Risk Board, referring to the group’s planned
“dashboard” to monitor risks. “The message of the board is
that” the link between debt problems and banks “is the most
serious threat to financial stability in the European Union.”  Trichet, who chairs the ESRB, made the remarks as European
leaders meet in Brussels to discuss how to stave off a Greek
default, while preparing a second bailout. The EU is trying to
avoid a repeat of the financial crisis that followed the 2008
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and resulted in
European governments setting aside more than $5 trillion to
support banks.  The yield difference, or spread, between 10-year German
bunds and Greek securities of a similar maturity was at 1,388
basis points today, up from 1,317 at the beginning of the month.
Swaps on Greece rose 25 basis points to 2,012, signalling an 82
percent chance of default within five years, according to CMA.  ‘Moral Support’  Greek bonds have been pushed lower as authorities bickered
over ways to support the nation. The ECB and the German
government have clashed over how much investors should
contribute to alleviating Greece’s debt load, which reached 143
percent of gross domestic product in 2010. The German government
has argued for an extension of the maturities of Greek bonds,
with the ECB saying it opposes anything that could be
interpreted as a default.  While Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  earlier this
week won a vote of confidence, bolstering his new government’s
chances of pushing through austerity measures to secure further
financial aid, European finance ministers said earlier this week
they would hold off on approving a 12 billion-euro ($17 billion)
payment to the country promised for July until passage of the
plans to cut the  budget deficit  and sell state assets.  “European leaders will try and convince Greeks and
financial markets when they meet in Brussels today and tomorrow
that they have a workable plan to help  Athens  avoid a debt
default,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham
Stockbrokers in Dublin. They’ll use a “mixture of arm-twisting
and moral support” to force  Greece  to adopt further reform.  ‘Serious Threat’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  downplayed the
risk of a Greek default on U.S. banks, telling reporters
yesterday that the impact would be “very small.” With “very
few exceptions, the money-market mutual funds don’t have much
direct exposure to the three peripheral countries which are
currently dealing with debt problems,” he said.  The top U.S. prime money-market funds have about half their
assets in securities issued by European banks,  Fitch Ratings 
said in a report on June 21. The  Bank for International
Settlements  estimated European lenders held $136.2 billion in
loans to Greece at the end of 2010 and almost $2 trillion in
 Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and  Italy . Greece, Ireland and Portugal
all received external support.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and rivals  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  may have their credit ratings
cut by Moody’s Investors Service because of their Greek
investments, the ratings company said on June 15. German banks
could also be at risk from contagion, Fitch said last month.  “The most serious threat to financial stability in the EU
stems from the interplay between the vulnerabilities of public
finances in certain EU member states and the banking system,”
Trichet said. There are “potential contagion effects across the
union and beyond.”  Basel  Meeting  Part of a wider regulatory overhaul, the 65-member ESRB
aims to identify and warn of brewing risks in the financial
system. Trichet and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King , vice-
chairman of the board, highlighted risks in areas including
asset-price imbalances and exchange-traded funds.  King is also at the center of a regulatory overhaul in the
U.K. and will hold a press conference in  London  tomorrow on
Britain’s Financial Policy Committee. He said the ESRB meeting
highlighted “the ability of banks to reduce maturity and, where
relevant, currency mismatches in their funding structures and to
absorb losses arising out of the ongoing credit cycle.”  The Frankfurt-based body can pass on matters to the heads
of European governments if its warnings aren’t heeded. While the
body will monitor macro-prudential risks, it may turn its
attention to single institutions deemed systemically important.  The ESRB is one of four bodies in  Europe ’s financial
regulation architecture. The others are the European Banking
Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions
Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  meets in Basel,
 Switzerland , today to discuss how much extra capital the world’s
largest and most systemically important banks will be forced to
hold to avert another financial crisis. Global central bank
governors are scheduled to meet under the auspices of the BIS in
Basel from June 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  