-- 
RIM Rated New ‘Outperform’ by Macquarie After Downgrades

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-22T20:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rim-rated-new-outperform-by-macquarie-analysts-amid-recent-downgrades.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which has
had its rating cut by eight analysts in the past week after
lowering its sales and profit outlook, was rated “outperform”
by Macquarie Capital Inc., which began covering the stock today.  Kevin Smithen and  Scott Thompson , New York-based analysts
with Macquarie, set a 12-month price target of $40 for the
BlackBerry smartphone maker, which is trading below $29. The
gloomy outlook for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM is predicated on
its declining U.S. market share and doesn’t give enough
attention to the company’s still robust international sales
growth, they wrote.  Outside  North America , “markets are fundamentally
different,” they said. “Carriers are incentivized to promote
RIM over other smartphones.”  RIM dropped 27 percent over two days after cutting its
full-year outlook June 16 and giving a forecast for sales and
profit this quarter that missed analysts’ estimates. While
Macquarie said that BlackBerry’s data-efficiency and lower
pricing make it popular in Latin America and East Asia, there is
growing concern that RIM may lose market share in those
international markets just as it has done in the U.S. to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software.  Of 55 analysts who rate RIM, 11 recommend buying the stock,
29 say hold it, and 15 give it a “sell” rating.  “RIM’s numerous challenges have been well documented,”
said Smithen and Thompson. “We view these risks, both self-
inflicted and structural, as formidable but not yet
insurmountable.”  RIM fell 15 cents to $28.40 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped 51 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  