-- 
RIM PlayBook Holds Security Edge Even as IPad Wows U.S. Troops

-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n   a n d   M e l i s s a   A p a r i c i o
-- 
2011-06-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rim-playbook-holds-security-edge-even-as-ipad-wows-u-s-troops.html
Research in Motion Ltd. ’s PlayBook
tablet computer, panned at its April debut, has an edge over
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad in the Army thanks to RIM’s encrypted servers.  That advantage may soon dissipate as Apple’s more broadly
popular devices march toward Defense Department security
certification, which may come as early as this month, military
officials said.  Tablet computers are being tested across all military
branches, according to interviews conducted by Bloomberg
Government since May 17. The services pay $500 to $600 per
tablet, less than half the cost of laptops that are
“ruggedized,” or enhanced with a shell and toughened to
withstand harsh environments. Tablets also may replace paper
manuals, maps, biometric devices and some communications tools.  The U.S. Army is leaning toward the PlayBook because RIM
“addressed security concerns from the get-go,” said Lieutenant
Colonel Matthew Dosmann, who oversees mobile device pilot-
testing for the Army’s cybersecurity division. Security remains
an issue for Apple and may hold back wider use of iPads, he
said.  Apple,  Dell Inc. (DELL) , RIM and other tablet makers are vying to
tap the military market for computers, laptops and servers worth
$2.9 billion in the government’s 2010 fiscal year. Of that
amount, spending on enhanced laptops was $33 million. The
department spent $37 million on tablets in the same fiscal year,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Disruptive Technology’  Tablets are a “disruptive technology” that can replace
heavier and more expensive equipment, Dosmann said. “As an
infantry soldier, the last thing I want is something more to
carry.”  To secure the devices so they can only be accessed using
the common access card carried by all military service members
and Defense employees, the services must install additional
software or hardware, Gary Winkler, the Army’s former program
executive officer for  enterprise  information systems, said in a
June 20 telephone interview. Winkler oversaw about $4 billion,
or 56 percent, of the Army’s information-technology budget.  “It’s very tough to drive the manufacturers to make the
tablets and the devices with the embedded security that only the
Defense Department needs or only parts of the federal government
needs because the market just isn’t big enough,” said Winkler,
who now heads Fairfax, Virginia-based Cyber Solutions and
Services Inc., a government consulting and contracts support
company.  Secure Servers  The iPhone and iPad already interact with the common access
card, or  CAC , and will be approved soon, possibly this month,
Winkler said. Security engineering is under way for  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Mobile operating system was CAC-enabled more than a year ago.  BlackBerry smartphones, which run on RIM’s secure servers,
already are approved by the Defense Department and in use on the
battlefield. The PlayBook runs on the same servers, Dosmann
said.  The  Defense Contract Management Agency , which oversees
defense contractors’ performance, is pilot-testing about 20
tablet computers, including the iPad and PlayBook, Jacob Haynes,
acting chief information officer for DCMA, said in an interview.  “The next six months are going to be the biggest six
months in mobile IT history, especially for the federal
government,” Haynes said.  Security concerns haven’t reduced enthusiasm for iPads
among military service members. Aircrews in the U.S. Marines,
Air Force and Navy are using iPads unconnected to the Internet.  Flight Bags  The Air Force’s Air Mobility Command is testing iPads as a
replacement for the traditional flight bag pilots use to store
paper navigation charts and manuals. Travis Air Force Base in
Fairfield,  California  released an invitation for bids for 100
black iPad 2s, according to a May 25 online notice.  “Tablet devices represent a totally new technology with
flexibility and portability benefits that may reduce publication
and printing costs across the command,” Kathleen Ferrero, a
spokeswoman for Air Mobility Command, said in an e-mail on June
10.  The Navy has purchased 30 iPads to store aircrew documents,
according to Amanda Greenberg, spokeswoman for the service. It’s
also testing Android and Windows 7 operating systems, she said.
BlackBerry is the only mobile device allowed to access Navy’s
network at this point.  Dell, based in Round Rock,  Texas , is testing its Streak
tablet with Defense Department. “We are not trying to compete
with the iPad,” John Marinho, Dell’s director of enterprise
mobility and services, said in a telephone interview. “The iPad
is a great device, but it’s a consumer device. It doesn’t
address all of the pain points that we do.”  ‘Ruggedized’ Laptops  Tablet procurements will spike before year’s end, Dosmann
said, though some of the devices may not be allowed to access
Army’s network.  Apple’s mobile operating system was the first tablet for
which the Defense Information Systems Agency created a security
procedure, said Lieutenant Colonel April Cunningham, a Defense
Department spokeswoman. DISA is working on a procedure for
Android devices.  IPads, PlayBooks and other tablets won’t completely
displace the ruggedized laptops and other small computers in the
department, Cunningham said.  “If you drop a couple $500 tablets and destroy them, then
maybe you could have paid for a ruggedized laptop which may have
better survived the impact,” she said.  ‘Ruggedized’ Tablets  Companies are creating “ruggedized” tablets to solve this
problem, said Frank Smith, CIO and vice president of  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , a strategic adviser for government
agencies. Enhancing a tablet adds about 40 percent to its price,
he said.  So far, the military services have bought tablets directly
from manufacturers and through resellers in small lots. In the
future, the Defense Department will use “traditional
procurement methods” to buy the devices in bulk, Cunningham
said.  Apple spokeswoman Trudy Miller and Research in Motion
spokeswoman Jamie Ernst declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Traci McMillan in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Aparicio in Washington at 
 maparicio1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anne Laurent at 
 alaurent7@bloomberg.net  