-- 
Ringgit Advances on Policy-Rate Outlook, Greek Confidence Vote

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-06-22T09:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ringgit-advances-on-policy-rate-outlook-greek-confidence-vote.html
Malaysia’s ringgit rose to a one-
week high ahead of a government report that economists predict
will show inflation quickened, stoking speculation that
borrowing costs will be lifted.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
the most since March 2009, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the data June 24. The
currency climbed for a second day as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index
of stocks gained 0.9 percent after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of confidence, boosting his chances of
pushing through measures to obtain more financial aid.  “Optimism over  Greece ’s situation is helping to drive
interest in Asian currencies,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of
financial markets at Alliance Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.
“Expectations of a higher inflation rate also support the
Malaysian currency’s strength.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.0213 per dollar
as of 5:04 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency reached 3.0208 earlier, the strongest
level since June 13.  Bank Negara Malaysia  raised its overnight policy rate to 3
percent from 2.75 percent on May 5. Borrowing costs may rise to
3.25 percent by the end of this year, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The bank will
meet next on July 7 to review rates.  The government’s ringgit-denominated bonds were unchanged,
with the yield on the 4.262 percent notes due September 2016
holding at 3.51 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  Malaysia aims to sell $2 billion of dollar-denominated
Islamic bonds, Tengku Sariffuddin Tengku Ahmad, Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s press secretary, said in a telephone interview
today.  The offer will comprise five- and 10-year maturities
through a Wakalah structure with the size of each portion
depending on demand, Tengku Sariffuddin said. HSBC Amanah
Malaysia Bhd., Citigroup Inc., CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and
Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. have been hired to manage the
offering, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  