-- 
Rolls-Royce Reaches Engine Settlement With Qantas

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-06-22T14:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rolls-royce-says-qantas-engine-settlement-cost-56-million-pounds.html
(Corrects financial impact of settlement in third
paragraph.)  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , the world’s
second-largest aircraft engine maker, reached a settlement with
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  over the disruption to its fleet after a
mid-air engine failure last year.  The settlement’s “profit and loss impact” in the fiscal
year ending this month is A$95 million ($101 million), Qantas
said in a statement today. The terms of the agreement are
confidential, and Qantas will drop legal proceedings, the
Sydney-based airline said.  Rolls-Royce’s total costs from the incident were 56 million
pounds ($90 million) in 2010, “with some small additional costs
in 2011,” Rolls-Royce said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The whole industry will breathe a sigh of relief,”  Sandy Morris , an analyst in  London  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said by e-mail. “Qantas starting court proceedings was an
unusual and troubling step.”  The settlement may help ease concerns that the engine
failure would damage the company’s reputation. Rolls-Royce is
pushing to catch up on supplying engines for Airbus SAS’s A380
following the engine explosion last November, which forced
Rolls-Royce to divert engines from new customers to existing
customers,  Tom Williams , Airbus’s head of programs, said in an
interview at the  Paris Air Show .  Delivery Plans  Airbus’s production of A380 planes with Rolls-Royce’s Trent
engines will be “tight” until the end of the first quarter of
2012, Williams said. “I don’t see that endangering delivery
plans for this year,” he added.  Rolls-Royce shares fell 0.1 percent to 600 pence at 3:48
p.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 11.2
billion pounds.  Australia ’s flagship carrier grounded its Airbus A380 fleet
in November for 23 days in response to a failure of a Rolls-
Royce Trent 900 engine that forced an emergency landing in
Singapore on Nov. 4.  The blowout was caused by the failure of a “specific
component in the turbine,” London-based Rolls-Royce said in
November. That failure caused an oil fire on the A380, which led
to the release of a turbine disc.  The engine explosion was the most significant safety issue
an A380 had faced since the aircraft began passenger flights in
2007, and it prompted intense scrutiny of Rolls-Royce engines.  Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, is a unit of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in  Melbourne  at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 