-- 
Rothschild $17,000-a-Bottle Mouton Owes Success to Bad Boy

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s   a n d   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rothschild-17-000-a-bottle-chateau-mouton-owes-success-to-zestful-bad-boy.html
Charging down the red carpet of the
64th  Cannes Film Festival  last month, the 39-year-old grandson
of Baron Philippe de Rothschild recalled his pioneering
ancestor’s eccentricities with delight.  “My grandfather was the only Rothschild who detested being
referred to as a businessman,” says Julien de Beaumarchais de
Rothschild. He’s the baron’s heir and with his 77-year-old
mother, Baroness Philippine de Rothschild, owns privately held
 Baron Philippe de Rothschild SA , which he says annually produces
between 100,000 and 150,000 bottles of the Bordeaux first-growth
Pauillac Chateau Mouton Rothschild.  It has been that way since 1973, when the baron
successfully concluded his 20-year crusade to convince fussy
French government vineyard analysts and the fashionable four
first-growth chateaux of Margaux, Latour, Haut-Brion and Lafite-
Rothschild to include Mouton as the fifth member of the
exclusive Grand Cru Classe wine coterie first established by
Napoleon III at the 1855 Universal Exhibition in Paris.  The baron’s lobbying campaign employed the jingle, “First,
I cannot be. Second, I do not deign to be. Mouton, I am.” Once
accepted into the club, the baron, who wrote and translated
poetry, rewrote the ditty to read, “First, I am. Second, I used
to be. But Mouton does not change.”  Then, in 1981, seven years before his death and just months
before the fabled 1982 crop, when collectors began to hoard
Mouton and other Bordeaux first growths as investment vehicles,
the baron brokered what at the time was a unique long-term
sponsorship accord with Cannes festival organizers.  Official Wine  The roll-over deal ensured that Chateau Mouton Rothschild
would remain the festival’s official wine supplier. The baron’s
brands, including Mouton Cadet Rothschild, the $8.99 everyday
drinking wine he first bottled in 1930, now share the festival’s
marquee with official private bank Societe Generale SA, water
supplier San Pellegrino and French hair-salon operator Dessange
International SA.  “The Cannes Film Festival,” says French Minister of
Culture and Communication Frederic Mitterrand, “continues to
generate a powerful dream.”  At Cannes, Beaumarchais lives the dream. He waves at the
platoons of photographers snapping his photo for lifestyle
magazines and smiles when a fan mentions that cinema villain
Auric Goldfinger served  James Bond  a bottle of 1947 Mouton in
the movie “Goldfinger.”  “The baron was the elegant bad boy of the Rothschilds,”
Beaumarchais says of his grandfather’s role in the family that
financed Wellington’s victory at Waterloo, underwrote
construction of the  Suez Canal , funded the California Gold Rush
and brought Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes to Paris.  Bugatti Racer  “My grandfather loved life and would have hated the idea
of bankers storing Mouton in a vault as an investment,”
Beaumarchais says with a frown. “He raced Bugattis at the Grand
Prix, Stutz cars at  Le Mans  and made ‘Lac aux Dames,’” one of
the first French talking movies.  As for the baron’s signature drink, “he wanted Mouton to
be the wine of adventure, action and exploration,” Beaumarchais
says. “Grandfather was full of strength and life and wanted his
wine to be drunk among those who shared his humanism. This is my
legacy.”  The chateau’s 41-year-old managing director, Hugues
Lechanoine, says the minimum price of sharing in that heritage
is 300 euros ($432). “A good wine costs 150 euros a bottle,”
Lechanoine says on a terrace that overlooks a flotilla of yachts
in the Cannes harbor. “A luxury wine starts at 300.”  First-Growth Prices  Mouton has established itself well above that hurdle.
Prices for top vintages of the past two decades range between
$420 and $1,410 a bottle, according to the Liv-ex web-based wine
exchange in London. The cost of rarer, more historic wines from
the chateau is much higher.  “There’s no doubt that it was correct it got the leg up in
1973,” says  Serena Sutcliffe , head of the wine department at
 Sotheby’s. (BID)  “It had been achieving the price of first growths
for decades.”  At auction, top vintages of Mouton lure eager bidders,
particularly in  Asia  where sales regularly set records. That’s
because of its first-growth status and quality, the Rothschild
heritage and the collectibility of its labels, which at the
baron’s instigation have featured a different artist annually
throughout the postwar years.  “You combine all those factors and Mouton is a hot
label,” says Gary Boom, managing director of London-based fine-
wine merchant  Bordeaux Index Ltd. , which has an office in Hong
Kong. In  China , “the brand Rothschild is strong. The guys in
the  Far East  are great collectors.”  Asian Bidders  At a Christie’s International sale in  Hong Kong  in April
this year, 60 bottles of Mouton Rothschild spanning the six
decades from 1945 to 2005 fetched $123,300, or just more than
$2,000 a bottle.  For rare historic Mouton vintages in top condition, Chinese
and other international buyers will pay even more in the auction
room. A 12-bottle case of Mouton 1945 sold in Hong Kong by
 Acker, Merrall & Condit  on Nov. 5 last year fetched a record
$207,400, or more than $17,000 a bottle.  “China accounts for 10 percent of our market,” Lechanoine
says. “We have 210 people there spending a great deal of time
and money on wine promotion and education. The worst scenario
for the chateau would be for the Chinese economy to go into
decline.”  A case of Mouton 1986, described by historian Clive Coates
as “the wine of the vintage,” fetched a record $23,100 at a
Christie’s Hong Kong sale on Nov. 26 last year.  Vintage Cost  Yet Mouton typically sells for less than its neighboring
Pauillac first growths,  Chateau Lafite-Rothschild  and  Chateau
Latour . Its 1982 and 2000 vintages, among the greatest of the
past 30 years, are only the third-most-expensive of the five
first growths for those years, priced respectively at $22,400
and $17,000 a case by merchants cited by  Liv-ex .  There are disappointments. Mouton’s 1990 wine sells for
just $5,200 a case, behind lower-ranked Bordeaux estates
including La Mission Haut-Brion, Chateau Montrose and Chateau
Angelus. Even so, that’s still $433 a bottle.  Lechanoine frets about the cascade effect of Mouton’s
market price.  “There’s huge risk with investors turning Mouton into a
commodity,” he says. “Our problem is ensuring we don’t become
disconnected from those who buy Mouton at the corner wine shop
and actually drink it. We can’t afford losing that clientele.”  Over dinner with clients from  Russia ,  Japan  and the
Netherlands, Lechanoine pours a few glasses of Mouton Rothschild
1998.  “The worst thing that could happen to this company would
be to have an equity fund as a shareholder,” he says after the
first sip. “Mouton is only made to be looked at in a wine
cellar, never in a bank vault.”  Cubist Label  That sentiment is reflected not just in the wine-making but
in the artistic tradition that has been part of the vineyard
since Baron Philippe took over. As early as 1924, he
commissioned Jean Carlu to design a colorful Cubist label for
his wine, breaking with the regional fashion for showing the
facade of a chateau in pen-and-ink monochrome.  Artists since then have included Jean Cocteau, Georges
Braque,  Salvador Dali ,  Joan Miro , Marc Chagall,  Pablo Picasso ,
 Andy Warhol ,  Francis Bacon  and  Lucian Freud .  Distribution Director Geraud de la Noue says Mouton
Rothschild sells an undisclosed amount of its production through
its own network, a radical departure from the system of
“negociants” stretching back to the 19th century.  Better Connected  “We only do this in  France ,” Noue says. “We want to know
our domestic market and have 110 people devoted to the project.
It keeps us proportionally more disconnected from the negociants
and better connected with the consumer.”  It also may help sales at the lower end. Lechanoine says
the 1 million cases of pedestrian Mouton Cadet the chateau sells
annually contribute to making the Mouton Rothschild brands what
he calls the “aspirational wine of choice.”  “Frenchmen a century ago drank a quarter liter of wine a
day,” Lechanoine says. “There was noble chateau consumption
and poor vin de table, for the soldiers in their daily ration.
The baron broke the taboo. Grand Cru Bordeaux growers are too
discreet for their own good.”  Information: Baron Philippe de Rothschild SA,
 http://www.bpdr.com   To contact the writers on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net ;
Guy Collins in  London  on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 