-- 
Rubber Plunges to One-Month Low as Supply From Thailand Expands

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-06-22T08:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rubber-plunges-to-one-month-low-as-supply-from-thailand-expands.html
Rubber declined for a fifth day to
the lowest level in a month as supply increased from  Thailand ,
the largest producer and exporter of the commodity used in tires.  The November-delivery contract dropped as much as 3.7
percent to 363.8 yen a kilogram ($4,536 a metric ton), the
lowest level since May 23, before settling at 364.7 yen on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  “Supply coming out of Thailand puts the pressure on the
market,” Roka Komiya, a trader at Marubeni Corp., said by phone
from  Singapore . “Demand is there but the market now is more
concerned about the supply side.”  Production in Thailand, the biggest grower, is estimated to
gain 6.8 percent to 3.26 million tons this year, the Office of
Agricultural Economics said yesterday. Output in  India , the
fourth-biggest producer, may jump 22 percent in four years as
planters boost yields to keep pace with rising demand from
tiremakers, according to the country’s state-run Rubber Board.  Rubber was also sold amid concerns that the European debt
crisis may not be resolved immediately and threaten the global
economic recovery, said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at JSC Corp.  The euro fell from a one-week high against the dollar today
on speculation Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will
struggle to pass an austerity package through parliament, needed
to avoid default on debt, even after winning a confidence vote.  The physical price of Thai rubber dropped to 150.60 baht
($4.94) a kilogram today from 153.35 baht yesterday, the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand said on its website.  “Buyers from  Japan  have pushed off purchases, while
Chinese buyers have shifted to order cheaper materials from
Indonesia, pressuring rubber prices,” the group said.  In  Shanghai , September-delivery rubber lost 2.8 percent to
close at 32,390 yuan ($5,011) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  