-- 
Rwandan Authorities Hold Six People Over Plans to Stage Terrorist Attacks

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-06-22T17:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rwandan-authorities-arrest-five-people-over-plans-to-stage-terror-attacks.html
Rwanda ’s police force said it has
arrested six people suspected of planning to attack government
officials, civilians and fuel-storage and transport facilities.  Since May 13, police detained five men and a woman on
suspicion of belonging to an armed group based in the eastern
 Democratic Republic of Congo , police spokesman Superintendent
Theos Badege said in an interview today in Kigali, the capital.
He said the rebels are being funded by Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa,
Rwanda’s former army chief, and ex-Defense Minister Emmanuel
Habyarimana, both of whom are currently living in exile.  “They were planning to attack fuel tanks or fuel storage,
and some key institutions like buildings, some foreign missions
in Rwanda and other VIPs in Rwanda,” Badege said.  Rwanda claims Nyamwasa and former spy chief Patrick
Karegeya have about 200 rebels in the eastern Congo, according
to minutes of a meeting of the Economic Community of the Great
Lakes Countries in January. Nyamwasa formed an opposition
political party with Karegeya and other exiled Rwandans in
December. The two men were each sentenced in absentia to more
than 20 years in prison by Rwanda’s Military Court on Jan. 14
for defamation and crimes against internal order.  Habyarimana, who served as defense minister from 2000 until
2002, is currently living in exile in  Europe , the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported in 2007. He didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Rwandan Genocide  Nyamwasa denied he had any links to the rebels.  “I do not have any connection with any rebel movement in
DRC and do not intend to have any connection,” he said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Ideologically, I do not agree
with rebels in DRC and cannot work with them.”  Nyamwasa, a former ally of Rwandan President  Paul Kagame ,
was shot and wounded outside his home in  South Africa  a year ago.
Rwanda’s government denied involvement in the attack. Kagame has
asked the South African government to hand over Nyamwasa to the
Rwandan authorities.  One of the accused presented to the media today in Kigali,
Colonel Norbert Ndererimana, said he led an armed group in
eastern Congo that ultimately sought to overthrow the government
of Rwanda. The so-called King’s Army consisted of about 100
soldiers, he said. The fighters belong to a network of militant
groups that includes the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda,
or the FDLR, the police said in a statement. Some of the FDLR’s
members were implicated in the Rwandan genocide in 1994 in which
800,000 people were slaughtered over a period of 100 days.  Surrounded by Rwandan police officers, Ndererimana said he
was ordered to conduct terrorist activities by the group’s
funders. “We were going to use grenades to attack big fuel
trucks and places where people normally gather,” he said.  The King’s Army was funded in small amounts, the last
payment being about $2,000 according to Ndererimana. He said he
was supposed to meet representatives of their sponsors in Rwanda
when he was arrested May 13, before another five suspects were
detained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Heather Murdock} in Kigali at 
 hmurdock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  