-- 
RWE Takeover Suitors Likely to Be Opposed by Biggest Owners

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-06-22T08:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/rwe-takeover-suitors-likely-to-be-opposed-by-biggest-owners.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Europe ’s worst utility
investment this year, is likely to face opposition for any
potential takeover offers from its biggest shareholders, a group
of towns and cities in its home country of  Germany .  Dortmund, a town of more than 500,000 in western Germany’s
industrial heartland, is the largest public-sector shareholder
in the utility and doesn’t want to sell because dividend
payments are an important source of revenue, said Michael
Meinders, a spokesman for the local government. Municipalities
hold about 25 percent of RWE.  RWE shares slumped after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided
to exit atomic power by 2022 in response to meltdowns at
Japanese reactors in March. That raises the chance of the
country’s second-largest largest nuclear-power generator
becoming a takeover target, according to Juergen Grossmann, its
chief executive officer.  “The municipal shareholders make any merger or takeover
more complicated because they don’t want to see a foreign
company snap up RWE,” said Peter Wirtz, a WestLB AG analyst who
recommends investors hold the stock. “EON and RWE would be
cheap to buy, but German politicians are weighing in too much
for it to be worth it.”  The shares gained 0.6 percent to 38.32 euros as of 9:51
a.m. local time in  Frankfurt  today. Essen-based RWE has dropped
23 percent this year, reducing the company’s market value to
21.4 billion euros ($30.9 billion), while larger rival EON AG
has slumped 16 percent. They are the biggest losers on the Stoxx
600 Utilities Index in the period, which dropped 3.8 percent.  ‘Fixed Sum’  “The income is a fixed sum in the budget and for economic
reasons alone the city is interested in a good share price and a
set holding,” Dortmund’s Meinders wrote in a June 21 e-mail.
“The city doesn’t expect such a high price to be bid that would
compensate or exceed the benefits of a continued
participation.”  The biggest group of municipal shareholders is RW Energie-
Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, which holds 16 percent of
RWE’s 523.4 million shares, Bloomberg data show. The group,
which includes Dortmund, Essen and Bochum among other towns and
cities, received 294.7 million euros based on RWE’s 3.5-euro-a-
share dividend for 2010.  Grossmann said in a June 10 interview with  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  that he’ll work to keep the company independent. His
comments were confirmed by RWE’s press department. “But if
there are irrefutable advantages and one plus one equals more
than two, why should we at least not think about cooperation,”
he said.  Investment Since 1905  RWE traces its history to the end of the 19th century when
the city of Essen ordered the construction of a power plant. The
cities of Essen, Muelheim an der Ruhr and Gelsenkirchen bought
shares in 1905.  RWE “is not a particularly attractive” acquisition
target, UBS AG said in a June 16 note. The brokerage cited
estimates for the company’s debt to earnings ratio for 2013,
higher than EON, as well as the municipal stake and its “old,
CO2-intensive”  power plants .  RWE would need to sell 5 billion euros of shares to bring
its leverage to EON’s level, according to UBS.  Dortmund hasn’t sought to block a sale of additional RWE
shares and would be interested in maintaining its influence at
the company as well as its tax benefits if RWE were to carry out
a capital increase, Meinders said. The city could cooperate with
partners in its shareholder group, he added.  RWE spokeswoman Annett Urbaczka declined to comment beyond
Grossmann’s comments on June 10. No one at the  VKA  association
of municipal RWE shareholders was available to comment.  Net Debt  RWE’s net debt rose to 27.5 billion euros on March 31 from
19.7 billion euros on June 30 of 2009, three months before it
bought Dutch competitor Essent NV for about 7.3 billion euros.
The company has said it will miss its debt-to-earnings targets
because of a German tax on nuclear plants, started this year.  Merkel announced a plan to exit nuclear power by 2022 on
May 30. The lower house of parliament, or Bundestag held a first
reading of the law and other energy bills on June 9 with a final
reading and vote due on June 30. The upper house of parliament,
or Bundesrat, is scheduled to vote on the  energy policy  overhaul
on July 8, the last day it meets before the summer recess.  “The unpredictability of German energy policy also weighs
on the shares and they may fare better after July 8 when the
upper house votes on the nuclear exit and the future becomes
easier to gauge,” said Warburg Research analyst Stephan Wulf.  RWE and EON have yet to update their earnings outlooks
since Merkel ordered eight nuclear plants, including two
operated by RWE, shut permanently. RWE said in February that
profit will fall about 30 percent on the tax.  The stocks “reflect all the negative aspects of the
nuclear exit but none of the positive ones, like rising power
prices,” said Wulf, who recommends investors buy EON and RWE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  