-- 
Sanusi Fights Nigerian Elites as His Currency Policy Draws IMF Irritation

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-06-23T14:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/sanusi-fights-nigerian-elites-as-currency-policy-draws-imf-ire.html
As a teenage Marxist, Lamido Sanusi
remembers confronting his grand-uncle, the Emir of  Nigeria ’s
northern city of Kano, about political power and how it can be
abused, during chats in the palace courtyard.  As central bank governor, Sanusi is challenging authority
again: firing the chief executives of ailing banks, criticizing
lawmakers for overspending and rejecting advice from the
 International Monetary Fund  to weaken the currency.  Following Goodluck Jonathan’s election victory in April,
Sanusi is now looking to help revive Nigeria’s moribund
electricity industry in the face of union opposition to the sale
of utilities, while pressuring lawmakers to invest more in road
and rail links and spend less on government running costs.  “Maybe I’m too outspoken for my own good,” Sanusi, 49,
said in an interview in his Abuja office, where a framed
photograph of him and the Emir hangs on the wall and a prayer
mat lies on the floor. “It comes from my family. Our fathers
and uncles relied on us to tell them the truth, because most
people tell them what they want to hear.”  Sanusi is carving out a wider role for the  central bank  in
a campaign to boost the economy of Africa’s most populous nation
after 50 years of corruption, wasted oil revenue and political
instability. About 60 percent of Nigerians live on less than
$1.25 a day and the government has to import fuel, even though
it pumps about 2 million barrels of crude a day.  Rate Policy  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, ranks 134th on a list
of 178 nations on a corruption index compiled by Berlin-based
graft monitor,  Transparency International .  Named as central bank governor of the year for 2011 by
London-based The Banker magazine, Sanusi has helped make Nigeria
one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies. The economy will
expand 6.9 percent this year, the IMF forecasts, and 8 percent
according to the government.  A growing middle class and oil wealth may help Nigeria’s
economy overtake  South Africa  to become Africa’s biggest by
2023, according to  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research
at London-based Standard Chartered Plc.  To make that happen, Sanusi has maintained below-inflation
 interest rates  to help ailing banks such as  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL)  and
Oceanic Bank Plc and kept the naira close to 150 to the dollar
to ease pressure on inflation and encourage investment. That has
depleted gross foreign currency reserves, which slid to $32.89
billion today from $33.65 billion the week earlier.  IMF Criticism  The IMF said on Feb. 17 that his interest-rate policy
contributed to inflation surging to 15.6 percent the year
earlier. The bank should abandon its multiple objectives of
trying to boost lending for infrastructure, and focus on  price
stability , it said. The key interest rate is currently 8
percent, below May’s inflation rate of 12.4 percent.  “If the IMF says to me it’s not my role, then whose role
is it and who is doing it?” the governor, dressed in a pin-
striped suit and red bowtie, said in the interview in March.
“As long as the Central Bank of Nigeria Act has given it as one
of its functions a developmental role, it’s really up to me to
decide whether or not to use those powers.”  Sanusi also rejected the IMF’s criticism that his policy of
currency intervention has led to an overvalued naira, saying
that companies needed good road and rail links and a reliable
electricity supply to become competitive, not a weaker naira.  Sanusi is proposing a central bank guarantee on pensions
held by commercial banks, thus freeing up about $13 billion that
they can use to lend to power projects. Last year, the central
bank lent 200 billion naira ($1.3 billion) to state-owned Bank
of Industry, which it made available to commercial banks at 1
percent interest for lending on to small businesses.  Investment Needs  The  pension plan  is part of a bigger campaign to persuade
the state to invest more money in infrastructure and spend less
on itself. Sanusi was hauled before the  House of Representatives 
in December after he angered lawmakers by criticizing the 136.3
billion naira that he said parliament spends on itself.  The country’s electricity industry generates a 12th of the
electricity of South Africa, while its population is three times
the size at 150 million. Now, the government is preparing to
sell six transmission and 11 generating companies this year,
with Nigeria’s Dangote Industries Ltd. and  India ’s  Tata Group 
and Essar Group among potential bidders, according to the Bureau
of Public Enterprises. Sufficient power supplies would enable
the economy to grow 10 percent a year, Sanusi says.  “The governor speaks his mind and that’s a good thing,”
said Celeste Fauconnier, Africa analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, a
unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Johannesburg. “He is fast-tracking
the reforms that the president has set out. We see Nigeria as
booming in the next five years.”  Too Much  Some analysts are concerned Sanusi is trying to do too
much.  “As laudable and as good-natured as those quasi-fiscal
operations are, it leads to confusion,” said Sebastian Spio- Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina Advisors
LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser. “Sanusi’s view is that a
developing country shouldn’t focus on pure monetary policy. It’s
a problematic view as it complicates monetary policy.”  Sanusi has never shied from commenting on government
policy. In his first week on the job in June, 2009, he said the
state should focus on improving power supplies and transport
links, just two of the priorities on the government’s seven-
point economic agenda.  Within two months, he had fired the chief executives of
eight lenders after an audit found evidence of mismanagement and
reckless lending that had resulted in $10 billion of toxic debts
on banks’ books.  ‘War Room’  To avoid news of his plan leaking, he formed what he called
a “war room” at the Eko hotel in Lagos. As he tells it, he cut
outside contact for three days as he plotted with his four
deputy governors, financial advisers from Deutsche Bank AG and
legal advisers.  Then-president Umaru Yar’Adua was only told of the plan a
day before Sanusi hauled the chief executives of all 24 banks
into the central bank’s Lagos office on Aug. 14 of that year. He
dismissed six of them and immediately dispatched replacements
with armed guards to their head offices.  “These were people at the time that were totally
untouchable,” Sanusi said. “We had to take them by total
surprise and use maximum force. Lagos was like a war zone that
day. All the new CEOs went with truckloads of mobile policemen
just in case anyone tried to play games.”  Weak Credit  Two years later, Sanusi is still trying to recapitalize
some of the banks. After pumping 620 billion naira into the
system and creating a state-owned company to buy the bad debts
of lenders, some bailed-out banks, including Finbank and Oceanic
Bank, have returned to profit. Still, credit to private industry
fell 1.6 percent in May from the year earlier, the central bank
said on June 21.  “Sanusi is not someone who holds back,” said DaMina
Advisors’ Spio-Garbrah. “He’s outspoken, he’s controversial.
But his biggest achievement was to stabilize the Nigerian
financial system. He made the kind of changes no other country
was willing to do.”  The governor says he retains a deep appreciation of his
roots in the predominantly Muslim city of Kano. Sanusi, who has
three wives and 12 children, regularly leads prayers at the
central bank’s congregation and has a prayer mat in his office
for when he doesn’t.  With a degree in Islamic Law from the International
University of  Africa  in Khartoum,  Sudan , the governor has
published religious papers in the past, including a 2001
critique of the conviction of a woman in northern Nigeria to
stoning by an Islamic court.  “I’ve grown up in a generation that’s been consistently
frustrated by the seeming inability to turn the great potential
of this country into reality,” Sanusi said. “I’ve spent my
life talking about what policy makers need to do, what leaders
need to do. And today I find myself in a leadership role. It’s
up to us, isn’t it, to decide whether we’re going to be a
failure or realize our potential?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in  Cape Town  at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 