-- 
France’s Sarkozy Urges Action Against the ‘Plague’ of Food Price Surges

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-23T05:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/sarkozy-tells-g-20-ministers-food-price-surge-is-plague-needing-action.html
World food prices that rose 37
percent in a year, driving 44 million more people into poverty,
are a “plague” that need action from world leaders now, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  Group of 20 farm ministers are in Paris for the second day
of a summit. France, which holds the G-20 presidency, wants a
central database on crops, limits on export bans, international
market regulation, emergency stockpiles and a plan to raise
global output. The proposals to limit export curbs and start a
database will be “especially sensitive,” French Agriculture
Minister Bruno Le Maire said last week.  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as Russia and
 Ukraine  curbed exports after drought decimated crops, adding to
record global food prices the  World Bank  says put 44 million
more people into poverty since June. Nations will spend $1.29
trillion on food imports this year, the most ever and 21 percent
more than in 2010, the  United Nations  estimates.  “Volatility is a plague on farmers and consumers,”
Sarkozy said in a speech to the ministers yesterday. “It can
plunge entire populations into famine and poverty.”  A lack of transparency in agricultural markets is
exacerbating price swings, threatening economic recovery and
food production, Sarkozy said.  “We have to act, and act together,” the president said.
“The world is watching you.”  ‘Century of Hunger’  World leaders risk making this “the century of hunger”
unless they can agree to new rules on  food supply , Le Maire said
before the meeting. France’s position on the main proposals
being put to the G-20 ministers is that either all are agreed on
or there is no accord, Le Maire said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on June 20.  “Transparency is an issue,”  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based
analyst at  Standard Chartered  Plc, said in an interview with
Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s First Up. “The market isn’t
giving enough signals to farmers and stakeholders” to boost
production to make up for potential losses to crops in importing
countries, he said.  The ministers will most likely balk at the proposal on
trade restrictions, said Robert Carlson, international relations
director at the Washington-based National Farmers Union.  ‘Tough One’  “That’s going to be a tough one,” Carlson said in an
interview in Brussels. “Probably the last thing you get
agreement on is the agreement to let somebody else control the
borders of your country.”  The last time prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more than
60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S. State
Department. The G-20 countries account for 65 percent of all
farmland and 77 percent of global grain output, according to a
statement on the website of the G-20 presidency.  Corn futures advanced 77 percent in the past 12 months in
Chicago trading, a global benchmark, rice gained 39 percent and
sugar jumped 64 percent. There will be shortages in corn, wheat,
soybeans, coffee and cocoa this year or next, according to
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep. Prices also rose
after droughts and floods from  Australia  to  Canada  ruined crops
last year. European farmers are now contending with their driest
growing season in more than three decades.  ‘Corn And Yields’  “In terms of supply, there’s been some concerns in  Europe ,
in southern U.S. Plains, in northern plains in  China ,” Standard
Chartered’s Ofon said. “We’re concerned about corn and yields
and acreage.”  Growth in agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous
decade, the United Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization 
and Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said in a report this month.  While Standard Chartered forecasts global wheat production
will expand, prices may still be sustained at current levels as
“demand surges back into the market,” Ofon said.  France  will sign only an agreement that includes regulation
of financial markets for agricultural commodities, Le Maire said.
The details will be discussed by G-20 finance ministers later
this year, he said.  “A market that is not regulated is not a market, it’s a
lottery in which fortune smiles on the most cynical, instead of
rewarding hard work, investment and the creation of value,”
Sarkozy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  