-- 
Saudi Women Call on ‘Progressive’ Subaru to Leave Kingdom Over Driving Ban

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-06-23T00:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/saudi-women-call-on-subaru-to-leave-kingdom-over-driving-ban.html
A group campaigning to end Saudi
Arabia’s ban on driving by women called on  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru cars unit to pull out of the kingdom until the
prohibition is lifted.  The announcement yesterday followed U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s statement of support on June 21 for women who
challenged the ban by driving in Saudi Arabia. Clinton called
them “brave,” saying, “I am moved by it and I support them.”
Saudi Women for Driving, which had asked Clinton for her backing,
organized a show of defiance by women who drove in the country
June 17 and encourages them to continue operating cars.  “It is our hope that this will put huge pressure on the
Saudi royal family and shine a bright light on the ‘gender
apartheid’ in our country,” the group said of its call for
Subaru to exit the kingdom. “It’s a chance for the company to
live up to its brand and make a huge difference for nearly 13
million of us Saudi women.”  Fuji Heavy, whose biggest shareholder is  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
was the first carmaker targeted by the campaign because it is
“progressive” and has marketed its products to women, the
group said in a  petition  on U.S.-based Change.org, a website for
social activism.  The campaign may be extended to Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac and Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , two
brands used by Manal al-Sharif, a Saudi woman who was arrested
last month for driving, said Change.org’s human-rights editor,
Benjamin Joffe-Walt.  Driving in  Riyadh   Sara al-Khalidi said by phone that she and a male driver
accompanied her mother as the elder woman drove yesterday in the
capital, Riyadh, before being reprimanded by the police and
asked not to repeat the violation. Joffe Walt said by e-mail
that there were two cars driven by women in Riyadh yesterday and
that the scene was captured on video by a Saudi media company.  Fuji Heavy fell 0.2 percent to 592 yen as of 9:15 a.m. in
Tokyo trading, extending its decline this year to 6 percent.
 Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 0.4 percent.  Fuji Heavy and its Subaru dealers in  Saudi Arabia  haven’t
“received any information of any campaigns,” Tokyo-based Kenta Matsumoto, a spokesman for the company, said by phone. “We only
have dealers in Saudi Arabia, and no factories. Our annual sales
in the country are limited to only 300 to 400 units.”  Hani al-Faqih, a Subaru manager in Saudi Arabia, said from
Riyadh that he had no immediate comment.  Cadillac Market  Hanspeter Ryser, a spokesman in Zurich for Cadillac Europe,
said he wasn’t aware of any plans to change Cadillac’s business
in Saudi Arabia because of the ban against women driving.  “I cannot imagine there are any steps planned to pull out
of Saudi Arabia,” Ryser said. “It’s a very strong market for
us. Cadillac vehicles are very popular in this part of the world.
In general, we as a company are not getting engaged in political
debates, political issues.”  Meeyoung Song, a spokeswoman for Hyundai, said she couldn’t
immediately comment when reached by phone today.  The campaign caps a series of developments that began in
May, when Saudi women used the Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.
social-networking websites to call for females with
international driver’s licenses to use their cars June 17. They
said their plan wasn’t a protest. Saudi Arabia, holder of the
world’s biggest oil reserves, has avoided the anti-government
demonstrations that have rocked the Arab world this year.  “This is already the largest women’s rights movement in
Saudi history and no one here knows what will happen next, but a
big company like Subaru pulling out could help change our
country forever,” the women’s group said.  There were no reported arrests among the more than 50 women
who drove on June 17.  Husband’s Pledge  Maha al-Qahtani said she was pulled over by police when she
went for her second spin on that day. She said the officers who
stopped her demanded that her husband, Mohammed al-Qahtani, who
was with her, sign a pledge saying he wouldn’t let her drive. He
then drove the car and signed the pledge the next day at a
police station, she said.  Al-Qahtani, 37, said she was given a ticket stating she
didn’t have a Saudi license, an offense carrying a fine of 100
riyals ($27). Hers was issued in the U.S.  “When I posted this on Twitter, people wrote to
congratulate me,” she said in an interview from Riyadh
yesterday. “Getting a ticket means I’m recognized as a
driver.”  Al-Sharif, a 32-year-old computer-security consultant who
has helped organize the women’s efforts to lift the ban, was
arrested in the city of al-Khobar, in  Eastern Province , after
she drove on more than one occasion and urged other women to
drive in a video she posted on YouTube, according to  Amnesty
International . She was forced to sign a pledge that she wouldn’t
drive again and was released 10 days later, Amnesty said.  European Union Support  “The EU supports people who stand up for their right to
equal treatment, wherever they are,” the Office of the European
Union High Representative for  Foreign Affairs ,  Catherine Ashton ,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The Saudi women who
are taking to the road are exercising their right to demand that
equality. They are courageous and have the High Representative’s
support.”  In addition to Clinton’s support for a lifting of the
driving ban, several members of the  U.S. Congress , including
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  and Representative Tammy Baldwin of  Wisconsin , have backed the campaign.  The last time a group of women in Saudi Arabia publicly
defied the driving ban was Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops massed
in the kingdom to prepare for a war that would expel Iraqi
forces from  Kuwait . They were spurred by images of female U.S.
soldiers driving in the desert and stories of Kuwaiti women
driving their children to safety.  Saudi Arabia enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Some Saudis, including Sheikh
Mohammed al-Nujaimi, a cleric, say the driving ban prevents the
spread of vice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama, Bahrain, through the Dubai newsroom at
   dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  