-- 
Sotheby’s Makes $155 Million as Record Schiele Boosts Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-22T23:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/schiele-work-fetches-record-40-million-as-collectors-battle.html
Sotheby’s last night raised $155
million from a  London  auction of just 35 lots, led by a
townscape by  Egon Schiele  that sold for an artist record.  Collectors responded to a limited supply of Impressionist
and modern artworks by raising bids. The Austrian
Expressionist’s 1914 canvas “Houses With Laundry (Suburb II)”
was offered by the Leopold Museum, Vienna, to pay for the
settlement of one of the world’s longest-running art restitution
cases. It made 24.7 million pounds ($40 million).  “The supply of Impressionist and modern works is
dwindling,’’ said the London-based dealer  Stephen Ongpin .
“That’s pushing up competition for fresh pieces that appear.
Sotheby’s made the most of a tight sale.’’  Bidders are eager to buy the best works and happy to pass
on others.  Sotheby's (BID)  selection meant only three lots were 
unsuccessful. The event was slimmed down from 51 lots in the
equivalent sale last year. It contrasted with Tuesday’s sale 
of 92 works at Christie’s International, which raised 140 
million pounds with a Monet work as a high-profile failure.  The Schiele was one of three works that bore third-party
price guarantees. It sold to a single telephone bid from Mark Poltimore, Sotheby’s London-based head of Russian art, against
the unidentified guarantor, also bidding by phone. The painting
had been estimated to sell for a minimum of 22 million pounds.  The previous auction high for Schiele was the $22.4 million
paid for another townscape at Christie’s International in  New
York  in November 2006. Oils by this short-lived artist (1890-
1918) rarely come on sale, said dealers.  Sellers' Market  “There’s very little coming on the market at the moment,’’
said Heinrich zu Hohenlohe, director of  Dickinson Roundell Inc .
in Berlin. “If they can afford it, people are hanging on to
their art. It’s a good time to sell.’’  The Alberto Giacometti bronze “Trois hommes qui marchent
II” also bore an “irrevocable bid.” The 1948 sculpture, from
an edition of nine, was entered by a U.S. collector. It sold to
the New York dealer Franck Giraud in the room for 10.7 million
pounds. Its presale low estimate of 10 million pounds reflected
the 9.4 million pounds paid for a version of “Trois hommes qui
marchent I” at Sotheby’s London in June 2008.  As at Christie’s, paintings by  Pablo Picasso  -- the
market’s ultimate trophy name -- generated hefty prices. The
1969 canvas “Couple, Le Baiser,’’ fetched 6.5 million pounds
and the 1967 “Homme a la pipe et nu couche’’ a double-estimate
4.8 million pounds, both to buyers in the room.  Tamara de Lempicka’s 1930 “La Dormeuse,” a painting of an
Art Deco beauty and also with a third-party guarantee, attracted
four phone bidders before selling for 4.1 million pounds,
beating a top estimate of 3.2 million pounds. The price, when
converted to U.S. dollars, was an artist record, Sotheby’s said.  The auction made 97 million pounds with fees, against an
estimate of 77.3 million pounds to 111.2 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 