-- 
LSE, TMX Sweeten Merger With C$660 Million Special Dividend

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-22T21:52:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/lse-tmx-to-pay-678-9-million-dividend-to-win-investor-backing-for-merger.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  agreed to pay special dividends of C$660 million
($678.9 million) in an attempt to win support for their merger
and thwart a rival bid from Canadian banks and pension funds.  TMX shareholders will receive a cash dividend of C$4 a
share from the combined company once the takeover is completed,
while LSE shareholders will get 84.1 pence ($1.36) a share, the
companies said today in statements. About 45 percent of the
special payout will go to TMX shareholders.  The two bourses sweetened their merger offer to convince
shareholders to vote for their proposal on June 30 and reject a
cash and stock offer from Maple Group Acquisition Corp., a group
of Canadian banks, funds and insurers that includes Toronto-
Dominion Bank and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   “They’re doing this because they realize their chances are
slim of winning the bid,” said Mathieu Roy, a  money manager  at
Louisbourg Investments Inc., which oversees C$1.5 billion in
Moncton,  New Brunswick , and holds TMX shares. “They realize the
market sees the Maple bid as a better financial bid and probably
has a better chance of winning approval.”  TMX rose 1 percent to C$44.25 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The LSE
agreement is valued at C$44.90 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. If the special dividend is included, it’s
valued at C$48.90, compared with C$48 a share from Maple Group,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Keeping Payout  The exchanges also pledged to maintain the dividend at
least as high as the current TMX annual payout, which is C$1.60
a share.  TMX Group reiterated today that the Maple bid is not a
“superior proposal” and recommended shareholders reject the
unsolicited bid. The Maple bid raises “significant”
competition and conflict of interest issues, TMX Group said.  “You don’t make a commitment like this until you’re near
the end,” said  Thomas Caldwell , CEO of Caldwell Securities Ltd.
in Toronto, which manages about C$1 billion, including TMX
shares. Caldwell supports LSE’s offer.  The Maple Group was formed to present a bid aiming to keep
the Toronto stock and Montreal derivatives exchanges in Canadian
hands. The group also plans to merge the Toronto bourse with the
bank-owned Alpha equity platform, which competes with TMX.  “The board reiterated its recommendation of the merger
with LSEG to form a new international company with strong
Canadian leadership in both senior management and the board,”
TMX Chairman Wayne Fox said in a statement.  Maple’s  investors  are  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Alberta
Investment Management Corp., Fonds de Solidarite FTQ, Manulife
Financial Corp., Desjardins Financial Group, Dundee Capital
Markets Inc. and  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)   Peter Block, a Maple Group spokesman, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  