-- 
SEC Approves Registration Requirement for Private-Fund Advisers

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-22T20:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/sec-approves-registration-requirement-for-private-fund-advisers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will require private-fund advisers to register with
the agency, opening  hedge funds  and private-equity funds to
unprecedented scrutiny.  SEC commissioners voted 3-2 today to approve a Dodd-Frank
Act measure calling for about 750 advisers to disclose “census-
like data” about their investors and employees, the assets they
manage, potential conflicts of interest and their activities
outside of fund advising. The advisers must register by March
30, and all of the information they disclose will be public.  “Many of these private fund advisers will now not only
register with the commission, but be subject to its rules, its
regulatory oversight and its examination program,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said before the vote in Washington. “Today’s
rules will fill a key gap in the regulatory landscape.”  The registration system exempts as many as 2,000  venture
capital  fund advisers, foreign advisers without a U.S. business
and advisers with less than $150 million in assets under
management. Those exempted are still obliged to file a portion
of the information required of the registered advisers.  The SEC is seeking data “that would aid investors and
assist our regulatory and examination efforts without requiring
any disclosure that could inadvertently harm the interests of
private fund investors,” Schapiro said.  Private-fund registration was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act after hedge funds pushed for the requirement, which was seen
as less burdensome than the regulations being imposed on banks.
In lobbying Congress, representatives of the private pools of
capital argued that they shouldn’t be heavily regulated because
they didn’t cause the financial crisis.  ‘Greater Clarity’  “We are optimistic that the Commission’s actions today
will provide greater clarity and sufficient time for our members
as they work to fully comply with these rules,” said Richard Baker, president and chief executive officer of Washington-based
lobbying group Managed Funds Association, in a statement.  Many of the largest hedge-fund firms are already SEC-
registered, including Paulson & Co. Inc., Renaissance
Technologies LLC, Bridgewater Associates LP and AQR Capital
Management LLC.  Commissioner  Kathleen Casey , who joined fellow Republican
 Troy Paredes  in opposing the registration rule, said it will
harm innovation and capital formation while giving “no
meaningful relief” to advisers who qualify for an exemption.  “Adoption of the current reporting requirements is only
the first step of what surely will be an ongoing process of
emptying the distinction between an exempt reporting adviser and
a registered adviser of all meaning,” Casey said.  Schapiro said the SEC may re-think the information it seeks
after taking a look at the first year’s results. Exempt advisers
won’t be subject to the routine exams registered advisers now
face, she said.  Venture Capital  The new definition of venture capital advisers applies to
funds that invest mostly in private companies, with minimal
leverage, no redemption rights for investors and no more than 20
percent of capital in non-qualifying investments. Funds that
started raising money before this year automatically qualify.  At the same time fund advisers are added to the SEC’s
watch, about 3,200 investment advisers managing $25 million to
$100 million will be moved from federal oversight to state-based
regulation by June 28, 2012. States will have the option to
regulate advisers, leaving the SEC with oversight in those that
decline -- as  New York ,  Minnesota  and Wyoming already have done.  Family Offices  In a separate rule, the SEC voted today to approve a
regulatory exemption for family offices established by wealthy
investors to manage their personal portfolios and do estate
planning. To get the exemption, the offices must advise only
family clients and be controlled exclusively by family members,
not presenting themselves publicly as investment advisers.  The House Financial Services Committee approved legislation
today that would undo the SEC registration requirement as it
applies to private-equity funds.  The House measure would eliminate “burdensome and costly
government mandates” and the funds continue to invest in small
businesses and create jobs, Representative Robert Hurt, the
Virginia Republican who sponsored the measure, said in a
statement dated June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 