-- 
Siemens Seeks Rare Earths Outside China After Supplies Curbed

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-22T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/siemens-seeks-rare-earths-outside-china-after-supplies-curbed.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  is working to obtain rare
earths used in its wind turbines from outside China, the world’s
biggest supplier, after the nation curbed production of the
strategic commodities to reduce environmental damage.  Siemens,  Germany ’s largest engineering company, is seeking
to develop supplies for rare earths in  Australia ,  Russia ,
Greenland and  California  that will limit price increases and
keep materials crucial to their products flowing, said Henrik
Stiesdal, chief technology officer of Siemens Wind Power.  “It will take a longer time before Australia and the U.S.
have working mines,” Stiesdal said at Siemens’s office in
Brande,  Denmark .  China supplies more than 90 percent of global rare earths,
a group of 17 elements used in electronic technologies from
hybrid cars to sonar systems. The country imposed controls on
mining and exports after more than a decade of extraction
depleted the resources and harmed the environment.  Siemens uses neodymium in a turbine model that’s been on
sale since 2010. That technology involves “direct-drive”
turbines with fewer moving parts than traditional models with
gearboxes. The geared models require more maintenance and are
costly to repair when used in offshore projects.  Vestas vs Siemens  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s biggest maker of  wind
turbines , makes geared models that contain a 10th of the
quantity of rare earths used in the direct-drive machines so
does not depend on the rare earths, said Finn Stroem Madsen,
head of technology research at the Randers-based company.  “We will not deliver a technology to our customers which
depends on a strategic raw material, and one example of that
could be rare earth material,” Stroem Madsen said. Vestas is
developing a 7-megawatt machine that along with some of its
other models will use neodymium in its generator.  Siemens’s gearless machine links the blade to the generator
directly so they spin at the same pace. This requires more
magnets made of compounds using neodymium, iron and boron.  “Further than that we’re developing a variant that doesn’t
use rare earth magnets at all,” said Stiesdal.  The Munich-based company purchases magnets that require
less than 1 percent of the annual capacity of rare earth
production, said Torsten Wolf, a spokesman for Siemens.  It doesn’t mine rare earth metals or make the magnets that
use the materials, so it’s not directly affected by  China ’s
export quotas, he said.  Enercon GmbH, a German maker of onshore wind turbines that
had a 59.2 percent share of the nation’s market last year, also
makes a direct drive model. It uses non-permanent magnets made
of copper to avoid dependence on rare earths, said Ruth Brand-
Schock, head of the Enercon Berlin office.  Siemens, which installed 2,300 megawatts of wind power last
year, this month installed a 6-megawatt prototype direct-drive
machine. It will offer geared turbines through 2015 as it
transitions its products to all direct-drive technology,
Stiesdal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  