-- 
Siemens Finance Head Kaeser Says Osram IPO Windfall May Go to Shareholders

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-22T12:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/siemens-s-kaeser-says-osram-ipo-windfall-may-go-to-shareholders.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , which is planning an
initial public offering of lighting unit Osram, will consider
distributing proceeds from the share sale to investors as it
shies away from pricey acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said in an interview.  No final decision has been made on how to use the Osram
proceeds, though shareholders are the “natural owners” of the
cash, Kaeser said yesterday, when asked about a special payout.
Siemens may raise 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) in the sale, a
person familiar with the plan said May 25.  The company is loath to become swept along in a surge of
mergers and acquisitions among industrial manufacturers.  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  and  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  have announced a combined $10
billion in industrial and technology deals since the start of
2010.  General Electric Co. (GE)  has announced 21 such deals for a
total $7.3 billion, Bloomberg data shows.  “We believe there’s a smarter way to go about
acquisitions,” Kaeser said in the interview in Washington, D.C.
“That is why we believe in keeping the money” to “strike” at the
right time, he said.  Siemens, based in Munich, has a policy to return money to
shareholders if debt “consistently” stays below a target ratio
of 0.5 to 1.0 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. In the first six months of the
current fiscal year, that measure stood at a minus 0.1 in the
absence of debt-financed acquisitions.  Handouts  The company paid a record dividend of 2.70 euros a share
last year. That payout is set to rise to 3.18 euros for this
year, according to the average estimate of 27 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Europe ’s largest engineer has doubled its cash holdings in
three years to 18.5 billion euros, the second-biggest war chest
among peers, according to Bloomberg data. So far, it’s been a
largely untapped resource.  Siemens has used just 1.5 billion euros for takeovers since
Chief Executive Officer Peter Loescher’s first deal, the $7
billion purchase of Dade Behring in 2007, was criticized as too
costly by investors. Kaeser on April 5 said recent acquisitions
in the industry had been “richly priced.”  “Siemens’ competitors have been very active,” said  Theo Kitz , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich. “Schneider is
buying lots of companies active in  energy efficiency . It’s not
like they’ve emptied the shop, but the trend is towards that.
That’s a danger for those who remain inactive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 