-- 
Silicone Breast Implants Deemed Safe in FDA Side Effects Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-22T20:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/silicone-breast-implants-deemed-safe-in-fda-side-effects-review.html
Allergan Inc. and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
silicone breast implants were deemed safe by U.S. regulators
after a review of clinical studies and side effects reported
during five years of marketing.  The  Food and Drug Administration ’s analysis didn’t find a
link between the implants and connective tissue disease,
reproductive issues,  breast cancer  or other new side effects,
the agency  said  today. Women with breast implants should follow
up with their doctor for routine MRI scans because the chances
of complications increase with time, the FDA said.  The safety of silicone-gel implants has been debated since
the products were reintroduced for aesthetic rather than medical
use. An estimated 389,000 women got implants last year for
reconstruction after surgery or to increase their breast size,
according the  American Society of Plastic Surgeons . About half
of patients chose silicone over saline implants.  “Our review of this information continues to support the
safety and effectiveness of silicone breast implants when used
as intended,” said  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s Center
for Devices and Radiological Health, on a conference call today
with reporters. “The risks and complications, though frequent,
are well understood.”  Twenty percent of women who get breast implants for
aesthetic reasons and 50 percent who have breast reconstruction
will need the devices removed within 10 years because of
complications, according to the FDA. The most common safety
risks are hardening around the capsule and additional surgeries.
Pain, scarring, wrinkling and implant rupturing are also common.  Reiterated Cancer Warning  The FDA reiterated its warning from January that as many as
60 of the 5 million to 10 million with breast implants globally
have developed a rare type of cancer called  anaplastic large
cell lymphoma . This risk is “profoundly small,” Shuren said.  Confidence in breast-implants safety is “unquestionably
shortsighted as well as contradictory” in light of the
potential complications and lack of long-term data, said  Public
Citizen , a Washington-based consumer group that opposed the
decision to return the products to the market, in an e-mail.  The FDA approved the use of silicone implants for cosmetic
surgery in November 2006, after 14 years of allowing them only
for breast reconstruction because of concerns that women had
been injured by leakage. The products had been on the market
since before the FDA began regulating devices in 1976.  Allergan makes Natrelle silicone breast implants as well as
saline implants. The Irvine, California-based company reported
$319 million in sales of breast aesthetic devices last year, or
6.6 percent of revenue. The Mentor division of  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J makes MemoryGel silicone implants. J&J
didn’t disclose sales of the products in its annual report.  Performance Studies  The FDA required Allergan and Mentor to each conduct six
post-approval studies of the implants’ safety and performance as
a condition for marketing. The agency said today that it plans
to hold an advisory panel meeting in the next few months to
discuss how to make these types of studies more effective.  “The information gathered in follow up visits continue to
provide valuable information about the long-term safety of
implants,” said Chris Allman, a spokesman for Mentor, in an e-
mailed statement.  The FDA is working with the companies to encourage study
compliance. Allergan said about 60 percent of its study
participants have completed a questionnaire for their first year
after surgery. They get $20 for each annual questionnaire and
$100 for each of three follow-up visits with their surgeon
during a 10-year period.  “Our study compliance rate continues to increase each
quarter,” said Caroline Van Hove, a spokeswoman for Allergan,
in an e-mail. “With all of the past and current studies on
silicone breast implants, which involve hundreds of thousands of
patients, I think it is safe to state that breast implants are
now the most extensively studied devices of any medical product
today.”  Allergan fell 90 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $81.87 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. J&J dropped 42
cents to $66.07.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 