-- 
Silver-Coin Sales Booming at Perth Mint on Demand for Haven

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-06-22T09:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/silver-coin-sales-booming-at-perth-mint-as-investors-desert-paper-money.html
Silver-coin sales from  Australia ’s
Perth Mint, which was founded in 1899 and processes all of the
country’s bullion, have surged to a record as buyers seek to
protect their wealth with the metal known as poor man’s gold.  The mint sold 10.7 million 1-ounce silver coins since July
1 last year, according to Sales and Marketing Director Ron
Currie. That’s 66 percent higher than the previous full fiscal
year and about 10-fold more than five years earlier. Sales of 1-
ounce gold coins will be close to a record, he said.  The soaring demand adds to signs investors are stepping up
precious-metal purchases as Europe’s governments tackle a
sovereign-debt crisis and central banks led by the U.S. Federal
Reserve print cash to stimulate their economies, potentially
devaluing paper currencies. Silver, the second-best performing
commodity over the past year, rallied to a record in April.  “Silver’s still booming and it’s been going strongly for a
year,” Currie said in interview yesterday from the mint in
 Western Australia ’s capital. “A lot of the buying is by people
new to the market,” with European and U.S. investors the most
active international purchasers of the mint’s products, he said.  Immediate-delivery silver, which rallied to $49.79 an ounce
on April 25, was at $36.33 at 4:40 p.m. in Perth, 42.6 times
cheaper than gold. Over the past year, silver has beaten all the
commodities on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index apart from top-
ranked corn. Spot gold, rallying for an 11th straight year, has
gained 25 percent.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  Gold has become the preferred “coin of the realm” during
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,  Dennis Gartman , editor of the
Gartman Letter, said in May. There is a “distinct possibility”
that  Greece , which is seeking additional financial aid, may
leave the euro zone and go back to the drachma, Pictet & Cie
Chief Investment Officer Yves Bonzon said in  London  yesterday.  “Sales of gold coins in Greece have risen considerably as
nervous savers shift out of cash deposits,” UBS AG analyst  Edel Tully  wrote in a note today, citing a report in the Financial
Times. “This ties in with our own sales of coins and small bars
to Europe which have accelerated in recent days.”  Global precious-metals sales have also been fueled by
concerns that inflation may accelerate, especially in India and
China, with the World Gold Council this month predicting a
“tidal wave” of demand from the two largest users.  China  will
more than double the planned output of official gold panda coins
this year to 1 million ounces, according to the central bank.  Full Capacity  The  Perth Mint , producer of about 6 percent of the world’s
gold bullion, introduced a web-based service last year enabling
Australian customers to buy gold and silver. A new silver-coin
press was commissioned in April and the operations are running
at full capacity to keep up with demand, Currie said.  Silver sales have also surged in the world’s largest
economy. Sales of American Eagle silver coins climbed 30 percent
to 3.65 million in May, taking the total for the year so far to
18.9 million ounces, the mint’s website shows.  Demand for gold from the Perth Mint, which is controlled by
the Western Australian government, has risen in the past 12
months, Currie said. Sales of 1-ounce gold coins in the year to
June 30 will be close to matching the record of 415,115 ounces
set two years ago. The mint processes all the gold mined in
Australia as well as imports of scrap from overseas.  “The gold price is high but it’s not moving a great deal,
so it’s not bringing new people into the market,” Currie said.
“The institutional buyers and the big banks have slowed, but
the mums and dads are still buying,” he said.  Appeal of Gold  Spot gold touched a record $1,577.57 on May 2 as the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  and record-low U.S. borrowing
costs increased the appeal of gold as an alternative to
currencies. Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,546.75 an
ounce at 3:06 p.m.  Bullion may climb 23 percent to average $1,500 an ounce
this year, up from a March 1 forecast of an 8 percent gain, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences said in a report yesterday. In 2012, the metal may
average $1,550, driven higher by global investment and jewelry
demand in developing economies,  government agency  said.  Australia’s gold-mine production in the year to June 30,
2012, is forecast to increase 3 percent to 277 metric tons,
Abares said in the report. Exports may climb 15 percent to 358
tons because of a gain in refined shipments sourced from
Australian mines and overseas, it said.  Currie declined to give a total output figure for coins and
bars, or the value of the bullion stored on behalf of buyers.
Investors can opt to buy and store gold at the mint, or buy
coins to hold themselves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  