-- 
Silver Surge Makes ‘Headwind’ for Solar/Fossil Fuel Rivalry

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-06-23T11:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/silver-surge-makes-headwind-for-solar-in-fossil-fuel-rivalry.html
Soaring silver prices are hampering
the solar industry’s ability to compete with fossil fuels.  Panel makers consume about 11 percent of the world’s supply
of silver, the material in solar cells that conducts
electricity. The metal has appreciated 74 percent to $35.30 a
troy ounce on average so far this year from $20.24 last year.  Prices for solar cells have dropped about 27 percent this
year and would be even lower if each panel didn’t require about
20 grams of silver, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
That’s pushing back the date when companies such as  Solarworld
AG (SWV)  and LDK Solar Co. can deliver solar power at prices that are
competitive with traditional energy.  “Global silver prices have gone up a lot, and solar cells
use silver paste as the front-side contact material,” Shawn Qu,
chief executive of  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , which is based in  China ,
said in an interview. “The increase of the silver costs will
give us a challenge in efforts to reduce solar cell costs.”  Prices for photovoltaic solar panels were $1.49 a watt in
June, compared with about $1.80 in January, New Energy Finance
estimates, as manufacturers especially in China raised
production and incentives were trimmed in  Europe .  ‘Headwind’  “Some companies are implementing measures to reduce silver
consumption, but we believe rising silver prices could still act
as a headwind,”  Barclays Capital  wrote in a note to clients.  The price of the silver paste that Canadian Solar uses to
print circuits on the front of its solar cells more than tripled
in the past year, Qu said. That adds about 3 cents to 4 cents a
watt, or 2 percent, to the cost of the panels.  The company’s gross margins narrowed to about 15 percent in
the first quarter from 17 percent in the prior quarter as the
price of cells fell faster than the cost of production, the
company based in Suzhou New District, China, reported in May.  A typical solar cell uses 0.10 grams of silver for each
watt of generating capacity. That amounts to about 20 grams in a
200-watt panel, adding $23.52 to the cost of each panel,
according to New Energy Finance. The cost for metal in each
panel totals about 11 cents a watt, up from 5 cents a year ago,
the London-based industry researcher estimates.  Slim Margins  Solar companies “have already seen their margins being
reduced to next to nothing,” Jenny Chase, manager of New Energy
Finance’s solar analysis, said in a report. “At these prices,
silver accounts for around half of cell makers’ processing
costs,” the roughly 18 cents it takes to turn a blank silicon
wafer into a completed cell.  The surge in silver prices is squeezing margins for most
solar companies, according to research by  Barclays Capital .
Silver prices reached a record high at $48.44 an ounce on April
28, and if it returns to that level it will account for 13
percent to 15 percent of the cost of producing each panel, the
report said.  The global silver supply reached 1.06 billion ounces in
2010, up almost 15 percent from 922.2 million ounces in 2009,
according to the Washington-based trade group Silver Institute.  Including advance purchases of the metal, solar companies
consumed almost 11 percent of total silver production, according
to Prismark Partners, a New York-based technology research
company.  Solar companies and their suppliers are looking for ways to
reduce the amount of silver used in cells. Canadian Solar’s Qu
said his company is tweaking its manufacturing process to use
thinner wiring on the front of solar cells.  Thin-Film Advantage  High silver prices may provide a competitive advantage to
companies that make thin-film solar products such as  First Solar
Inc. (FSLR)  A spokesman for Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar said the
company’s cells are made with cadmium-telluride rather than the
polysilicon used in typical photovoltaic cells, and do not use
any silver.  The standard, 156-millimeter photovoltaic cell has about
280 milligrams of silver on the front, and a slight amount on
the backside as well, said Walt Cheng, global business director
for DuPont Microcircuit Materials, the unit of DuPont Co. that
produces the silver metalization paste used to make the wiring.  The price of silver makes up 70 percent to 90 percent of
the cost of DuPont’s paste, and the company passes on to
customers fluctuations in the metal’s value. DuPont expects to
 introduce  this year a version of its Solamet paste that reduces
silver content by about 10 percent, and may eventually reach 20
percent.  Studying Silver  “We are accelerating R&D to reduce silver content and
investigate how we can effectively transfer technology
internally from DuPont’s products in the automotive and display
industries into photovoltaics,” Cheng said.  Smaller panel makers may have the most to lose from high
silver costs.  “Solar manufacturers that are large-scale and have high-
end tech can manage rising prices pretty well,” Cheng said.
“Customers that are second and third tier have a harder time
with higher silver prices. The strong module makers will get
stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  