-- 
Slovak Ruling SaS Party Rejects Creation of EU Bailout Mechanism

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-06-22T14:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/slovak-ruling-sas-party-rejects-creation-of-eu-bailout-mechanism.html
Slovakia’s Freedom and Solidarity
Party, a member of the ruling coalition, rejected bolstering the
European Union’s temporary bailout fund and the creation of its
permanent replacement.  Four ministers for the party, known also as SaS, and one
minister from the  Christian Democrats  voted against Slovakia’s
participation in the European Stability Mechanism, as well as
increasing the Slovak contribution to its temporary predecessor,
Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  told reporters after a government
meeting today. SaS’s 21 lawmakers will also reject the
proposals in parliament, where the four-party coalition has 77
of 150 seats, Chairman Richard Sulik said.  The proposals “have been approved by the government, but I
can’t guarantee their passage in parliament,” Radicova, who
will need to seek the support of the opposition led by her rival
and former premier  Robert Fico , said.  European leaders agreed earlier this year to set up the ESM
from 2013 to replace a temporary bailout fund called the
European Financial Stability Facility, created after Greek
fiscal troubles escalated. As the crisis spread to other
countries, including  Portugal , voters in northern euro-region
members became increasingly reluctant to use taxpayers’ money to
help debt-laden peers.  Member countries are supposed to pledge 620 billion euros
($896 billion) in guarantees and 80 billion euros in cash to
secure the permanent mechanism’s AAA rating and an effective
lending capacity of 500 billion euros. Slovakia’s share would be
about less than 1 percent of the total.  Slovakia is the only country in the euro region that
refused to participate in the 110 billion-euro bailout of  Greece 
agreed more than a year ago. Sulik said today a default is the
only solution to Greece’s fiscal problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 