-- 
Solorz-Zak Said to Be Picked for Exclusive Polkomtel Sale Talks

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-22T09:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/solorz-zak-said-to-be-picked-for-exclusive-talks-to-purchase-polkomtel.html
Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz- Zak was picked by Polkomtel SA’s owners for exclusive talks to
buy Poland’s second-largest mobile phone operator, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which owns 24 percent of Polkomtel, is
unlikely to exercise its option to buy the operator, said one of
the people. Solorz-Zak beat offers from private-equity firm Apax
Partners LLP and  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s largest phone
company, the people said, declining to be identified because the
process is confidential.  Polkomtel could help Solorz-Zak, the billionaire who
controls television network  Cyfrowy Polsat SA (CPS) , tap rising demand
for bundled phone, Internet data and TV services. Solorz-Zak,
the second-wealthiest Pole according to Forbes magazine, was
picked after getting financing for a bid that values the phone
company at about 18 billion zloty ($6.5 billion), people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Spokespeople for Solorz-Zak and Polkomtel’s owners declined
to comment today. The shareholders of the company, which also
include power utility PGE SA, copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz
SA (KGH)  and oil refiner PKN Orlen SA, plan to complete the sale by
the end of this month, PGE Chief Executive Officer  Tomasz Zadroga  said June 20.  Sale Process  The owners of Polkomtel, the operator of Plus brand, have
been trying to sell the company since at least 2003. The company
has about 14 million customers for voice and Internet services.
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange unit is the country’s biggest mobile-
phone operator.  The 2008 sale by Denmark’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent holding
in Polkomtel provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) minimum
valuation, KGMH said in November.  Solorz-Zak’s bid represents enterprise value, including
about 2 billion zloty of net debt, a 1.03 billion-zloty dividend
due to current shareholders and a 130.7 million-zloty fine
imposed by Polish antitrust regulators, people familiar with the
offer said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  