-- 
Spanish Mortgages Decline at the Fastest Rate Since the Housing Boom Ended

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-22T09:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/spanish-mortgages-decline-at-the-fastest-rate-since-the-housing-boom-ended.html
The number of mortgages issued for
Spanish homes in April registered a drop unseen since the end of
the housing boom, confirming the weakness of a real-estate
market that is penalizing the country’s banks and growth.  The number of new mortgages declined 38.2 percent from a
year earlier, the National Statistics Institute said in an e-
mailed statement today. That’s the most since April 2009, when
buyers pulled out of the real-estate market after the end of the
housing boom in 2008. The value of mortgage lending slumped 45.1
percent from a year earlier, the most in more than two years,
the institute said.  The decline reflects the impact of a 21 percent jobless
rate on consumers’ borrowing capacity. The number of foreclosed
properties in  Spain  has climbed tenfold since 2008, according to
 Idealista.com , the country’s largest property website. The
extent of the drop is also due to the end of a tax incentive in
January, announced by the government last year to encourage
buyers to bring forward purchases and work through a backlog of
1 million unsold homes.  “This addition to a long series of negative data confirms
Spanish growth is weak, but it is still too early to tell
whether the real-estate sector is actually worsening,” said
Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an economics professor at  Madrid ’s IESE
Business School.  Bankia IPO  The data come as Spain’s central bank shepherds lenders
formed from mergers of savings banks toward market listings as
it tries to contain the cost of recapitalizing them from public
coffers. One of them is Bankia, which will register its initial
public offering prospectus with regulators next week instead of
today as planned, a person familiar with the transaction said.  “The mortgage situation isn’t good news for the banks
because they have Spain’s stock of unsold homes and credit is
becoming rarer and more expensive,” Diaz-Gimenez said.  A possible default by  Greece  and mounting bad loans tied to
domestic property have driven up Spanish banks’ borrowing costs.  Transaction volumes on Spain’s real-estate market won’t
pick up until prices fall more, Diaz-Gimenez said.  Home prices  fell for the 12th straight quarter in the three
months through March, making for a 15 percent drop from the peak
three years earlier, the statistics institute said on June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  