-- 
Standard Bank Payout May Boost Shares, Avior, Coronation Say

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-06-23T09:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/standard-bank-payout-may-boost-shares-avior-coronation-say.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd., South
Africa’s worst-performing bank stock this year, is poised to
return excess capital to investors by increasing dividends,
helping to boost its shares, Avior Research Ltd. and  Coronation
Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  said.  Africa’s largest bank in March sold its 36 percent stake in
 Russia ’s Troika Dialog for $372 million.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., which owns 20 percent of Standard Bank,
agreed to buy Standard Bank Argentina for as much as $800
million, El Cronista newspaper said on June 17, citing people it
didn’t identify. Standard Bank spokesman Ross Linstrom declined
to comment on the report when contacted by phone yesterday.  Standard Bank has excess capital of about 3 billion rand
($443 million) in  South Africa  in addition to the Troika sale
proceeds and no less than $500 million it could make by selling
its Argentine unit, Faizal Moolla, a banking analyst at Avior
Research in  Cape Town , said in a June 22 interview. “We’re
optimistic that they would return a majority of that to
shareholders,” said Moolla, who rates Standard Bank a “buy.”  With operations in 17 African countries, Johannesburg-based
Standard Bank is focusing on the continent and its 1 billion
people to benefit from increased trade and investment banking
transactions with other emerging-market nations. The lender last
year cut 1,641 jobs in Johannesburg and  London  to offset lower
earnings as lending growth slowed and impairment charges rose.  Stock Slides  Standard Bank’s shares retreated for a second day, losing
0.3 percent to 96.10 rand by 10:55 a.m. in Johannesburg, taking
losses for this year to 11 percent. Standard Bank’s share-price
performance is the worst of the six lenders in the FTSE/JSE
Africa Banks Index. That compares with an 11 percent gain by
 Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI)  and 6.9 percent increase by  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-biggest bank.  Standard Bank will probably gradually lower its dividend
cover rather than making a special payout, Moolla said. Standard
Bank cut its dividend cover to 1.85 times in 2010 compared with
its target of 2.5 times. This approach will leave it with enough
capital to fund its expansion plans in Africa, he said.  Further acquisitions in Africa would make sense only if
they could generate a minimum return on equity of 20 percent,
said Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $34
billion at Coronation Fund Managers in Cape Town.  “If they can find somewhere they can generate a decent
ROE, then absolutely,” he said.  The sale of its Argentine unit is the right thing for
Standard Bank to do following its strategy shift in the wake of
the global financial crisis. “ Argentina , while a great buy for
them, doesn’t fit into their overall strategy.”  Not Meeting Hurdles  Purchases in Africa haven’t met Standard Bank’s “hurdles
in the past” and investor returns would be better enhanced by
returning capital to shareholders, said Rob Nagel, who helps
manage the equivalent of $7.4 billion at Cadiz Asset Management
in Cape Town.  “Acquisitions in Africa have been quite expensive,” Nagel
said. “Quite a large portion of shareholders would like capital
back.”  While the potential of capital being paid out to
shareholders will be positive for Standard Bank’s stock, no
decision is likely to be made until there is more clarity on
global capital requirements, Coronation’s Chester said.  Capital rules for internationally active lenders published
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  last year require
banks to hold core capital equivalent to 7 percent of their
risk-weighted assets. At the end of March, Standard Bank had a
total capital adequacy of 15.1 percent.  ‘ Africa  at Our Core’  “Our  capital ratios  are gradually strengthening and would
be further strengthened by the disposal of our share in Troika,
which should complete by October/November this year,” Finance
Director Simon Ridley said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  “With Africa at our core we also need to ensure that
sufficient capital is allocated to grow our South African and
rest-of-Africa franchise,” Ridley said. “If capital can’t be
used it will be returned to shareholders. This will all be
considered by our board at year-end but it is clear that we’re
in a reasonably strong capital position to support growth.”  The “outstanding issue is the Basel regulations,
finalizing what the  capital requirements  are going to be and how
our own regulators apply that locally,” Chester said. “You
don’t want to pay capital out and then find you need to raise it
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  