-- 
Strengthening China Coal Demand Lifts Largest Shipping Costs

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-06-22T16:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/strengthening-china-coal-demand-lifts-largest-shipping-costs.html
Strengthening Chinese demand for
power station coal helped bolster charter rates for capesize
vessels that can carry the fuel.  Charter rates for the vessels, which also transport  iron
ore , rose 2 percent to $10,453 a day, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London. That was the biggest gain of the four vessel
sizes tracked by the bourse’s Baltic Dry Index, which fell 0.2
percent to 1,406 points. Coal used by power stations is also
called thermal coal.  “You still have unbelievable strength in the thermal coal
market,”  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New York-based
shipping analysts Commodore Research & Consultancy, said by
phone. That has helped demand for capesize ships the most
because they are cheaper than other vessels, he said.  Owners are contending with a fleet that’s growing faster
than seaborne trade in raw materials. Seaborne trade in bulk
commodities will expand 3.9 percent to 3.4 billion metric tons
this year while the fleet’s transportation capacity will swell
13 percent to 612.9 million deadweight tons, estimates the
research unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Panamax vessels, the largest to pass through the Panama
Canal, declined 1.7 percent to $14,580 a day. Supramax and
handysize ships carry grains, coal and ore. Supramaxes rose 0.04
percent to $13,789 a day; while handysizes fell 0.5 percent to
$10,738, the 23rd consecutive decline.  Demolition of aging capesizes rose to a record in the
year’s first five months as rental rates for the vessel slumped,
said Braemar Shipping Services Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest
publicly traded shipbroker. Rising metal prices enabled some
owners to get as much as $10 million, an amount it would take
three years to earn in the current charter market, by selling
capesizes for scrap this year, Braemar estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  