-- 
Sudan’s Southern Kordofan State Clashes Displace 73,000 People, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-22T18:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/sudan-s-southern-kordofan-state-clashes-displace-73-000-people-un-says.html
Clashes between Sudanese government
forces and units from  Southern Sudan ’s army in the northern
border state of Southern Kordofan have displaced more than
73,000 people since June 5, the  United Nations  said today.  Sudan’s army arrested six Sudanese staff of the UN
peacekeeping mission today at the airport of Kadugli, the
capital of Southern Kordofan state, in an act that “constitutes
a clear violation” to agreements between the mission and the
government that grant immunity to all UN staff in the country,
said UN spokesman Kouider Zerrouk.  The Sudanese government must “ensure freedom of movement
for all UN staff regardless of their origin, ethnic, or
political affiliations,” he said by phone from Khartoum,
Sudan’s capital.  Fighting in the border areas of Southern Kordofan and the
disputed region of Abyei have raised concern about a resumption
of the two-decade civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-
biggest oil producer that ended with a 2005  peace agreement . The
south is due to become independent on July 9.  Returning Home  Some of the displaced people in Southern Kordofan, the
north’s only oil-producing state, have returned to their homes,
the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said
in an e-mailed statement.  “Humanitarian agencies are still unable to freely access
the civilian population, despite improvements in the security
situation” since June 19, the office said.  Delegations from the north and south in the Ethiopian
capital,  Addis Ababa , are discussing a cease-fire in Southern
Kordofan, according to  Thabo Mbeki , the head of the African
Union’s High-Level Implementation Panel on Sudan.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned violence against
civilians in the state and urged northern and Southern Sudan to
work toward a ceasefire.  “The situation in Southern Kordofan is dire, with deeply
disturbing reports of attacks based on ethnicity,” Obama said
in an e-mailed statement. “The  United States  condemns all acts
of violence, in particular the Sudanese Armed Forces aerial
bombardment of civilians and harassment and intimidation of UN
peacekeepers.”  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent. The crude is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to  Sudan ’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 