-- 
Thailand Heading for Second Record Sugar Crop May Curb Prices

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-06-22T09:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/sugar-crop-in-thailand-climbing-to-record-for-second-year-may-curb-prices.html
Thailand , the world’s second-biggest
sugar exporter, is poised for its second straight year of record
production and shipments, helping curb prices that have advanced
26 percent in less than seven weeks.  Output may climb to 10 million metric tons and exports to
7.5 million tons from the crop that starts in November, said
Parin Amatyakul, vice president of Mitr Phol Sugar Corp., the
largest miller in Thailand. That’s up 4.2 percent and 7.1
percent from 9.6 million tons and 7 million tons this year.  Increasing supplies may cap an advance in prices that have
surged 63 percent in the past year, potentially helping  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, trim the $1.7 billion it
spends annually on the sweetener. A higher crop may also
contribute to limiting global food costs that the United Nations
estimates climbed to a record in February.  “It will put pressure on prices,”  Naim Beydoun , an
analyst at Swiss Sugar Brokers in Rolle,  Switzerland , said in an
phone interview. A widening global surplus may push New York
prices down by 15 percent to 22 cents a pound in July, said
Beydoun, 52, who has traded the sweetener since 1985.  Global supplies will outpace demand by 10.3 million tons
next season, reversing a shortage of 500,000 tons this year, as
producers respond to high prices, according to  C. Czarnikow
Sugar Futures Ltd . Production will increase 14.2 million tons to
a record 182.2 million tons, the broker said on June 3.  Bumper Crop  “We will have another bumper crop as farmers have
increased plantings,” Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, the secretary-
general of the Office of the Cane & Sugar Board, said in an
interview yesterday. “Rice and cassava producers have shifted
to cane because of better returns.”  The cane harvest in Thailand may increase 5.7 percent to a
record 105.1 million tons in the year from November as planted
area gains by 2.6 percent to 8.37 million rai (1.3 million
hectares), according to the  Office of Agricultural Economics .  Congestion at ports in  Brazil , the world’s biggest exporter,
has contributed to price gains. As of June 9, as many as 68
vessels were lined up at two Brazilian ports, according to the
shipping agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  Ports in Thailand are also suffering delays. Vessels are
waiting to load as much as 900,000 tons, about 13 percent of
this year’s supply, said Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive
officer of Thai Sugar Trading Corp., the largest shipper. A lack
of labor and a shortage of lighters to carry the cargo to
waiting vessels have contributed to the delays, he said.  ‘Grievous Problem’  “It’s a grievous problem,” said Prasong Serisathien, 62,
general manager of Siam Sugar Export Co., the second-biggest
exporter. “Problems next year could be worse,” said Prasong,
who has been in the industry since 1971.  Increasing global supplies may help Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle, which said on June 8 its raw-materials bill may
rise by as much as 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion) this
year, the most ever. The company, whose brands include Smarties
and Aero, spends about 1.5 billion Swiss francs a year on sugar.  Raw sugar for October delivery lost 1.3 percent to 25.93
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  