-- 
Swaziland’s Government Asks South Africa to Help Solve Financial Problems

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-22T12:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/swaziland-asks-south-africa-to-help-solve-budget-crisis-as-money-runs-out.html
South Africa ’s National Treasury is
considering a request for financial aid from neighboring
Swaziland, which is at risk of running out of money to pay state
employees, said Jerry Matjila, the director-general of South
 Africa ’s international relations department.  “The question is how much we can help,” Matjila told
lawmakers in  Cape Town  today. “We want a stable continent. We
start with our neighbors.”  Swaziland, Africa’s third-largest sugar producer, lost a
third of its revenue last year as income from a regional customs
union that includes South Africa declined after the global
economic crisis cut trade. The landlocked nation is seeking “a
very considerable amount of money” from South Africa, in
addition to an International Monetary Fund loan that requires it
to cut the state’s wage bill, Matjila said in an interview.  In April, police used tear gas, rubber bullets and water
cannons to quell protests by labor unions to demand democracy in
sub-Saharan Africa’s last absolute monarchy and to oppose state
austerity measures.  Economic growth in  Swaziland  is likely to slow to 1.9
percent this year from 2.1 percent last year, while inflation
may rise to 7.7 percent from 4.5 percent, according to the 2011
Africa Economic Outlook. The outlook, published on June 6, was
co-written by the  African Development Bank , the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, the United Nations
Development Program and the UN Economic Commission for Africa.  South Africa may have to contend with a “flood” of
immigrants from Swaziland if its financial problems are not
resolved, Matjila said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 