-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline for Fifth Day in Six; Novartis, Logitech Lead Drop

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-22T16:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/swiss-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-in-six-novartis-logitech-lead-drop.html
Swiss stocks declined for the fifth
time in six days as five companies on the benchmark measure fell
for every one that gained.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales,
dropped after one of its medications failed to gain approval in
the U.S. as a treatment for gout.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
largest maker of computer mice, slumped 3.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies declined 0.9 percent to 6,113.44 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The measure has tumbled 9 percent since
its high this year on Feb. 18 as U.S. manufacturing and jobs
reports fueled concern that the recovery in the world’s largest
economy is faltering and investors speculated that Greece will
default on its debt. The broader Swiss Performance Index dropped
0.7 percent today.  “The markets after the confidence vote are not euphoric,
but also not nervous,” said Rolf De Zaiacomo, a trader at
Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,  Switzerland . “More
movement could be seen with the next hurdle of passing the
austerity package and the increasing pressure from the streets,
but the parliament is likely to approve it. The problem isn’t
solved, but time has been gained.”  Greek Vote  Papandreou won a vote of confidence in his government from
155 out of 300 lawmakers in Athens last night. He still needs
parliamentary approval next week for a 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default. After the
vote, police used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse
thousands of citizens protesting planned budget cuts.  European finance ministers said this week that they will
hold off a 12 billion-euro payment promised for July until the
Greeks approve plans to cut the deficit, sell state assets and
impose a levy on wages. About 3,000 people, who were protesting
outside Parliament, threw water bottles, cans and fruit at
police when they learned of Papandreou’s victory.  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  will release
its statement on  interest rates  at 12:30 p.m. in  Washington .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to meet
the press at 2:15 p.m.  Novartis slipped 1 percent to 50.80 Swiss francs after a
U.S. advisory panel failed to support the company’s canakinumab
drug, which was developed to treat a rare inflammatory disease.
The risk that it may increase infection outweighed the drug’s
benefit in relieving gout symptoms, the Food and Drug
Administration panel said.  Logitech, Nobel Biocare  Logitech dropped 3.1 percent to 9.36 francs, the fifth
decline in six days.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the second-biggest maker of
dental implants by sales, climbed 1.9 percent to 16.85 francs as
Dentsply International Inc. agreed to buy AstraZeneca Plc’s
Astra Tech unit, a Swedish manufacturer of dental prosthetics
and medical devices, for $1.8 billion.  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , an offshore oil services
company, jumped 3.6 percent to 15.18 francs after BP Plc’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Dudley said at a conference in  London 
today that the settlement with Weatherford to cover its
liability for the 2010 disaster and subsequent oil spill shows
BP was not solely responsible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 