-- 
British Investment Banks to Face Bribery Scrutiny From FSA

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-06-22T16:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-k-investment-banks-to-face-bribery-scrutiny-from-regulator.html
The U.K. finance regulator will
examine whether investment banks have systems and controls in
place to prevent their employees from paying bribes to win
business.  Investment banks will be the subject of a future review,
Tracey McDermott, the acting head of enforcement for the
Financial Services Authority, said today at a financial-crime
conference in  London .  The Financial Conduct Authority, one of the agencies that
will take on the FSA’s duties when it is broken up, will
continue to focus on “the use of firms as a conduit for
financial crime,” McDermott said.  The FCA will pursue the
objectives of “keeping crooks out of finance, encouraging
industry to strengthen its defenses, and educating and warning
consumers about the dangers they may face.”  The U.K. Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
strictest anti-corruption laws in the world, will take effect
July 1. Under the law, U.K. companies without adequate controls
to prevent corruption may be prosecuted if a bribe is paid by
third parties on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if
company officials didn’t know. The  Serious Fraud Office , which
will be responsible for enforcing the law, has never prosecuted
an investment bank for overseas corruption.  In 2009, the FSA fined insurance broker Aon Ltd. 5.25
million pounds ($8.5 million) for failing to prevent a number of
suspicious payments to overseas firms and individuals between
2005 and 2007. At the time it was the largest financial crime-
related fine imposed by the regulator.  ‘Very Aware’  Jeremy Cole, a bribery, corruption and fraud partner at law
firm  Hogan Lovells , said U.K. financial institutions were “very
aware” of their obligations under the bribery act, and all
banks with branches in the country will be subject to the rules.  “If there are concerns, it will be in relation to overseas
financial institutions headquartered outside the U.K. who might
not be aware they are caught by the bribery act,” he said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission launched a
probe this year to determine whether financial firms made
improper payments to secure investments from sovereign wealth
funds. Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, KKR & Co. L.P. and
Blackstone Group LP are said to have received requests for
information, according to people with knowledge of the probe.  Money-Laundering Risks  In a separate review published today on how banks manage
money-laundering risks, the FSA said that lenders “appeared
unwilling to turn away, or exit, very profitable business
relationships” where “there appeared to be an unacceptable
risk of handling the proceeds of crime,” the regulator said in
a statement.  The FSA said it has “serious concerns” about the findings
and two banks were referred to its enforcement division for
“apparent serious weaknesses” in their risk management.  About a third of the 27 banks whose money-laundering
controls were examined by the regulator dismissed “serious
allegations” against some of their customers without adequately
reviewing them, the agency said. Seventy-five percent didn’t
adequately establish the source of their customers’ wealth.  “The entire financial services industry is united in its
commitment to keeping crime out of finance,” Brian Mairs, a
spokesman for the British Bankers’ Association, said of the
FSA’s announcement. “We are working with the regulators to
strengthen our defenses against financial crime, and will be
responding in detail to the consultation announced today.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story: Kit Chellel in London
   cchellel@bloomberg.net . 