-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for June 17 (Text)

-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-22T16:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-june-17-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.3 million
barrels per day during the week ending June 17, 409 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 89.2 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging 9.5 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production was almost the same
as last week, averaging 4.3 million barrels per day.
U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.1 million barrels per day last
week, up by 511 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged just
under 9.0 million barrels per day, 724 thousand barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 867 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 122 thousand barrels per day
last week.
U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 363.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
0.5 million barrels last week and are near the upper limit of
the average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 1.2 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.8 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 3.1
million barrels last week.
Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 19.1 million barrels per day, down by 2.7 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 9.3 million
barrels per day, up by 0.9 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged about 3.7
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 5.7
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.1 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  