-- 
U.S. Growth, Employment Forecasts Are Lowered by Fed for This Year, Next

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-22T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-growth-employment-forecasts-are-lowered-by-fed-for-this-year-next.html
Federal Reserve officials lowered
their forecasts for growth and employment this year and next,
underscoring the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s statement today
that the recovery “is continuing at a moderate pace, though
somewhat more slowly” than previously expected.  U.S. central bankers also said inflation, excluding food
and energy, will be somewhat higher than previously forecast. At
a two-day meeting that concluded earlier today in Washington,
they said the pace of recovery is likely to “pick up over
coming quarters.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a
press conference at 2:15 p.m. Washington time to discuss the
economic outlook and monetary policy.  The central bank released its forecasts after recent
economic data pointed to a weakening economy. Companies boosted
payrolls in May at the slowest pace since June 2010, Labor
Department figures released June 3 showed. Autos sold last month
at the weakest pace since September, retail sales dropped for
the first time in 11 months and manufacturing grew at the
slowest pace since September 2009.  The Fed will complete a $600 billion bond purchase program
as scheduled this month, according to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s policy statement today. The Fed also said it will
keep  interest rates  near zero for an “extended period” and
continue to reinvest the proceeds of maturing assets.  Second Time  U.S. central bankers said the economy will expand 2.7
percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts ranging
from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. It was the second time
this year that Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth.  For 2012, Fed officials expect the world’s largest economy
to grow 3.3 percent to 3.7 percent, according to their central
tendency forecasts. In April, their predictions ranged from 3.5
percent to 4.2 percent. Their projections for 2013 and the
longer run were little changed.  Fed officials predict the unemployment rate will average
8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the final three months of 2011,
compared with 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent projected in April.
Their estimate for unemployment at the end of 2012 was in a
range of 7.8 percent and 8.2 percent, compared with 7.6 percent
to 7.9 percent in April.  In its statement today, the Federal Open Market Committee
said it expects “the pace of recovery to pick up over coming
quarters and the  unemployment rate  to resume its gradual decline
toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with
its dual mandate” for stable prices and full employment.  A measure of inflation that strips out food and energy will
rise 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent this year, slightly higher than
the 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent estimated in April. That measure
will rise 1.4 percent to 2 percent in 2012, they said, compared
with an earlier forecast of between 1.3 percent and 1.8 percent.  Regional Banks  The forecasts are the views of the Fed’s 12 regional bank
presidents and five Washington-based governors. The central
tendency forecasts exclude the three highest and three lowest
predictions for each measure of the economy.  Officials update their predictions at the Fed’s two-day
meetings, typically held in January, April, June and November,
the same meetings at which Bernanke holds his press conferences.
The rationale for the forecasts will be provided with the
minutes for the Fed’s meeting, which will be released July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  