-- 
Foreclosed Inventory Shrinks as Homes Sell

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-06-22T13:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-shadow-inventory-shrinks-as-foreclosed-homes-sell-corelogic-says.html
About 1.7 million U.S. homes were in
the foreclosure process and expected to be put on the market as
of April, down 18 percent from the peak, as fewer loans entered
delinquency and more distressed homes sold,  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  said.  The so-called shadow inventory represented a five-month
supply at the current sales pace, the  Santa Ana , California-
based real estate information company, said today. The
inventory’s size is a barometer of housing-market health because
foreclosed homes sell for lower prices and falling values
discourage buying, said Sam Khater, CoreLogic’s chief economist.  “It’s showing there are improvements in some segments of
the market,” he said in a telephone interview from McLean,
Virginia. “It doesn’t mean housing distress is over, but it
does show that the pipeline of distress is beginning to ease.”  Mortgage delinquencies fell to 8.32 percent in the first
quarter of this year, down from a record 10.1 percent in 2010’s
first quarter, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  reported May 19.
The number of homes with mortgages at least 90 days late dropped
to 1.96 million in April from a January 2010 peak of 3.06
million,  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  reported June 1.  Foreclosures and short sales, in which the lender agrees to
a sale for less than the balance of the mortgage, accounted for
31 percent of existing-home sales in May and 37 percent in
April, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday. The
share is about 5 percent in a healthy market, Khater said.  There was a 9.3-month supply of homes listed for sale at
the annual sales pace of 4.81 million in May, down from a peak
of 12.5 months in July of last year, the group reported.  Foreclosures Fall  U.S. foreclosure filings fell to their lowest pace in
almost four years in May as banks delayed processing defaults
while they rework documentation procedures following claims they
improperly seized homes, according to  Irvine , California-based
RealtyTrac Inc., a real estate information service.  While the delays have slowed the foreclosure of properties
with distressed loans, fewer defaults and more sales of troubled
properties have had a bigger impact on reducing the shadow
inventory, Khater said. The peak was 2 million homes, or about
8.5 months of supply, in January 2010.  CoreLogic includes in its shadow inventory homes ranging
from those with 90-day payment delinquencies to bank-owned
properties. It subtracts homes where borrowers are expected to
receive a loan modification and those already listed for sale,
Khater said.  Other shadow inventory estimates are higher. About 3.8
million U.S. homes are “vacant and held off the market, part of
the large, so-called shadow inventory,” Assistant Treasury
Secretary  Mary Miller  said in a June 9 address in  Washington .
 Rick Sharga , senior vice president of RealtyTrac, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday that the number
may be as high as 5.7 million.  ‘Almost 12 Years’  “At current sell-through rates, it would actually take us
almost 12 years to work through that inventory,” Sharga said on
Bloomberg Television. “It won’t be that bad, but that just kind
of gives you an idea of the scale of the problem.”  As of May, as many as 11.1 million of the 55.1 million
homes with mortgages were in jeopardy of default over the next
five years and potential contributors to the shadow inventory,
according to  Laurie Goodman , an analyst at Amherst Securities
Group LP in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 