-- 
U.S. Postal Service to Stop Paying Into Worker Pension Fund

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-06-22T19:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-postal-service-will-suspend-contributions-into-employee-pension-fund.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , facing
insolvency without approval to delay a $5.5 billion payment for
worker health benefits, will suspend contributions to an
employee retirement account to save $800 million this year.  The Postal Service will stop paying employer contributions
to the defined-benefit Federal Employees Retirement System,
which covers about 85 percent of career postal workers, it said
today in an e-mailed statement. The $115 million payment, made
every other week, will stop on June 24, the statement said.  Suspending payments to the retirement account will help
“conserve cash and preserve liquidity,” the statement said.
The agency estimates it has overpaid by $6.9 billion and has
asked Congress to pass legislation to return that money.  Congress must “make bold, quick and substantive reforms,”
said Art Sackler, executive director of the Washington-based
Coalition for a 21st Century Postal Service, which represents
corporate mail customers. “The USPS is hanging by a thread.”  The agency and U.S. Office of Personnel Management will ask
the  Justice Department ’s Office of Legal Counsel to analyze the
decision, said David Partenheimer, a Postal Service spokesman.  “Regardless of the outcome of the Office of Legal Counsel
review, the Postal Service believes there will be no impact on
employees,” Partenheimer said in an e-mail.  Union Plans ‘Every Step’  Congress “must act now” to correct pension inequities,
and the American Postal Service Workers Union “will take every
step necessary” to protect retirement benefits, President Cliff
Guffey said in a statement. The postal union, the world’s
largest, said it represents 220,000 workers and retirees.  The Postal Service has 563,402 career employees and 469,401
retirees, Partenheimer said.  Postal Service Inspector General  David Williams  said  in
January 2010  that the agency had been overcharged for its
pension obligations. The Postal Service had overpaid by $75
billion, and if that was returned, it would create a surplus
that could be transferred to a health-benefits fund, he found.  The service wants the authority to reduce pre-payment of
health benefits for retirees and has said it will not be able to
make a $5.5 billion payment due Sept. 30 for health benefits for
future retirees. It also wants to end Saturday delivery.  The Postal Service reported a loss of $8.5 billion in its
2010 fiscal year. It also reported a widening second-quarter
loss, to $2.6 billion, on declining volumes of first-class mail.  The service will continue to transmit employee
contributions to the pension fund and will make payments to the
Thrift Savings Plan, a defined-contribution federal  retirement
plan , Chief Human Resources Officer Anthony Vegliante said in
the statement.  “The Congress and the administration have left the Postal
Service with no other choice,” said Gene Del Polito, head of
the Association for Postal Commerce, an Alexandria, Virginia-
based group that represents postal customers. “The money’s not
there, and they can’t get any more from customers that already
are fleeing the mail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Detroit at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  