-- 
U.S. Commercial Property Prices Decline on Distressed Sales, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-22T16:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-commercial-property-index-falls-to-record-on-distressed-properties.html
U.S. commercial property prices fell
in April as sales of distressed assets made up a large share of
transactions, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index dropped
3.7 percent from March and 13 percent from a year earlier. It’s
now 49 percent below the peak of October 2007 and at its lowest
point in data going back to December 2000, the company said in a
report today.  The index, which measures broad national price trends, has
fallen for five straight months as sales of distressed
properties undermined real estate values. Investor demand is
strongest for well-leased buildings in major markets such as  New
York  and  Washington , which are viewed as less risky in a
sluggish economy.  “In a case of the strong getting stronger and the weak
getting weaker, major asset/major market prices have recovered
more than half of their post-peak losses, while prices for
distressed transactions continue to bounce around the bottom,”
Moody’s said in the report.  New York office prices jumped 24 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. Office values in  San Francisco 
increased 9.6 percent, and Washington had a 6.1 percent gain.  Distressed Properties  Almost 30 percent of transactions in April involved
distressed properties, which Moody’s defines as assets in which
a default, foreclosure proceeding or bankruptcy of the owner has
occurred. It was the 17th consecutive month in which the share
of distressed deals was at least 20 percent.  The index tracks repeat sales, which totaled 175 in April,
the third-highest number since September 2008.  “The uptick in transaction volume helps set the stage for
a meaningful broad recovery in the U.S. commercial real estate
market,” Moody’s said.  Green Street Advisors Inc. , a real estate research company
in  Newport Beach ,  California , reported rising prices in May.
Commercial property values increased 3 percent from the previous
month and 21 percent from a year earlier, the company said June
6. Prices are down 10 percent from the August 2007 peak.  Green Street’s index is weighted by asset value and
includes deals that are in negotiation or under contract.
Moody’s tracks completed sales, which are equally weighted in
calculating the index.  Prices for investment-grade properties in the U.S. declined
5.3 percent in April from the previous month,  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) ,
a real estate data service based in Washington, said June 8.
Values were down 44 percent from their peak, according to the
company.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions of less than
$2.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  