-- 
U.S. Stock Funds Lose $7.33 Billion to Weekly Withdrawals

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T21:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-stock-funds-lose-7-33-billion-to-weekly-withdrawals.html
Investors pulled $7.33 billion from
U.S. stock mutual funds last week, the most since the week of
Sept. 1, while adding money to bond funds.  Funds investing in domestic equities saw withdrawals of
$6.86 billion in the week ended June 15, the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute  said today in an e-mailed
statement. International stock funds lost $463 million, and
investors put $2.41 billion into taxable bond funds and $75
million into municipal funds.  U.S. mutual funds have lost $13.1 billion in the past two
weeks, the most in nine months, and have seen eight straight
weeks of net withdrawals. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a
benchmark for large U.S. Stocks, has fallen 5.6 percent from its
high for the year on April 29 amid concern that Greece may
default on its debt and that the  U.S. economy  is losing steam.
The  Federal Reserve  lowered its growth forecast today, with
policy makers saying the economy was recovering “somewhat more
slowly than expected.”  “People are going defensive, they’re coming out of the
markets,”  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
Rhode Island, said in a telephone interview. “They’re not
rushing to emerging markets, they’re not rushing to commodities.
They’re reducing their risk or eliminating it as much as they
can.”  Bobroff said he expects investor uncertainty to persist
until after the Fed finishes its $600 billion bond-purchase
program this month and unemployment numbers are released in
July. The political battle over whether to raise the $14.3
trillion U.S. debt ceiling by Aug. 2 is also making investors
jittery, he said.  “Until we get greater clarity, I can see why people have
gone defensive or pulled in their horns, so to speak, until we
see what ultimately may come out of all of this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in  Boston  at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Keeley in Boston at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  