-- 
U.S. Home Prices Fell 5.7% in April From Year Earlier, FHFA Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T14:26:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-home-prices-fell-5-7-in-april-from-year-earlier-as-housing-struggles.html
U.S. home prices fell 5.7 percent in
April from a year earlier, signaling the housing market is
struggling to recover as foreclosures weigh down values.  The decline was led by an 11 percent drop in the region
that includes Nevada and  Arizona , the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  said today in a report from  Washington . The second-
largest slump was 8.6 percent in the area that includes Florida.  Foreclosures have boosted the supply of available homes and
reduced prices because they sell at a discount. Low  interest
rates  have done little to stimulate demand for homes as mortgage
standards tighten and unemployment hovers close to 9 percent. It
would take 9.3 months to sell all the homes on the market in May
at the current sales pace, up from 7.5 months in January,
according to the National Association of Realtors.  Prices rose 0.8 percent from March, the FHFA said.
Economists had projected a 0.3 percent decline from the previous
month, according to the average of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The monthly gain was led by a 2.2 percent increase in
the area that includes Massachusetts, and a 2.1 percent rise in
the region that includes  Texas , the report showed.  Today’s FHFA report is based on repeat sales data that
compares prices of the same properties over time. The regulatory
agency, which measures sales of homes with mortgages backed by
 Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac , doesn’t provide a specific price.  The median price of a home sold in April, the period
covered by the FHFA report, was $161,100, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  In May, the median price was $166,500, the Chicago-based
trade group said yesterday. Sales of existing U.S. homes fell
last month to an annual pace of 4.81 million, the lowest level
in six months, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  