-- 
NRG Gets U.S. Guarantee for $2.6 Billion Rooftop Solar Plan

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-22T20:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-offers-guarantee-for-2-6-billion-nrg-rooftop-solar-program.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , an independent
power producer, was awarded a conditional loan guarantee by the
U.S. Energy Department to support a distributed solar program in
28 states and Washington, D.C.  The conditional commitment guarantees 80 percent of $1.4
billion in debt facilities provided by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
the agency said today in a statement. The loans will help
finance a four-year program, named Project Amp, to install
rooftop photovoltaic projects with a total capacity of 733
megawatts on 750 industrial buildings owned by  Prologis (PLD)  Inc.,
the world’s largest warehouse manager.  The partnership and government backing will help reduce the
costs of rooftop solar projects, said Jonathan Plowe, head of
Bank of America’s energy and infrastructure solutions team.  “The scale of the project, together with the financing
structure and the DOE guarantee, will make this a game-changer
for the industry,” Plowe said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s a big step forward for solar energy and one that we think
is going to transform the way that rooftop solar works in this
country.”  Project Amp may cost as much as $2.6 billion,  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America said today. NRG has agreed
to provide equity financing for the program over the next 18
months and has a right of first offer for to fund the remainder.
Prologis will also invest in each phase, Plowe said. The initial
15.4-megawatt installation in Southern California will sell
power to  Edison International (EIX)  utility Southern California Edison
Co.  The scale of the project is “nearly equal” to the total
amount of photovoltaic panels installed in the U.S. in 2010, the
Energy Department said. Each phase will feed electricity into
the grid, rather than supplying power to the buildings where
they will be built.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  