-- 
National Political Committees Must Return Stanford Donations

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-23T03:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-political-committees-must-return-1-7-million-in-stanford-donations.html
Five Democratic and Republican
national political committees must return more than $1.7 million
in contributions received from indicted financier R. Allen Stanford to his court-appointed receiver, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in  Dallas  today awarded
final judgment in favor of receiver Ralph Janvey, who is
marshalling assets to repay investors allegedly swindled of more
than $7 billion through what the government claims was a
Stanford-directed  Ponzi scheme .  “Courts adhere to the principle that equality is equity in
dealing with the aftermath of an imploded Ponzi scheme,” Godbey
wrote in a 61-page ruling. “In disgorging the Stanford
defendants’ contributions, the political committees will endure
no greater hardship than that suffered by other innocent victims
of the Stanford defendants’ Ponzi scheme who must do the same.”  Godbey ordered the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee
Inc. to return $1,037,347; the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee Inc., $218,273; the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , $260,291; the  National Republican Senatorial
Committee , $90,960; and the  Republican National Committee ,
$140,241. The sums represent the donations the groups got from
Stanford plus prejudgment interest, according to Godbey’s order.  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with
civil and criminal allegations that that he defrauded investors
through the sale of bogus certificates of deposit sold by his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  ‘Important Victory’  “This ruling represents an important victory for the
Stanford receivership and the thousands of victims of the
Stanford Ponzi scheme,” Kevin Sadler, lead attorney for Janvey,
said in an e-mail today. “Unfortunately, the political
committees waged a costly campaign to thwart the receiver’s
efforts to recover the monies they received from the Stanford
Ponzi scheme. The receiver will be filing appropriate papers
with the court to recover the hundreds of thousands of dollars
in attorneys fees and expenses he was forced to incur in this
case.”  Mark Shank, a lawyer for the Republican committees, didn’t
immediately return voice or e-mail messages seeking comment on
today’s ruling.  “We disagree with the court’s ruling and are weighing our
options,’’ Jennifer Crider, a spokeswoman for the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, said in an e-mail.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 