-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Fed Cuts Growth Forecast, Plans for QE2 End

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-22T21:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-as-adobe-declines-following-profit-forecast.html
U.S. stocks declined, halting a
four-day rally, after the  Federal Reserve  lowered its forecast
for economic growth and said it plans to finish its $600 billion
bond-purchase program this month as scheduled.  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the world’s largest maker of graphic-
design software, retreated 6.3 percent after reporting lower-
than-expected Europe sales.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  decreased 2.3
percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said the company faces
risks from its strategy for fourth-generation phones.  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline and
considered a proxy for the economy, advanced 2.6 percent after
forecasting earnings that may top analysts’ projections.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,287.14 at 4 p.m. in New York, after rallying 2.4 percent over
the previous four days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped
80.34 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,109.67 today.  “The Fed is pretty conscious of the fact that the economy
has softened,” said Liam Dalton, president of Axiom Capital
Management Inc. in New York, which oversees $1.4 billion. “Even
though the economy may stabilize, it’s a less exciting picture
right now. Stock players are going to be a little more reluctant
to take risks.”  The S&P 500 has retreated 5.6 percent from this year’s high
at the end of April amid weaker-than-estimated economic data and
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. The benchmark gauge for
American equities was still up 2.4 percent in 2011 on government
stimulus measures and better-than-expected earnings.  Fed Cuts Forecasts  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth and
employment this year and next, projecting the economy will
expand 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent this year, down from forecasts
ranging from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. U.S. central
bankers said inflation, excluding food and energy, will be
somewhat higher than previously forecast. They said the pace of
recovery is likely to “pick up over coming quarters.”  “The economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly than the committee had expected,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in a statement.
“The Committee will complete its purchases of $600 billion of
longer-term  Treasury securities  by the end of this month and
will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its securities holdings.”  The  S&P 500  surged 23 percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s Aug. 27 speech in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where he
foreshadowed the second round of bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing or QE, to boost the economy.  Third Round  In a Twitter post this morning,  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.
in  Newport Beach ,  California , said the Fed at its Jackson Hole
meeting this August “will likely hint” at a third round of
quantitative easing and an effort to limit borrowing costs
through interest-rate caps.  “The economy would have to decelerate materially from here
for the Fed to do another round of quantitative easing,” said
 Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about $48
billion. “The economy will continue in a low trajectory of
recovery. The underlying fundamentals remain in place.”  Adobe fell 6.3 percent to $30.01. The  San Jose , California-
based company dealt with uneven overseas sales in the second
quarter while readying a new version of its flagship Creative
Suite software.  Europe  was weaker than anticipated primarily
because customers in Scandinavia and the U.K. held back
purchases, Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett said on a
conference call yesterday.  Adobe’s Profit Forecast  Adobe also said profit for the third quarter may be as low
as 50 cents a share, compared with the 54-cent average analyst
projection, excluding certain items.   Sprint Nextel declined 2.3 percent to $5.12. Investors are
optimistic about a turnaround, according to  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “We remain concerned that the
stock does not fully discount the financing risks associated
with building a 4G network, and that subscriber forecasts remain
overly optimistic given deterioration in overall post-paid
market trends,” he wrote in a report today.  FedEx climbed 2.6 percent to $91.44. The company is
benefiting from a pickup in worldwide shipping and higher
pricing. The express unit’s overall revenue per package, or
yield, added 10 percent to $22.69 in the quarter through May,
FedEx said.  “The FedEx data today is as good as anything,” said Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville,
Virginia, which manages $1.5 billion. “Boxes are still moving
and that’s a sign that business is getting done.”  More Vehicles  CarMax Inc. (KMX)  gained 7 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$32.66. The largest U.S. seller of used cars sold more vehicles
at higher prices in its first fiscal quarter.  U.S. corporate profit margins are so high that a return to
normal will cut about 3 percentage points a year from any future
stock-market gains, according to Pierre Lapointe, a strategist
at Brockhouse & Cooper Inc.  Margins in the first quarter were 11.3 percent overall and
13 percent in the non-financial category, based on Commerce
Department data. These were the highest readings since 2007,
before the latest recession started. Both were about two points
higher than the average since the 1970s.  “We see no way around margin contraction,” Lapointe and
economist Alex Bellefleur wrote yesterday in a report with a
similar chart. U.S. companies are vulnerable even though they
are increasingly generating profits overseas, they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  