-- 
U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as Fed Lowers Growth Forecast

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-22T20:56:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-company-swaps-rise-from-two-week-low-as-fed-lowers-growth-forecast.html
The cost of protecting U.S. company
bonds from default rose from the lowest level in two weeks after
the  Federal Reserve  lowered its economic growth forecast.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 97.7 basis points as of 4:34 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed after
Fed officials lowered their forecasts for growth and employment
this year and next, and said that inflation excluding food and
energy will be somewhat higher than previously forecast.  The swaps benchmark fell three basis points yesterday, the
most since March 18, before Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote of confidence from 155 out of 300
lawmakers last night. Papandreou still needs parliamentary
approval next week for a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package
of budget cuts to stave off default.  Markets were weaker this morning as “the feel good rally”
was balanced by “the realization that the Greek confidence vote
is just one step in a very difficult process,”  Adrian Miller ,
fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
in New York, said in an e-mail.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  