-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Back Coalition Protesting Risk-Retention Proposal

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-06-22T15:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-lawmakers-back-coalition-protesting-risk-retention-proposal.html
U.S. lawmakers joined business and
consumer groups in urging regulators to revise a Dodd-Frank Act
rule that they say could make home loans more expensive, calling
the measure inconsistent with the intent of Congress.  Republicans including Senator  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia and
Democrats including Senator Kay Hagan of North Carolina endorsed
the Coalition for Sensible Housing Policy’s call for changes to
the rule, which would force lenders to keep a 5 percent stake in
loans they bundle for investors. Regulators proposed exempting
home loans only when borrowers make 20 percent down payments.  The coalition of 40 groups including the  American Bankers
Association  and the Consumer Federation of America held a news
conference in  Washington  today to push for changes to the rule,
which Isakson said addresses a problem that doesn’t exist.  “We don’t have a down payment problem in this country, but
rather an underwriting problem,” Isakson said at the news
conference. The draft rule, if left as is, “would make recovery
in the housing market almost impossible.”  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
called for lenders and bond issuers to keep “skin in the game”
for securitized loans with the exception of so-called qualified
residential mortgages that are deemed low-risk, such as those
with fixed  interest rates  and long repayment terms.  Cheapest Loans  Critics, including coalition members such as the  Mortgage
Bankers Association , Mortgage Insurance Companies of America,
and the NAACP, say the so-called QRM standard could make it more
difficult for borrowers to get the cheapest home loans.  “Getting the QRM definition right is vital,”  Mark Zandi ,
chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc., said in a report
released yesterday. “Too narrow a definition could meaningfully
raise the cost of mortgage credit and reduce its availability
for many potential borrowers.”  More than 200 House members and nearly 40 Senators signed
letters last month asking regulators to revisit the proposal.  The rule is being developed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Department of Housing and Urban Development,
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Securities and
Exchange Commission,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Housing Finance
Agency. On June 7, the agencies extended the deadline for public
comment from June 10 to Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 