-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Wednesday, June 22

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-06-22T13:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-wednesday-june-22.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  At 10 a.m.m on Wednesday, Secretary Geithner will testify
before the House Committee on Small Business on “The State of
Small Business Access to Capital and Credit” where he will
discuss the Administration’s efforts to help small businesses
expand, invest, and hire.  The Administration’s multifaceted policies and programs
include tax relief, so small businesses can invest and hire;
developing new public-private partnerships to help small
businesses access the capital they need to expand; providing
assistance so small businesses can more easily reach export
markets around the world; and placing a priority on working with
small businesses through Federal contracts. This hearing, which
will be held in the Rayburn House Office Building, is open
press.  In the afternoon, the Secretary will attend the Vice
President’s next meeting of the bipartisan, bicameral group of
Members of Congress to continue work on a legislative framework
for comprehensive deficit reduction. Participants in the meeting
will include the Vice President, Senator Daniel Inouye, Senator
 Jon Kyl , Senator  Max Baucus , Representative  Eric Cantor ,
Representative James Clyburn, Representative  Chris Van Hollen ,
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Jacob Lew, and
Director of the National Economic Council Gene Sperling. This
meeting at the U.S. Capitol is closed press.  On Wednesday evening, Secretary Geithner will meet with
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  at Treasury. This
meeting is closed press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  