-- 
UAE Scales Back $6.95 Billion Lockheed Martin Missile Defense Package

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/uae-scales-back-6-95-bln-lockheed-martin-missile-order.html
The  United Arab Emirates  has scaled
back by about one-third its planned acquisition of  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  missile interceptors in what was a potential $6.95
billion package, according to the U.S. Missile Defense Agency.  The UAE last August “adjusted its requirement” to 96
 Terminal High Altitude Area Defense  interceptors from 144,
according to an unreleased “Selected Acquisition Report”
submitted to Congress in April. Bloomberg News obtained the
document, which disclosed the reduction.  The UAE also reduced its purchase -- from four to two -- of
the AN/TPY-2 mobile search and tracking radar made by  Raytheon
Co. (RTN)  The new radar plan supports two missile batteries, rather
than three, the MDA said.  The UAE is seeking to be the first Thaad international
buyer. In September 2008, when the deal was first  proposed  for
congressional approval, the Pentagon said it would be worth as
much as $6.95 billion if all options were exercised. The UAE is
also buying the Lockheed Martin-Raytheon  Patriot Pac-3 missile 
for low-level air defense.  The Thaad missile is also a centerpiece of the regional
missile defense that the Obama administration plans to deploy in
the  Middle East  against  Iran ’s medium- and long-range ballistic
missiles. Batteries of land-based interceptors would be linked
to the U.S. Navy radar and control systems on Aegis-class
destroyers and cruisers.  Talks ‘Constructive’  UAE spokesman Bader Bin Saeed, in an e-mail statement, said
his government had no comment. A spokesman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, Jeff Adams, said in an e-mail
that negotiations are ongoing. “We cannot comment on specifics
at this time,” he said.  In a May 24 interview Lockheed CEO  Robert Stevens  said
discussions with the UAE “are ongoing and constructive. The
level of interest is high and the system has demonstrated its
efficacy.” He declined to say when the discussions will
conclude in a sale.  Stevens said at a June 2 investors conference that the UAE
has “very much reinforced the desire to acquire” the Thaad
interceptors in a sale he called “a very substantial, more than
$1 billion class order.”  He said that “the timing will probably unfold in two
pieces: an advanced procurement or long-lead procurement phase,
maybe at the end of this year; and maybe by about the middle of
next year, the balance of that order.”  More Competition  Lockheed is also competing in the UAE for a battle
management, command and control system called the Extended Air
Defense Ground Environment-Tactical, Patrick Dewar, the
company’s senior vice president for strategy and business
development, said in an interview at the  Paris Air Show .  The system, valued at about $1 billion, would integrate
UAE’s Patriot anti-missile batteries with the Thaad systems,
Dewar said. Lockheed is competing against ThalesRaytheon
Systems, a joint venture of Thales Group of Neuilly-sur-Seine,
France and Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon, Dewar said.  The contract for the system may be awarded “this summer,”
Dewar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  