-- 
UBS’ Girotra Sees ‘Real Hunger’ Among Junior Female Employees

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/ubs-girotra-sees-real-hunger-among-junior-female-employees.html
Manisha Girotra, chief executive
officer of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Indian unit, speaks of her experiences as a
female manager in the South Asian nation.  Girotra joined the workforce in 1992 with ANZ Grindlays
Bank. She is among 14 of the most senior women in India’s
financial industry, half of whom have worked at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,
the country’s second-largest lender.  On why more women are succeeding in India’s finance industry:  “This is the first time in my generation in the past 20
years that women are educated and have exposure, so there is a
great hunger to prove ourselves. It’s not there in Western women.
They’ve already been through that in the 1960s.  “Our mothers’ generation was the first that instilled in
us that we should be educated and financially independent. Ours
is the generation which is playing out that.”  On the challenges banks face in retaining women:  “I now face a tough challenge retaining women in the
middle levels. As economic levels get comfortable, we being
Asian tend to focus more energy on our homes. We are not able to
retain as many women as we should be able to, given the
environment at this point and how much each company is doing to
retain and encourage talent. Where I’m seeing real hunger is at
the younger level. I hope it’s not the western phenomenon
settling into  India .”  On differences between when she started working and now:  “I worked in  London  and Delhi initially. When I started,
people would think I was a secretary of the boss who was walking
in. The best I was ever called was a journalist. As a banker
people really had difficulties connecting with me.  “When I began working, disinvestments had
begun. I had to visit government offices and people would feel
awkward just shaking my hand. It was like, ‘who is this person
who is walking in and wanting to tell us about GDRs and IPOs?’  “In India today, working in the private sector as a banker,
there is no gender bias. You are as good as the deal you bring
in, the idea you bring in, as good as the performance of the
bank. That’s all that matters. Corporate India is in a rush to
do so much that nobody has the time for gender biases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  