-- 
UN’s Ban Urges Security Council Action to Halt Syria Unrest

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-22T21:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/un-chief-urges-security-council-pressure-to-halt-syria-unrest.html
United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today urged the world’s major powers together to press
 Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad to end attacks on anti-
government demonstrators and meet their legitimate demands.  A statement or resolution by the UN  Security Council  would
be “very helpful,” Ban said at a news conference in  New York 
the day after he was appointed to a second five-year term as UN
chief.  “He has to respect the will and aspirations of his own
people,” Ban said of Assad. “He has to really take firm
measures” to address the demands of the protesters, he said.  The Security Council has been unable to adopt a position
since the demonstrations began in mid-March. China and Russia
have led opposition. Brazil,  India  and  South Africa  also have
opposed a U.S.-backed draft resolution condemning Assad’s
handling of the protests.  Protests against Assad’s 11-year rule, which followed his
father’s three decades, began as part of a wave of unrest across
the Middle East and North Africa this year that has unseated the
leaders of Egypt and Tunisia. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh is in Saudi Arabia for medical treatment for injuries
sustained during an attack that followed months of anti-
government rallies.  The U.S. is trying to circumvent opposition to the draft
resolution, first circulated by Britain, France,  Germany  and
Portugal, by referring to the violence in a separate proposed
text to renew the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission on the
Golan Heights. It includes an expression of “concern over
reported human rights abuses in Syria” and notes Ban’s report
that “anti-government demonstrations have spread” to the
Syrian-Israeli border.  Israeli forces on May 15 and June 5 fired on crowds marking
the anniversary of the 1967  Middle East  War by trying to cross
the border, which Israelis said was an effort by Assad’s regime
to divert attention from its internal woes.  Assad, in his third speech to the nation since the anti-
regime demonstrations began, said yesterday that that the
protests have been marked by “vandalism, murder and the
destruction of private property” and that the protesters are
being paid. He called for a national dialogue that may lead to
constitutional amendments.  “I do not see much credibility of what he has been saying
because the situation has been continuing,” Ban said. “There
are very serious concerns expressed by the whole international
community. This kind of message should be heard and respected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  