-- 
Turkey Yields Rise to Year High on Reserve Requirement Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-22T15:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/turkey-yields-advance-on-bets-reserve-requirements-to-be-raised.html
Turkish bond yields rose to the
highest level in more than a year on bets the central bank will
increase reserve requirements at a meeting tomorrow and after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded Turkish stocks.  The yields on the two-year benchmark bond climbed 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 9.16 percent at the 5 p.m.
close in Istanbul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields closed at their highest level since May 25, 2010, the TEB
Local Benchmark Bond Index showed. The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  of
stocks sank 1.3 percent to 61,217.96, the biggest decline in a
week.  Policy makers have raised reserve requirements for short-
term deposits four times since December to restrain borrowing
and rein in a current-account deficit that widened to $7.7
billion in April, the second-biggest gap since records began in
1984. Turkish stocks were cut to “underweight” from
“neutral” in a regional portfolio by JPMorgan, which cited the
country’s record current-account gap and accelerating inflation.  The central bank will probably leave the benchmark interest
rate at 6.25 percent in a June 23 meeting, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank will raise lira  reserve requirements  by
150 basis points this summer, Is Invest,  Turkey ’s biggest
broker, forecast. That “will create a liquidity problem and its
impact on bond yields will be negative,” Yasin Demir, a trader
at Is Invest in Istanbul, said by telephone.  The lira has been the worst-performer among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the past
month, losing 1.6 percent to the dollar in that period. The lira
was little changed at 1.6118 per dollar today.  “We see a high risk of continued lira weakness in the very
short term, which eventually may force the central bank to hike
interest rates,” said  Elisabeth Andreew , chief currency analyst
at Nordea AB in Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  