-- 
Turturro Spotlights Naples Music, Directs Woody’s Broadway Play

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/turturro-spotlights-naples-music-directs-woody-s-broadway-play-interview.html
In “ Passione ,” John Turturro’s
musical tribute to Naples, singers and dancers perform on
balconies, beaches, mountains and street corners.  “Music is everywhere in Naples and I wanted to reflect
that,” said the 54-year-old actor. “I didn’t want a bunch of
songs recorded in a studio.”  “Passione,” which opened yesterday in New York, turns 23
tunes into mini-dramas that vividly portray timeless themes of
love, betrayal and injustice. Styles range from jazz and pop to
classical and soul.  Turturro, who directed and narrates the film, wants people
to appreciate the vibrancy and passion of the southern Italian
city that many tourists avoid because of its reputation as a
dirty, crime-ridden place.  “Sure, it can be dangerous,” he said in an interview last
week. “There’s a lot of crime and they have crazy drivers. But
there’s also tremendous life. They have a great sense of
fatality and irony, which is why Naples has produced so many
great artists. It reminds me of  New York  in the 1970s, which was
also dangerous but very creative.”  Growing up in a music-loving Italian-American family in New
York, Turturro listened to all kinds of songs.  “We had  Frank Sinatra  and Ella Fitzgerald in our house,
but we also had  James Brown  and Janis Joplin,” he recalled.  Music Capital  Turturro wore jeans and a light blue shirt as he relaxed on
a sofa in the lobby of a condo building in his native  Brooklyn .
He has curly salt-and-pepper hair and wears dark-rimmed glasses
that give him a professorial look.  Warner: There’s a lot of great music in Italy. Why choose
Naples?  Turturro: Naples is the musical capital of  Italy . It was a
classical musical center and later it was a place where
classical and popular music mingled.  Warner: You describe each song as a “small screenplay” or
an “emotional postcard.” What do you mean by that?  Turturro: The performers are storytellers with fountains of
experience. For instance, the band that sings “Vesuvio”
actually lives at the foot of Mount Vesuvius.  Warner: Your brother, Nicholas, and your cousin, Aida, are
also actors. Did you put on your own plays as kids?  Turturro: I come from a very expressive family, so it’s
really not surprising that we became actors. There was a lot of
real-life drama in our house. Some of it was drama, some of it
was comedy and some of it was comic-tragedy.  Spike, Coen Brothers  Warner: You’ve done nine films with Spike Lee and four with
the Coen brothers. What’s their special appeal?  Turturro: I’ve worked with a lot of other great directors,
like  Robert Redford  and Franceso Rosi. But Spike and the Coens
have just written a lot of good roles for me. We’re all about
the same age, so maybe that’s part of it too. It’s nice to work
with people who know and trust you.  Warner: You made your reputation in quirky, small-budget
films, but in recent years you’ve done bigger Hollywood movies
like the “Transformers” series. Does this signal a major
career change?  Turturro: No, I wouldn’t say that. It’s just that these
opportunities came along. I didn’t become an actor to be in
those kinds of movies, but doing them enables me to do the other
things like plays and “Passione.”  Woody’s Play  Warner: You’ve got three movies coming out this month:
“Passione,” “ Cars 2 ” and “ Transformers: Dark of the Moon .”
How did that happen?  Turturro: It’s just an accident. Sometimes that happens and
then you don’t have anything for a whole year.  Warner: So what’s next?  Turturro: This fall, I’m going to direct three one-act
plays on Broadway written by  Woody Allen , Elaine May and  Ethan Coen . And I’m hoping to direct a movie in the spring. I like to
mix things up.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 