-- 
Vale Seeks to Build Queensland Coal Port on Tripling of Australian Mines

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-06-23T04:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/vale-to-be-bigger-than-bhp-on-current-pipeline-badenhorst-says.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore, is seeking to build its own coal terminal
in Queensland state as it expands production from three to nine
mines in  Australia .  Vale plans to apply to build one of the four new export
terminals being planned as part of a A$6.2 billion ($6.5 billion)
expansion at the Abbot Point coal port, Steve Badenhorst, Vale’s
director of operations for Australia, said today in Sydney.  Vale is spending $24 billion globally this year on
resources investments, including developing coal mines in
Colombia and  Mozambique . The deadline to lodge expressions of
interest to build the Abbot Point terminals closes on Aug. 1,
the North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp. said on its website.  “We want coal to be the third-biggest revenue stream at
Vale, behind  iron ore  and fertilizer,” Badenhorst said in an
interview at a conference. “Much of our investment is in
infrastructure.”  Morgan Stanley last month forecast a “buoyant pricing
environment” for coal for most of the next five years as
economic growth in  Asia  boosts demand and rail and port
bottlenecks keep supply tight.  Aquila Dispute  Vale’s coal output in Australia this year may be less than
the planned 8 million metric tons of coal because of flooding
earlier this year and a dispute over shipping with joint venture
partner  Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA) , Badenhorst said. Vale is also in
a dispute with Aquila over the development of the jointly owned
Eagle Downs project.  “We would love to have control” of these assets,
Badenhorst said. “However, this isn’t part of our discussions
right now. We need to find a legal framework.”  Australia’s planned carbon tax is “a risk” for Vale’s
investment plans, he said. “It largely depends on the type of
coal the tax applies to. Thermal coal cannot live with any tax
and it would kill many operations.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s proposed emissions trading
system is due to start July 1, 2012, with a fixed price for the
first three to five years before full trading begins. The
Australian Coal Association says the plan may force the closure
of 18 mines in the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  