-- 
Nadal, Murray Win at Wimbledon, Venus Williams Battles Past Oldest Player

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-23T01:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/venus-williams-beats-date-krumm-in-three-sets-to-reach-wimbledon-3rd-round.html
Top-seeded Rafael Nadal and men’s No.
4  Andy Murray  moved into the third round at the Wimbledon tennis
tournament with straight-set wins, while five-time champion
 Venus Williams  needed three sets to advance.  Nadal beat Ryan Sweeting of the U.S. 6-3, 6-2, 6-4
yesterday, lifting his winning streak at the grass-court Grand
Slam to 16 matches since losing the 2007 final to  Roger Federer .
Nadal missed the 2009 event because of a knee injury.  “I’m doing well but I need a few more adjustments,” Nadal,
25, said in a televised courtside interview. “The next match
will be a big test for me.”  Nadal next faces Gilles Muller of Luxembourg, who advanced
when Milos Raonic of Canada quit with an injury after slipping
in the first set. Muller beat Nadal in the second round of
Wimbledon in 2005 and is the last player other than six-time
champion Federer to defeat the Spaniard at the All England Club.  Among today’s action, women’s defending champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. faces Simona Halep of Romania, while
Switzerland’s Federer plays France’s Adrian Mannarino.
Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia meets South
Africa’s Kevin Anderson.  Venus Williams came from behind to beat 40-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm and avoid her earliest Wimbledon exit in seven years.
The 23rd-seeded American won 6-7 (6-8), 6-3, 8-6, in a second-
round match that took just under three hours on Centre Court.
Williams last failed to reach the third round in 2004.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “She played unbelievable,” Williams, 31, said in a news
conference. “I just thought today was a perfect storm for her
to try to get a win. Thankfully I had some answers.”  The Centre Court roof was closed because of rain that
delayed play on the outer courts until after 3 p.m. local time.  Date-Krumm, the oldest player in the tournament, took a 5-1
lead in the opening set before Williams won the next five games.
The Japanese player held serve to force the tiebreaker, in which
she opened a 6-2 lead.  Williams came back to 6-6, fighting off four set points,
before Date-Krumm hit a shot that caught the edge of the line
and was confirmed by video review. Date-Krumm then closed out
the set after 64 minutes.  Williams, who returned to tennis last week after being out
injured since January’s Australian Open, broke Date-Krumm twice
in the second set. Each player then scored an early break in the
third set and stayed on serve until Williams broke again in the
final game, clinching the win as Date-Krumm sent a shot wide.  Roddick Wins  Three-time finalist  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. closed Centre
Court play yesterday by beating  Romania ’s  Victor Hanescu . The
28-year-old won 6-4, 6-3, 6-4. Roddick played for the Wimbledon
title in 2004, 2005 and 2009, losing to Federer each time.  “There were only a couple shots I wanted back out there
tonight,” Roddick said in a televised courtside interview.
“I’m really happy with how I played. There’s not much not to be
excited about.”  The fourth-seeded Murray defeated Germany’s Tobias Kamke on
Court 1, 6-3, 6-3, 7-5. The 24-year-old reached the semifinals
at Wimbledon the past two years, losing to Roddick in 2009 and
Nadal last year.  Murray is trying to become the first British man since Fred Perry in 1936 to win Wimbledon. He’s the first British man since
tennis turned professional in 1968 to reach the semifinals or
better at all four majors.  Berdych, Fish  Last year’s men’s runner-up,  Tomas Berdych , 25, reached the
third round for the seventh straight year with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-2
victory over Julien Benneteau of  France . American Mardy Fish,
the 10th seed, defeated Denis Istomin of Uzbekistan, 7-6 (8-6),
6-4, 6-4.  France’s Richard Gasquet beat Russia’s Igor Kunitsyn in
straight sets. Another Frenchman,  Gael Monfils , the ninth seed,
beat Grega Zemlja, who was trying to become the first Slovenian
man to reach the third round of a Grand Slam. Italy’s Simone Bolelli upset 14th seed Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland.  Women’s No. 2 seed Vera Zvonareva, who lost to Serena
Williams in last year’s final, beat fellow Russian Elena Vesnina
6-1, 7-6 (7-5) in a second-round match.  Fourth seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus and eighth-seeded
Petra Kvitova moved on with straight-set victories. Germany’s
 Andrea Petkovic , the No. 11 seed, overcame  Canada ’s Stephanie Dubois in three sets to reach the third round.  Delayed Upset  In opening-round matches delayed by rain, Poland’s
Agnieszka Radwanska advanced when Olga Govortsova of Belarus
quit. Germany’s  Julia Goerges , the No. 16 seed, defeated Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain in straight sets. Lower-ranked seeds
Flavia Pennetta of Italy, Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia and
Australia’s Jarmila Gajdosova also reached the second round.  Japan ’s Misaki Doi upset American Bethanie Mattek-Sands,
the 30th seed, in three sets. Doi said that Li Na’s victory at
the  French Open , where she became  China ’s first Grand Slam
singles champion, had served as an inspiration to her.  “There was no Asian Grand Slam champion ever, so I feel I
can do,” Doi said through a translator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  