-- 
Villas-Boas Plans $130 Million Chelsea Spree, Express Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-22T07:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/villas-boas-plans-130-million-chelsea-spree-express-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Expensive Trio  Andre Villas-Boas, who is discussing personal terms to
become the next Chelsea manager, is targeting 80 million pounds
($130 million) worth of new players to join him at Stamford
Bridge, the  Daily Express   reported .  Villa-Boas wants to bring striker Radamel Falcao and
midfielder Joao Moutinho with him from Porto for 40 million
pounds, while Chelsea is ready to make an improved 40 million-
pound offer for Santos striker Neymar, the newspaper added.  Chairman’s Resolve  Falcao and Moutinho would cost a combined 70 million pounds
after Porto President Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa resolved not to
sell any of the Portuguese champion’s squad to Chelsea for less
than their release clause, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  Colombian striker Falcao, who scored a record 17 goals in
the Europa League last season, is expected to be Chelsea’s
priority and is valued at 30 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Sanchez Swoop  Manchester City  is making a last-minute bid to sign  Alexis
Sanchez  by meeting Udinese’s 30 million-pound valuation of the
Chilean forward, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Sanchez was due to discuss terms with Barcelona, though the
European champion is yet to agree on a price with the Italian
team and is struggling to raise more cash, the Mirror said.
 Manchester United  has also refused to increase its final offer
of 27 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Berbatov Bid  French club Paris Saint-Germain is ready to offer 11
million pounds for Manchester United striker  Dimitar Berbatov ,
the Daily Mail  reported . Berbatov remains keen on staying with
the Premier League champion, the Mail added.  Adebayor Exit?  Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor is a target for
Zenit  St. Petersburg  and will be allowed to leave if the Russian
club makes a suitable offer, the Guardian  reported .  Zenit is the first team to register a serious interest in
Adebayor and City is hoping to arrange a permanent deal for a
player it sent on loan to Real Madrid midway through last
season, the newspaper added.  Wickham Wants Liverpool  Sunderland’s 8 million-pound bid for Connor Wickham is set
to fail because Ipswich wants 12 million pounds, the  Daily Mail 
 reported , adding the striker would prefer to join Liverpool.  It’s the first official offer for the 18-year-old Wickham
and may spark a four-way auction with Liverpool, Arsenal and
Tottenham also interested, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  