-- 
Washington Whiffs at U.S. Foreclosure Mess: Douglas Holtz-Eakin

-- B y   D o u g l a s   H o l t z - E a k i n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/washington-whiffs-at-u-s-foreclosure-mess-douglas-holtz-eakin.html
There is little doubt that the U.S.
housing market is hurting; the latest S&P Case-Shiller index
shows residential values declined 4.2 percent in the first
quarter compared with the previous three months.  The market has struggled, partly because federal policy has
wandered all over the proverbial lot. Congress should create a
clear and effective strategy for supporting mortgages or, given
the remote odds of that happening, let the market stabilize on
its own.  Past efforts to buoy the market haven’t worked, but the
government is loath to stop trying. The weakness is both an
indication of a sputtering economy and the bursting of the
housing bubble that the federal government (and both political
parties) did so much to promote.  With this in mind, two recent developments in  Washington 
may provide a clue to the likely future of mortgage regulation.
The first was the delivery of a 27-page so-called code-of-
conduct  settlement  proposal between the companies that service
many of the nation’s mortgages and the 50 state  attorneys
general  as well as federal agencies. The second was the
 appointment  of  Sendhil Mullainathan , a Harvard University
economist, to head the Office of Research at the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  At the heart of the code-of-conduct settlement is a plan to
encourage more mortgage modifications for borrowers who are
underwater -- people who owe more than their homes are worth.
The attorneys general propose, for example, that loan servicers
-- the companies that collect and disburse payments to the
investors who hold the mortgages -- modify loans when the
investment return would be greater than if the home had been
placed into foreclosure. The recommendations also call for
servicers to provide as much as $20 billion in aid to
homeowners, much of which would be used for reducing mortgage
principal.  Little Part  Here’s the problem: Mandated principal reduction plays
little part in preventing foreclosures. Most people want to hold
on to their home as long as they can pay the mortgage, even when
the property is underwater. A recent Federal Reserve  study  found
that borrowers didn’t skip out and default until they owed 62
percent more than the house’s value. In any case, given recent
estimates that the mortgage market is more than $750 billion
underwater as a whole, a successful principal-reduction policy
would require much more than $20 billion.  So, if mortgage modifications won’t work, how about a more
market-friendly approach? Mullainathan, a prominent behavioral
economist, is the kind of thinker who might be expected to give
that a try. His 2008  paper , “Behaviorally Informed Financial
Services Regulation,” written with  Michael Barr , a former
assistant secretary of the Treasury; and  Eldar Shafir , a
cognitive scientist at  Princeton University ; argued that
consumers are “fallible in systematic and important ways.” The
goal of federal housing policy, the authors said, should be to
correct “social welfare failures,” one of which is the
preference for homeownership when renting makes more economic
sense.  Plain Vanilla  Among other things, the paper proposed that the federal
government require lenders to disclose mortgage terms (and
potential alternative options) in easy-to-understand language,
and borrowers to affirmatively opt out of plain-vanilla
mortgages. What’s more, Mullainathan and his co-authors proposed
making it costlier for mortgage originators to sell exotic loans
into the secondary market. That would make it harder for some
buyers to get unconventional financing.  Alas, many consumers choose to purchase houses even when it
is in their long-term financial interest to rent. So the
Mullainathan plan sets up a contradiction: If his proposals were
to become law, they would nudge Americans toward renting, while
many other existing policies  champion homeownership .
Furthermore, discouraging buying wouldn’t do much to help revive
the housing market.  Bigger Challenges  Other behavioral approaches face even bigger challenges.
Eric Posner, a law professor at the  University of Chicago , and
 Luigi Zingales , an economist at the Chicago Booth School of
Business, have  suggested  that the government require mortgages
to be written down in areas of the country where prices have
fallen 20 percent or more. In exchange, lenders would receive a
portion of future gains in neighborhood prices.  But why 20 percent? And, what happens if a neighborhood’s
prices rise on average, but an individual homeowner is left
behind?  Unfortunately, none of the leading philosophies coming out
of Washington today on how to change mortgage policy has much
merit. The longer the government continues to try telling
consumers how to behave, the longer the much-needed housing
recovery will take to materialize.  The truth is, there is little the government can do to
prevent the painful, but needed, marketadjustment. By moving out
of the way and allowing foreclosures to proceed in due course,
the markets will eventually clear.  ( Douglas Holtz-Eakin  is president of the American Action
Forum and was director of the  Congressional Budget Office  from
2003 to 2005. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this op-ed:
Douglas Holtz-Eakin at  dholtzeakin@americanactionforum.org   To contact the editor responsible for this op-ed:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  