-- 
News Corp. Moves Closer to BSkyB Takeover After Accord With U.K. Regulator

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-23T07:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/watchdog-ofcom-says-it-submitted-bskyb-recommendation-to-u-k-government.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  moved
closer toward U.K. government approval of its 7.8 billion-pound
($12.5 billion) bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  after
regulator Ofcom submitted its recommendation on the offer.  The review of proposed undertakings was handed over
yesterday, according to a spokesman for the U.K. regulator. A
spokesman for the Department of Culture, Media and Sports
confirmed it received the report. Full government approval would
clear the way for price negotiations.  News Corp. faces opposition from rivals who say full
ownership of the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator would give
Murdoch too much power. News Corp has offered to spin off
BSkyB’s Sky News, a 24-hour news channel, into a public limited
company. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  may start an additional
weeklong industry consultation as News Corp.’s undertakings have
changed, said a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the deliberations are confidential.  “It moves the process forward, the focus is the
construction of this independently monitored Sky News entity,”
Mike Jeremy, an analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities, said in a
telephone interview. “Once that’s out the way I think the
government will have done its job. It can’t go on ad
infinitum.”  New Negotiations  News Corp., which owns four of the U.K.’s largest
newspapers, has up to two months after winning regulatory
clearances to negotiate an agreed offer for 61 percent of the
pay-TV operator it doesn’t already own. A News Corp. spokeswoman
declined to comment.  Hunt, who has said he’s minded to approve the deal, is set
to return from a visit to  Brazil  today, according to his
department.  Murdoch may have to raise its 700 pence-a-share bid, which
was rejected last June by independent directors as too low, to
win over shareholders, investors including Odey Asset Management
and Westchester Capital Management Inc. have said.  BSkyB shares rose as much as 11 pence, or 1.3 percent, to
841.5 pence and traded at 839 pence as of 8:22 a.m. in London.
Before today, the stock has gained 45 percent since Murdoch made
its initial offer in June last year. New Corp. gained 0.4
percent to $16.72 in  New York  yesterday.  News Corp. may be willing to pay 900 pence to 1,000 pence
per share, Citigroup Inc. analysts including Thomas Singlehurst
said in March. BSkyB’s independent directors in June last year
said they may accept an offer of at least 800 pence.  Bundling Offers  BSkyb, based in Isleworth,  England , has about 16,500
employees and 10 million U.K. customers for services that
include sports, on-demand TV and high-end international content
from networks such as Time Warner Inc.’s HBO.  News Corp.’s brands include the Fox TV networks and film
studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book publisher
HarperCollins. In addition to BSkyB, News Corp. has invested in
pay-TV broadcasters in Italy,  Germany , and  Asia .  BSkyB may help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspaper business
more profitable by allowing him to bundle newspaper and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over different media platforms.
Murdoch is already leading the effort to get readers to pay for
online content amid losses at the U.K. newspapers.  The Sun, a News Corp.-owned newspaper, backed the
Conservatives in the U.K.’s general election in May after
previously supporting the opposition Labour Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  