-- 
Winklevoss Twins Drop U.S. Supreme Court Appeal Over Facebook Dispute

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-23T23:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/winklevoss-twins-won-t-pursue-supreme-court-appeal-against-facebook-ruling.html
Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss , former
Harvard University classmates of Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , said they won’t ask the U.S. Supreme Court to undo a
settlement of their claims that Zuckerberg stole the idea for
the world’s most popular social-networking site.  The Winklevoss twins said last month they would appeal a
lower-court ruling that left the 2008 accord intact. Their
lawyers said in a filing yesterday at the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in  San Francisco  that “after careful consideration, they have
determined that they will not file a petition” with the
nation’s highest court.  The brothers lost a bid in May to get a full appeals court
review. They argued that a three-judge panel erred in April when
it dismissed their claims that the settlement should be voided
because it was procured through fraud.  They alleged that  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook
didn’t disclose an accurate valuation of its shares before they
agreed to the $65 million cash and stock settlement. The appeals
court ruled that the accord barred future lawsuits and was
“quite favorable” to the twins.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, said yesterday
“We’ve considered this case closed for a long time, and we’re
pleased to see the other party now agrees.”  In a separate lawsuit in federal court in Boston, the
Winklevoss twins are seeking to uncover whether Facebook and
Zuckerberg “intentionally or inadvertently suppressed
evidence,” according to a court filing in that case today. The
complaint in Boston also claims Zuckerberg stole the brothers’
idea for Facebook.  Noyes didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
on the  Boston  court filing.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  