-- 
Women Knowing China Men Rule Prove Mao’s Half the Sky Remains Unfulfilled

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-23T05:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/women-knowing-china-men-rule-prove-mao-s-half-sky-unfulfilled.html
Li Rong had checked all the boxes
for entry into  China ’s governing class.  A  Communist Party  member and head of student government for
her department at Beijing Normal University, she had an offer to
join the staff at a local party propaganda department upon
graduation in 1999. She said no, avoiding government service in
a country where few women rise to the top.  “Women leaders are assigned to be in areas like health,
and all the departments with real power over the economy will be
run by men,” said Li, now 34 and studying for a doctorate in
education at the Chinese University in  Hong Kong . “I don’t see
the possibility for a future.”  Li’s experience is the rule, not the exception. More than
40 years after Chairman  Mao Zedong  proclaimed that “women hold
up half the sky” and a week before the Communist Party
celebrates its 90th anniversary, women are barely represented in
the top echelons of China’s government and the biggest state-
owned companies, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  “China is still a man’s world, despite the Communist
government,” said Christina Cheung, a director of Hong Kong-
based information technology and travel company  South China
Holdings Ltd. (265)  and a member of China’s top political advisory
body, the  Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference .
“The tradition is that women should care more about the home.”  Since the founding of the People’s Republic in 1949 only
two women have been appointed governor of any of the country’s
31 provinces and four biggest municipalities; none serve now. By
contrast, 32 women have been elected governors of the 50 U.S.
states in that time.  Four Among 35  Song Xiuyan, who served as governor of  Qinghai province 
until 2010, was transferred that year to a top post in a
communist-led women’s group. She didn’t respond to a request to
be interviewed.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s 35-member state council has four women,
while six of 21 members of President Barack Obama’s cabinet are
female, including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . In  France ,
five of 15 full ministers are women.  The marginalization of half the talent pool matters because
China relies on state-owned, “national champions” to help
drive economic growth while preparing for a surge of retirees.
The full potential of China’s women isn’t being tapped in those
parts of the economy and government that are shaping the
country’s future.  Wives or Widows  In the past 62 years five women have served as full members
of the ruling Politburo; three of those were wives or widows of
senior leaders. Only one woman is on the 25-member Politburo now:
State Councilor Liu Yandong. One level down, women make up just
over 6 percent of the Communist Party’s  Central Committee , while
they accounted for more than 10 percent four decades ago.  One notable exception to the female lack of progress is Wu Yi, who retired in 2008 as China’s vice premier in charge of
international trade and financial services and served on the
Politburo.  She was described by Nashville-based National Federation of
Independent business president Jack Faris in 2005 as “stronger
than a garlic milkshake” and then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  called her a “force of nature.” She was ranked by
Forbes as the world’s second most-powerful woman in 2007, behind
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Among China’s 120 centrally administered state-owned
enterprises, a list that includes the parent companies of
PetroChina Co. Ltd. and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , a woman holds the top
position in one: Shanghai-based Potevio Co., a maker of
telecommunications equipment that is headed by Xing Wei. Among
top officers, women hold about 74 of 1,141 high management
positions, according to a review of company records.  Private Business  The position of women in government stands in contrast to
their success in private business. Many of the world’s richest
self-made women are Chinese, including  Soho China Ltd. (410)  Chief
Executive Officer Zhang Xin, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
banker whose $2.9 billion fortune from real-estate makes her the
world’s 393rd-richest person according to Forbes. Zhang declined
an interview and Potevio’s Xing didn’t respond to a request.  Cheung Yan, chairman and co-founder of recycler  Nine
Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. (2689) , ranked 782nd with $1.6 billion. Six
of the world’s 19 self-made women billionaires as of last year
were Chinese, including Zhang and Cheung, according to Forbes.  “In business, women advance mainly through their own
abilities,” said Li Chunling, a scholar at Beijing’s Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences. “In government, advancement depends
on whether your boss likes you or not.”  Family Time  South China’s Cheung and Li Chunling both say women are
thwarted by a bureaucratic tradition that isn’t flexible enough
to accommodate women who want to take time off to have a family.
Women also don’t fit well into the life of liquor-fueled
official banquets where professional relationships are forged,
and those who play that game are often tapped to serve as
glorified hostesses to visiting dignitaries, Li said.  It’s part of a broader pattern in the Chinese workforce.
About 92 percent of China’s female graduate students say they
are sexually discriminated against by employers during job
applications, according to a study released by the  All-China
Women’s Federation  last year.  Pan Jintang, a professor at Beijing’s People’s University
who specializes in women’s employment and welfare, said the
small number of female political leaders is a natural result of
the economic overhauls inaugurated more than 30 years ago. Under
Mao’s Communist regime, women were promoted in government and
industry as “useless decoration,” he said.  Administrative Help  “During the planned-economy era, the government used
administrative schemes to artificially boost women’s social
status,” Pan said. “That’s no help in genuinely boosting
women’s status.”  China’s Communist Party should boost the role of women as a
way to maintain its own legitimacy, said Susan Shirk, a
professor at the  University of California ,  San Diego . She was
responsible for China at the State Department from 1997 to 2000.  “The CCP is so worried about shoring up popular support
for party rule, wouldn’t you think they would try to appeal to
women by promoting female leaders?” she asked. “Chinese
politics remains an old boys’ club.”  The questions Li Rong confronted 12 years ago remain true
for today’s graduates. Ma Haijing, 27, earned degrees in trade
and international law from Beijing’s Tsinghua University, alma
mater of President  Hu Jintao  and Vice President Xi Jinping. She
said the traditional Chinese belief that women should focus on
child-rearing may hold them back from greatness in government.  “In America,  women’s rights  are pretty much ingrained,”
Ma said. “In China, although the slogans of women’s rights are
shouted, it isn’t a belief held in everyone’s hearts.”  --Michael Forsythe, Yidi Zhao. Editors: Anne Swardson, Peter
Hirschberg  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  