-- 
Woods to Sit Out Golf’s AT&T National Tournament Next Week Amid Injuries

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-22T16:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/woods-to-sit-out-golf-s-at-t-national-tournament-next-week-amid-injuries.html
Tiger Woods will skip next week’s
AT&T National tournament outside Philadelphia as he continues to
recover from knee and ankle injuries.  Woods, 35, will sit out the U.S. PGA Tour event on
“doctor’s orders,” he said on his  Twitter feed . Woods said he
will attend the tournament, which benefits his foundation and is
scheduled for June 30 to July 3 at Aronimink Golf Club in
 Newtown Square , Pennsylvania.  “Feeling stronger every day, but not 100 percent,” Woods,
who sprained his left knee and strained his Achilles’ tendon
during the Masters Tournament in April, said via Twitter.  Woods hasn’t played since May 15, when he re-aggravated the
injuries and pulled out of the  Players Championship  after nine
holes. He missed last week’s U.S. Open, the second major
championship of the season, for the first time since 1994.  Woods, second to  Jack Nicklaus  with 14 major titles, hasn’t
won a tournament since November 2009 and has fallen to 17th in
the  Official World Ranking . He held the No. 1 spot in the
rankings for a record 281 weeks.  Woods’s status for next month’s British Open, the season’s
third major championship, isn’t known. The British Open is
scheduled for July 14-17 at Royal St. George’s Golf Club in
Sandwich on the English coast, 77 miles (124 kilometers)
southeast of London.  “Hopefully he can get healthy and can get back playing
good golf,”  Rory McIlroy , 22, told reporters after his eight-
shot  U.S. Open  win, the biggest margin at the tournament since
Woods’s 15-stroke victory in 2000. “The game of golf is a
better place with him playing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  