-- 
World Bank Approves $52 Million for Conservation in Madagascar

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-06-22T14:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/world-bank-approves-52-million-for-conservation-in-madagascar.html
The  World Bank  approved $52 million
for conservation projects across 30  national parks  and three
newly protected areas in  Madagascar .  The funds, approved by the executive board of the bank
yesterday, do not signal the bank is renewing contacts with
Madagascar’s government, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.
Most foreign donors suspended aid to Madagascar following
President  Andry Rajoelina ’s military-backed coup in March 2009.  “Biodiversity in Madagascar is a globally significant
resource and an irreplaceable public good,” Haleh Bridi, the
bank’s country director for Madagascar, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We can’t walk away from protecting it. This does
not signal the World Bank’s reengagement with Madagascar.”  The funding will be channeled through independent
organizations such as Madagascar National Parks and not through
the government, the World Bank said. Disbursement of the money
will be halted if the government fails to prohibit exploitation
of illegally logged timber or protect national parks, it said.  “The additional financing approved today by the World Bank
will cover the costs of avoiding further environmental
deterioration as a result of the political situation,” Jamal Saghir, the World Bank’s director for sustainable development in
 Africa , said in the statement.  Alliance Voahary Gasy, comprising 27 conservation groups in
Madagascar, urged the World Bank to pressure the government to
crack down on the plunder of natural resources, including
wildlife and precious woods, in a May 10 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 