-- 
Asia’s Millionaires Top Europe for First Time, Merrill Wealth Report Says

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-06-23T01:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/world-s-millionaires-rose-by-8-3-last-year-merrill-lynch-says.html
Millionaires in the Asia-Pacific
region overtook  Europe  in terms of population and wealth for
the first time in 2010, bolstered by economic growth in China
and  India , according to Capgemini SA and Bank of America Corp.  The wealth of 3.3 million high-net worth individuals in
Asia Pacific climbed 12.1 percent last year to $10.8 trillion,
exceeding the $10.2 trillion accumulated by 3.1 million
people in Europe, according to the 2011 World Wealth Report.
Global wealth held by people with at least $1 million of
investable assets climbed 9.7 percent to $42.7 trillion.  “Regionally, Asia-Pacific was the real star of the
growth story,” John Thiel, head of U.S. wealth management
for Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management
unit, said at a press briefing in  New York  yesterday. Stock-
market returns and increases in the value of real estate in
the region were major contributors, he said.  Markets rebounded following the financial crisis, with
global equity market capitalization rising 18 percent in 2010,
the report said. The MSCI AC World Index, which tracks global
stocks in developed and emerging markets, returned 13 percent
in 2010 and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index returned 17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Millionaire Fragmentation  Africa showed the biggest increase in millionaires by
region with growth of 11.1 percent, while India entered the
top 12 country rankings for the first time, with 153,000. The
number of millionaires in China grew by 12 percent to 534,500.
 China  ranked fourth in the number of millionaires, trailing
the U.S.,  Japan  and  Germany .  About 53 percent of the world’s millionaires, or
individuals with at least $1 million in investable assets
excluding primary residences and collectibles, are found in
the U.S., Japan and Germany, the report showed.  “While over half of the global high-net-worth
individuals still resides in the top three countries, the
concentration is fragmenting,” said Herbert Hensle, vice
president and head of Capgemini’s Swiss office.  The number of millionaires in  Switzerland  increased by
9.7 percent last year, supported by the Alpine nation’s
strong economy and real-estate market, the report said.  Swiss Franc   “Even though the Swiss franc went higher, the exports
of companies here have been very successful,” Peter Schmid,
chief executive officer and general manager of Merrill
Lynch’s Swiss private bank, said in an interview in Zurich.
The Swiss currency advanced 11 percent against the dollar in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Global ranks of ultra-high-net-worth individuals,
defined as those with $30 million or greater of investable
assets, increased at a faster pace than millionaires, rising
10 percent.  Growth in the number of global millionaires slowed from
17 percent in 2009, when wealth rebounded following the
credit crisis that sent stock indexes to their worst annual
losses since the Great Depression and slashed the value of
real-estate holdings, hedge-fund and private-equity
investments.  The investment mentality of millionaires has changed as
they search for increasing returns, the report said. Wealthy
individuals are allocating a higher proportion of money to
riskier assets, including commodities, and also made profits
from emerging-market stocks and bonds.  Singapore  Millionaires  On May 31, the  Boston Consulting Group  said the number
of millionaire households increased 12 percent to about 12.5
million. Singapore’s millionaire population expanded the
fastest, rising by almost 33 percent, while the U.S. had the
most $1 million-plus households, with 5.2 million, followed
by Japan and China, the study found. Singapore also had the
highest proportion of millionaire households at 15.5 percent,
followed by Switzerland and Qatar.  Singapore will displace Switzerland as the world’s top
wealth-management center by 2013, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP survey of global wealth-management
firms released earlier this week. The firms said they expect
to increase their client base among international
entrepreneurs and to decrease their base among clients with
less than $1 million in assets over the next two years, the
 study  said.  Women Gain  Women and young millionaires account for an increasing
portion of the world’s rich, Merrill’s World Wealth Report
found. About 27 percent of global millionaires were women in
2010, compared with 24 percent in 2008. About 17 percent of
millionaires were age 45 or younger compared with 13 percent
in 2008, the report said.  Paris-based Capgemini and Merrill Lynch, a subsidiary of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
compiled data from 71 countries representing 98 percent of
the world’s gross national income.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 