-- 
Myanmar Democracy Icon Suu Kyi Warns Congress of ‘Long Road’

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T18:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/myanmar-democracy-icon-suu-kyi-warns-congress-of-long-road-.html
Aung San Suu Kyi , the symbol of
Myanmar’s struggle for nearly half a century to be rid of one of
world’s most repressive dictatorships, today addressed U.S.
lawmakers for the first time by videotape and warned of a “long
road” toward democracy.  “No doubt the road ahead will have its difficulties as
well,” the 66-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laureate said in
remarks recorded in Myanmar and broadcast at the U.S. House
subcommittee on  Asia  and Pacific Affairs in Washington.
Democratic progress won’t come “as quickly as we would like.”  Suu Kyi was freed from seven years of house arrest on Nov.
13, six days after the country’s first election in 20 years
delivered a victory for a party backed by the military junta.
Her release raised the prospect of a review of U.S. and European
 sanctions  against the regime for human rights abuses, including
the jailing of 2,100 political prisoners.  The Peace Prize winner, who has spent more than 14 of the
past 20 years in detention, said U.S. lawmakers should do
whatever they can to support a probe by United Nations human
rights envoy Tomas Ojea Quintana. He was last able to visit the
country last year and described widespread abuses such as land
confiscation, forced labor and extra-judicial killings.  The junta-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party,
formed by Prime Minister Thein Sein, won the Nov. 7 election.
The ballot was the first in the country, formerly known as
 Burma , since Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy won a
landslide victory two decades ago in a result nullified by the
junta. The refusal to recognize her party’s victory led to
economic sanctions on the Southeast Asian nation of more than 50
million people.  Suu Kyi has been released two previous times since her
first arrest in 1989, only to be put under detention again, with
her latest stint starting in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  