-- 
Hyundai Teaches UAW Best Factory Job Doesn’t Need a Union: Cars

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-22T04:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/hyundai-teaches-uaw-best-factory-job-doesn-t-need-a-union-cars.html
The United Auto Workers is trying to
hold its first successful organizing drive at a foreign-car
factory in the U.S. To succeed, the union has to convince people
like Rocky Long.  “I don’t see any problems here. I don’t see how they could
help me out,” said Long, who’s worked at the  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
assembly plant in Montgomery, Alabama, for five years. Of the
union representatives who came to his home this year, he said,
“I really didn’t give them the time of the day.”  UAW President  Bob King  has pledged to organize a foreign
automaker this year to expand its bargaining power beyond the
U.S. companies it has negotiated with for seven decades. While
Detroit is mostly retooling old plants, overseas car companies
are building and expanding U.S. factories. The union is seeking
to revive membership ranks that declined 75 percent to 376,612
last year from its peak of 1.5 million.  Standing in his way are rising sales and added investments
at Hyundai’s  Alabama  complex and sites such as affiliate Kia
Motor Corp.’s factory in  Georgia . Already, King and his
organizers are learning that workers at foreign-owned assembly
plants, most of which are in the U.S. South, may not be easy to
persuade.  “The UAW has to convince workers that they need a union
when in fact without a union they got what they consider to be
one of the best jobs they’ve ever had: a good manufacturing job
with a company that’s expanding,”  Gary Chaison , a professor of
industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview.  Michele Martin , a UAW spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
requests for comment or to interview union supporters in
Alabama. King hasn’t said which automaker he’s trying to
organize.  Hyundai Costs  Hyundai’s lower wages and benefits have given it hourly
labor costs of about $44 to $48 an hour, compared to $52 an hour
at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s U.S. plants and about $58 an hour at the
U.S. factories of  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC, according to  Sean McAlinden , chief economist
with the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  While Hyundai officials declined to speak about specific
pay, workers said the hourly rate is generous for the area.  Montgomery’s median household income in 2009 was $42,346,
about $9,000 less than the national median and $6,400 less than
in Michigan, according to the U.S. Census 2009 American
Community Survey.  Wanda Carter, a Hyundai hourly worker, said she doesn’t see
a need for a union at the Alabama plant.  “Hyundai does the best they can do to work with the
Hyundai employees,” said Carter, who declined to give her age.  Volkswagen Plant  She wasn’t alone. Workers at another potential UAW target,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s new plant in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , said they
were excited just to have a job in the  auto industry . There
isn’t any talk of forming a union, said Terry Young, a line
worker.  “You don’t want to look a gift horse in the mouth,” said
Young, 34.  The position is much safer than his previous job as a
welder at construction sites and the pay is “great” for the
area, he said.  “This is one of the good jobs,” Young said. “I love
it.”  King has said the union has set aside $60 million from its
strike fund to organize the U.S. workers of an Asian or European
automaker this year. He’s said the campaign will aim to put
public pressure on the companies and accuse them of violating
workers’ human rights if they try to block organizing efforts.  ‘Human-Rights Violator’  “If a company makes the bad business decision to engage in
anti-union activity, suppress the rights of freedom of speech
and assembly, we will launch a global campaign to brand that
company a human-rights violator,” King said in a Jan. 12 speech
in  Detroit . “We do not want to fight, but we will not run from
a fight.”  Hyundai’s lower costs allow it to price the Sonata sedan
built in Alabama starting at $19,395, compared to Toyota Camry
that starts at $19,820 and a Chevrolet Malibu that starts at
$21,975. Hyundai’s U.S. sales rose 24 percent last year, more
than twice the industrywide gain of 11 percent, and its U.S.
market share rose to 4.6 percent from 2.7 percent in 2005.  “Hyundai is a rising star,”  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley, said
earlier this year. “It’s a company that’s got something to lose
if it is embroiled in a PR issue.”  About 25,000 people applied for jobs at the factory before
it opened, said  Robert Burns , a Hyundai spokesman. It employs
2,500, including 2,100 hourly workers. The turnover rate is
about 4 percent, he said.  Hyundai Production  The plant is running almost around the clock on two, 10-
hour shifts five days a week, plus some Saturdays, and is
expected to produce 330,000 cars this year, 10 percent more than
the planned capacity, Burns said.  Ashley Frye, the plant’s vice president of production,
meets each month with employees and that has contributed to a
good relationship between management and hourly workers, he
said. The factory also provides a comfortable and safe
environment, he said, noting the facility’s air-conditioning and
low rate of injured employees.  “We maintain an atmosphere of civility,” he said. “As an
example, use of salty language, we don’t allow that here.”  Wednesday is steak day in the employee cafeteria and the
annual employee appreciation day this year included a
performance by “Morris Day and the Time.”  Part of the challenge the UAW faces in organizing labor in
the South is cultural, said James Hornsby, business manager of
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 443 in
Montgomery.  ‘South Is Tough’  “The South is tough,” he said. Some of it could be “the
Southern mentality that I can stand on my own, I don’t need
anybody’s help.”  Hornsby, president of the AFL-CIO’s regional council that
includes Montgomery, said the key for his union has been
educating workers about the benefits of organized labor.  “The really hard part is that these car plants know what
they’re doing,” he said. “They come in and pay the best wage
in town. That’s to convince all of their employees that they
don’t need representation.”  Long, with a growing family at home, said he feels lucky to
have landed a job at the Hyundai plant and is thinking about
buying a house next year.  “This is probably one of the best jobs in the area -- pay-
wise, benefits,” Long said. “You can’t go anywhere with a
Hyundai shirt on without somebody saying, ‘‘Hey, are y’all
hiring?’ Everybody is trying to get a foot in the door.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  