-- 
Homebuilders Oppose Zero-Energy Homes Liked by Dow Chemical

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-22T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/zero-energy-homes-liked-by-dow-chemical-opposed-by-homebuilders.html
A  Michigan  builder has opened the
doors to a model home designed to produce as much power as it
uses, with Styrofoam insulation in the walls and solar shingles
on the roof.  Traditional on the outside, with olive-colored siding and
white-framed windows, the “net-zero energy” house by
Cobblestone Homes of Saginaw is filled with advanced technology
provided by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the maker of the shingles and
insulation.  The alliance of Cobblestone and Dow isn’t matched in
 Washington , where homebuilders are lobbying against a Dow-backed
bill before the Senate Energy Committee that sets a net-zero
energy goal for new U.S. homes and commercial buildings by 2030,
Bloomberg Government reports.  Opponents say even such a voluntary goal would pressure
writers of building codes to increase efficiency requirements,
raising prices in a struggling real-estate market.  “It creates a goal that is not economically feasible
without subsidies,” C.R. Herro, vice president for
environmental affairs at Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Meritage
Homes Corp. (MTH) , said in an interview.  New homes in the U.S. sold at an annual rate of 323,000
units in April, up from a 278,000 rate in February that matched
August as the slowest pace in data going back to 1963, according
to the Commerce Department.  About 24 percent of homes that sold in April were
foreclosures, a record high, according to Seattle-based Zillow
Inc., which publishes housing information.  ‘Everybody Benefits’  Residential and commercial properties account for about 40
percent of energy consumed in the U.S., making them a target for
U.S. policy makers trying to meet rising demand without
increasing greenhouse gases or air pollution.  Conservation also avoids parochial fights over energy
sources, backers such as Senator Jeanne Shaheen say.  “Whether you support nuclear or natural gas or wind or
solar, or any combination of those, everybody benefits” from
energy efficiency, Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, said after
a June 9 hearing on the legislation.  Her bill, co-sponsored by Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio
Republican, is a bipartisan rarity for an energy measure in the
current Congress, where the parties have split on offshore
drilling, oil and gas tax cuts, and greenhouse-gas caps.  The  Shaheen-Portman bill  directs the Energy Department to
regularly set targets for energy efficiency, after weighing
costs and benefits, and authorizes as much as $100 million a
year from 2012 to 2015 for technical assistance and incentive
funding to states that adopt the provisions. Standards would be
developed by independent bodies that write building codes for
states and cities.  ‘Aspiration,’ Not Requirement  Net-zero energy is “an aspiration” rather than a
requirement, Portman said at the hearing.  Kateri Callahan, president of the Washington-based Alliance
to Save Energy, a group funded in part by companies such as Dow
and 3M Co., told the committee that by 2035, the building-code
provision would save about 4.4 quadrillion British thermal units
annually, equivalent to the energy used in  Florida .  The measure also would update standards for home appliances
such as freezers and refrigerators, authorize a $400 million
loan program to help consumers save energy, and set up a $700
million revolving loan program to reduce energy for
manufacturers and other industries.  The biggest savings, about $90 billion a year for
homeowners and businesses, comes from the efficiency goal for
homes and commercial buildings, according to the energy alliance
and a letter Shaheen and Portman sent to colleagues.  $250,000 Home  Cobblestone Homes built the showcase in Midland, Michigan,
Dow’s hometown, for about $250,000. Dow participated in the
project to show net-zero homes can be built “right now with
existing technologies,” said Jessica Dub, a Dow spokeswoman.  Features such as air-tight windows, compact-fluorescent
 light bulbs  and a geothermal heating and cooling system will
save $2,441 in energy costs and avoid 30,233 pounds of carbon
dioxide a year, according to a statement from Dow.  The enhancements also add $46,000 in construction costs,
said Dale Winger, marketing manager for Dow. That means 18 years
would pass before a homebuyer recouped the outlay. Homeowners
would see a payback in 14 years if rising energy costs are
included in the calculation, Winger said.  Tony Crasi, who owns a building company near Akron,  Ohio ,
estimated it would cost him $40,000 extra to build a net-zero
home and the break-even point wouldn’t come for five decades.
Crasi testified before the Senate committee on behalf of the
160,000-member National Association of Home Builders based in
Washington.  Not Realistic  Net-zero “is not a realistic goal by today’s development
standards,” John Bryant, senior director of federal affairs for
Herndon, Virginia-based Naiop, a commercial real-estate
development association formerly known as the National
Association of Industrial and Office Properties, said in an
interview.  Dow and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  of  Morris Township ,
 New Jersey , which makes home products such as programmable
thermostats and insulation, were among 100 businesses,
environmental groups and other interests that said in a June 9
letter that new codes would encourage more investment in  energy
efficiency .  “Building codes help investors overcome the market
barriers that impede energy savings” and will reduce costs for
businesses, according to those signing the letter.  Consumers and businesses now spend $25 billion to $30
billion a year on energy-efficient products, Skip Laitner,
director for economic and social analysis at the American
Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, based in Washington,
said in an interview.  That could double under energy-efficiency legislation such
as the Shaheen-Portman bill, saving the cumulative energy
equivalent of 60 billion barrels of oil by 2030, Laitner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 Jsnyer24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  