-- ‘Cherry Orchard’ Gets Arias, Foxtrots in New Paris Work: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/-cherry-orchard-gets-arias-foxtrots-in-new-paris-work-jorg-von-uthman.html
Chekhov’s “The Cherry Orchard” is a
play that will continue to be performed long into the future.
I’m not so sure about Philippe Fenelon’s new opera.  Still, “La Cerisaie,” which just had its world premiere
at the  Palais Garnier  in Paris, doesn’t lack merit.  This is Fenelon’s sixth opera. Three previous works also
were first staged in Paris -- “Salammbo” (based on Flaubert’s
novel), “Faust” and “Judith” (based on plays by Nikolaus
Lenau and Friedrich Hebbel). “Salammbo,” especially, was
memorably fierce and exotic.  Fenelon, born in 1952, is a well-read man.  His dream of setting Chekhov’s last play (1904) to music
came true in 2010, when the French and the Russian governments
held a series of cultural events. The -- Russian -- libretto was
written by music critic and translator Alexei Parin.  The work first was performed in concert, without costumes
and sets, in December 2010 at Moscow’s  Bolshoi Theater .  The opera dispenses with the first two acts of the play. It
starts with the Act III ball, which is interrupted by the news
that Lyuba Ranyevskaya’s famous cherry orchard has been bought
at auction by Lopakhin, the son of a serf on the estate who has
become a successful businessman.  Instead of giving it back to the erratic lady, as he first
intended, Lopakhin has it razed to make room for dachas. She
returns to her lover in Paris, and her incompetent, though
charming, brother Leonid resigns himself to his fate and, for
the first time in his life, takes a job.  Dream Scene  Fenelon and Parin have added a few things to Chekhov’s
plot: Grisha, Lyuba’s little son, who drowned before the curtain
goes up, appears in a dream scene and a nostalgic epilogue with
the family playing hide-and-seek in the garden.  From time to time, a chorus of white-clad girls pops up and
interrupts the action with folk songs like the peasants in
“Eugene Onegin.” Firs, the old butler, is sung by a mezzo;
 Charlotte , the German governess, by a bass.  Despite the additions, the performance lasts less than two
and a half hours (intermission included).  Fenelon is no iconoclast. He doesn’t torture the listener
with extreme dissonances. He uses a regular orchestra, conducted
by Tito Ceccherini, with 60 musicians in the pit and a dozen on
stage.  Musical Quotes  Here and there, he alludes to Mussorgsky, Shostakovich and
other Russian composers.  The dances are ironic transmogrifications of waltzes,
polkas and foxtrots. Unlike other contemporary composers,
Fenelon doesn’t content himself with an all-purpose parlando: He
writes real arias, some quite demanding.  His music is technically impeccable, often pleasant, but on
first hearing, not so memorable.  The singers, more or less identical with those at the
Moscow concert, are uniformly good. Ulyana Aleksyuk and Anna
Krainikova as Anya and Varya, Lyuba’s daughters, make the
strongest impression.  Jean-Pierre Vergier’s set anticipates the demise of
 Russia ’s landed aristocracy: The orchard is already gone.
Instead, a jungle of bare trees dominates the scantily furnished
scene.  Director Georges Lavaudant moves the characters around like
pieces on a chessboard. Sometimes, the light is dimmed, and only
their silhouettes are visible.  It’s a tasteful, intelligent show. The only thing that’s
missing is what makes Chekhov’s art unique -- the range of
psychological colors, the subtle balancing act between comedy
and despair, silences between the lines.  In the end, it’s still no competition for Chekhov’s play.  Rating: ***.  “La Cerisaie” is in repertory at the Palais Garnier,
Paris, through Feb. 13. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr 
or +33-1-7125-2423.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 