-- H.K. Economy Grows Less-Than-Estimated 3%
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-01T03:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/h-k-economy-grows-less-than-estimated-3-.html
Hong Kong ’s economy grew a less-
than-estimated 3 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier as Europe’s debt crisis damped exports.  The expansion was the smallest in two years and compared
with the 3.1 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 12 economists. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  gave
the number in his budget speech today. For the full year,
growth was 5 percent.  Hong Kong may focus this year on supporting growth
rather than limiting the risk of real-estate bubbles as
property prices fall and exports falter. Chief Executive
Donald Tsang said last week in Davos, Switzerland, that he
has never been as scared about the global economic outlook,
and UBS AG says the city may have a “shallow” recession in
the first half.  A  budget surplus  will “help to shore up Hong Kong’s
defenses in an increasingly volatile global financial
environment,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
in Hong Kong, said before Tsang’s speech. “The priority
concern this year will be growth.”  UBS sees Hong Kong’s economy expanding 1.6 percent this
year, while Standard Chartered Plc predicts growth of 2.9
percent.  Like China, the city has a property market that is
cooling because of government curbs, with Barclays Capital
predicting prices may decline as much as 25 percent by 2013.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s
seven biggest developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16)  and billionaire Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) ,
fell 24 percent in 2011, after gaining more than 75 percent
over the previous two years. It has risen about 13 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  