-- Absa Sells Implats Stake as Platinum Prices Fall, Costs Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-01T14:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/absa-sells-implats-stake-as-platinum-prices-fall-costs-rise.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ’s money management
unit sold all its shares in  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  after
the price of the precious metal fell more than a fifth in 2011
and as prospects for South African platinum miners deteriorated.  “The platinum price just isn’t high enough to sustain cost
growth,” Chris Gilmour, an analyst at Absa Investments, said in
a presentation to the media in Johannesburg today. “Platinum
stocks are looking pricey.”  Absa Investments, which manages private client portfolios
as part of the 110 billion rand ($14 billion) under management
at Absa Asset Management Ltd., also sold stock in Naspers Ltd.,
Africa’s biggest media group, and invested in computer services
company  Datatec Ltd. (DTC)   The  FTSE/JSE Africa Platinum Mining Index (JPLAT)  fell 28 percent
in 2011, the worst performer on the Johannesburg bourse, as the
spot price of platinum declined 21 percent. Production at Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., the world’s biggest miner of the metal,
dropped 9 percent last year as  South Africa  ordered more safety
stoppages, the company said on Jan. 26. Headline earnings per
share at Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. fell as much as 20 percent
in the year through December from a year earlier, the company
said on Jan. 31.  Datatec’s price-earnings valuation is likely to fall
“significantly” once it reports earnings for the year through
February, making it attractive, Gilmour said.  Earnings per share rose 84 percent to 42 U.S. cents,
Datatec said in a regulatory filing on Jan. 18. It plans to pay
a total capital distribution of 16 cents for the year, up from
13 cents previously. Shares in the company climbed 21 percent
over the past 12 months, valuing it at 16 times reported
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  