-- Ace’s Greenberg Shuns ‘Big and Ugly,’ Bides Time for Insurer Acquisitions
-- B y   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-01T16:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ace-s-greenberg-shuns-big-and-ugly-bides-time-for-insurer-acquisitions.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE) , the Swiss insurer with
operations in more than 50 countries, will wait for the right
buyout, even if it means holding cash at near record-low
 interest rates , Chief Executive Officer Evan Greenberg said.  “You don’t just say, ‘I’ve got money, let me go out and
deploy it,'” Greenberg said today in a conference call. “If you
do that, what will you do? You’ll buy big and ugly. You’ll be
sorry what you did. Whatever you do, you have to live with for a
long time.”  Greenberg has used  acquisitions  to expand in nations
including Malaysia and  Ecuador  and to build business like U.S.
crop insurance. He said more insurers may be available as
financial firms struggle with writedowns and face tighter
regulations on capital.  An acquisition may increase the company’s return on equity,
said Greg Locraft, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. The Zurich-based
insurer is earning “next to nothing” on its excess capital as
the  Federal Reserve  keeps it benchmark  rate  near zero to
stimulate the economy, Locraft said on the call.  “You’ve got to be patient, and things happen,” Greenberg
said. “I wish it were as simple as ‘You got  some money  and, boy
you know, let’s just this week look around and there you go.’”  Ace rose 3.7 percent to $72.15 at 11:31 a.m. in New York
after posting fourth-quarter profit late yesterday that beat
analysts’ estimates. The insurer has gained about 16 percent in
the past year.  Net income  slipped 25 percent to $750 million as investment
gains narrowed. The company’s average market yield on its fixed-
maturity portfolio fell to 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter
from 3.6 percent a year earlier, the company said in a financial
supplement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Ludtke in  New York  at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  