-- Madoff Feeder Funds Still Awaiting Distribution Approval From N.Y. Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-01T19:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/madoff-feeder-funds-still-awaiting-distribution-approval-1-.html
Ezra Merkin ’s bankrupt Ariel and
Gabriel funds, so-called feeder funds for  Bernard Madoff ’s
defunct money management firm, are still awaiting court approval
for distribution, a liquidator said.  Bart M. Schwartz, the liquidator, said in a report filed in
New York state  Supreme Court  in Manhattan yesterday that Ariel
has about $206 million in cash and Gabriel about $213 million.
The two funds have a combined net asset value of about $1.2
billion.  Schwartz said in the report that he is prepared to complete
first and second interim distributions to Gabriel investors and
a second interim distribution to Ariel investors if they are
approved by the court.  “We project further liquidation activity in the relatively
near-term that should further increase the liquidity of both
funds,” Schwartz said in the report, which was filed as part of
a lawsuit by former New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo 
against Merkin in 2009.  Merkin was sued by Cuomo in 2009 for allegedly steering
$2.4 billion to Madoff in exchange for almost $500 million in
fees. Madoff is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty in 2009 to running the biggest Ponzi scheme ever.  September 2010 Lawsuit  Schwartz also sued Merkin in New York state court in
September 2010, accusing the investment adviser of breach of
fiduciary duty, gross negligence and fraud.  Investors including prominent charities entrusted their
funds to Merkin. Institutions that have alleged they lost money
in Merkin’s investments with Madoff include  New York University ,
Yeshiva University and New York Law School.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in Manhattan in September
dismissed lawsuits filed by Merkin investors, ruling that they
can’t show that Merkin lied about money invested in Madoff’s
fund.  The cases are Cuomo v. Merkin, 450879/2009; and Schwartz v.
Merkin, 651516/2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  