-- NATO-Led Afghanistan Forces Seek to End Combat Role in 2013, Panetta Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-02T12:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/afghan-coalition-ending-combat-role-in-2013-panetta-says-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
will seek to pull France back in line today and prevent the 50-
nation NATO-led coalition in  Afghanistan  from fracturing by
offering a plan to end the coalition’s primary combat role
starting in mid-2013.  Attending his second Brussels meeting of NATO defense
ministers since taking office in July, Panetta told reporters
traveling with him that the coalition would shift primarily to
advising Afghan forces by the end of 2013.  The decision establishes a milestone for leaders of the
North American Treaty Organization, who in Lisbon in 2010 called
for transferring security responsibility nationwide to Afghan
forces by the end of 2014.  “We’ll still be very much engaged in helping them as we
move into 2014,” Panetta said yesterday. “It’s not going to be
the kind of formal combat role that we’re involved in now.”  The timetable may help resolve a rift in the coalition that
opened last week when French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said his
nation would withdraw its troops a year earlier than the goal
set in Lisbon. Panetta signaled yesterday that he would try to
herd France back in line.  In, Out Together  “The main point I want to make is you’ve got to stick to
the Lisbon strategy,” Panetta said. “We all went in together,
and we’ll all go out together.”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen urged
coordination as the defense ministers began meeting today.
Afghan forces already lead about 40 percent of combat
operations, he said. The coalition will hand over the last of
the remaining provinces to their control starting in mid-2013,
allowing the NATO-led troops to “gradually” draw back to an
advising role, he said.  It is “of crucial importance that this change of role
takes place in a coordinated manner within ISAF” and takes the
security situation on the ground into account, Rasmussen told
reporters at NATO headquarters in Brussels.  While the U.K. and  Italy  have responded publicly to
Sarkozy’s announcement by pledging to stay in Afghanistan
through 2014, the coalition rift will be seen as a “smashing
propaganda victory” for the Taliban, said Jeffrey Lightfoot,
the deputy director of the international security program at the
Atlantic Council policy group in  Washington .  ‘Steady Drumbeat’  “We’ve seen over the last year a steady drumbeat of
spectacular attacks that win the headlines and undermine the
narrative of progress that’s been put forward by NATO and our
political leaders,” Lightfoot said. The resulting talk of an
accelerated timetable “will only give fodder to the idea that
it’s easy to target the Europeans and try to undermine the
cohesiveness of the coalition.”  The 2013 goal echoes the transition in  Iraq  in August 2010,
when the U.S. stepped back from a lead combat role to advise
Iraqi security forces for 19 months until the last of the
remaining 50,000 American troops left two months ago. Since
then, concerns have mounted that ethnic and sectarian violence
and political tensions may be increasing.  The U.S. still plans to keep some troops in Afghanistan
after 2014 to conduct counter-terrorism missions and advise
Afghan forces, Panetta said.  Republican Criticism  Panetta’s announcement spurred criticism from U.S.
Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee. He said the decision was premature
because it’s too early to know whether Afghan forces will
successfully maintain control of the areas where they’ve
recently taken the lead.  “While there have certainly been improvements in the
Afghan security forces’ capabilities, the committee has not seen
a single assessment by our commanders that indicates they have
any confidence in such a swift transition,” McKeon of
California said.  A clear schedule also may give Panetta and military leaders
including Marine General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO
commander in Afghanistan, leeway to argue that the withdrawal of
U.S. troops should be slowed in the meantime to prevent
deterioration.  ‘A Critical Year’  The plan for 2013 makes it “a critical year and therefore
will demand that we have a strong presence there in order to
make sure that the gains that we’ve made up to that point are
continued,” Panetta said.  The U.S. and its NATO partners would have to retain a
significant advising force through 2014 prepared for combat to
support the Afghan army and police as necessary, according to a
U.S. defense official traveling with Panetta, who was authorized
to speak to reporters only on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. has about 89,000 troops on the ground in
Afghanistan, after withdrawing 10,000 last year. It plans to
remove at least 23,000 more by September, and other nations are
reducing their numbers as well.  As justification for the transition plan, Panetta cited a
weakened Taliban, lower levels of violence and improved security
in almost every area of Afghanistan.  “The Taliban has not been able to regain any of the lost
territory,” Panetta said. “They haven’t conducted a successful
operation to regain territory. We continue to weaken them.”  Army, Police  The Afghan army and police also are performing better, the
defense chief said. The forces are taking over security in the
second group of areas that will bring more than half of the
population under Afghan control.  Allen “strongly feels things are on track to meet the
goals that were laid out in Lisbon,” Panetta said.  Such assessments contradict the findings of a December U.S.
national intelligence estimate that cast doubt on how rapid and
extensive the progress would be.  Panetta said that the coalition still must weaken the
Taliban further, heighten the Afghan army’s skills and
operations and improve governance.  The final year prior to the end of 2014 “then becomes a
year of consolidating the transition and making sure that those
gains are in fact held so we can move to a more enduring
presence beyond 2014,” Panetta said.  Caught by Surprise  Sarkozy’s announcement caught even some members of his own
government by surprise, and coalition partners are seeking to
resolve any differences in Brussels, the U.S. official said.
 France  may still agree to contribute forces to an advise-and-
assist mission after 2013,  the U.S. defense official said.  Concerns over the cost of sustaining the Afghan security
forces after 2014 also will prompt talks at the NATO meeting,
including whether to pare the size of the forces over time to
make them more affordable, the official said.  Some nations in the coalition have balked at the estimated
cost of $4 billion to $6 billion a year to bolster the Afghan
government’s limited finances. The current goal is to build the
force to a combined 350,000 army and police personnel.  “The key there is to have a sufficient and sustainable
force that will be there for the future,” Panetta said, without
specifying the size. “In many ways, the funding is going to
largely determine what kind of force we can sustain for the
future.”  The planned number may decrease in the future as the
insurgency wanes and Afghan forces consolidate their control,
the U.S. defense official said, declining to say what size is
being considered.  The U.S. is seeking to persuade other nations, including
some not participating in the war-fighting coalition, to
contribute a combined 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) a year, the
official said.  Panetta said the U.S. will appeal to Arab nations,  Japan 
and  South Korea  among others to help.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  