-- Afghan Soldier Kills U.S. Marine in Helmand Province Shooting
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-02-01T07:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/afghan-soldier-kills-u-s-marine-in-helmand-province-shooting.html
An Afghan soldier shot dead a U.S.
Marine in the southern province of Helmand, the latest in a
series of incidents that have raised tensions between local and
foreign troops.  The Afghan army soldier opened fire at close range as he
and the Marine guarded a joint operating base at about 12:30
a.m. today, General Sayed Malook, a corps commander based in
Helmand, said by phone. The U.S.-led  International Security
Assistance Force , or ISAF, confirmed one of its soldiers was
shot dead by an individual wearing an Afghan uniform.  The Taliban have claimed in the past to have infiltrated
Afghan forces to carry out attacks on international troops or
government officials. Malook said the Afghan soldier had been
taken into custody and had told investigators that the killing
was not deliberate.  Four French soldiers were shot dead Jan. 20 and seventeen
others were wounded when an Afghan soldier opened fire on them
in Kapisa province north of capital, Kabul.  Following those killings and talks in Paris with Afghan
leader  Hamid Karzai , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said his
country will withdraw its combat forces by the end of 2013, a
year ahead of schedule. The outgoing U.S. undersecretary of
defense, Michele Flournoy, last week stressed the need for NATO
allies to coordinate their plans for troop withdrawals.  Afghan troops or police attacked ISAF personnel in more
than three dozen incidents between 2007 and last year, according
to a classified report the New York Times cited Jan. 20. In one
of the deadliest cases, an Afghan air force pilot killed eight
U.S. military personnel and a contract employee of the coalition
in April.  Tensions between Afghans and the U.S. forces escalated this
month when video footage emerged showing American Marines
urinating on the bodies of Afghan Taliban they had killed in a
battle. Karzai condemned the incident, and the U.S. Naval
Criminal Investigative Service said it had begun an inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  