-- Agreement on U.S. Aviation Bill to End Stop-Gap Efforts
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-02-01T16:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/agreement-on-u-s-aviation-bill-to-end-years-of-stop-gap-efforts.html
House and Senate lawmakers ended more
than four years of standoffs by reaching agreement yesterday on
a four-year, $63.6 billion U.S. aviation bill that keeps current
funding levels and speeds development of new air-traffic
technology.  “Today we proved we can do better,” Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said. “None of us is 100 percent
happy. That’s the nature of the things we do.”  The bill guides  Federal Aviation Administration  policy,
sets its annual budget and contains dozens of provisions on
everything from creating the NextGen air-traffic system to the
types of musical instruments airline passengers can carry onto
flights. The agreement, leading toward the FAA’s first long-term
authorization since the last one expired in 2007, was announced
at a conference-committee meeting of 20 lawmakers.  The bill may be the next measure considered by the Senate
and go to the floor early next week, Adam Jentleson, a spokesman
for Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said today.  Tensions between Democrats and Republicans over union-
organizing rules and rural-flight subsidies triggered a partial
shutdown of the FAA from July 23 to Aug. 5 after Congress let
the agency’s operating authority lapse.  The shutdown stopped airport construction projects, forced
the FAA to furlough about 4,000 employees and cost the
government at least $468 million in airline-ticket and aviation-
fuel taxes, according to government and industry data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Labor Provision  House Republicans  wanted the bill to overturn a 2010 U.S.
National Mediation Board action that said unions needed to
capture more than 50 percent of those voting to win
representation. Previously, the board required yes votes from
more than half of all employees.  In a deal brokered by Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, lawmakers agreed Jan.
20 to drop the provision in exchange for increased audits of the
NMB and changes favoring industry in run-off elections and the
threshold for triggering an election.  The legislation cuts subsidies for service to rural
airports, a program that  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia
Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, has
championed and that  John Mica , the Florida Republican who leads
the House transportation committee, wanted to eliminate except
in  Alaska .  Lithium Batteries  U.S. regulators would face limits in enacting tougher
requirements for carrying lithium batteries on cargo jets, which
technology companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. had fought.  Regulators can enact tougher rules on those batteries,
which can burst into flames, under a one-year emergency measure,
said Vincent Morris, a spokesman for Rockefeller. Alternately,
if the secretary of transportation finds that batteries have
caused fires, that could also trigger new rules, Morris said.  Funding for the FAA will remain at $15.9 billion a year,
more than what House Republicans had sought and less than Senate
Democrats’ target.  “All of us at this table made compromises,” Rockefeller
said in opening remarks.  Passengers flying from Washington’s Reagan National Airport
will get more long flights under the legislation, according to a
statement from Rockefeller’s office.  U.S. rules now permit 12 round-trip flights to destinations
more than 1,250 miles from  Washington . The legislation will
allow another eight round-trips -- four to large carriers at the
airport and four to newer entrants, Morris said.  NextGen CEO  The legislation sets faster timetables for upgrading the
U.S. air-traffic control system and requires the FAA to create a
“Chief NextGen Officer” to oversee the project.  The FAA is building a system to track aircraft based on
global-positioning satellites instead of radar and upgrading
communication between the ground and planes. The system is
projected to cost the FAA and airlines as much as $42 billion by
2025.  “I thank you for putting up with me and never letting up
on the shared desire to get this bill done,” Mica said.  Funding for airport construction grants was set at $3.35
billion a year, according to a  statement  from Mica’s office.
That level is below the $3.5 billion approved for 2011.  The bills being merged by the conference committee are H.R.
658 and S.B. 223.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  