-- Ahmadinejad Seeks to Cut Iranian Budget by 5.6 Percent
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-01T13:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ahmadinejad-seeks-to-cut-iranian-budget-by-5-6-percent-1-.html
Iran ’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
proposed cutting the government’s budget by 5.6 percent for the
coming Iranian year while more than doubling military spending,
state media reported.  Ahmadinejad presented a draft budget of 5,100 trillion
rials ($450 billion) to parliament today for review, the state-
run Mehr  news agency  reported. The plan for the Iranian fiscal
year that begins March 20 includes the government or public
budget as well as spending for state-owned companies of some
4,000 trillion rials, the official  Islamic Republic News Agency 
said.  The proposed budget is 5.6 percent smaller than the plan
for the current year while it allows for a 127 percent increase
in spending on defense, according to  Mehr . The main aim of this
year’s budget is “to reach an economic growth rate of 8
percent, decrease the  unemployment rate  and the gap between
social classes,” Ahmadinejad was reported as saying in the
parliament today by the  Iranian Students News Agency .  Ahmadinejad was first elected in 2005 after promising to
distribute the country’s oil riches among the people of Iran.
His country is now under increased pressure with a European
Union Jan. 23 decision to freeze the central bank’s assets and
ban Iranian oil imports from July, the latest in a series of
measures by the  United Nations , the U.S. and the EU over  Iran’s
nuclear program .  The government budget for next year is based on an average
oil price of $85 a barrel, Mehr said in a Jan. 29 report. State
media did not provide any confirmation of this in reports
published today.  Lawmakers will be reviewing the budget in coming weeks.
Once approved it must go before the Council of Guardians, a body
with the power to veto legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  