-- Alabama, Texas, Florida State Land Top College Football Recruiting Classes
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/alabama-targets-top-college-football-recruits-after-winning-championship.html
The  University of Alabama  followed
its second national championship in three seasons by signing
college football’s top incoming class, recruiting experts said.  Yesterday was the first chance for high school football
players to make an official written commitment to a college
under National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. Recruits
previously could make only non-binding verbal commitments.  While the nation’s top-rated recruit opted to stay close to
home and play for Southeastern Conference-bound University of
Missouri and schools such as Florida and Florida State made a
signing day push, Alabama’s class finished No. 1 according to
recruiting analysts at  Rivals.com  and  ESPNU .  “The rich keep getting richer,” said ESPN national
recruiting analyst Tom Luginbill.  Texas  finished atop  Scout.com ’s recruiting standings and
was ranked second by Rivals and third by ESPNU.  Florida  State
came in second in ESPN’s class ranking.  Florida,  Georgia , Ohio State, Clemson,  Michigan , Stanford,
Miami,  Southern California , Notre Dame,  Oklahoma ,  Texas A&M  and
Louisiana State are among the schools that also have top
classes, recruiting experts said.  Ohio State benefited from the Nov. 28 hiring of coach Urban Meyer, who won two national titles at the University of Florida.
Though Ohio State is facing a 2012 postseason bowl ban and is
coming off its first seven-loss season since 1897, among the
highly-touted players Meyer landed were Penn State’s top two
recruiting targets.  Penn State, stung by the child-sex abuse scandal that led
to the firing of the late coach  Joe Paterno , has an incoming
class that’s ranked 50th by Rivals.com.  ‘Down Year’  Mike Farrell, a national recruiting analyst for Rivals,
said Penn State usually finishes among the top 20 schools in
recruiting and had a “down year” because of the scandal, the
delay in hiring a coach and Meyer’s arrival at Ohio State.  Paterno’s successor, New England Patriots offensive
coordinator Bill O’Brien, is coaching in the  Super Bowl  this
week. O’Brien said today he’s appreciative of the players who
have stuck by their commitments to Penn State and that he
doesn’t put too much stock in recruiting rankings.  “Whether we’re ranked the 50th recruiting class or the No.
1 recruiting class, I really couldn’t care less, to be honest
with you,” he said. “We feel very good about the players we
brought in here.”  Alabama , which has a 36-4 record under coach Nick Saban
during the past three years, finished No. 1 in Rivals.com’s
recruiting rankings for the fourth time in five years. Since
Rivals started its rankings in 2002, every school that’s been
ranked No. 1 -- Texas in 2002, Louisiana State in 2003, Southern
California in 2004-06 and 2010, Florida in 2007 and Alabama in
2008-09 and 2011-12 -- has won a national title.  Alabama’s Class  “If you’re a top-10 recruiting program consistently,
you’re going to be a good football program,” Farrell said.  The Crimson Tide, which beat LSU 21-0 last month to win the
national title, got commitments from 24 players, including 10 in
ESPNU’s list of the top 150 prospects  Among them is the nation’s No. 1-rated safety, Landon
Collins of Geismar,  Louisiana , who spurned LSU in favor of the
Crimson Tide. Another five-star recruit is 6-foot-4 wide
receiver Eddie Williams of Panama City, Florida.  “Recruiting is not an exact science. No one knows for sure
how these players are going to develop in the future,” Saban
said at a news conference. “That’s certainly something we work
hard on here, as coaches and teachers, is to help these players
develop. How adolescents are going to respond two or three years
out, nobody can really predict that.”  Seminoles’ Stars  Florida State made a late push by signing two of the
nation’s top defensive linemen in Mario Edwards of Denton,
Texas, and Eddie Goldman of  Washington . Edwards, whose father
Mario played at Florida State before going to the NFL, was the
No. 1 rated player in ESPNU’s top 150.  Dorial Green-Beckham, a 6-foot-6 wide receiver from
Springfield,  Missouri , and the country’s top prospect according
to Rivals and Scout, said on national television that he’ll
attend Missouri. Green-Beckham, who had 75 touchdowns on
receptions in high school, said Missouri’s move from the Big 12
to the SEC, which has had the last six national champions, had a
big impact on his decision.  “Having a good relationship with the coach, the people,
the players and just the whole atmosphere has been outstanding
for me,” Green-Beckham said.  Texas, coming off a 7-6 season, signed nine ESPNU top-150
players, including Johnathan Gray of Aledo, Texas, who’s
considered the nation’s top high school running back and scored
65 touchdowns as a senior.  Top Quarterbacks  Jameis Winston of Hueytown, Alabama, and Gunner Kiel of
Columbus,  Indiana , are considered the top quarterbacks, with
Winston headed to Florida State and Kiel signing with  Notre
Dame . Kiel enrolled at Notre Dame last month after previously
saying he’d play football at Indiana University and LSU.  Defensive end Darius Hamilton of Ramsey,  New Jersey , the
No. 11 national prospect, reaffirmed his commitment to play at
 Rutgers University  following the departure of coach  Greg Schiano , who joined the  National Football League ’s Tampa Bay
Buccaneers last week.  “Rutgers came in with an already strong class,” Luginbill
said on ESPNU’s signing day show. “It’s one thing to keep the
good guys in the fold, it’s another thing to go out and secure
the best guy in your state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  