-- All Nippon Gains After Increasing Profit Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-02-01T07:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/all-nippon-rises-after-increasing-profit-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Asia’s
largest listed carrier by sales, gained the most in more than 10
months in Tokyo trading after raising its full-year operating
profit outlook.  ANA climbed 6.8 percent, the most since March 16, to 237
yen at the close in Tokyo. The carrier was the  biggest gainer  on
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, which rose 0.1 percent.  The airline raised its operating profit forecast by 20
billion yen ($263 million) to 90 billion yen for the year ending
March 31 as it accelerates cost cuts, it said yesterday after
the Tokyo Stock Exchange closed. ANA, the world’s only operator
of Boeing Co.’s new 787 plane, is using smaller and more fuel-
efficient aircraft and cutting sales costs as three low-cost
carriers are set to start flights in  Japan  this year.  “The announcement of the cost cuts is giving ANA a
boost,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of
$650 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “Investors are anticipating that management will
be able to make good on their predictions. The question is how
they will perform in a more competitive environment.”  ANA kept its full-year net income forecast of 20 billion
yen, 14 percent less than its profit of 23.3 billion yen a year
earlier, and left its  sales  forecast at 1.4 trillion yen.  The carrier, which operates domestic flights with the 787
to Okayama and Hiroshima from Tokyo, started its first
international service to Frankfurt with the new plane last month
and plans to add flights with the aircraft to Seattle and  San
Jose , California, later this year.  The airline, which has ordered 55 of the Dreamliners,
predicts it will save about 10 billion yen a year in jet
kerosene costs when its fleet of the more fuel-efficient planes
is in service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  