-- AMR Will Fire 13,000 as Part of Plan to Lower Costs by $2 Billion a Year
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-01T23:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/amr-poised-to-start-labor-talks-with-10-000-job-cuts-possible.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  said it
will eliminate 13,000 jobs under a plan to cut annual operating
costs by $2 billion and boost revenue by $1 billion as the
company restructures in bankruptcy.  All work groups, including management, will see a 20
percent reduction in costs and the company plans to terminate
its four pension plans, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  told
labor leaders in a meeting today. The job cuts would be about
18 percent of American’s 73,800 employees.  Horton’s  message  offered the first indication of what a
restructured American might look like. The third-biggest U.S.
carrier struggled through four straight annual  losses  and was
battered by industry mergers that pitted it against larger
competitors before filing for  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29.
The $3 billion in improvements will be reached by 2017.  “There is no avoiding the fact that the cost reductions
will be deep,” Horton said. “And there is no sugarcoating the
effect on our people.”  Being acquired, closing airport hubs or breaking up the
company aren’t in the best interest of Fort Worth, Texas-based
American, its workers or stakeholders, he said. US Airways Group
Inc. has said it’s studying options involving AMR. Delta Air
Lines Inc. has hired advisers to evaluate the company, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Labor savings will make up $1.25 billion of American’s
target for spending reductions, Horton said. Proposed contract
changes were given to union leaders by the airline in a series
of afternoon meetings.  Maintenance Changes  The airline will cut management positions by 15 percent,
close its maintenance base in  Fort Worth  and move some aircraft
maintenance and airport ramp jobs to outside vendors,  Jeff Brundage , senior vice president for human resources, told
workers. American hopes to reach agreements with its unions “as
quickly as possible,” he said.  American’s job cuts include 4,600 mechanics and maintenance
workers, 4,200 baggage handlers and other airport ramp
employees, 2,300 flight attendants, 400 pilots and 1,400
management and support staff, the company said. The carrier
hasn’t yet decided on reductions for customer-service and
reservations agents.  “Nobody thought it was going to be a bed of roses,” said
 Robert Mann , a former American executive who is president of
aviation consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New
York . “It’s all going to come down to what the details are for
each group. The devil is in the details.”  ‘Off the Charts’  Under bankruptcy law, AMR must provide the unions with
financial information to evaluate its proposals, followed by
good-faith negotiations to reach an agreement. If negotiations
fail, AMR can ask the  bankruptcy court  to impose new terms.  “I’m completely outraged,”  Laura Glading , president of
the  Association of Professional Flight Attendants , said in an
interview. “This is the most overreaching, off-the-charts
proposal I could have ever dreamed.”  The  Transport Workers Union , whose members would see the
deepest job cuts, also was shocked by the depth of the
concessions, said Jim Little, the labor group’s international
president. American’s plan would eliminate the jobs of 9,000 of
the 26,000 workers represented by the TWU, he said.  “We’re going to fight this,” Little said.  Retiree Medical Benefits  American also plans to end contributions to medical
benefits for future retirees. Benefits for current retirees
haven’t yet been addressed. A profit-sharing plan would be
created, setting aside 15 percent of pretax income for eligible
employees.  The carrier intends to boost  revenue  by increasing
departures at its hub airports by 20 percent during the next
five years, better matching aircraft size to specific routes and
improving its products. Specifics weren’t immediately provided.  American is seeking to cut $370 million a year from pilot
costs, $230 million from flight attendants, $250 million from
airport ground workers and $210 million from maintenance and
$165 million from management and support staff.  American Eagle, AMR’s regional carrier, won’t make contract
proposals to its unions “for a few weeks,” Dan Garton, the
unit’s CEO, said in an e-mail to employees today. Eagle, with
14,237 employees, provides more than 90 percent of the passenger
feed to American’s hubs.  The  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. , the federal agency that
insures those retirement programs, has pressured AMR to maintain
its underfunded plans. The agency placed $92 million in liens on
AMR property since Jan. 19 after the company paid $6.5 million
of a $100 million pension liability.  ‘Drastic Action’  “Before American takes such a drastic action as killing
the pension plans of 130,000 employees and retirees, it needs to
show there is no better alternative,” Josh Gotbaum, the
agency’s director, said in an e-mail today. “Thus far, they
have declined to provide even the most basic information to
decide that.”  The pensions cover about 130,000 active AMR employees and
retirees, the PBGC said. The company has a pension liability of
about $18.5 billion and $8.3 billion in pension assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  