-- Manchester City Loses at Everton; Manchester United Wins in English Soccer
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-01T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/manchester-city-loses-at-everton-manchester-united-wins-in-english-soccer.html
Everton defeated Manchester City 1-0
to drop the English Premier League leader into a tie on points
with Manchester United, which beat Stoke 2-0.  Everton’s  Darron Gibson  scored the goal last night that
left the Manchester teams with 54 points each. Third-place
Tottenham beat Wigan 3-1, Chelsea tied Swansea 1-1 and Liverpool
won 3-0 at Wolverhampton.  City has won once in its last 14 visits to Goodison Park
and stays on top of the standings only on a superior goal
difference to United. City has a goal difference of 41, 6 better
than United after 23 games.  “I think maybe I thought it would be easier,” City
manager  Roberto Mancini  told  Sky Sports . “My players put
everything on the pitch, but we played a bad game.”  Everton’s Denis Stracqualursi had a header cleared off the
line by Joleon Lescott in the fifth minute and City’s Samir Nasri hit the crossbar from 30 yards out. Play was held up for a
brief time just before halftime as a man ran onto the field and
handcuffed himself to the goal post in the City end before being
removed by police.  Everton took the lead in the 60th minute when Leighton Baines found American Landon Donovan with a cross at the far
side of the area. Donovan laid off a pass for Gibson, who joined
Everton from  Manchester United  on Jan. 13, and his shot from the
edge of the box deflected in off City’s Gareth Barry.  City later had a penalty appeal of handball against Phil Neville turned down by referee Peter Walton. City pressured the
Everton goal in the closing moments but couldn’t get the tying
goal.  “I think the team spirit today was terrific and we were
fighting to the last minute,” Everton’s John Heitinga told Sky
Sports. “That’s how you beat the big teams.”  United Overcomes Injuries  United overcame the loss of several regulars to beat Stoke.
Third-string goalkeeper Ben Amos started with Anders Lindegaard
injured and David De Gea ill. Nani, Ashley Young and  Wayne Rooney  also missed the game with illness.  Javier Hernandez  scored with a 38th-minute penalty kick
after Jermaine Pennant fouled Park Ji-Sung.  Dimitar Berbatov 
then scored from the spot eight minutes into the second half
after Jon Walters took down Antonio Valencia.  Gareth Bale had two goals as Tottenham beat last-place
Wigan to pull within five points of the league leaders. Luka Modric also scored for Spurs.  An own goal from Neil Taylor in stoppage time gave Chelsea
the tie at Swansea, which got a first-half goal from Scott Sinclair. Chelsea finished with 10 men after  Ashley Cole 
received his second yellow card with four minutes remaining.  Andy Carroll,  Craig Bellamy  and  Dirk Kuyt  scored as
Liverpool extended Wolves’ winless run to nine games. The Reds
moved into fifth place, two points ahead of Arsenal and
Newcastle, which both play tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  