-- India May Probe Whether Lanco Broke Rules in First Solar Auction
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-02T06:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lanco-accused-by-group-of-breaking-rules-on-india-solar-auction.html
India may investigate if  Lanco
Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , the nation’s second-largest non-state power
utility, and Moser Baer India Ltd. broke rules to win more
capacity than allowed in the country’s first solar auction.  “If there are any facts that indicate violations, we would
do an inquiry,” Tarun Kapoor, joint secretary at the Ministry
of New and  Renewable Energy , said by telephone today. If there
are violations, the government will bar them from the program,
which means they’ll lose an assured government buyer,
preferential rates at which to sell power and other guarantees,
he said.  Lanco broke the rules in the country’s first solar auction
by creating front companies to win more than the 105 megawatt
capacity allowed, the Centre for Science and Environment said
yesterday in New Delhi. If there’s an investigation, it may be
widened to include Moser Baer  India , Kapoor said.  Lanco and companies it set up won contracts to develop 235
megawatts of solar capacity, about 40 percent of the total
awarded in December 2010, CSE said. Lanco denied breaking the
rules, saying it reported its holdings in the other companies to
the government agency charged with running the auction, NTPC
Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd., known as NVVN.  “There was no illegality involved,” Lanco said in a
statement yesterday.  The company’s  shares  surged as much as 3.5 percent to 16.50
rupees in Mumbai and traded at 15.70 rupees as of 11:23 a.m.
local time, extending yesterday’s 5.3 percent gain. Lanco fell
85 percent last year and bounced back in January, gaining 59
percent.  Warning Letters  When NVVN investigated the matter, it was told that Lanco
held no more than 49 percent in the seven companies that won the
projects, Kapoor said.  NVVN sent letters to the seven companies in August and
September, warning it would terminate contracts to buy their
power unless Lanco reduced its stake in them, Anil Agrawal,
chief executive officer of the state-run agency, said by phone
from  New Delhi .  The seven companies are named in Lanco’s September annual
report as units or companies in which it holds preference
shares. Lanco reduced its holdings in December after which the
government considered the matter resolved, Agrawal said.  “The law provides that the developer may remedy the
problem without being terminated and that’s exactly what
happened,” Agrawal said.  Lanco Links  CSE  said Lanco created the companies to unfairly broaden
its share of the awarded plants.  “Seven companies had direct links with Lanco, some having
Lanco employees and their family members as directors while
others had strong commercial ties to the company,” CSE said in
a  statement . “Lanco and the front companies bid for the
projects in a unified fashion and the detailed project reports
were almost identical -- word for word, page by page.”  Lanco didn’t respond directly to those allegations, saying
it held stakes within a “permissible level” in the companies
and provided them with “support” during bidding so that they
could compete with larger rivals, according to its statement.  NVVN also sent a letter warning of termination to a unit of
 Moser Baer India (MBI) , which resulted in the company reducing its
stake in a 5 megawatt solar power plant, Agrawal said. Moser
Baer spokesman Abhinav Kanchan didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mail he sought when reached on his mobile phone for comment.  India awarded about 620 megawatts of solar capacity in
December 2010 in its National Solar Mission, which targets
adding 20,000 megawatts of solar capacity by 2022. The
government awarded another 350 megawatts to bidders in December
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  