-- Angola’s Dos Santos Likely to Be Picked as MPLA Candidate
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2012-02-02T11:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/angola-s-dos-santos-likely-to-be-picked-as-mpla-s-vote-candidate.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos , Africa’s second-longest serving leader, will probably be
chosen this month as the ruling party’s presidential candidate
for September’s election, a party spokesman said.  The  Popular Movement  for the Liberation of Angola’s
political bureau, its executive body, will meet at the end of
this month to decide on its candidate, Rui Falcao de Andrade
said in a telephone interview yesterday from Luanda, the
capital.  “The fact that the president has said he is available to
run for president will weigh on our decision,” de Andrade, who
is one of the political bureau’s 47 members, said. “What we
want is political stability.”  Dos Santos, 69, may extend his 32-year rule in  Africa ’s
second-biggest oil producer as the MPLA, which holds 181 of
Parliament’s 220 seats, is expected to win the legislative vote,
scheduled for Sept. 5, because of its nationwide dominance. He
announced in November that he is available to stand amid youth
protests against his leadership and increasing speculation that
he could step down.  Angola is a former Marxist state that was gripped by 27
years of civil war between the MPLA and the National Union for
the Total Independence of Angola, known as Unita, until 2002.
Unita warned in October of “rising social tension” ahead of
the vote.  The government has forecast oil production of 1.8 million
barrels of crude a day this year. Companies operating in the
southern African nation include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA. (FP)   Possible Successor  “The succession of dos Santos is the greatest possible
source of instability in Angola,” Alex Vines, Africa director
at London-based international affairs researcher  Chatham House ,
said in a phone interview today.  The MPLA spokesman’s comments “takes some of the heat”
out of that possible source of instability, he said. “A likely
scenario is that he will consider stepping down sometime after
being elected. The number two spot is still up for grabs.”  Manuel Domingos Vicente, the 55-year-old former head of
state-owned oil company Sonangol EP who was appointed minister
of economic co-ordination on Jan. 30, is a “possible” vice
presidential candidate and successor to dos Santos, de Andrade
said.  “We have never denied it,” he said. “The MPLA needs to
prepare its members for any succession of power. Vicente is one
possible candidate along with the other members of the political
bureau.”  The MPLA won 82 percent of the vote in the 2008 election,
which was the first since the end of the war.  “There is no opposition in  Angola ,” de Andrade said when
asked about MPLA’s chances in the election. “The MPLA has six
million registered militants in a universe of nine million
voters.”  Angola’s kwanza was little changed at 94.80 against the
dollar as of 11:55 a.m. in Luanda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  