-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Expanded at a Faster Pace
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-01T12:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-in-january-at-faster-pace.html
Manufacturing probably grew at a
faster pace in January, a sign the industry will lead the U.S.
expansion early this year, economists said before today’s
report.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
54.5, the highest since June, from 53.1 in December, according
to the  median  estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Construction
spending increased 0.5 percent in December after a 1.2 percent
gain, other data may show.  Factory production, led by inventory rebuilding at the end
of 2011, is poised to keep expanding as the need to update
equipment drives orders at companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
demand for cars lifts sales at automakers. More growth in the
industry will help cushion the world’s largest economy from a
slowdown in  Europe  caused by the region’s debt crisis.  “Manufacturing is doing fairly well,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh. “Autos will definitely be a part of the story. The
U.S. will still be exporting to other parts of the world while
Europe is in a recession.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 53 to
56.  Construction Forecast  Also at 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will release data
on  construction spending . Economists’ forecasts in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from a drop of 0.6 percent to a gain of 1.5
percent.  A report from ADP Employer Services at 8:15 a.m. may show
companies added 182,000 workers to payrolls in January following
a 325,000 jump the prior month.  In  China , factory indexes improved in January as the
world’s second-biggest economy withstood weaker exports driven
by Europe’s debt crisis. The official  purchasing managers’ index 
increased to 50.5 from 50.3 in December. The data may have been
distorted by a weeklong holiday. A separate gauge from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 48.8.  European manufacturing contracted less than initially
estimated in January as German output countered a slump in
nations from  France  to Ireland. A factory gauge based on a
survey of purchasing managers in the 17-nation euro region rose
to 48.8 from 46.9 in December, London-based Markit Economics
said today. It had previously reported a gain to 48.7. In
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, output expanded for the first
time since September.  Regional Reports  U.S. manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy and was at the forefront of the recovery that began in
June 2009.  Regional reports reinforce the growth. New York-area
factories grew in January at the fastest rate in nine months and
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded the most since
October, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed.  Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining-equipment
maker, last month posted fourth-quarter earnings and forecast
full-year profit that topped analysts’ estimates as demand rose
for earth-moving machinery and trucks. The Peoria, Illinois-
based manufacturer said it had a record $29.8 billion backlog of
orders at the end of 2011.  Manufacturing shares have outperformed the market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial  Machinery Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes Caterpillar and Deere & Co., advanced 13 percent
since the end of December through yesterday, compared with a 4.4
percent increase in the broader  S&P 500 .  Auto Sales  Light-vehicle sales in January, set for release today, may
have run at a  13.5 million  seasonally adjusted annual rate, the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace was
13.48 million at the end of 2011.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, reported
its 11th consecutive profitable quarter as sales rose and it
boosted North American production by 14 percent. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said the European market is worsening.  “We think this has the potential to be another tough year
economically in Europe,” Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth 
said on the “The Hays Advantage” on Bloomberg Radio on Jan.
27.  Fed officials said in their policy statement last month
that they may leave  interest rates  low until 2014, in part
because “strains in global financial markets continue to pose
significant downside risks to the economic outlook.”  The Fed also said that residential real estate, the
industry that precipitated the recession, “remains depressed.”
The Commerce Department’s report on construction spending may
show gains in non-residential building. Housing starts dropped
4.1 percent to a 657,000 annual rate in December, capping the
worst year on record for single-family  home construction .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  