-- AOL Rises After Ad Gain Helps Profit Beat Analyst Estimates
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-01T21:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/aol-profit-falls-less-than-expected.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  rose the most in almost
three months after quarterly profit exceeded analysts’ estimates
as display advertising sales gained for the fourth straight
period.  The  shares  advanced 9.6 percent to $17.76 at the close in
New York, the biggest one-day climb since Nov. 2. They have
fallen 26 percent in the past 12 months.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding some items was 42 cents a
share, compared with the 32-cent average of 11 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Display advertising revenue rose 15
percent from a year earlier, the New York-based company said
today in a statement.  “For AOL to transition to the future, they need to show
they can grow the display business,” Ken Sena, an analyst at
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York, said in an interview before
the earnings announcement. He rates AOL “equal weight” and
doesn’t own any of its shares.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  has bolstered ad
revenue with initiatives such as acquisitions of the  Huffington
Post  and TechCrunch websites to try to reverse sales declines
after the December 2009 separation from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   “You’re seeing the long-term benefit of the operational
changes of the company,” Armstrong said in a telephone
interview, citing the fact that AOL has half as many employees
as it did two years ago.  Net income  for the quarter declined to $22.8 million, or 23
cents a share, from $66.2 million, or 61 cents, a year earlier,
AOL said.  Sales fell 3 percent to $576.8 million, beating the $566.8
million average estimate. Advertising sales gained 10 percent,
while revenue from Internet-access service slumped 18 percent.  Last month, Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. both reported
fourth-quarter revenue that fell short of analysts’ estimates.
Google’s results were hurt as weaker European demand and a shift
to mobile advertising crimped growth, while Yahoo saw a 4
percent decline in display advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at   vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  