-- Aperam Expects to Gain From Consolidation After Outokumpu Deal
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-02-01T15:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/aperam-expects-to-gain-from-consolidation-after-outokumpu-deal.html
Aperam (APAM) , the stainless-steel producer
spun off by ArcelorMittal, expects to benefit from consolidation
in the industry following the announcement of a planned merger
of  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  with a unit of  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   “We would welcome its implementation because we expect it
will improve the attractiveness of the stainless  steel
industry ,” Aperam said in an e-mail. “Aperam is in a strong
position to benefit from consolidation in its sector.”  Outokumpu’s planned 2.7 billion euro ($3.5 billion)
takeover of the Inoxum stainless steel unit will reduce some of
the excess capacity in the industry that has raised costs and
suppressed prices. The move, which requires regulatory approval,
will create the world’s leading producer of the alloy, with 11.8
billion euros in sales, the companies said today.  “If the deal is confirmed, then Aperam will say ‘thank you
very much’,” said Christian Georges, a London-based analyst at
Olivetree Securities Ltd. “For Aperam, the net impact has to be
that without any effort whatsoever they are a big step toward a
reduction in the excess capacity in  Europe , which is bound to
turn into improved volumes.”  Since ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, spun
Luxembourg-based Aperam off in January 2011, its share price has
dropped by about 50 percent in the face of weak demand. Western
European stainless steel capacity exceeds requirements by more
than 1 million metric tons, according to steel consultancy MEPS
International Ltd.  ‘Positive Step’  Lakshmi Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal whose family owns 41
percent of Aperam, said in May that ThyssenKrupp’s plan to
separate its stainless unit was a “positive step” toward
merging companies in an industry that has “always needed”
consolidation.  ThyssenKrupp abandoned plans to tackle surplus capacity in
2009 after failing to achieve the price it wanted for several
units. ArcelorMittal spun off Aperam after years of talks with
European peers failed to bring about a merger of their stainless
operations.  The company formed by the Outokumpu deal plans to cut about
1.4 million tons of steelmaking capacity by closing its Krefeld
plant melt shop by the end of next year and shuttering its
Bochum facility by the end of 2016. The delay in shuttering
plants is “unfortunate,” according to Georges, who said the
company may look at closing other plants sooner.  “Keeping the two sites open in  Germany  is nonsensical,”
he said. “The other two sites that should start being
considered for rationalization are Sheffield and Avesta in
 Sweden .”  The takeover may also benefit  Spain ’s  Acerinox SA (ACX) ,
currently the world’s largest stainless-steel producer,
according to Banco Sabadell SA. The merger is “the best
option” as it will reduce European capacity by 15 percent over
the next four years at no cost to Acerinox, which “benefits
passively,” Banco Sabadell said.  Aperam has gained 19 percent since a possible merger was
first reported on Jan. 23, while Acerinox has advanced 5.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  