-- Apple Loses German Court Bid to Ban Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1N, Nexus Phone
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-01T17:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/apple-loses-german-court-bid-to-ban-samsung-galaxy-tab-10-1n-nexus-phone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to get a
preliminary ban on sales of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s Galaxy
10.1N and Galaxy Nexus mobile phone from a German court.  The Munich Regional Court rejected the motion today, in a
case where Apple invoked a patent granted last year protecting
technology related to touch screens for tablets and smartphones.  “Samsung has shown that it is more likely than not that
the patent will be revoked because of a technology that was
already on the market before the intellectual property had been
filed for protection,” Presiding Judge Andreas Mueller said
when delivering the ruling.  The decision comes a day after a Dusseldorf appeals court
upheld Apple’s request to ban sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, the
predecessor model. Samsung began selling the Galaxy Tab 10.1N, a
revised version, in  Germany  to get around the ban. A lower
Dusseldorf court is scheduled to rule next week on a separate
case Apple filed over the Galaxy 10.1N. Samsung lost two patent
rulings against its rival in a Mannheim court last month.  The European Commission announced yesterday it will
investigate whether Samsung broke a 1998 commitment to license
any standard essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable
and non-discriminatory terms.” The action followed litigation
filed by Samsung last year in European courts over the patents,
the EU said.  Tablets, Smartphones  The legal battle between Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its closest competitor in tablet computers is intensifying
as an increasing number of consumers use tablets and smartphones
to visit websites, play games and download music.  Neither Samsung nor Apple immediately replied to e-mails
seeking comment on today’s case.  The patent at issue today protects technology that shows
users when they reach the scrolling limit of a page. The
decision relied on the likelihood that Samsung could get the
patent revoked at the European patent Office, which had granted
the intellectual-property protection.  Peter Chrocziel , an Apple lawyer, argued at the hearing
that the technology Samsung claimed was known before the iPad
maker’s patent was filed didn’t contain the same solution
because it didn’t provide the same experience for the user.  Samsung lawyer  Henrik Timmann  argued the court shouldn’t be
allowed to issue a preliminary ban as long as a nine month
deadline for contestation for the patent hasn’t been elapsed.  Judge Mueller said he and his two colleagues on the bench
don’t follow the jurisprudence of the courts in Dusseldorf and
Mannheim, which don’t typically grant emergency requests over
recent patents.  “We don’t share the idea that young patents are less
valuable than those who have survived for a longer period of
time,” said Mueller. “We don’t think that would be in line
with European rules of enforcing IP rights.”  Today’s case is LG Muenchen 21 O 26022/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  