-- Apple Infiltrates $3.8 Trillion Market With IPad: Tech
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-02T06:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/apple-invades-3-8t-workplace-market-with-ipad.html
(Corrects iPad forecast in 14th paragraph.)  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , without much effort on
its part, is making rapid headway in selling to corporations.  After years of being the also-ran to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the
workplace, Apple has seen its iPad become a standard business
tool. According to an IDG Connect survey, 51 percent of managers
with iPads say they “always” use the device at work, and
another 40 percent sometimes do. Seventy-nine percent of the
respondents use the iPad for business when outside the office.  Even as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire and other tablets
play catch-up in the consumer market, the iPad faces little
competition among corporations such as financial services and
pharmaceutical firms. Apple’s iPhone, meanwhile, is the top-
selling smartphone, forcing businesses to accommodate workers
who use it. That has helped set the stage for Apple’s Mac
computer to make its own inroads in the corporate world.  “We haven’t seen a single pharma deploy on anything but
the iPad,” said Matt Wallach, co-founder of  Veeva Systems Inc. ,
a Pleasanton, California-based maker of sales software for drug
companies. “I’ve seen a lot of devices come and go over the
years. Nothing touches the speed of adoption of the iPad.”  Microsoft and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  have dominated the office-
technology market for three decades, accounting for almost all
the personal computers on workers’ desks. The seeds for the
“Wintel” hegemony were  planted in 1981 , when International
Business Machines Corp. tapped the two companies to help create
its first PC. That fueled an information-technology industry
that now  generates  $3.8 trillion a year, according to research
firm Gartner Inc.  Making an Effort?  Microsoft and Intel have struggled in their efforts to
compete with the iPad, though that may change later this year
when a tablet-friendly version of Windows debuts. Windows PCs
also are under attack. While total PC shipments dropped 5.9
percent in the fourth quarter, the Mac grew almost 21 percent,
according to Gartner.  The real threat to the corporate-technology industry is if
Apple decides to pursue the market more aggressively, said  Frank Gillett , an analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Forrester
Research Inc.  Apple can take advantage of its popular iTunes and
App Store platforms to distribute software to companies in a
user-friendly way, he said. That in turn would help promote the
company’s hardware products.  Bill Evans , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to discuss the company’s corporate strategy.  Big Opportunity  Apple sold 3.8 million Mac computers to companies in the
past fiscal year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
amounts to 3 percent of the market.  If Apple were to boost that to 18 million Macs a year,
similar to the sales level of No. 3 PC maker  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,
it would bring in about $23 billion. Given workers’ desire to
use Apple products, the company would probably be able to reach
that point with far less investment than rivals such as  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  or Dell Inc., said Anand Srinivasan, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  Because companies also pay for warranties and additional
services, profit margins might be higher than for Apple’s
consumer Mac business, he said.  “Apple has lots of room to grow in the commercial space,”
Srinivasan said.  In any case, iPad sales to companies will accelerate this
year, said Tom Mainelli, an analyst at Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC, a sister firm to IDG Connect. Many
large companies focused in 2011 on testing the device and
running trials for ways to use the tablet, he said. Now, those
pilot programs are turning into mass purchases by customers.  Corporate Ecosystem  Mainelli expects iPad shipments into commercial markets,
which includes education and health care, to rise more than 50
percent to higher than 6 million in 2013 from this year. The
device was a common sight at last week’s  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland . Apple’s iPhone also has pushed into the
business world, often supplanting  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s
BlackBerry. The company shipped 37 million of the phones last
quarter, making it the market leader in smartphones.  Fidelity Investments  has developed iPad applications that
let clients check mutual funds and retirement accounts without
having to boot up a PC, said Richard Blunck, executive vice
president of digital distribution at the firm. At pharmaceutical
companies, salespeople use iPads to show product information to
doctors on a moment’s notice. During Apple’s quarterly
conference call last week, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  cited Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG
and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  as companies that have issued iPads to employees.  Android Software  For companies considering tablets, the main alternatives
are devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
Many chief information officers are concerned that Android isn’t
as secure as Apple’s iOS software, said Santiago Becerra, CEO of
MeLLmo, a corporate app developer.  Companies also have to go through a lengthy testing phase
before letting a device access its networks, and it’s easier to
qualify the iPad than each of the many Android tablets on the
market. For now, MeLLmo only makes apps for the iPad.  “There are so few CIOs looking at Android that it’s not
worth it for us right now,” Becerra said.  Microsoft could still slow Apple’s momentum. Tablets with
the new Windows 8 may have an easier time running Microsoft
Office, a staple for most office workers. That could give
Windows 8-based tablets a big advantage, since Microsoft hasn’t
created an iPad-compatible version of Office.  Doing Nothing?  Apple has succeeded with corporations without building a
large sales force or a corps of consultants and field
technicians. Wallach, who sold pharmaceutical-sales software for
years before co-founding Veevo, says he has only dealt with one
person at Apple who focused on his industry.  “It would be strong to say they’re doing absolutely
nothing, but it’s pretty close,” Wallach said.  According to Apple’s website, the company is now seeking a
salesperson dedicated to pharmaceutical companies in eastern
 Pennsylvania .  “If Apple is starting to hire reps around the country
focused just on accounts in their region within one industry,
that would be a definite signal of their intention to sell with
a stronger vertical focus,” Wallach said.  About 10 other corporate-focused positions are listed on
 Apple’s website , including sales positions in  New York ,  Seattle 
and Austin,  Texas , as well as a “B2B Quality Coach,” to help
Apple salespeople “deliver exceptional business-to-business
experiences.”  Apple has made other moves to ease corporate buying. The
company rolled out a volume purchasing program, letting
businesses place large orders for iPad apps, rather than
requiring each employee to go to iTunes and enter a code and
their own credit card number.  Not every company wants Apple to focus more on their needs.
Fidelity’s Blunck would rather have Apple continue to make
breakthrough consumer products that create new ways for its
customers to use Fidelity’s services.  “I’ll take that all day long, versus having them spend all
their time on enterprise’s needs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  