-- Marathon Petroleum Corp. Will Consider $6.2 Billion IPO of Pipeline Assets
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-02-01T21:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/marathon-petroleum-corp-will-consider-6-2-billion-ipo-of-pipeline-assets.html
Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , the crude
refiner that was spun off from  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  in June, will
consider an initial public offering for its pipeline assets that
may be worth as much as $6.2 billion.  Marathon Petroleum may hold an IPO for its pipeline assets
as soon as the second half of 2012 and buy back as much as $2
billion in shares, the company said in a statement today. The
announcement came less than two weeks after hedge fund Jana
Partners LLC bought a 5.5 percent stake and began talks with the
company.  Before Jana Partners began buying shares, Marathon
Petroleum’s Chief Executive Officer Gary Heminger said the
Findlay, Ohio-based company’s refineries and pipelines shouldn’t
be broken up. The offering would be for units of a master-
limited partnership, or MLP, the company said today.  “It’s a victory for Jana,” Sam Margolin, an analyst with
Global Hunter Securities LLC in  New York , who rates Marathon
Petroleum a “buy” and doesn’t own the stock, said in a
telephone interview today. “We’re all operating under the
assumption that they came into the company with an activist
lean. The buyback and the MLP were the two most obvious things
the company could do to create value.”  If the partnership includes all of Marathon Petroleum’s
9,600 miles (15,450 kilometers) of pipelines and other logistics
assets, it may raise the company’s value by as much a $17.40 a
share, or $6.2 billion, Chi Chow, an analyst in Denver with
Macquarie Group Ltd., said yesterday in a note to clients.  Jana’s Talks  Marathon Petroleum had its largest increase since August 9.
The shares rose 9.6 percent to $41.88 at the close in New York.
The shares traded at a 29 percent premium to the average price
of $32.58 Jana paid for 18.8 million shares, excluding options,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jana Partners, based in New York, disclosed in a Jan. 19
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it had
bought 19.7 million shares, including options, valued at $636
million beginning Nov. 22 and begun talks with Marathon
Petroleum management about the company’s corporate structure.  “We had very productive discussions with management and
found them to be smart, engaged and open to all avenues to
creating value, and we’re very pleased that they’re now taking
these bold steps to maximize value for all shareholders,”  Barry Rosenstein , managing partner of Jana Partners, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  ‘Ask Permission’  Heminger said last year the company wouldn’t consider
forming an MLP. The company’s crude and fuel transportation
system provided flexibility and allowed it to buy cheaper oil
and boost profit margins, Heminger told investors Nov. 15.  “Today, an MLP is not the direction that we see fits our
opportunity the best,” he said at a conference. “I don’t want
to have to ask permission to go move a barrel from point A to
point B.”  Jana Partners has pressured other companies to make changes
that boost share prices. On May 16, Jana Partners said it had
increased to about 4 percent its stake in  El Paso Corp. (EP) , a
natural-gas producer and pipeline company. Eight days later, the
company said it would spin off its exploration and production
unit.  MLPs pay no corporate income tax. They pay most of their
cash to owners of limited partnership units, which are traded
like shares in a public corporation. The partnership owners
become responsible for paying taxes individually.  Some profits also flow back to the parent company, which
typically becomes a general partner that operates and appoints
directors for the newly created entity.  Other MLPs  Marathon would join other energy companies in shifting
assets to a master-limited partnership.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , the
largest independent refiner in the western U.S., created a
partnership last year for its pipelines and fuel terminals.
Tesoro Logistics Partners LP held an initial public offering
April 19 that raised about $273 million.  Tesoro sold about half its pipeline and terminal assets,
Global Hunter’s Margolin said.  Exploration companies including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  have created partnerships to own and
manage their pipeline systems.  Marathon Petroleum, which owns six refineries in the
Midwest and on the U.S. Gulf Coast, today reported a fourth-
quarter loss. The company had a net loss of $75 million, or 21
cents a share, compared with profit of $230 million, or 64
cents, a year earlier.  Independent refiners don’t explore for or produce crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  