-- Rubio Could Help Republicans Learn to Love the Dream Act: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/marco-rubio-could-help-republicans-learn-to-love-the-dream-act-again-view.html
In a  Florida  Republican primary
notable for the bleakness of its attacks, one event offered a
singular ray of hope.  Speaking  to a Hispanic group in Miami,
Senator  Marco Rubio , Republican of Florida, took a tentative
step toward reclaiming his party’s pro-immigrant legacy.  Harsh anti-immigrant rhetoric has been a mainstay of this
year’s Republican campaign, with the remaining front-runners,
 Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich , proposing immigration policies
that variously combine punitive fantasy (Romney’s mass “self-
deportation”) with Rube Goldberg governance (Gingrich’s jerry-
rigged “citizens’ review” panels to determine which illegal
grandparents get to stay and which get the boot).  Expressions of anti-immigrant sentiment on the hustings are
hardly new. But it’s worth recalling that in 2006 a Republican-
controlled Senate supported immigration  reform  that included a
path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants. Although
that reform failed to pass the Republican House, a Republican
president,  George W. Bush , supported it, saying the U.S. could
be “a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time.”  Rubio’s positions on illegal immigrants have largely echoed
party orthodoxy, but he deviated from the script last week when
he said the U.S. must “figure out a way to accommodate” young
illegal immigrants who “want to serve in the military or are
high academic achievers.” What Rubio was referring to, however
obliquely, was the Dream Act, legislation that would provide a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who attend college or
volunteer for the armed forces. Republicans have largely refused
to back such legislation in Congress. The party’s presidential
candidates have denounced it.  Rubio’s link to the moderate immigration policies of Bush
and Republicans past is significant -- if the senator wants it
to be. Rubio has endorsed no one for president, but Romney and
Gingrich are both quick to praise him, dangling his name like
catnip. With their party facing a lopsided  electoral
disadvantage  among Hispanic voters that could doom its
presidential candidates for years, Republicans need Rubio, a son
of Cuban immigrants, more than he needs them.  Illegal immigration is not an easy issue. The prospect of
 comprehensive reform , encompassing a viable guest-worker
program, a path to citizenship for illegal residents, expanded
access to  visas  and a new regime to hold employers accountable,
has perhaps never seemed more distant. Yet if any person in
 Washington  could single-handedly alter that calculus, it’s
Rubio. A public endorsement of the Dream Act would be a good
place for him to start.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 