-- Mas La Grillade Fires Up $36 Bloody Squab, $32 Salmon: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mas-la-grillade-fires-up-36-bloody-squab-32-salmon-review.html
These days, chefs with split
personalities are as likely to open a second spot as to merely
add a new dish to the menu.  Case in point: Mas La Grillade, Galen Zamarra’s West
Village sequel to Mas Farmhouse.  Good things happen when Zamarra trades gas burners for a 2-
ton grill over a fiery pit. Elsewhere, the smoking trend seems
to extend from snails to ice cream. Zamarra shows restraint and
the results are subtle yet satisfying.  La Grillade is French barbecue, in style a bit quicker and
less Rabelaisian than its American low and slow cousin,
demanding smaller portions, white tablecloths and people who eat
with knives and forks.  Squab ($36) comes medium rare and bloody, just a whiff of
wood sheathing the faintly livery bird. Brussels sprouts, bacon
and cippolini onions give it finishing-school elan.  Silky salmon ($32), with applewood for the nose and
unctuousness for the palate, is glazed in sweet-salty teriyaki
sauce and served with an earthy rutabaga puree and endive-like
treviso, also from the grill.  Pecan Soup  I was skeptical of Zamarra’s smoked pecan soup ($14). But
the taste of wood is as delicate as the nut itself, with apples
and mint adding a soft sweetness.  Restorative game soup, on the $95 tasting menu, warms with
salty astringency. Grilled romaine ($14) sops up buttermilk
bacon and blue cheese dressing.  Service  is perfunctory and the room isn’t what you’d call
inviting. The nondescript bi-level space lacks the rustic charm
of the original Mas Farmhouse on Downing Street.  Hungry? Sit at the bar, where waiters convene behind the
granite counter. Balcony guests resort to flagging down the
help, and on nights when the kitchen’s busy your first course
might not arrive until an hour after you’ve stepped inside the
restaurant.  The wine list is heavily French and the only sparklers
available by the glass are Champagne. A Jackson gets you a
bright, bubbly flute of  Pierre Gimonnet . It’s what you should
drink with the wood-fired oysters ($9) oozing lemon-thyme
shallot butter, a worthy challenge to raw bar habitues.  Brilliant Squid  Sage-stuffed squid, barely charred on the outside, soft and
creamy within, call for the slightly reticent Donnhoff 2010
German Riesling ($15).  Move on to dorade ($28 for one, $42 for two) and devour the
toasty skin. Scallops are grilled over preserved lemon and
served with crunchy yet tender cauliflower, zinged with paprika
oil.  The wood gets the better of strip steak, any flavor smoked
out and leaving a $49 chew. On the other hand, filet mignon
packs an atypical beefy punch, with bone marrow adding even more
flavor.  Slightly spicy Regnie Thevenet 2008 Beaujolais ($68) was a
perfect complement.  Honey ice cream, its flavor but not its sweetness
satisfyingly concentrated, is your go-to dessert. I see that
smoking ice cream is on Zamarra’s agenda. Chances are he’ll get
that right, too.
Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Entrees $24-$49; $95 six-course tasting.  Sound Level: Loud upstairs, sometimes over 80.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: With drinks, order popcorn tossed with fried
herbs and Parmesan.  Special feature: $28 set lunch.  Back on My Own Dime? Absolutely, for the oysters.  Mas La Grillade is at 28 Seventh Avenue South. Information:
+1-212-255-1795 or  http://www.maslagrillade.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 