-- Las Vegas Sands Call Options Are at Three-Year Low Before Quarterly Report
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-02-01T22:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/las-vegas-sands-call-options-are-at-three-year-low-before-quarterly-report.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  options traders
are making the fewest bullish bets in three years on speculation
that revenue growth may slow in Macau, which accounts for about
half of the casino company’s sales.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy versus puts to sell
dropped to 1.02-to-1, the lowest since October 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Las Vegas-based company
reported earnings of 57 cents a share excluding some items after
the close of trading, missing analyst estimates by 0.5 percent.
It had rallied 2.2 percent to $50.18 in regular trading today
and has risen 17 percent  this year . The shares fell 2.2 percent
in late trading after the profit report.  Traders bought puts on speculation that casino revenue in
Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub, can’t sustain last
year’s growth, according to Joe Kunkle, founder of
OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options-market
analytics. Casino revenue growth in the former Portuguese colony
slowed to 42 percent last year from 58 percent in 2010,
according to Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  “We continue to remain cautious on the Macau gaming
market, given slowing growth,” Cameron McKnight, a New York-
based analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote in a report today.
Sales may fall as  China ’s expansion diminishes, said Cameron,
who has a “market perform”  rating  the stock.  Put trading on Las Vegas Sands jumped to 68,514 contracts
yesterday, the highest since May, while the ratio of puts
changing hands versus call volume was 2-to-1, the highest since
February 2010.  Analyst Estimates  Profit in the prior quarter beat projections as growth in
both Singapore and Macau continued. Macau accounted for  49
percent  of revenue in the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue at casinos in Macau jumped 35 percent to 25 billion
patacas ($3.13 billion) in January, according to Macau’s gaming
bureau. That was higher than the median estimate of 24 billion
patacas from seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Jan. 24 that it cut
its forecast for China’s estimated expansion this year to 8.2
percent from a 9 percent forecast in September.  Sands China Ltd., the Macau-based unit of Las Vegas Sands
that trades in  Hong Kong , said yesterday that it will pay its
first dividend and that it has enough cash to fund expansion
plans in the region. The payout will occur on or about Feb. 28,
Sands China said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  