-- Asia Stock Rally ‘Sustainable’ After Indexes Break Out: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-02-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/asian-stocks-rally-may-be-sustainable-after-break-out-technical-analysis.html
Asian stocks may extend their longest
rally in more than a year after regional indexes broke out of
so-called triangle congestion patterns, according to Chart
Partners Group Ltd.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index surged 8 percent last month,
its best such performance since September 2010 and the first
time the gauge recorded consecutive monthly advances since
October 2010. India’s BSE Sensitive Index and  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index posted the biggest advances, each rising 11 percent.  “Many Asian indexes have broken to the upside of triangle
congestion patterns,”  Thomas Schroeder , managing director at
Bangkok-based technical research company Chart Partners, said in
a telephone interview. “It started in Hong Kong and we’ve seen
similar breakouts in  Japan  and Korea. These are signs that this
rally is sustainable.”  The Hang Seng Index broke above the triangle pattern on
Jan. 17, Bloomberg data showed. South Korea’s Kospi Index, which
has risen 7.3 percent this year, traded above the same pattern
on Jan. 20, while Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average breached the
formation on Jan. 25.  The rally across Asia may last through March, especially if
 China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  can build on recent gains,
Schroeder said. The Chinese benchmark index advanced 4.2 percent
in January, snapping a two-month slump.  “We’ll find more buying opportunity should shares weaken
in February,” said Schroeder. “If the Shanghai Composite Index
extends its gains above 2,320, that will add more fuel to the
rally. The Chinese benchmark index could rise to between 2,500
and 2,600.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to try and predict changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. A triangle is formed
when upper and lower trend lines intersect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  