-- Assange Tells U.K.’s Highest Court That Swedish Warrant Wasn’t Justified
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-01T17:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/assange-tells-u-k-supreme-court-that-swedish-warrant-wasn-t-justified.html
Julian Assange, founder of the anti-
secrecy website WikiLeaks, asked the U.K. Supreme Court to block
his extradition to Sweden on rape claims, focusing on the
technical argument his arrest warrant wasn’t issued by a judge.  The Swedish prosecutor who investigated the allegations and
issued a European arrest warrant in 2010 isn’t impartial and
can’t be a “judicial authority” under  European Union law ,
Assange’s lawyer,  Dinah Rose , told a panel of seven judges.  The prosecutor’s actions were “a breach of the rule that
nobody may be a judge in their own cause, which is a fundamental
principle of natural justice,” Rose said today in London.  The 40-year-old Australian is seeking to overturn a Court
of Appeal ruling that he return to Sweden to face allegations by
two WikiLeaks supporters who let him stay at their homes in
2010. Assange won the right to appeal to Britain’s top court
after his lawyers argued British citizens would benefit from a
final ruling on whether only judges can issue such warrants.  Clare Montgomery, the lawyer representing  Sweden , said the
warrant for Assange was made in its “proper form” and that
authorities don’t need to be impartial to issue them. Under
Assange’s definition, eight EU countries would be barred from
using the extradition system, she said at the hearing.  The last-ditch appeal follows a lawsuit filed by Assange’s
prior legal team for allegedly failing to pay his legal fees.
The firm, London-based Finers Stephens Innocent LLP, said
yesterday it sued Assange after protracted negotiations failed
to produce a deal.  U.S. Condemnation  Assange, arrested in London in December 2010, is accused of
failing to use a condom with one of the women and having sex
with the other while she was asleep. The claims became public
around the same time Assange was condemned by U.S. officials for
posting classified military and diplomatic cables on the
 WikiLeaks website  and he claimed the case was politically
motivated.  In the Court of Appeal’s ruling in November, Judges John
Smith and Duncan Ouseley said it’s “difficult to see how a
person could reasonably have believed in consent if the
complaint alleges a state of sleep or half-sleep.”  The appeal doesn’t involve the substance of the claims in
Sweden and focuses on a technicality in  Europe ’s practice of
honoring arrest warrants from EU member countries. Assange,
wearing a black suit, was backed by dozens of protesters outside
the court.  ‘Witch Hunt’  Ciaron O’Reilly, a supporter of Assange who protested
outside, said the rape allegations were politicized by the
Swedish government at the behest of the U.S.  “If it wasn’t Julian Assange and WikiLeaks, they wouldn’t
be extraditing him,” O’Reilly said after the hearing. “It’s a
witch hunt.”  Rose told the judges each of the EU’s 27 member countries
made their own interpretations of the arrest-warrant law, with
some allowing prosecutors to issue them and some requiring
judges.  If the  Supreme Court  rejects the appeal, Assange’s only
remedy will be to apply to the  European Court  of Human Rights in
Strasbourg,  France , which would have two weeks to respond,
according to the U.K. Crown Prosecution Service, which
represents Sweden in the case.  “One cannot rule out the Supreme Court disagreeing, but
the odds are stacked against Mr. Assange,” said Dan Hyde, a
consultant at Cubism Law.  Assange’s alleged crimes took place in August 2010 in
Stockholm and Enkoeping, Sweden, where he was lecturing on the
publication of the U.S. documents. Invited to stay with the
women in their apartments as he toured the cities, Assange
claims the sex was consensual.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  