-- Massage After Exercise Tamps Down Inflammation That Causes Aches in Men
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-02-01T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/massage-after-exercise-tamps-down-inflammation-that-causes-aches-in-men.html
Massage may be as effective as
aspirin or other  pain  medicines to calm the effects of intense
exercise, suggested researchers who have found it slows
production of chemicals in the body linked to inflammation.  Their analysis in 11 men also showed the rub-downs helped
rev up energy centers in muscle cells, according to a report in
the journal  Science Translational Medicine . What massage didn’t
do was remove  lactic acid , a substance popularly thought to
contribute to muscle soreness, the researchers said.  About 18 million U.S. adults receive massages yearly,
according to the Centers for Disease and Control and
Prevention’s 2007  National Health Interview Survey . Although
research on use of the therapy is limited, studies have
suggested it may be useful in low-back pain and neck pain, and
that there are few safety risks from the treatment.  “It may be that massage is as beneficial as commonly
prescribed medications, but we just don’t know that yet,” said
Simon Melov, a study author and  an associate professor and
director of genomics at the Buck Institute for Research on Aging
in Novato,  California , in a telephone interview. “It seems
possible. It’s not just psychological.”  It may also be worthwhile to see if chronic muscle
inflammation and  pain  from causes other than exercise can be
treated by massage as well, Melov said.  The subjects were exercised to exhaustion, which took about
70 minutes. One leg was massaged; the other wasn’t. Both were
biopsied immediately after the therapy and 2.5 hours later. The
massaged leg showed slower production of interleukin-6 and tumor
necrosis factor alpha, both linked to inflammation, according to
the report.  New Mitochondria  The researchers also found that the legs receiving the
massages showed signals of the process by which new mitochondria
are formed.  Mitochondria  are the engines of the body’s cells,
which process nutrients to create energy.  Delayed-onset muscle soreness is usually due to cell damage
and tears in the muscle fiber, which cause swelling and soreness
from an inflammatory response, Melov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 