-- Aussie to Stay ‘Relatively High’: Gillard
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-01T04:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/aussie-to-stay-relatively-high-gillard.html
The Australian dollar is likely to
stay “relatively high for years to come,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said, challenging the nation’s businesses to work harder
to overcome the drawbacks of a stronger currency.  “Our success is driving the dollar,” she said in the text
of a speech to the Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce in
 Melbourne . “In turn, the dollar is driving change and in doing
so it’s making our economy leaner and stronger, forcing us to
move more of our effort -- more money, more equipment, more
people -- into the parts of our economy where we can create the
greatest value.”  Gillard’s embrace of a higher currency was a response to
industries seeking relief from their exposure to global
competition. In the speech, she recalled other transitional eras
in the nation’s history and quoted a U.S. Civil War general to
deliver her message: that companies resistant to change must
learn to adapt, or die.  “Every year, 300,000 businesses close down -- and 300,000
new ones start up,” Gillard said. “While economic
transformations are never easy, this time we have an advantage
we have rarely had before.”  The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was floated in 1983, before easing in
subsequent months as concern intensified about the fallout from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. It traded at $1.0613 at 2:17 p.m. in
Sydney today after reaching a three-month high of $1.0688 on
Jan. 26.  ‘Broken’ Businesses  The level of the currency “has broken some business models
and forced economic restructuring,” Gillard said. “Economic
strength driving a strong dollar -- and a strong dollar driving
economic change.”  She cited the large reallocations of capital and labor
after the 1982 and 1991 recessions when many workers were
“forced to look for new ways to support their family -- at
times of double-digit unemployment and real concentrated
hardship in many regions and towns.”  In contrast, the nation’s current jobless rate, at 5.2
percent, is below the U.S.’s 8.5 percent and is half Europe’s
10.4 percent.  Gillard came under fire for her handling of the economy
from Liberal-National opposition leader  Tony Abbott  this week.
In 2011, her first full year as prime minister, the nation
recorded its worst job growth in 19 years and  house prices 
slumped by a record 4.8 percent.  Surplus Pledge  The prime minister today reiterated her pledge to return
the nation’s budget to surplus in fiscal 2012-13, even as the
global economy slows and  tax revenue  falls, insisting Australia
must remain ahead of the curve.  “The current international instability stems in large part
from real concerns about sovereign risk -- and perceptions of
risk in various national economies can change quickly, indeed
they have on occasion in recent times,” she said.  Gillard also noted that a return to surplus would increase
the scope for the central bank to ease monetary policy when
conditions require. The prime minister met yesterday in Sydney
with  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens .  Twenty-seven of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted this week Stevens would reduce borrowing costs by a
quarter percentage point for a third straight meeting. Investors
are pricing in a 60 percent chance he will lower borrowing costs
to 4 percent on Feb. 7.  ‘Global Uncertainty’  “It’s a striking development in our economic history that
in a period of global uncertainty, the Australian currency is
holding its value,” Gillard said today. “This comes even as
markets harbor expectations of future easing of our monetary
policy settings, expectations which might normally be expected
to see the currency trend lower.”  Exports account for a fifth of  Australia ’s economy and
 China  is its biggest trading partner, buying up Australian iron
ore and coal to fuel construction as hundreds of millions of
people move from villages to cities.  The value of Australian goods and services exports totaled
A$27.2 billion ($28.9 billion) in November, the third-highest
level on record, according to government figures. A report on
the nation’s trade balance for December is scheduled for release
tomorrow.  The currency’s strength is hurting the nation’s car
industry, with Toyota Motor Corp.’s Australian division, the
country’s largest car exporter, announcing last month it would
cut more than a 10th of the employees at its assembly plant
following a 21 percent decline in annual production in 2011.  Job Losses  Almost 200 workers will lose their jobs after  Reckitt
Benckiser Group PLC (RB/) , makers of Mortein and Dettol, announced
plans to shut down its only Australian manufacturing facility in
Sydney.  “Today’s job losses only adds urgency to the case for
industry and government to work with us to develop strategies to
supporting manufacturing,” Australian Manufacturing Workers
Union State Secretary Tim Ayres said in a statement today.  Gillard said her government would have “determination and
clarity” in addressing the nation’s challenges in 2012. She
cited American Civil War General  Ulysses S. Grant , who said he
would “fight it out along this line if it takes all summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  