-- Aussie Touches 5-Month High as Stock Gains Spur Demand for Riskier Assets
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-02T19:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/aussie-n-z-dollars-hold-two-day-gain-on-prospects-stocks-will-advance.html
The Australian dollar touched a five-
month high against its U.S. counterpart after a report showed
the nation’s trade surplus increased, exceeding analyst
expectations. The  New Zealand dollar  gained for a third day.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi rose after data yesterday
showed manufacturing in  China  and the U.S. expanded, while a
similar European gauge topped an initial reading. Asian equities
extended gains as concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen
weren’t enough to damp investor appetite for higher-yielding
assets.  “The market has taken an overly optimistic view” of
global manufacturing data, said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia . “The
so-called risk currencies like Aussie and kiwi can be very well-
supported.”  Australia’s dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0713 at 2:01
p.m. in New York. It earlier rose as high as $1.0757, the
strongest level since Sept. 1. The Aussie was little changed
against its Japanese counterpart at 81.54 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency advanced 0.1 percent to 83.34 U.S.
cents. It touched 83.70 cents yesterday, the strongest level
since Sept. 9. The kiwi was also little changed against the
Japanese currency at 63.48 yen. Demand for the currency was
limited after whole-milk powder prices fell for the fourth-
straight auction, according to  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   Australian  10-year  bonds fell, pushing yields up four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.72 percent. The rate fell
to 3.648 percent yesterday, matching the record low reached on
Dec. 30. New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, rose two basis points to 2.79
percent.  Stock Gains  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares rose 1.2 percent,
following yesterday’s 0.1 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and a 0.2 percent advance for the Stoxx Europe 600
Price Index.  Australia’s exports exceeded imports by A$1.7 billion ($1.8
billion) in December after a surplus of A$1.3 billion in
November, a report by the statistics bureau showed today. That
compares with a  median estimate  for a A$1.2 billion surplus in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the data was
released.  “We’ve seen a further move higher in the Aussie dollar on
the back of the trade balance data,” said Hamish Pepper,
assistant vice president in  Singapore  at  Barclays Capital .  “There’s room for a move lower and the catalyst for that
could well be the RBA rate decision that we get next week,” he
said, referring to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s Feb. 7 policy
meeting.  Rate Cut Bets  Traders see a 58 percent chance that officials will lower
borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage point, cash-rate
futures show. Barclays expects a 25-basis-point reduction next
week and a further 50 basis points of cuts by mid-year, Pepper
said.  Australia’s benchmark lending rate currently stands at 4.25
percent, while New Zealand’s official cash rate is 2.5 percent.
That compares with key rates that are near zero in the U.S. and
 Japan . The South Pacific nations’ higher yields attract
investors, although the risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  The Australian dollar has appreciated 2.4 percent in the
past month, while its New Zealand counterpart has gained 5
percent over the same period, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. They are the best performers among
the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the gauge.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  manufacturing index ,
a measure of output in the U.S., rose to 54.1 last month from
53.1 in December. A similar Chinese  purchasing managers’ index 
climbed to 50.5 from 50.3 over the same period, while the euro-
area  gauge  jumped to 48.8 from 46.9 the previous month, topping
a preliminary reading of 48.7.  Milk powder for April delivery was $3,495 a metric ton, the
lowest since Oct. 18, according to results on Fonterra’s
 GlobalDairyTrade  website. The Auckland-based company is the
world’s largest dairy exporter and accounts for about 40 percent
of the global dairy-product trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  