-- Australian Home Prices Fell Most on Record in 2011 as New Home Sales Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-02-01T01:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/australia-house-prices-fall-more-than-forecast-on-weaker-melbourne-values.html
Australian  house prices  plunged by
the most on record in 2011 as global economic uncertainty and
concerns about its impact at home kept a lid on demand.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities slid 4.8 percent from a
year earlier, according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics ,
the biggest calendar-year drop since the data began in March
2002. They fell 1 percent in the three months to December from
the previous quarter, when they retreated a revised 1.9 percent.
The  median estimate  of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was a 0.6 percent quarterly fall.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens lowered
the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and
again on Dec. 6 as inflation pressures eased and global growth
risks increased. Australia recorded its worst annual job growth
in 19 years in 2011, as consumers boosted savings, and traders
are pricing in a 60 percent chance of another cut next week.  “Much of the price moderation of late is occurring at the
top end,”  Stephen Walters ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s chief
economist in Australia who forecast a 1.2 percent drop, said in
a research report before today’s release. “The monthly data
suggest the housing market received a small tailwind from the
RBA’s November and December rate cuts. We expect prices to track
close to flat over 2012.”  New Home Sales  Sales of new homes fell a seasonally adjusted 4.9 percent
in December, with detached house sales dropping 7.7 percent, a
separate  report  from the Housing Industry Association showed.  “The intensification of bad news regarding  Europe ,
question marks over labor market prospects in Australia, and
avoidable delay and uncertainty as to whether banks were going
to pass on the  Reserve Bank ’s second rate cut conspired to drive
a fall in new housing contracts,” HIA Chief Economist  Harley
Dale  wrote in the report.  Queensland and Victoria states had the biggest declines in
detached new house sales, falling 20.5 percent and 10.5 percent
respectively, the HIA report showed. Sales rose 12 percent in
 South Australia  and 6.8 percent in  Western Australia .  Prices fell 1.6 percent in Melbourne and Adelaide from the
third quarter, slid 1.3 percent in Brisbane and dropped 1
percent in Sydney, the nation’s most populous city, the
statistics bureau report showed. Prices gained 0.5 percent in
Perth and 0.7 percent in Canberra, the capital.  A survey of homeowners showed prices are expected to slide
0.4 percent in the next year and climb 1.2 percent by December
2013, according to the report released today from National
Australia Bank Ltd, the nation’s fourth-largest lender.  “NAB believes these expectations may be a touch
pessimistic,”  Alan Oster , chief economist at the bank, wrote in
the report. “A structural shortage of housing remains,
commencements are still weak,  interest rates  are falling and the
unemployment rate is still comparatively low.”  The RBA’s next rate decision is scheduled to be announced
on Feb. 7 at 2:30 p.m. in Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  