-- Axa Private Equity Said to Seek More Capital for Secondary Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-02-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/axa-private-equity-said-to-seek-more-capital-for-secondary-fund.html
Axa Private Equity, an arm of French
insurer  Axa SA (CS) , is asking investors for permission to raise an
additional $1 billion for a pool that can buy stakes in existing
funds, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  The firm, based in Paris, is requesting that the hard cap,
or limit, on how much capital  Axa Secondary Fund (PEF1129)  V LP can
collect be lifted to $5 billion from $4 billion, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the fund is
private. The firm wants to take advantage of a surge in sellers
offering fund stakes, one of the people said.  The Axa pool would be among the largest secondary funds.
The firm’s prior fund raised $2.9 billion in 2006. Secondary
transactions rose to a record volume of about $25 billion in
2011 and will probably stay at about that level this year,
according to a pricing report in January by  New York ’s Cogent
Partners, a market intermediary.  Elizabeth Shapiro, a spokeswoman for Axa Private Equity,
declined to comment.  Secondary funds purchase existing investor stakes in
private-equity funds. They’re typically buying when a fund is
producing profits and making distributions to limited partners.  Financial institutions are marketing big portfolios either
to get rid of noncore holdings or in response to new banking
regulations. Institutional investors led by pension plans are
using the secondary market to reduce the number of relationships
they have with money managers, or to free up capital to invest
in new funds coming to market.  Secondary firms are seeking money in what is still a
difficult fundraising market, which could create more supply
than demand.  Buyer’s Market  “If you look at the total dry powder currently available
in secondary funds, it is in the range of $30 billion to $35
billion to invest over the next few years,” David de Weese,
head of secondary deal sourcing at New York-based Paul Capital,
said in an interview last month. “If we see $40 billion in
secondary opportunities in 2012 alone, the assets for sale dwarf
the ability to purchase them.”  Axa Private Equity began marketing its latest secondary
fund in 2010 with a target of $3.5 billion. It has raised about
$3 billion and invested $1.7 billion, according to the people
familiar with the fundraising.  The firm deployed $3.8 billion in secondary deals across
its funds last year, one of the people said. The deals included
the purchase of $1.7 billion in private-equity assets from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  