-- BAE, Northrop Win Army Contracts for Missile-Jamming Lasers
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-02-01T20:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bae-northrop-win-army-contracts-for-missile-jamming-lasers-1-.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and Northrop Grumman
Corp. won U.S.  military  contracts to develop missile-jamming
lasers for helicopters, the Army announced today.  BAE received a $38 million contract and Northrop was
awarded $31.4 million, Brandon Pollachek, an Army spokesman at
Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, said in a phone interview.
Both are for technology development during 21 months.  The Common Infrared Countermeasure, or CIRCM, program is
valued at a minimum of $1.1 billion. It may rise to as much as
$5 billion if the Navy and  Air Force , as well as allied
militaries, decide to install the laser defense systems, Andrew
Dardine, an analyst with the research firm Forecast
International of Newtown, Connecticut, has said.  The infrared system is a laser that diverts missiles by
jamming their sensors with intense heat. The Army plans to
initially outfit 1,076 helicopters, starting with Sikorsky’s
UH-60 Black Hawk.  The technology will work with the aircraft’s missile
warning system “to ensure an envelope of protection,” Colonel
John Leaphart, a project manager at Redstone Arsenal, Alabama,
said in a statement.  “We are delighted to have been selected,” Ellen Hamilton,
a  Northrop (NOC)  spokeswoman, said in an e-mail statement. The company
will work with partners SELEX Galileo, part of Rome-based
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , and Daylight Defense LLC to help protect
helicopters from shoulder-fired missiles, she said.  Contract Competitors  BAE, based in  London , and Northrop, based in  Falls Church ,
Virginia, had competed against ITT Exelis Inc.,  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Lockheed was dropped from the competition last summer,
Craig Vanbebber, a spokesman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company, said in a phone interview.  “Exelis is very proud of the affordable and reliable low-
risk solution that our team developed,” Robert Ferrante, a vice
president at the McLean, Virginia-based company, said in a
statement. He said the system is based on open architecture and
“one of the most technologically advanced available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  