-- Bahrain’s Chamber of Commerce Denounces Protests in Capital
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-01T07:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bahrain-s-chamber-of-commerce-denounces-protests-in-capital.html
Essam Fakhro, chairman of Bahrain’s
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, called on authorities to take
all “necessary legal measures” to prevent the spread of
opposition protests to the capital, Manama.  Fakhro said the chamber “strongly denounces” calls for
unlicensed rallies and sit-ins in vital commercial areas, the
state-run Bahrain News Agency reported late yesterday. He said
such an escalation would have a “negative, destructive” impact
on the economy and the country’s security.  Shiite Muslim demonstrators have stepped up their protests
against the government in recent weeks, starting an anti-police
campaign, dubbed Bahrain Fist, aimed at preventing security
forces from entering their villages. They have also held
unlicensed rallies in Manama that police have dispersed with
teargas. The protests have led to road closures, disrupted
traffic and trapped some staff in their offices in the capital
and the adjacent Diplomatic Area, which houses the central bank,
the  Finance Ministry  and other government institutions.  The tensions come a few weeks before the first anniversary
of anti-government protests led by members of the Shiite
majority demanding a more representative government and greater
rights from the country’s  Sunni Muslim  rulers. The unrest led to
a decline in tourism, real estate and the retail industry which
contributed to an estimated $2 billion loss to the economy last
year, Fakhro said in a Sept. 24 interview.  Fakhro said the chamber has received a lot of complaints
from small businesses in Manama about the recent disruptions,
which he said could lead to bankruptcies.  Twenty-five of 90 shops in Bahrain’s Gold Souq have closed
since the outbreak of unrest last year, Gulf Daily News said on
Jan. 30, citing Mohammed Sajid Shaikh, head of the Bahrain
Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s gold and pearl jewellery
committee. Many jewellery traders in Manama had been unable to
pay rent and utility bills due to the drop in revenue, the paper
cited Shaikh as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  