-- UN’s Ban Urges Accord on Syrian Violence as Assad Forces Attack Protesters
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-02-01T14:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ban-urges-agreement-on-syria-violence-as-assad-s-forces-attack-protestors.html
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the international community to agree on a
resolution that will help end violence in  Syria  as President
Bashar al-Assad’s forces kill more protesters.  At least 47 people, including 15 Syrian soldiers, died
today in clashes, according to Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Assad’s forces
continued fighting the opposition Free Syrian Army around
Damascus, he said in a phone interview, following yesterday’s
start of UN Security Council deliberations on an Arab League
proposal. The UN says more than 5,400 people have died in the
conflict, which is evolving into a civil war.  “We cannot wait any longer until the political process is
finished while many people are being killed,” Ban told
reporters today in Jerusalem. “First, all violence must stop,
and I sincerely hope this will lead to a political solution.
That is what I am urging to the international community.”  The Arab-European resolution, which calls for Assad to step
aside and delegate a deputy to hold talks with the opposition
within two months, may be blocked by  Russia , which has offered
to broker talks in Moscow. Any plan that calls on Assad to cede
power has “no chance” of being adopted, said Vladimir Chizhov,
Russia’s ambassador to the European Union, Interfax reported.  Dissent Justified  “Russia’s latest step was to offer hosting peace talks
between the Syrian regime and the opposition, signaling that our
dissent is justified,” said Mustafa Hamitoglu, an Istanbul-
based member of the opposition Syrian National Council. “We’re
ready to discuss the administration that will replace Assad, yet
we’re not going to sit down for talks as proposed by Russia with
a regime that tortured us for 11 months.”  Syria’s government is ready to negotiate with the
opposition, the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said on Jan. 30.
Russia, whose only military base outside the former  Soviet Union 
is in Syria, has threatened to use its veto if the UN tries to
force Assad from power. It blocked a Security Council resolution
in December that sought to hold the Syrian president responsible
for violence.  It is possible and necessary for the UN to reach an
agreement to stop the violence in Syria, Russia’s ambassador to
the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said yesterday.  ‘Less Negative’  Russia is “less negative” about pressuring Syria, French
Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said today in the National Assembly
at Paris. “I don’t want to sound too optimistic, but this is
the first time.”  Battles between Assad’s forces and the FSA, made up of
defectors and armed civilians, are also under way in Idlib,
Daraa and Rastan, Abdel Rahman said today from  London . The army
has been leading a wide-ranging offensive to crush the FSA since
Jan. 27, he said.  The Arab League will hold its annual summit on March 29 in
 Baghdad , Ahmed Ben Helli, the bloc’s deputy secretary-general,
said today. The 22-member Cairo-based organization suspended
Syria’s membership over Assad’s crackdown and imposed sanctions
on the government in November.  Last year’s annual gathering was postponed as a wave of
popular protests engulfed the region, resulting in the ouster of
longstanding leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , while sparking
unrest in other countries, including Syria, Yemen and Bahrain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  