-- Banco Bilbao May Post Quarterly Loss on Goodwill Charge in U.S.
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-01T09:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/banco-bilbao-may-post-quarterly-loss-on-goodwill-charge-in-u-s-.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, may post a loss in the fourth
quarter on charges for goodwill at its U.S. unit and provisions
for cleaning up bad loans.  BBVA may report a net  loss  of 90.9 million euros ($119
million), compared with a profit of 939 million euros a year
earlier, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 10 analysts. The Bilbao-based company is due to report
earnings tomorrow before the stock market opens in  Madrid .  BBVA and other Spanish lenders are under pressure from the
government to recognize more losses on real-estate assets in
Spain, where a recession is sapping demand for credit and
driving more loans into default. Banco Santander SA,  Spain ’s
biggest bank, said Jan. 31 it was boosting its provisions to
cover real estate acquired during the country’s property crash,
a step that puts pressure on rivals including BBVA to follow
suit, said Juan Pablo Lopez, an analyst at Banco Espirito Santo
SA in Madrid.  “Santander has played its card with provisions and it’s
putting a bit of pressure on the other banks, including BBVA,”
Lopez said by telephone. “The goodwill charge in the U.S. means
they might not even break even.”  BBVA has gained 1.1 percent this year in Madrid trading,
valuing the bank at 33 billion euros. Santander, which reported
a 98 percent drop in fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 31 because
of one-time charges, has gained 2.6 percent.  Goodwill Charge  BBVA said Jan. 10 it would take a charge of about 1 billion
euros against 2011 earnings after adjusting for goodwill at its
U.S. unit to account for the outlook for growth and regulation
in the country. Goodwill is the amount exceeding fair net book
value paid at the time of an acquisition.  BBVA had already taken a 704 million-euro writedown for
U.S. goodwill against 2009 earnings after building up its
business there with the $9 billion purchase of Compass
Bancshares Inc. in 2007. The bank will take a loss of 1.73
billion euros in the fourth quarter for the U.S. goodwill charge
and on costs to clean up its real-estate assets, according to a
report by Citigroup Inc.  The bank reported 15.3 billion euros of assets linked to
real-estate development in September, of which 4 billion euros
was land and 2.8 billion euros was unfinished buildings. BBVA
had 6.63 billion euros of foreclosed or acquired real-estate
assets on its books, with provisions to cover 33 percent of that
amount.  Santander Provisions  Santander said yesterday it was boosting the provisioning
level for its own 8.6 billion euros of real estate accumulated
on its balance sheet to 50 percent from 31 percent previously.
The pretax amount of provisions allocated by Santander against
real estate in the fourth quarter was 1.81 billion euros.  BBVA’s bad loans as a proportion of total lending may have
remained little changed at 4.07 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to estimates from  Antonio Ramirez  and Marta Sanchez
Romero, analysts at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London . Chief
Operating Officer Angel Cano said in April 2010 that asset
quality was probably going to be “stable from now on.”  Profit from Spain, which accounts for about 60 percent of
the bank’s loans, may have dropped to 317 million euros from 374
million euros a year earlier, according to Citigroup. Earnings
from  Mexico , the unit that contributes most to BBVA’s profit,
may have fallen 5.6 percent to 427 million euros, Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  