-- Facebook Bankers May Get Fees of 1% to 1.5% in Initial Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-01T22:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bankers-may-collect-1-to-1-5-fees-for-handling-facebook-public-offering.html
Bankers handling  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
initial public offering may collect fees of as little as 1
percent to 1.5 percent of the total amount raised in the sale,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Facebook hasn’t set a final fee, said the people, who
declined to be named because the information is private. The
 Menlo Park , California-based company hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to
lead its IPO and seeks to raise $5 billion, according to a
 regulatory filing  today. That amount is subject to change, the
people said.  At 1 percent, Facebook would be paying one-fifth the rate
banks collected for managing the biggest U.S. Internet IPOs last
year, which raised only a fraction of what Facebook is seeking.
The average fee on the IPOs of Yandex NV,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Renren
Inc. and Groupon Inc., the four Internet companies that each
raised more than $500 million in U.S. initial offerings last
year, was 5.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With larger IPOs, banks can often afford to take a smaller
percentage fee, and high-profile offerings such as Facebook can
lead to future business.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Allen & Co.
will also work on the sale, the filing showed.  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Facebook, and Pen Pendleton, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment.  Facebook is also considering allocating about 20 percent of
its stock to retail investors, though no decision has been made
yet, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  