-- Berkowitz: Fund Plunge ‘Makes Little Sense’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-01T15:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/berkowitz-says-fund-plunge-makes-little-sense-sees-rebound-at-aig-bofa.html
Bruce Berkowitz , who oversees the
largest non-government stake in  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and a holding in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said the stocks in
his flagship Fairholme Fund will rebound.  “The Fund’s performance last year makes little sense,” in
light of improving balance sheets and prospects for profit,
Berkowitz wrote in his 2011 report to investors who have money
with his Miami-based Fairholme Capital Management LLC. “We can
only hypothesize from public comments that investors did not
fathom our financials’ assets.”  The Fairholme Fund plunged 32 percent last year compared
with a gain of  2.1 percent  for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
counting reinvested dividends. Berkowitz, 53, is seeking to
reassure investors as he maintains holdings in Bank of America,
the  worst performer  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  in 2011,
and bailed-out AIG, which fell by 52 percent in the year.  The insurer, which received a $182.3 billion government
rescue in 2008, has a history “worthy of a Dickens novel,”
Berkowitz said in the letter. AIG  trades  for about half its book
value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, on speculation
that the U.S. Treasury Department will sell its 77 percent stake
below the government’s break-even price, he said.  AIG reported a $4.1 billion  third-quarter loss  in November
fueled by losses in the market value of mortgage-related
investments and a stake in an Asian insurer. The New York-based
company is scheduled to report full-year results this month.  ‘Stay the Course’  “Our companies are strong and cheap,” Berkowitz said in
the  letter , posted yesterday on Fairholme’s website.
“Shareholders have kept their courage and conviction under
stress. Fairholme has kept its word to focus on value-based,
long-term investments. We will stay the course.”  The  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)   advanced  about 11 percent in January as
AIG gained 8.2 percent and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America jumped 28 percent to close yesterday at $7.13.  The bank “was our worst laggard” last year, Berkowitz
wrote. “Even with results showing $20 per share of book value,
$5 per share of reserves for bad debt and legal issues, and
yearly pre-provision, pretax cash flows growing to $4 per
share.”  Berkowitz was named the U.S. domestic stock fund manager of
the decade in 2010 by Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based research
firm. The Fairholme Fund has returned an annualized 9.6 percent
since inception at the end of 1999 through Dec. 31, 2011,
compared with a gain of less than 1 percent a year for the  S&P
500 , according to his report.  His letters feature the phrase “ignore the crowd” and he
asks investors to focus on results beyond 12-month periods.  “In great years, we asked shareholders not to be swayed by
short-term performance,” Berkowitz said in the letter. “The
same is true in a bad year. “One circling of the sun is too
short a time to differentiate between good and lucky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  