-- BHP Approves Spending for Port Hedland Iron Ore Expansion
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-01T22:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bhp-approves-spending-for-initial-port-hedland-harbor-expansion.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, approved initial spending on a A$14
billion ($14.9 billion) expansion of its iron ore export harbor
in Western Australia to boost supply to  steel mills .  The company sanctioned spending of $779 million to fund its
share of an initial $917 million expansion of the Port Hedland
harbor, Melbourne-based BHP said today in a statement. The funds
will allow the world’s third-largest iron ore exporter to
progress studies on the expansion and begin procurement of long
lead items, it said.  Port Hedland’s harbor enlargement, which includes rail, ore
stockpiles and a four kilometer (2.5 mile) jetty, will add
capacity of 240 million metric tons a year, the Western
Australian Environmental Protection Authority said last month.
The expanded facility will help BHP, which trails Vale SA and
Rio Tinto Group in  iron ore  exports, increase supply to  China ,
the world’s biggest steelmaker.  “This investment is an important first step in providing
the infrastructure to allow us to fully develop our world class
resource base in the Pilbara,” BHP Iron Ore President Ian Ashby
said in the statement. “The development of the outer harbor is
pivotal for our longer-term growth objectives and this initial
funding is rapidly turning those plans into a reality.”  The initial spending is for the construction of a 100
million ton per year outer harbor, BHP said. The project is
expected to be reviewed for full approval in the fourth quarter
of this year, it said. The A$14 billion cost estimate comes from
a report last year by the state’s Department of Mines and
Petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  