-- Ozzy Osbourne No Steve Jobs as Best Buy Remakes Super Bowl Spots: Retail
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bieber-no-steve-jobs-as-best-buy-remakes-super-bowl-ads-retail.html
Until Steve Jobs died,  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
was plotting a familiar course for its Super Bowl ad: hiring a
celebrity spokesman.  Then all the tributes poured in after the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
founder’s Oct. 5 death, and Best Buy’s U.S. marketing chief,
Drew Panayiotou, realized Silicon Valley inventors are today’s
stars.  Instead of heavy metal rocker  Ozzy Osbourne  and teen
heartthrob Justin Bieber, who starred in last year’s ad,
Panayiotou opted to hire innovators who could personify Best
Buy’s selling premise: that no one knows more about gadgets and
how they work together than the chain’s blue-shirt sales force.  It’s a point the world’s largest electronics retailer badly
needs to prove if it is to compete with the likes of  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , according to  Joe Feldman , an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York.  “That service side of the business is where they’re trying
to position themselves,” Feldman said Jan. 30 in a telephone
interview. “The fight they are fighting is against the mass
merchants and the online merchants.”  The retailer is trying to attract U.S. consumers enduring
unemployment and weak wage growth. Retail sales will advance 3.4
percent to $2.53 trillion this year, compared with a gain of 4.7
percent in 2011, according to the Washington-based  National
Retail Federation . Best Buy may grow even more slowly, with
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg projecting a revenue increase of
2.6 percent in the fiscal year that ends Feb. 25, followed by a
gain of less than 1 percent the following year.  Hurt Margin  Investors punished the Richfield, Minnesota-based company
Dec. 13 after it reported Black Friday discounts aimed at
boosting sales also hurt gross margin. The  shares  tumbled the
most in more than nine years and ended 2011 down 32 percent; the
Standard & Poor’s Index was unchanged last year. The shares fell
5.6 percent to $23.95 yesterday in  New York .  Best Buy also took heat during the holiday season after
canceling online orders on some products after running out of
stock. Though the company said cancellations affected less than
one percent of online orders during that time, the backlash
spurred Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn , blogging on Best
Buy’s website, to apologize and pledge to fix the misstep.  Best Buy canceled Tom Nenon’s order for a 42-inch Samsung
plasma TV, the University of Memphis vice provost and philosophy
professor said in a telephone interview. The chain offered a
lesser model or a comparable model for at least $50 more, he
said. Nenon declined.  CEO Dunn is betting Best Buy can tack on  revenue  and boost
margins by selling more voice and data plans, damage and loss
protection and accessories to mobile phone buyers.  Doubling Share  The market for such “connections” is worth “$150 billion
and growing” in the U.S., with Best Buy controlling less than 1
percent, Dunn, 51, told analysts Nov. 7. Doubling its share
would add more than $1 billion in revenue, he said.  Best Buy has trained employees to show shoppers how gadgets
work together. The company is lowering shelves and creating
less-cluttered stores akin to Apple’s retail minimalism. In
November, Best Buy teamed up with London-based Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc to create a new venture to extend their
success at selling smartphones and related services to other
products such as tablets and notebook computers.  “There will be a moment in time when every product we sell
is connected to a network somehow,” said Mike Vitelli, an
executive vice president who took over U.S. operations Jan. 16.
He said he’s focusing on basics, such as greeting customers and
answering phones promptly. “We have to make bigger visible
leaps in our  customer service ,” he said in an interview.  Spotlight Inventors  The Super Bowl commercial, airing in the first quarter of
the Feb. 5 game, will spotlight inventors such as Philippe Kahn,
who developed one of the first camera phones. Another is Kevin
Systrom, who developed a free photo-sharing application called
Instagram introduced on Apple’s app store in 2010.  “They may not be at the same level as  Steve Jobs , but they
created some amazing stuff,” said Panayiotou.  Trading in big names like Bieber and Osbourne for unknowns
is a risk, he said.  “Big brands like to hire celebrities,” Panayiotou, 44,
said by telephone Jan. 27. “We looked at everyone from  George Clooney  to  Stephen Colbert . We believe the inventors are more
than enough. I give those 125 million viewers a lot of credit. I
think they’ll appreciate the story.”  The commercial will air during the third national
commercial break of the matchup between the  New York Giants  and
the  New England Patriots  in Indianapolis. It’s appearing in the
same break as commercials for Anheuser Busch InBev, the maker of
Budweiser beer, and Mars Inc., which plans to introduce a M&M
candy character named Ms. Brown, according to its website.  Not Funny  Best Buy’s commercial isn’t “intended to be funny,”
Vitelli said by telephone Jan. 27. “It’s a statement that these
people are inventing technology and what we’re inventing is a
way to bring that technology to you and make it easy for you.”  Professor Nenon, 60, plans to watch the  Super Bowl  on his
old television. Nenon said he may shop for a new set this week,
though he wouldn’t buy the TV from Best Buy even if it offered
the best deal. He’s not likely to be swayed by the Super Bowl
ad, either.  “Which would you believe -- your own experience or a paid
ad?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  