-- Biological Attack Threat Cited as Pentagon Bolsters Defenses
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/biological-attack-threat-cited-as-pentagon-bolsters-defenses.html
The Pentagon is increasing spending
to combat biological threats, such as highly toxic ricin, as
U.S. spy agencies warn that a terrorist group might conduct a
“limited” attack “in the next year.”  While a mass attack by foreign terrorist groups using a
chemical, biological or radiological weapon in the U.S. is
“unlikely” in the next 12 months, intelligence agencies
“worry about a limited” attack domestically or abroad,
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told a Senate
panel yesterday. He cited interest expressed in such attacks by
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which operates in  Yemen  and
 Saudi Arabia .  American intelligence agencies judge that lone actors
abroad or in the U.S. “are capable of conducting at least
limited attacks in the next year,” Clapper said in written
testimony submitted to the Senate Intelligence Committee before
his hearing.  Culprits might include criminals or “homegrown violent
extremists” who have been influenced by terror groups or
literature advocating similar attacks, he said.  The threat assessment follows the Pentagon’s unveiling last
week of revised budget priorities for the next five years that
protect spending on programs to counter weapons of mass
destruction and that increase funding in the field of biological
weapons. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned of the threat
at a biological weapons meeting in Geneva in December.  Crude but Effective  “A crude, but effective, terrorist weapon can be made by
using a small sample of any number of widely available
pathogens, inexpensive equipment and college-level chemistry and
biology,” Clinton said. “Even as it becomes easier to develop
these weapons, it remains extremely difficult -- as you know --
to detect them.”  Clinton cited what she said was a “call to arms” by al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula for supporters with degrees in
microbiology or chemistry to develop a weapon of mass
destruction.  “That’s probably one of the reasons they’re ramping up the
threat assessment for biological weapons,” said Kelsey Gregg,
project manager of the Virtual Biosecurity Center at the
Federation of American Scientists in Washington.  In contrast, last year’s joint threat assessment from U.S.
intelligence agencies devoted only three sentences to the
terrorist threat involving chemical, biological, radiological or
nuclear weapons. It said some terror groups remain interested in
acquiring the weapons and threaten to use them, and that
stockpiles that were poorly secured might provide material for
attacks.  Increasing Capability Worldwide  The Pentagon said the increased focus on biological defense
wasn’t spurred by any specific intelligence assessment.
President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 National Strategy for Countering
Biological Threats was the impetus, said Air Force Lieutenant
Colonel April Cunningham, a Pentagon spokeswoman.  “A key part of the strategy is a broad effort to increase
capability worldwide to conduct effective and timely disease
surveillance” and counter disease outbreaks, Cunningham said.  The Obama administration is due to release its budget
recommendations on Feb. 13 for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  “I would put ricin at the top of the list” of threats,
Gregg said. “You can get a deadly amount of it pretty easily.”  The Defense Department first revised its chemical and
biological weapons programs for the year that started Oct. 1
“to increase focus on biological capabilities such as bio
surveillance and medical countermeasures,” Cunningham said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Downplaying Some Aspects  She said the department now is increasing funding for the
next fiscal year to expand work under the Cooperative Threat
Reduction program, which involves joint work with other nations.  This year’s assessment downplays concern that countries may
have supplied help in developing or obtaining weapons of mass
destruction.  “We assess that no nation-states have provided WMD
assistance to terrorist groups and that no non-state actors are
targeting WMD sites in countries with unrest,” Clapper said in
the written statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  