-- Boeing-Textron V-22 Is Said to Lose $1.75 Billion in Pentagon Budget Cut
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-01T19:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/boeing-textron-v-22-is-said-to-lose-1-75-billion-in-pentagon-budget-cut.html
The Pentagon will eliminate 24 V-22
Osprey aircraft built by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Textron Inc. from its
five-year budget plan, saving $1.75 billion through 2017,
according to two U.S. officials.  The planned reduction to 98 planes from 122 will be
reflected in a final, multi-year contract that’s under
negotiation between the Navy and companies, according to one of
the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
decision hasn’t been announced.  The V-22 is a fixed-wing plane with rotors that tilt so it
can take off and land like a helicopter. Boeing, the world’s
largest aerospace company, and Textron’s Bell Helicopter unit
are in the last year of a four-year, $10.9 billion contract for
174 aircraft. The Bell Helicopter-Boeing team submitted a
proposal in August for all 122 aircraft that were previously
planned.  The Pentagon’s decision to curtail V-22 purchases is part
of an effort to find $259 billion in planned savings through
2017. The cutbacks also include delays in acquiring 179 F-35
fighters, two Littoral Combat ships, one Virginia-class
submarine and postponing by two years construction of the next
generation of ballistic-missile submarines.  The Army is canceling upgrades of its Humvee all-terrain
vehicles, and the Navy isn’t buying eight Joint High Speed
Vessels.  Procurement Request  The cumulative effect in fiscal 2013 of program
terminations and cutbacks will result in a procurement request
of $98.8 billion and $69.4 billion for research and development,
according to an official familiar with the Pentagon’s spending
plans who spoke on condition of anonymity before President
 Barack Obama  sends his budget to Congress on Feb. 13.  That’s $18.8 billion less than announced in February 2012
for procurement in fiscal 2013 and $6.3 billion less for
research, according to Pentagon budget data.  The Pentagon now intends to buy 21 V-22 aircraft in each of
the next two budget years, down from 27 planned previously for
fiscal 2013 and 26 for fiscal 2014.  The military would buy 19 aircraft a year in 2015 and 2016
instead of the planned 23 each year, and 18 in 2017. No number
had been set previously for that year.  The reduced aircraft include seven of the  Air Force ’s CV-22
models for special operations forces.  March 1  The Navy and contractors for the next round of V-22s must
develop reliable data allowing the service to certify to
Pentagon officials that buying them in a five-year block can
save at least 10 percent over annual batch purchases. The
certification is due to Congress on March 1, and the Navy plans
to sign the contract later this year, Navy spokeswoman Stephanie Vendrasco said in an e-mail.  “We cannot speculate or comment on V-22 quantities in the
budget for 2013 until it is released,” she said.  Bell-Boeing spokesman Andrew Lee didn’t respond to an
inquiry about whether the companies have been informed of the
reduction.  “Bell-Boeing is pleased that the  Department of Defense  has
made a second V-22 multi-year contract a priority, and our team
is actively engaged in support of the Navy’s evaluation of our
proposal,” Lee said in an e-mail. “The Bell-Boeing V-22
program is presently on time and under budget in successfully
executing its first multi-year procurement contract.”  The V-22 is being manufactured by Bell Helicopter in  Fort
Worth  with final assembly in Amarillo,  Texas . Boeing Helicopter
in Philadelphia, a unit of Chicago-based Boeing, assembles the
fuselage.  Rolls-Royce  The engines are produced in Indianapolis by Allison Engine
Company, a unit of London-based  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc. (RR/)   V-22 deliveries contributed to an increase in Bell’s
fourth-quarter revenue of $35 million and profit of $29 million
over the year-ago quarter, according to a Jan. 25 statement by
Providence, Rhode Island-based  Textron. (TXT)   Scott Donnelly, Textron’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said on a conference call that day with analysts that
V-22 profit margins “have been good” and the company was
optimistic the next multi-year contract would be signed this
year.  Congress approved spending $35 billion on the $53.2 billion
V-22 program through December 2010.  The program was approved for full production in September
2005 after four years of additional development to overcome
deficiencies in its design, safety and reliability that were
uncovered after two crashes in 2000 killed 23 Marines.  The aircraft’s overall performance “has laid to rest all
doubts” about its combat effectiveness, the House
Appropriations Committee said in a June 13 report.  Bin Laden  The Osprey has been deployed in Iraq and  Afghanistan . One
plane ferried Osama  bin Laden ’s body to the U.S. Navy aircraft
carrier USS Carl Vinson after he was killed in a U.S. raid May 2
in  Pakistan .  The V-22 Osprey’s performance has improved in the past
year, according to the Pentagon’s test office.  New aircraft software evaluated in tests from August
through early November “performed largely as expected,” the
test office found. The improvement gives Osprey pilots greater
capability to track, monitor and communicate from their cockpit
with U.S. ground forces and to avoid bad weather.  “Software enhancements were modest but provided new
piloting options and power margins” during flying operations,
“increasing safety and reducing pilot workload,” Michael Gilmore, the Pentagon’s director of operational test and
evaluation said in  a report  released Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  