-- BOX Options Venue Files With SEC for Its Own Exchange License
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-01T21:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/box-options-files-for-own-exchange-license.html
BOX Options Exchange LLC, owned by
the operator of the Toronto Stock Exchange and seven brokers
including Citadel LLC and Interactive Brokers Group Inc.,  filed 
to become a U.S. securities exchange.  TMX Group Inc. (X) , which owns 53.8 percent of BOX, will limit
its equity stake in the self-regulatory organization, the entity
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
will operate the market, to 40 percent and its voting share to
20 percent, BOX Chief Executive Officer Anthony McCormick said
in a phone interview. The Toronto company will continue to own
the same portion of the BOX parent, he said.  The Boston-based electronic options exchange, introduced in
2004, accounted for 3.8 percent of trading last month in U.S.
options on stocks and exchange-traded funds, according to data
from Chicago-based OCC, which clears and settles all trades on
U.S. equity derivatives exchanges. The new status would give BOX
greater control over its own operations and allow it to
streamline its transaction-services processes.  “There are efficiencies you can drive by running an SRO
rather than renting an SRO,” McCormick said. “All the other
exchanges have their own SROs. It’s problematic to be regulated
by a competitor and it’s a status we’d hoped to achieve.”  BOX currently uses the exchange license of Nasdaq OMX BX,
owned by New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , to run its
options market. The company has wanted to get its own license
since at least 2008, McCormick said. One obstacle was the large
ownership stake of Toronto-based TMX, he said, because
regulators don’t want SROs to be more than 40 percent-owned by
another exchange. There are nine options exchanges in the U.S.  SEC Approval  The SEC must approve the  filing , submitted on Dec. 28 and
dated Jan. 26, for BOX to get its own exchange license. The
commission asked for public comments on BOX’s plan.  BOX Holdings Group LLC will own and operate the options
trading platform instead of the current BOX Options Exchange
Group LLC, according to data supplied to the SEC. A board of
mainly independent directors will eventually be named for the
BOX self-regulatory organization, McCormick said. TMX may sell
some of its equity interest in the BOX business to other brokers
to attract more orders to the venue, he said.  The chairman for the company’s business is Peter Layton,
chief executive officer of Tallgrass Group LLC. Tom Kloet, CEO
of TMX Group, and Thomas Peterffy, chairman and CEO of
 Interactive Brokers (IBKR) , the two largest shareholders, are on the
board, along with two other executives from those companies.  Board Members  Officials from Citadel, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and Morgan Stanley are board
members, in addition to Will Easley, managing director of Aragon
Solutions Ltd. and vice chairman of BOX. Easley’s company also
has a stake in BOX. The 25-person company aims to hire more
staff and offer jobs to some of the people at Nasdaq OMX who
handle BOX’s regulatory affairs, McCormick said.  While BOX may consider an initial public offering of stock
or sale “down the road,” that’s not currently in its plans,
McCormick said. The company isn’t likely to introduce an
equities exchange once it gets its license, he said.  “We want to operate an exchange that handles options on
stocks and” exchange-traded funds, he said. “We’re interested
in servicing the retail sector and giving retail customers
greater price improvement. We don’t anticipate an equities
exchange.”  Price-Improvement Auctions  The exchange restarted a program today charging customers
75 cents a contract instead of the previous 30 cents in certain
options when they seek better prices through BOX’s so-called
price-improvement auction, McCormick said. The SEC, which  halted 
the initiative in September,  said  on Jan. 30 that BOX could
begin a 13-month pilot program to test the pricing over
objections from rival venues and market makers, who said 75
cents was too high and would hurt trading and participants.  BOX pioneered  price-improvement auctions  in 2004 to allow
orders from customers to seek executions at higher levels than
the best nationally available bid and lower than the best offer
among venues. Most options exchanges followed BOX over the years
with similar auction mechanisms.  The SEC said it approved the program despite criticism last
year from Citadel, IMC Financial Markets and the  International
Securities Exchange , which asked the regulator to suspend the
plan. The commission said data BOX provided didn’t show a
“decline in the execution quality of orders” submitted to the
auction, and its promise to give the agency quarterly reports
from the pilot study would present brokers with information they
didn’t previously have. That could affect their decisions about
where to send customer orders to get the best overall executions
for clients, the SEC said.  $600,000 in Savings  Christopher Nagy, managing director for order strategy at
TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. in Omaha,  Nebraska , told the SEC its
customers saved more than $600,000 in August through executions
in BOX’s price-improvement auction, according to a September
 letter  it sent the agency. The retail broker urged the SEC not
to suspend trading that month and in a subsequent  letter  said it
“strongly supports” the BOX proposal.  The price-improvement auction on BOX has saved customers
$367 million since it began in 2004, McCormick told the SEC in a
 letter  dated Dec. 9. He added that he hopes to boost BOX’s share
of equity options volume to between 4.5 percent and 5 percent by
the end of this year.  “I’m hopeful it will go up,” he said. “We won’t get to
10 percent, but I hope we can add a percentage point or more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  