-- Gupta, Commerzbank, Morgan Stanley in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-01T16:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/bp-cabot-jpmorgan-commerzbank-morgan-stanley-in-court-news.html
Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of giving inside information to fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam , faces new allegations he passed tips
about earnings of Goldman Sachs in 2007 and  Procter & Gamble Co .
in 2009.  In a superseding indictment filed yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan , the U.S. broadened its description of the
insider-trading scheme, saying it began in March 2007 not in
2008 as alleged in October. Prosecutors also said Gupta tipped
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs’s
first quarter 2007 earnings and while at Galleon’s offices
listened to a Goldman Sachs board meeting where earnings were
disclosed.  “During that call, the audit committee discussed the
company’s quarterly earnings announcement that would be made the
following day,” assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and
Richard Tarlowe said in the indictment. “Gupta participated in
the audit committee call from the premises of Galleon.”  Gupta, 63, who also led McKinsey & Co. and was a P&G
director, was accused in October of passing inside information
to Rajaratnam from 2008 to January 2009.  The U.S. said yesterday Gupta’s investments with
Rajaratnam, which included $10 million invested in funds and an
ownership stake in at least two other funds, were a motive for
him to engage in the insider-trading scheme. Gupta made a
commitment to invest about $22.5 million in a private-equity
fund focusing on  Asia , the U.S. said.  In an e-mailed statement, Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis ,
called the government’s allegations “totally baseless” and
said that his client “did not trade in any securities, did not
tip Mr. Rajaratnam so he could trade, and did not share in any
profits as part of any quid pro quo.”  “The newly added charges -- like the ones brought last
year -- are not based on any direct evidence, but rely on
supposed circumstantial evidence,” Naftalis said. “The facts
in this case demonstrate that Mr. Gupta is innocent of all of
these charges, and that he has always acted with honesty and
integrity.”  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year, is
serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BP Must Cover Some Halliburton Gulf Spill Costs, Judge Says  BP (BP/)  Plc must cover some of any direct damage claims awarded
against  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  for the $40 billion in cleanup costs and
economic losses caused by the 2010 oil-well blowout and  Gulf of
Mexico  spill.  BP must indemnify Halliburton for compensatory damage
claims under its drilling contract, U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  in New Orleans ruled yesterday.  London-based BP (BP\)  sued
Halliburton, which provided cementing services for the project,
in April to recover a share of any damages and costs from the
spill. Any punitive damages awarded against Halliburton don’t
have to be paid by BP, the judge said.  “BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for third-party
compensatory claims that arise from pollution or contamination
that did not originate from the property or equipment of
Halliburton located above the surface of the land or water, even
if Halliburton’s gross negligence caused the pollution,”
Barbier wrote.  Any civil penalties under the Clean Water Act against
Houston-based Halliburton also won’t have to be covered by BP,
Barbier said. The judge said he wouldn’t express an opinion on
whether Halliburton would be held liable for punitive damages or
Clean Water Act fines.  Barbier has scheduled a nonjury trial to begin Feb. 27 to
determine fault for the explosion. Trials to determine damages
haven’t been scheduled yet.  Yesterday’s decision follows an earlier ruling that BP must
indemnify  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig
that exploded and sank. The Transocean ruling also didn’t cover
fines or punitive damages.  Barbier said he wouldn’t rule yet on BP’s claim that
Halliburton committed fraud by concealing material information
about the cement tests it conducted. A ruling against
Halliburton on this issue may put the company back on the hook
for damages.  “Fraud could void an indemnity clause on public policy
grounds, given that it necessarily includes intentional
wrongdoing,” Barbier said. “There are material issues of fact
that preclude summary judgment on this issue.”  The two indemnity rulings “should put an end to the
attempts by Transocean and Halliburton to avoid their
obligations,” BP said in a statement.  “Halliburton is, at a minimum, responsible for any
punitive damages as well as civil penalties to the extent that
they may apply under the Clean Water Act,” BP said. “Moreover,
the court determined that if Halliburton is found to have
committed fraud, then the indemnity could be void.”  “Halliburton agrees with the ruling to the extent that it
requires BP to honor its contractual indemnity obligations,”
Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, said in an e-
mail.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and the spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Tainted-Well Lawsuits Mount Against Gas Frackers Led by Cabot  For 36 years, Norma Fiorentino drew water from a well near
her home in Dimock,  Pennsylvania . “It was the best water in
town,” she says. Then on Jan. 1, 2009, she says her well blew
up.  State regulators later blamed natural gas drilling by  Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp . for elevating methane levels in Dimock wells.
Fiorentino and her neighbors sued, alleging Cabot’s activities
caused contamination and, in Fiorentino’s case, an explosion
that cracked a concrete cap into three pieces. Cabot has denied
responsibility.  The Dimock case, in federal court in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, is among a batch of claims that aim to put
hydraulic fracturing, the process that injects a mix of water,
sand and chemicals underground to free gas trapped there, on
trial, Bloomberg News’ Jim Snyder reports. The suits could lead
to payouts to plaintiffs and stricter government regulations,
raising costs on an industry President Barack Obama says can
boost the economy.  “The plaintiffs bar is always looking for the next big
thing,” said Jennifer Quinn-Barabanov, a partner at Washington-
based  Steptoe & Johnson LLP , which has represented oil and gas
companies. “There were a number of lawsuits filed, and now
everyone is kind of waiting and seeing.”  Stuart Smith, a New Orleans-based plaintiffs’ attorney,
said the number of cases will increase as fracking expands into
more populated areas and complaints grow. More drilling may also
create new routes for the chemicals to migrate, he said.  At least 23 cases involving fracking have been filed since
August 2009 by landowners from  Arkansas  to New York, according
to an analysis by  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP , a Houston-based
firm.  Besides Cabot,  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Southwestern
Energy Co. (SWN)  have faced lawsuits claiming harm, according to the
summary.  The Dimock case is Fiorentino v.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , 09-
02284, U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Scranton).  For more, click here.  Hewlett-Packard Wins Dismissal of Oracle Fraud Claim Over Hurd  Hewlett-Packard Co. won dismissal of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s claim
that it was duped into settling a dispute over its hiring of
HP’s former chief executive officer, Mark Hurd,.  Oracle alleged that HP fraudulently hid that it was
planning to hire Leo Apotheker as CEO and board chairman Ray
Lane, who were “toxic” to any partnership with Oracle, when it
forged a settlement with Oracle over its hiring of Hurd. Oracle
also claimed that HP concealed that it was secretly paying  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  $88 million a year to “artificially continue” the
Itanium chip’s lifespan.  A state judge in San Jose,  California , said in a ruling
Jan. 30 that HP’s alleged misrepresentations “did not prevent
Oracle from participating in the negotiations” over the Hurd
settlement  “or deprive Oracle of the opportunity to
negotiate.”  Judge James Kleinberg also rejected bids by both companies
to seal documents in the case that they argued contain sensitive
business information that that might harm them or their
customers.  HP said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the fraud
claim dismissed by the court “was another attempt by Oracle to
get out of the contract it entered into with HP, wherein it
continued to offer its product suite on HP’s server platform.”  Oracle said in an e-mailed statement that it’s pleased with
the judge’s refusal to seal HP documents.  The court “has rejected HP’s attempt to hide the truth
about Itanium’s certain end of life from its customers, partners
and own employees,” Oracle said.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City,
California-based Oracle, declined to comment on the dismissal of
the fraud claim.  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp., 11-cv-
203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  EchoStar Loses Appeal of Sanctions for E-Mail Destruction  A New York State appeals court affirmed a decision to
impose sanctions on  EchoStar (SATS)  Satellite LLC for destroying e-mail
evidence in a  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  contract suit.  The Manhattan court yesterday upheld a decision by the
trial judge, Richard Lowe. The judge found in November 2010 that
EchoStar “systematically destroyed evidence in direct violation
of the law.” He said he will tell jurors that the company did
so and that the jury may assume the evidence would have been
helpful to the plaintiffs.  The sanction was “appropriate and proportionate,” Judge
Sallie Manzanet-Daniels wrote in a unanimous appeals court
 opinion  on the suit by Cablevision’s Voom HD Holdings unit.  “Although Voom may have other evidence to point to, the
missing evidence is from a crucial time period during which
EchoStar appears to have been searching for a way out of its
contract,” Manzanet-Daniels wrote. “Evidence from this vital
time period is not entirely duplicative of other evidence.”  Voom sued in 2008, accusing EchoStar of breaching a
distribution agreement that called for Voom to provide 21 high-
definition television channels to EchoStar, which at the time
operated the Dish satellite-television network.  “Today’s ruling confirms that EchoStar destroyed evidence
in blatant violation of the law and will now be held accountable
for its misconduct,”  Orin Snyder , an attorney representing
Cablevision, wrote in an e-mail. “We look forward to trial.”  Roy Reardon, an attorney representing EchoStar, didn’t
return a phone message left at his office seeking comment on
whether the decision will be appealed to the state’s highest
court.  Deepak Dutt, a spokesman for EchoStar, had no immediate
comment on the ruling.  The case is Voom HD Holdings LLC v. EchoStar Satellite LLC,
600292/2008, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  DZ Bank Sues JPMorgan and HSBC Over Mortgage Securities  DZ Bank AG (DZBK)  sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
accusing the banks of making false and misleading statements in
connection with the sale of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  DZ Bank,  Germany ’s largest cooperative lender, sued
 JPMorgan (JPM)  in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan Jan. 30,
saying it bought about $85 million of the securities based on
flawed offering materials. DZ Bank filed a similar suit
yesterday against HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, in the same
court, over $122 million worth of the investments.  “Plaintiff did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” Frankfurt-based DZ Bank said in court
documents.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on DZ Bank’s lawsuit.  Neil Brazil , a
spokesman for London-based HSBC, said the company doesn’t
comment on pending litigation.  The JPMorgan case is Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank
AG v. JPMorgan Chase & Co, 650293/2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan). The HSBC case is Deutsche Zentral-
Genossenschaftsbank  AG v. HSBC North America Holdings Inc.,
650303/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Cameron Sues Insurer Over Refusal It Says Threatened BP Deal  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , facing thousands of claims
from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, sued one of its insurers
for allegedly refusing to pay $50 million in coverage, a move
the manufacturer says threatened a $250 million settlement with
 BP Plc. (BP)   Cameron, in a complaint filed Jan. 30 in federal court in
New Orleans, accused a Liberty Mutual Holding Co. unit of breach
of contract and of acting in bad faith by holding the settlement
with BP “hostage” so the insurer could negotiate a “steep
discount” on the amount it owed.  “When Cameron needed it the most, Liberty refused to
provide Cameron the $50 million in insurance limits it sold
Cameron,” according to the complaint. “Instead, Liberty
offered Cameron a choice: either continue the Gulf oil spill
litigation and face potentially crippling liability, or agree to
accept much less than what Liberty was contractually obligated
to pay under its insurance policy.”  Cameron, which said it paid the $50 million from its own
funds, seeks a court order requiring Liberty Insurance
Underwriters to indemnify it for that amount.  Cameron said it has now paid $250 million to BP. The
settlement proceeds are to be contributed by BP into a fund for
the victims of the spill.  Cameron manufactured the blow-out preventer, the subsea
device that failed to stop the BP well explosion on April 20,
2010, that killed 11 workers aboard the Deepwater Horizon oil
rig. The rig burned and sank, triggering the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history.  Adrianne Kaufmann, a Liberty spokeswoman, didn’t return a
phone call after regular business hours Jan. 30 seeking comment
on the lawsuit. Rhonda Barnat, a spokeswoman for Houston-based
Cameron, declined to comment.  The case is Cameron International Corp. v. Liberty
Insurance Underwriters, 2:12-cv-0311, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Micromet Investor Calls Amgen’s $1 Billion Bid Too Low  Micromet Inc. (MITI)  was sued by a shareholder who said  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ’s $1 billion takeover offer for the drugmaker undervalues
his stock.  Micromet’s board failed in its duty to get the best price,
the investor, Bernard Passes, said in a complaint filed Jan. 30
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Amgen, based in
Thousand Oaks, California, announced a deal on Jan. 26 to buy
Micromet for $11 a share to gain an experimental leukemia drug.  “Given the company’s growth prospects and potential for
significant income,” the transaction is inadequate, Passes said
in his complaint. He said Micromet stock is worth at least $12 a
share  Jennifer Neiman, a spokeswoman for Rockville, Maryland-
based Micromet, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Passes v. Micromet, CA7198, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  ‘Stanford World’ Built With Investors’ Funds, Prosecutor Says  A $330 million promissory note signed by R. Allen Stanford
was introduced at his criminal trial as evidence that the
financier secretly borrowed money from his bank to build a
lavish “Stanford World in Antigua” and lure rich new clients.  “Rich people do not get impressed very easily,” Stanford
said in an undated video clip shown to his jury yesterday in
Houston federal court. “They have to go back literally blown
away, saying ‘I have a confidence and a trust that I will do
business in that part of the world.’”  Stanford, videotaped while speaking to a gathering in
Antigua, said his goal in building the private airplane hangar,
restaurants, cricket grounds and banking facilities on 20 acres
surrounding Stanford International Bank Ltd. was to convince the
“richest people in the world” it was safe to invest there.  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on charges he led a
$7 billion investment fraud based on certificates of deposit
issued by the Antiguan bank. He’s accused of 14 counts including
mail fraud, wire fraud and obstruction of a probe by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. He denies the allegations.
If convicted on the most serious charges, he could be imprisoned
for 20 years.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa asked government
witness Arnold Knoche, a former president of Stanford
Development Corp., if he knew where the money came from for
“Stanford World in Antigua.”  “He told me he had his personal resources, that he’d take
care of it,” Knoche testified in the second week of trial. “I
always wondered where the money was coming from because it was a
huge amount.”  Knoche testified that Stanford never said he used
depositors’ funds on real estate developments in the Caribbean
or elsewhere. He also said he never suspected illegal activity
during his 16 years with Stanford’s organization. Knoche said he
resigned in 2003 because he was tired of the constant travel.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Commerzbank CEO Testifies He Wanted Loyalty Not Bonus Demands  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said
bankers whose bonuses were cut after the German lender’s buyout
of Dresdner Bank would have accepted it if they were motivated
by loyalty rather than money.  More than 100 bankers are suing Commerzbank in the U.K. for
cutting bonuses by 90 percent or more following the takeover of
Dresdner in 2009. Stefan Jentzsch, then-CEO of Dresdner, had
promised to set aside 400 million euros ($523 million) for the
awards the previous year, the bankers claim.  In his final day of witness testimony, Blessing said he
believed employees would “understand the circumstances we were
in” and say to themselves, “I’m not working here only for
money. I also have loyalty.”  Commerzbank argues it was reasonable to reduce
discretionary pay following a record loss by Dresdner’s
investment-banking unit in 2008. Blessing, who oversaw
Commerzbank’s January 2009 acquisition of Dresdner and its 18.2
billion-euro bailout during the credit crunch, said during two
days of testimony he had to consider the interests of other
employees, shareholders and the general public.  The 104 bankers, who are seeking individual payouts of as
much as 2 million euros, claim Jentzsch’s pledge is a binding
legal commitment that Commerzbank must honor. Jentzsch, now a
partner at Perella Weinberg Partners LP’s U.K. unit, is
scheduled to appear later in the trial.  The cases include: Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Ltd.,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , High Court of Justice, Queen’s
Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71 others v.
Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank  AG, HQ09X04007.  Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron Calls Morgan Stanley No Victim  Former FrontPoint Partners LLC fund manager Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron, sentenced to five years in prison for an
insider-trading scheme, says that  Morgan Stanley (MS)  isn’t a victim
of his crimes and doesn’t deserve restitution.  Skowron, 42, who began serving his term at the Federal
Correctional Institution Schuylkill in Pennsylvania last month,
said that Morgan Stanley shouldn’t collect any funds under the
Mandatory Victims Restitution Act.  He pleaded guilty to getting illegal tips from a former
adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  that trials of the
company’s hepatitis C drug were being halted. FrontPoint sold
its stock before the announcement was made public, avoiding $30
million in losses, the U.S. said.  Morgan Stanley, which acquired FrontPoint in 2006 and spun
it off in February, has submitted the largest restitution
request to the court, saying it should be paid $37.4 million
after sustaining “very substantial damages” as a result of
Skowron’s conduct.  Skowron’s lawyer, Joshua Epstein, disputed Morgan Stanley’s
assertion Jan. 30 in a court filing.  “Morgan Stanley is not a victim,” he said, “because its
purported losses were not directly and proximately caused by the
conduct underlying the offense of conviction.”  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the filing. Peter White, a lawyer for FrontPoint,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-cr-699, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  JC Flowers Ex-U.K. Chief Won’t Be Investigated by London Police  London  police chose not to investigate JC Flowers & Co.’s
former U.K. chief executive officer after regulators fined him
for faking invoices to take money from a company the private
equity firm invested in.  City of London Police didn’t open a formal probe after JC
Flowers declined to assist an informal inquiry and told them
there was no actual victim in light of its reimbursement of the
company’s losses, according to two people familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak.  The U.K. finance regulator yesterday fined Ravi Shankar
Sinha, JC Flowers’s former U.K. chief executive, 2.87 million
pounds ($4.5 million) and banned him from working in finance in
the country. Sinha defrauded a company in which New York-based
JC Flowers invested 1.37 million pounds by submitting falsified
invoices, lying to the company CEO and saying the firm had
authorized him to charge advisory fees, the FSA said.  “The public will have difficulty understanding why it is a
checkout girl who steals 10,000 pounds from her employer who
should go to prison but a phenomenally wealthy individual who
steals millions should not,” said Sara George, a regulatory
lawyer at the London-based law firm Stephenson Harwood.  JC Flowers told the police that, given their reimbursement
of the unidentified company’s losses, there was no victim that
had suffered and there was no reason to prosecute when the
Financial Services Authority was handling the matter, the people
said. The private equity firm had reported the incident to the
FSA and cooperated with the civil investigation, the regulator
said.  “Had the police chosen to launch a criminal investigation,
then JC Flowers would have cooperated fully, and indeed would
today cooperate with any investigation should the police decide
to mount an inquiry,” Michael Harrison, an outside spokesman
for the firm at Brunswick Group, said in a telephone interview.  The City of London Police said in a statement that it
received details of the case from the FSA and, after discussions
with the affected company, decided not to prosecute Sinha.
Because the police never opened a formal probe, JC Flowers
didn’t obstruct an investigation, the people said.  FSA spokesman  Joseph Eyre  declined to comment.  Sinha committed the fraud because of his deteriorating
finances, the FSA said. Between May and July 2008, Sinha
borrowed around 9 million euros ($11.9 million) to invest in
companies in which JC Flowers funds had invested. The funds’
performance declined, and he was left unable to pay his debt,
the regulator said.  The FSA “has made it clear that it makes no criticism of
JC Flowers’ systems and controls,” the firm said in a
statement. The firm fired Sinha in 2009 after it discovered the
fake invoices.  For more, click here.  Second Trial in Foreign Bribe Sting Case Ends With Hung Jury  The second trial in the biggest U.S. prosecution of
individuals accused of foreign bribery ended with acquittals and
a hung jury.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  yesterday
declared a mistrial after jurors said they couldn’t agree on
charges alleging three security industry executives planned to
make payments to a federal agent posing as a representative of
the west African country of Gabon.  The ruling came one day after the same jury acquitted two
others in the case, including a former deputy assistant director
of the U.S. Secret Service.  The three remaining defendants in the trial were John
Mushriqui and his sister, Jeana Mushriqui, and Marc Morales.
Each was charged with two to three counts of violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which has a maximum penalty of
five years in prison. They pleaded not guilty.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling or whether
prosecutors plan to retry Morales and the Mushriquis.  Lawyers for the three defendants didn’t immediately return
e-mail messages seeking comment on the case.  The trial, which opened Sept. 28, was the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. A trial of four others arrested in the
sting ended in a mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree
on a verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  GM Reaches $23.8 Million Pollution Settlement With U.S.  General Motors Corp. (GM)  agreed to pay as much as $23.8 million
to settle liability for environmental cleanup costs in  New
Jersey , Maryland and Missouri, the U.S. said.  The agreement resolves Detroit-based GM’s pre-bankruptcy
liability for U.S. claims filed under the federal Superfund
statute, according to a statement yesterday by the office of
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. Under the settlement,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will receive allowed
claims of $20.9 million in GM’s bankruptcy proceeding, plus
$2.89 million of cleanup work at the sites.  GM, which filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, sold assets to
a new company that went public as General Motors Co. The allowed
bankruptcy claim will be paid in stock and warrants of “New
GM.” The cash value of the allowed claim probably will be less
than $20.9 million, the U.S. said.  The three polluted sites covered by the agreement include
the Diamond Alkali Superfund Site, which comprises parts of the
Passaic and Hackensack Rivers, Newark Bay, the Arthur Kill and
the Kill Van Kull in New Jersey. Also covered are the Kane &
Lombard Superfund Site in Baltimore County, Maryland, and the
Hayford Bridge Superfund Site in St. Charles, Missouri.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Facebook Lawyers Want ‘Stratospheric’ Fee, Ceglia Claims  Paul Ceglia , who was fined for failing to turn over
evidence in his ownership suit against Facebook Inc., said he
shouldn’t also have to reimburse the company for
“stratospheric” legal fees of as much as $716 an hour.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio on Jan. 10 fined
Ceglia $5,000 after ruling the New York man had ignored a court
order requiring him to give Facebook access to his e-mail
accounts. The judge also ordered Ceglia to reimburse the company
for the legal fees it incurred in pursuing the issue.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland of Lakewood, Ohio, objected to
the size of the fees in court papers filed in federal court in
Buffalo, New York, Jan. 30, saying they’re not justified by the
“garden-variety” issues presented by the case.  In the suit, Ceglia claims he has a 2003 contract signed by
Facebook co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  that gave him half-ownership
of the company, now worth an estimated $74.3 billion, according
to Sharespost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies. Facebook,
based in Menlo Park, California, operates the most popular
social-networking site in the world.  Boland also argued that Facebook’s lawyers, from Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, shouldn’t charge New York City prices for
Buffalo work.  Orin Snyder, the lead Gibson Dunn partner on the case, had
a billing rate of $955 an hour in 2011, according to papers
filed by Facebook. Two other Gibson Dunn partners cost their
clients $850 and $825 an hour. They were assisted by two
associates, at $670 and $450 an hour.  Snyder declined to comment on the firm’s fee request.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  WikiLeaks’s Assange Sued on Eve of U.K. Extradition Appeal  WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who will ask the U.K.
Supreme Court today to block his extradition to Sweden in a rape
case, was sued by the British law firm he hired after his 2010
arrest.  Finers Stephens Innocent LLP , which specializes in
commercial litigation, sued the 40-year-old Australian yesterday
in London over legal fees, according to court records. Assange
replaced the firm last year after a U.K. judge rejected his
defense and upheld the Swedish arrest warrant.  “It’s always regrettable when we find ourselves in a
dispute with a former client about fees,” Tim Bignell, a lawyer
at the firm, said in a phone interview. “We tried to resolve
this amicably with Mr. Assange and we still hope to be able
to.” He didn’t say how much the firm is owed.  Assange, now represented by human-rights lawyer Gareth
Peirce, denies the rape claims by two supporters of the anti-
secrecy website who let him stay at their homes in 2010. Assange
argues Sweden’s arrest warrant is invalid because the prosecutor
who issued it isn’t a “judicial authority,” as required under
European Union law.  Peirce didn’t immediately respond to a message seeking
comment about the lawsuit over fees.  Assange, who hasn’t been charged with a crime, is accused
of failing to use a condom with one of the Swedish women and
having sex with the other while she was asleep. The claims
became public around the same time Assange was condemned by U.S.
officials for posting classified military and diplomatic cables
on the  WikiLeaks website  and he claimed the case was politically
motivated.  The Finers Stephens case is: Finers Stephens Innocent v.
Julian Assange, HQ12X00359, High Court of Justice Queens Bench
Division.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  