-- Brazil May Auction Contracts for 100 Megawatts of Solar Power
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-02-01T19:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/brazil-may-auction-contracts-for-100-megawatts-of-solar-power.html
Brazil , which has only one utility-
scale solar project, may auction off next year contracts to sell
at least 100 megawatts of electricity produced from sunlight.  The auction, which has not been formally announced, may be
the first of many, Leonidas Andrade, director of photovoltaics
at the trade group  Associacao Brasileira da Industria Eletrica e
Eletronica , said today in a telephone interview.  Brazil has organized similar auctions for wind power that
attracted developers and equipment producers to the country and
drove down prices. A solar auction would have a similar effect,
Andrade said.  “Auctions are fundamental for solar development,” Andrade
said. “Wind energy is now very competitive. Solar could follow
the same path.”  Auctions for solar capacity “shouldn’t be for anything
less than 100 megawatts,” he said.  An auction for  wind energy  in 2009 prompted turbine makers
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) 
to establish factories in Brazil and made equipment less
expensive in the region.  Developers offered to buy electricity for an average of
102.18 reais ($59) a megawatt-hour in the last  auction  on Dec.
20, according to data from the national energy agency Empresa de
Pesquisa Energetica. That’s 31 percent lower than the 148.39-
real average in the 2009 auction.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy, which has organized
renewable energy auctions for wind power, didn’t reply to
inquiries today.  Brazil’s only utility-scale photovoltaic project, in Taua,
has 1 megawatt of capacity and is owned by Rio de Janeiro-based
 MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , according to power regulator  Agencia Nacional de
Energia Eletrica .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  