-- Brazil Real Climbs as China Manufacturing Boosts Growth Optimism
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 2012-02-01T21:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/brazilian-real-climbs-as-china-manufacturing-spurs-global-growth-optimism.html
Brazil ’s real rallied to the
strongest level in almost three months as signs of increased
manufacturing output worldwide spurred optimism about global
growth and fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real advanced 0.7 percent to 1.7343 per  U.S. dollar ,
and earlier touched 1.7295, the strongest since Nov. 4. Yields
on the interest-rate futures contract due in January 2014, the
most actively traded today in Sao Paulo, fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 9.93 percent.  Manufacturing in  China , Brazil’s largest trading partner,
rose last month as the world’s second-biggest economy withstood
weaker exports driven by the European debt crisis. A gauge of
manufacturing in the euro area beat estimates in January while a
report today showed U.S. factory output grew at the fastest pace
in seven months. The data fueled bets of increased demand for
Brazilian exports such as  iron ore  and sugar, said Felipe Brandao, emerging-markets strategist at Icap do Brasil CTVM.  “The market is being influenced by the positive impact of
international equities and a more optimistic climate because of
this data in Europe and China,” Brandao said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “This data is driving stocks this
morning and benefiting risk assets.”  China’s official purchasing managers’ index increased to
50.5 in January from 50.3 in December, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a reading below the 50
level that divides expansion from contraction.  U.S. Factories  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index climbed to 54.1 from 53.1 in December, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 54.5. Orders
and export demand picked up last month.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
producer, sold $7 billion in bonds in overseas markets today.
 Fitch Ratings  had said yesterday that the company would issue $6
billion of debt. Soaring international bond issuance by
Brazilian companies helped spark the 6.9 percent gain in the
real in January, the biggest monthly advance since October.  Trading in Brazil’s interest-rate futures and currency
derivatives markets was stopped today between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.
local time because of technical issues, said an official with
Sao Paulo-based securities exchange BM&FBovespa SA.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPC-S index, rose 0.81
percent in January, compared with 0.93 percent in the previous
period, the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation said
today. This compares with the 0.87 percent median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Signs of economic resilience in China also pushed up yields
on interest-rate futures contracts earlier in the day as traders
bet stronger demand for commodities could fuel inflation,
Brandao said.  “Any little sign of activity in China pushes up
commodities and this can be bad for the rates market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in Sao Paulo at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  