-- North Sea Oil Exports to Asia at 8-Year High: Energy Markets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-02-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/brent-glut-sends-most-north-sea-cargoes-to-asia-since-2004-energy-markets.html
More North Sea oil is being shipped
to  Asia  than at any time in the past eight years as prices fall
to their cheapest levels in 15 months compared with Middle East
alternatives.  Brent traded at $2.41 a barrel more than Dubai crude on
Jan. 13, the smallest difference since October 2010, PVM Oil
Associates Ltd. data show. Companies led by  BP Plc (BP/)  and Vitol
Group have sent at least 8 million barrels of North Sea oil to
Asian ports since mid-December, equivalent to six days of U.K.
production, according to ship-tracking data from AISLive Ltd.
That’s the most for any month since 2004, data from Galbraith’s
Ltd., a London-based shipbroker, show.  Rising production in  Libya , refinery closures from the U.K.
to  Switzerland  and a drop in U.S.  gasoline demand  have created a
surplus that’s weighing on the price of low-sulfur, or sweet,
crude produced in the  North Sea (EUCSFORT)  and West Africa. That’s making
it profitable for companies to transport the raw material more
than 16,000 miles (25,700 kilometers) to Asia, where demand is
outpacing the rest of the world.  “There’s a glut of light-sweet crude,” said  Leo Drollas ,
chief economist at the Centre for Global Energy Studies, the
London-based researcher founded by former Saudi Arabia Oil
Minister Sheikh Ahmad Yamani. “It’s a demand-and-supply story.
The return of Libya is part of it. Then there’s weak demand for
gasoline in the U.S. It’s negative.”  Brent-Dubai  While still more expensive than Middle East grades, Brent’s
narrowing premium is making it more attractive to Asian refiners
because it’s cheaper and easier to process into higher-value
products such as gasoline and diesel, according to JBC Energy
GmbH, a Vienna-based consultant.  The  Brent-Dubai spread , a measure of  North Sea  prices
versus crudes typically sold in Asia, was at $3.01 yesterday,
compared with an average of $5.16 in the past year, according to
PVM, which tracks Brent on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and
Dubai swaps in the brokered market.  The spread has narrowed as the crude grades that comprise
Dated Brent have fallen. The price of  Forties (EUCSFORT)  dropped to 63
cents a barrel less than Dated Brent on Jan. 17, the lowest
level since Oct. 24, 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was at a discount of 9 cents yesterday, compared
with an average of 37 cents more than the benchmark grade in the
past 12 months. The premium of  Nigeria ’s  Qua Iboe (AFCSQUA1)  oil declined
to a one-month low of $2.50 a barrel relative to Dated Brent on
Jan. 20, the data show.  BP, Vitol  “North Sea Forties, the usual price-setter of Dated Brent,
seems to be increasingly becoming an arbitrage crude,” analysts
led by Johannes Benigni at JBC Energy wrote in a Jan. 31 report.
“Substantial volumes have been sent to Asia over the last three
months, with  China ,  South Korea  and Australia accounting for the
bulk.”  Exports of North Sea Forties crude will swell to a 10-month
high of 475,862 barrels a day this month, while shipments of
Nigerian supplies will rise by 1.8 percent from January to 2.14
million barrels a day, loading programs obtained by Bloomberg
News show.  BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company by market value,
and Vitol, the world’s biggest independent oil trader, scheduled
supertankers from Hound Point, a terminal off the coast of
 Scotland , to South Korea and  Singapore , on Dec. 12 and Jan. 15,
respectively, according to Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.
Two more vessels were hired to load in mid-January, according to
AISLive, a unit of Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay.
Officials at BP and Vitol declined to comment on oil shipments.  ‘Attractive Trade’  “This is really a push from the west,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, an oil-market
researcher in Zug, Switzerland. “With the return of Libya and
the closure of refineries in the U.S. and Europe, the Atlantic
Basin has to push some barrels out, and this is seen through the
weaker Brent-Dubai spread.”  Brent, the benchmark grade for more than half the world’s
oil, will start to reverse its decline against Dubai swaps as
suppliers of sweet crude such as Angola and Nigeria struggle to
bolster capacity, while OPEC members increase output of medium
and heavy crude, curbing the advantage of shipping oil to Asia
from Europe and  Africa , according to BNP Paribas SA.  “Going long Brent, short Dubai appears to us an attractive
medium-term trade,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , the London-based head
of commodity-market strategy at BNP Paribas, said in a Jan. 19
telephone interview.  Plant Closures  Refiners are shutting plants amid a slide in gasoline use
in the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of the motor fuel.
Demand dropped to a seven-year low in the week ended Jan. 6,
according to MasterCard Inc.  Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) , the European refiner that filed for
insolvency last month, said in December it’s closing three
plants with a combined capacity of 337,000 barrels a day. That’s
about 2 percent of Europe’s capacity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Total SA, Europe’s largest refiner, reduced its
capacity in Europe by 19 percent in the five years to 2010,
according to data posted on its website.  Libya’s crude  production  rose to 1.3 million barrels a day
as of Jan. 25, state-run National Oil Corp. said Jan. 26. Output
from the North African nation slumped during last year’s
uprising to oust  Muammar Qaddafi , from about 1.6 million barrels
before the conflict began.  The return of Libyan crude production is “weighing heavily
on differentials for European sweet crudes,” JBC Energy said in
a Jan. 17 report.  Asia Versus Europe  Es Sider crude, Libya’s benchmark export grade, is also
light and sweet, like most West African and North Sea oil. It
has a sulfur content of 0.4 percent, similar to the 0.56 percent
of Forties, according to Bloomberg data and London-based BP,
which operates the Forties pipeline.  About 2.15 million barrels a day of West African crude will
also be shipped to Asia during February, the most in at least
seven months, according to loading programs and a survey of six
traders by Bloomberg News. That’s equivalent to the entire
output of Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer.  China’s oil demand will increase by 4.3 percent this year
to 9.9 million barrels a day, while consumption in other
developing nations in Asia will rise 3.8 percent to 11 million,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Oil use in Europe
will contract by 1.4 percent to 14.1 million barrels, the Paris-
based energy adviser said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  