-- Brisbane, Perth Demand Drive Office Vacancies to Three-Year Low
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-02-01T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/brisbane-perth-demand-drive-office-vacancies-to-three-year-low.html
A surge in demand in Perth and
Brisbane helped push Australian office vacancies to a three-year
low, the  Property Council of Australia  said in its Office Market
Report today.  Vacancies across offices in city centers and suburbs
dropped to 7.9 percent as of Jan. 1, from 9 percent six months
earlier, as about 240,000 square meters (2.6 million square feet)
of space was leased, the council said. Vacancies in Perth’s
center more than halved to 3.3 percent, while in central
Brisbane they fell to 6.2 percent from 7.4 percent.  “Perth and Brisbane outperformed expectations, with the
resources sector continuing to expand strongly in both cities,”
said James Patterson, Sydney-based regional director for office
services at property broker CBRE Group Inc. “This shows the
two-or-multi-track economy is not just an idea; it’s well and
truly here.”  In Sydney’s central business district, where demand largely
stems from the financial services industry, the vacancy rate
climbed to 9.6 percent from 9.3 percent, according to the
council. Foreign investment in Australian commercial real estate
jumped last year to the highest level in 15 years, and will
remain strong in 2012, as overseas investors seeking long-term
holdings continue to be drawn to  Australia ’s transparent market,
CBRE said in a report yesterday.  Withdrawn Space  Across the country, 225,000 square meters of commercial
space was taken off the market, a 50 percent increase over the
six months, signaling “a new wave of refurbishment activity,”
Peter Verwer, chief executive officer of the council, said.  Supply of space this year will rise by a third to about
800,000 square meters, with much of the increase in Perth,
Adelaide, Canberra, Melbourne and Brisbane, according to the
council.  “In 2012, tenant demand in Brisbane and Perth is assured
given strong mining employment growth,” said Simon Hunt,
Melbourne-based managing director for office leasing at Colliers
International. Other cities, particularly Melbourne and Adelaide,
“will also continue to benefit due to flow-on impacts to the
domestic economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  