-- Buffett’s Railroad Boosts Capital Plan 11% to $3.9 Billion
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-01T21:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/buffett-railroad-boosts-capital-plan-to-3-9b.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  plans to boost  capital spending  at its railroad to $3.9
billion this year, an increase of 11 percent from 2011, as the
company adds capacity for coal shipments.  The 2012 proposal includes $2.1 billion on the core network
and $1.1 billion on locomotive, freight car and equipment
acquisitions, the BNSF Railway Co. said in a statement today.
The  Fort Worth , Texas-based unit is also spending $300 million
this year on a U.S. rail-safety mandate.  The largest U.S. freight railroads may lift  capital
expenditures  to a record $13 billion in 2012 as their revenue
rises amid gains in freight traffic, the Association of American
Railroads said Jan. 30. BNSF’s weekly volume climbed to a three-
year high as the economy improved outside of the housing market,
Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
in October.  “We’re probably only year two into the recovery,” said
 Peter Nesvold , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York.
Spending is driven by rail volume that’s expanding faster than
the economy as the industry catches up to its pre-recession high
point, Nesvold said.  The railroad’s plan calls for $400 million in terminal,
intermodal-expansion and efficiency projects, including on coal
routes. The rail serves mines in the Western U.S., including
Wyoming’s Powder River Basin, which holds the largest and
cheapest U.S. reserves of the power-plant fuel.  Fuel Prices  BNSF is also benefiting as oil drilling in the northern-
U.S. Bakken region outpaces pipeline growth, boosting petroleum
shipments by rail. Intermodal shipments, which can move by sea,
rail and highway, are rising as higher fuel prices prompt
truckers to partner with railroads to move containers over long
distances.  The investment will “ensure our infrastructure remains
strong and improve the efficiency of our operations,”  Matthew Rose , CEO of the railroad, said in the statement.  About 70 percent of railroad capital expenditures are
earmarked for maintenance, according to Nesvold, the analyst.
Most rails are using the rest of the spending to improve
efficiency by laying double tracks or expanding terminals, to
buy new rail cars and locomotives and to expand their intermodal
systems to compete better against trucks, Nesvold said.  Union Pacific  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  had capital investments of $3.18
billion in 2011 and is forecast to spend $3.52 billion this
year, according to the average of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  is predicted to raise  spending 
this year to $2.37 billion from $2.16 billion in 2011.  CSX Corp. (CSX) 
will probably keep spending at about $2.24 billion compared with
$2.3 billion last year, according to the estimates.  Berkshire spent $26.5 billion in February 2010 to acquire
the 77.5 percent of  Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNI)  it didn’t
already own. Buffett has called the investment by his Omaha,
Nebraska-based company an “all-in wager” on the U.S. economy.  “That’s stuff moving around the country, supplying
merchants and doing all kinds of  things,” he said at Fortune
magazine’s Most Powerful Women conference in October, referring
to rising freight.  Burlington paid $2.75 billion of dividends to its parent in
the first nine months of last year and said another $750 million
was declared for the fourth quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  