-- Buffett Railroad Boosts Capital Plan to $3.9B
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-01T17:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/buffett-s-railroad-boosts-capital-plan-to-3-9-billion-in-coal-freight-bet.html
Burlington Northern Santa Fe, the
railroad controlled by  Warren Buffett , plans $3.9 billion in
capital spending this year, an increase of 11 percent from 2011,
as the company boosts capacity for coal shipments.  The 2012 proposal includes $2.1 billion on the core network
and $1.1 billion on locomotive, freight car and equipment
acquisitions, the company said in a statement today. The Fort
Worth, Texas-based railroad is also spending $300 million this
year on a U.S. rail-safety mandate.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is increasing spending at
the second-biggest U.S. rail operator after he made an “all-in
wager” on the  U.S. economy  when he bought Burlington in early
2010 for about $26.5 billion. The largest U.S. freight railroads
may boost  capital expenditures  to a record $13 billion in 2012
as their revenue rises amid gains in freight traffic, the
Association of American Railroads said Jan. 30.  The investment will “ensure our infrastructure remains
strong and improve the efficiency of our operations,” said
 Matthew Rose , CEO of the railroad, in the statement.  The railroad’s plan calls for $400 million in terminal,
intermodal-expansion and efficiency projects, which will focus
on coal routes. The rail serves mines in the Western U.S.,
including  Wyoming ’s Powder River Basin, which holds the largest
and cheapest U.S. reserves of the power-plant fuel.  Burlington Northern is also benefitting as oil drilling in
the northern-U.S. Bakken region outpaces pipeline growth,
boosting petroleum shipments by rail. Intermodal shipments,
which can move by sea, rail and highway, are also rising at the
company as rising fuel prices prompt truckers to partner with
railroads to move containers over long distances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  