-- California Teachers’ Pension May Be Fully Funded in 52 Years, Report Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/california-teachers-pension-may-be-fully-funded-in-52-years-report-says.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, with higher contributions from teachers,
school districts and the state, may have all the money needed to
pay its obligations, 52 years from now, according to a new
report.  Calstrs, whose $144.8 billion in assets make it the second-
largest U.S. public pension, had only 71 percent of what it
needs to cover forecast benefits as of June 30, 2010, down from
78 percent a year earlier, according to a statement. The
shortfall amounts to $56 billion.  The fund would be at 100 percent by 2064 if new teachers
were required to put 12.2 percent of their salaries toward
retirement, from 8 percent now, phased in beginning in 2016,
according to one projection in a  report  to the board. Current
teachers would contribute 10 percent; school districts, 14.5
percent of payroll, from 8.25 percent; and the state, 3.1
percent of its budget for teacher payroll, now about 2 percent.  “This is really the governor and the Legislature’s
decision,” Ed Derman, the fund’s deputy chief executive
officer, said on a conference call with reporters yesterday.
“We’re here to help you do this, but you’ve got to solve the
problem.”  Full funding by 2064 would also require Calstrs’
investments to earn an average annual return of 7.75 percent.
Actuaries have recommended lowering the rate to 7.5 percent.  Six Projections  The report to the Calstrs board, scheduled for discussion
tomorrow, outlines six scenarios that would spread the added
costs among school districts, educators and the state. Each
would require instructors to pay more. Only one would impose
additional cost on new teachers. All six would squeeze more from
school districts to varying degrees. Four would require
additional state money.  Governor  Jerry Brown  didn’t include additional funds for
Calstrs in a series of measures he outlined in October to narrow
pension funding gaps.  Derman said Brown’s proposals, which include raising the
 retirement age  and creating a 401(k)-style hybrid  retirement
plan  for new employees, would only partially deal with the
funding gap, which was estimated at $56 billion in June 2010.  “You still have the unfunded liability for all of the
existing members,” he said. “The governor’s proposal doesn’t
change that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  