-- California Vows $30 Billion of Redevelopment Agencies’ Debt Will Be Repaid
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/california-vows-30-billion-of-redevelopment-agencies-debt-will-be-repaid.html
Holders of almost $30 billion of
 California (STOCA1)  redevelopment bonds will be repaid on time, even as
the 425 agencies responsible for them are dissolved today,
Finance Director Ana Matosantos said.  So-called successor agencies, mostly cities and counties,
will inherit the obligations that financed road, sewer, lighting
and affordable-housing projects to deal with urban blight,
Matosantos and other state officials said yesterday, the end of
the agencies’ 60-year existence.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings all warned that the credit ratings on $20 billion of
 California  redevelopment bonds might be lowered because
abolition of the agencies might affect debt repayments.  “It’s very difficult to figure out where you stand, which
is a difficult place to be for a bondholder,” Craig Brothers, a
managing director at Bel Air Investment Advisors in Los Angeles,
said in a telephone interview. “The market’s become very
illiquid with this kind of credit. You don’t really know where
you stand in the  capital structure .”  Matosantos and other Finance Department officials sought to
allay concerns that closing the agencies might disrupt payments
to bondholders or strain the budgets of municipalities that
inherit the responsibility.  In seven or eight cases, including the redevelopment bonds
issued for  Los Angeles , no municipality has stepped up to assume
the obligations, said Mark Hill, program budget manager for the
Finance Department. The Los Angeles City Council voted in
January not to take on the responsibility.  In such cases, Governor  Jerry Brown  will designate a
successor, Hill said in a webcast yesterday.  “Those pledges will all be honored,” Hill said. “The
statute requires that all of these obligations to pay those
bonds transfer to the successor agencies.”  Redevelopment agencies captured a portion of property taxes
in a designated area to subsidize projects intended to eliminate
urban decay. They helped create an entertainment district in
downtown  San Diego , and spruce up a golf course in Palm Desert.
The agencies had $29.8 billion in debt as of June 30, 2010, said
Jacob Roper, a spokesman for state Controller John Chiang.  Scott Cottier, senior portfolio manager at OppenheimerFunds
Inc., said his firms’ analysis of redevelopment agencies last
year concluded that no matter what the governor and Legislature
chose to do, the agencies’ bonds would still be paid in full.  With the agencies killed off, “the old bonds go up in
value,” Cottier said in an interview. “The  credit quality  has
gone up. These bonds are going to be money good.”  While the cities and counties should be able to pay off
bondholders, the schedule may cause  cash-flow  problems for some,
said  Chris McKenzie , executive director of the  League of
California Cities .  “As the three national  ratings agencies  pointed out, this
is principally a question of cash flow,” McKenzie said. “Will
the cash arrive in time to make the debt payments?”  On Jan. 28, a state court in Sacramento rejected an attempt
by cities to block the state from taking the assets of the 399
active redevelopment agencies in California.  Brown and fellow Democrats inserted the law dissolving the
redevelopment agencies into the package of bills that comprised
the state’s budget for the fiscal year that began July 1.  Since some of that redevelopment money will go toward
schools, it reduces the state’s obligation to fund education by
an equal amount, H.D. Palmer, a Finance Department spokesman,
said Dec. 29. That frees the state to spend the money for other
purposes, he said.  Killing the agencies pours about $1 billion into the
current spending plan, and $430 million in next year’s, the
governor’s office has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  