-- California Will Borrow Up to $1B to Skirt Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-01T18:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/california-will-borrow-up-to-1-billion-to-stave-off-impending-cash-crisis.html
California (STOCA1)  will seek a loan from  Wall
Street  of as much as $1 billion to pay bills as the most
populous U.S. state’s tax collections trail budgeted amounts,
according to the treasurer’s office.  Treasurer Bill Lockyer is drawing up plans for a so-called
revenue-anticipation note sale to deal with cash-flow needs,
said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman. The offering probably will be
less than $1 billion, he said by telephone. The plan was
reported earlier by Dow Jones Newswires.  The loan will help Lockyer and Controller John Chiang deal
with a $3.3 billion cash shortfall they estimate through the
middle of April caused by  tax revenue  that hasn’t met forecasts
and spending that has exceeded projected levels. Lockyer still
has to settle on the exact amount to seek and the timing.  “Although this cash management plan relies on still more
borrowing, payment delays and deferrals, we believe this is the
most prudent and responsible course of action considering we
have about four weeks before the advent of the cash shortfall,”
Chiang said yesterday in a letter to lawmakers.  State receipts were $2.6 billion lower than forecast
through Dec. 31, while expenditures were an equal amount higher,
Chiang said. In a previous  report , Chiang said corporate and
personal-income tax collections were the drivers of the
shortfall for the fiscal year that began in July.  No IOUs Planned  Unlike 2009, when Chiang was forced to issue IOUs to
creditors, the controller said the current cash shortfall can be
managed through payment delays, as well as borrowing.  Lockyer in September sold $5.4 billion of short-term
revenue anticipation notes that were supposed to carry the state
through to the end of the fiscal year in June. State and local
governments often sell such notes to bolster cash flow until
more tax receipts arrive later in the year.  The latest loan also would be repaid before June 30, though
not until after the earlier notes, which come due June 26,
Dresslar said.  “We just need more RANS to get us through this seven-week
 cash-flow  period,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  