-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Manufacturing Indexes Gain in EU, China
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-01T21:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/canadian-stocks-rise-as-manufacturing-indexes-gain-in-eu-china.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day, led by banks and energy producers, after manufacturing
indexes in  Europe  and China surpassed most analysts’ forecasts.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, increased 1.7 percent as banks climbed for the first
time in seven days.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,  Canada ’s fifth-biggest
energy company, rallied 1.9 percent as oil and gas stocks
advanced.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , Canada’s
largest drugmaker, gained 3.9 percent after saying it will buy a
Brazilian food supplements company.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 65.51 points, or 0.5
percent, to 12,517.66.  “Canada is very much tied to global growth,” Jennifer Radman, a  money manager  at Caldwell Investment Management Ltd.
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees
about C$1 billion ($1 billion). “Over the last several months,
there’s been a pick-up in economic numbers. In  China , there’s
more and more confidence they’re not going to have this hard
landing some people were talking about.”  The S&P/TSX gained 4.2 percent in January, its second
monthly advance in 11 months, as raw-materials producers surged
10 percent on higher metals prices. Gold had its biggest January
rally since 1983 and copper increased after the U.S. Federal
Reserve extended its low- interest-rate  pledge to late 2014. The
industry accounts for 22 percent of Canadian stocks by market
value, according to Bloomberg data.  Indexes Top Forecasts  Purchasing managers’ indexes from China and the U.K. showed
manufacturing expanded faster in January than most economists in
Bloomberg surveys had forecast. In the euro region,
manufacturing  contracted less  than the median economist
forecast.  Greece  may offer to promise a reduction in bondholders’
losses in a debt swap that would take effect if the country’s
economy rebounds, people with knowledge of the confidential
talks said. Owners of Greek debt have been negotiating an
exchange of their bonds for newer ones that would pay a lower
interest rate.  Bank shares  in the S&P/TSX ended their longest streak of
losses since July. Royal Bank climbed 1.7 percent to C$53.28.
Bank of Montreal, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets, rose
0.9 percent to C$58.80.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North
America ’s fourth-biggest insurer, gained 2 percent to C$11.94.  Cenovus, Canadian Natural  The  S&P/TSX Energy Index (STENRS)  advanced for a second day. Cenovus
increased 1.9 percent to C$37.29.  Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy company by market
value, climbed 1.1 percent to C$40.16.  TransGlobe Energy Corp. (TGL) , which produces oil and gas in
Egypt and Yemen, rose 6.5 percent to C$10.40 to extend its
three-day surge to 10 percent. The company’s daily average oil
production increased 41 percent in January from the fourth
quarter of 2011, Calgary-based TransGlobe said Jan. 30.  Flint Energy Services Ltd. (FES) , an oilfield-services company,
rallied 6.4 percent to C$15.73 after gaining 5.6 percent
yesterday. Frederic Bastien, an analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc., began coverage of the company with a “strong
buy” rating yesterday, citing its diverse activities and growth
in the shale gas and natural gas liquids industries.  Lowered Forecast  Golden Star Resources Ltd. (GSC) , which mines gold in  Ghana , sank
7.3 percent to C$2.03 after Paolo Lostritto, an analyst at
 National Bank of Canada , cut his rating on the shares to
“underperform” from “sector perform.” Lostritto cited the
company’s lowered production forecast for 2012.  Valeant gained 3.9 percent to C$50.47 after agreeing to buy
Probiotica Laboratorios Ltda., based in Embu das Artes,  Sao
Paulo , for 150 million reais ($86 million). Probiotica had about
80 million reais in revenue last year, Valeant said in a
statement.  Westport Innovations Inc. (WPT) , which develops natural-gas
engine technologies, dropped 7.5 percent to C$38.50 after
Navistar International Corp. said it will sell heavy-duty trucks
with engines it is developing with Clean Air Power Ltd. Westport
closed at a 10-year high yesterday.  Dundee Precious Metals Inc. (DPM) , which operates in Bulgaria,
Armenia and Namibia, surged 7.4 percent to C$10.11, the highest
since December 2010. A company memo says the Namibian government
has found no health or environmental reason to immediately close
the Tsumeb smelter, the government newspaper New Era  reported 
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  