-- Canadian Dollar Gains to Strongest in Three Months as Risk Appetite Grows
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-01T22:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/canadian-dollar-gains-to-strongest-in-three-months-as-risk-appetite-grows.html
The Canadian dollar advanced to a
three-month high versus its U.S. counterpart as stronger global
manufacturing data boosted speculation the worldwide economy is
growing, stoking investor appetite for riskier assets.  Canada’s currency rose beyond parity with the greenback as
purchasing-manager indexes from  China  to the U.S. increased and
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said the bloc has
reached a “turning point” in its two-year-old debt crisis.
Canadian employers added jobs in January for a second month,
economists predicted a report will show Feb 3. Stocks climbed.  “The loonie’s doing a bit better on the general positive
outlook,”  Michael O’Neill , vice president of foreign-exchange
trading at RJOFX Canada, a unit of RJ O’Brien & Associates Inc.,
said by phone from Toronto. “That’s partly from the China data
last night and also in part because  Europe  hasn’t cratered.
There’s also a bit more optimism surrounding the U.S. economy.
What good for the U.S. is good for global growth; Canada is
along for the ride.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to 99.86
Canadian cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. It
touched 99.64 cents, the strongest level since Oct. 31. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0014.  The U.S. dollar fell against all except two of its 16 most-
traded peers as investors sought higher-yielding assets.  Biggest Trade Partner  The loonie gained beyond a one-for-one basis with the
greenback for a second day as data from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed  manufacturing  in the U.S., Canada’s biggest
trade partner, expanded at the fastest pace in seven months. The
ISM index rose to 54.1, less than projected, from 53.1 in
December, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report said. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  Chinese factory indexes increased as the world’s second-
biggest economy withstood weaker exports driven by the European
debt crisis and a government-induced property slowdown. In
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, output grew for the first
time since September.  “The Canadian dollar is being driven by the better-than-
expected PMI data,”  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co., said in an e-mail
message. “This has resulted in broad  U.S. dollar  weakness, a
strong rally in equities and has boosted growth-sensitive
currencies such as the Canadian dollar.”  Bonds Drop  Canadian  government bonds  fell. Benchmark 10-year notes
slid for the first time in six days, lifting their yields higher
by two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.90 percent.
The securities yielded eight basis points more than comparable
U.S. Treasuries, versus six basis points at the end of 2011.  Canada sold C$2.5 billion ($2.5 billion) of 10-year debt
today, drawing an average yield of 2.015 percent, according to a
statement on the Bank of Canada’s website. The 2.75 percent
notes are due in June 2022.  The auction attracted C$5.8 billion in bids for a coverage
ratio -- the amount bid relative to the amount sold -- of 2.31.
The last  offering  of 10-year bonds, on Oct. 5, drew an average
yield of 2.254 percent and a coverage ratio of 2.52.  Employers in  Canada  added a net 22,000 jobs last month
after a revised increase of 21,700 in December, according to the
median of 23  forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg News before
 Statistics Canada  reports the data on Feb. 3. U.S. payrolls
swelled by 145,000 jobs in January, data due the same day in
 Washington  is forecast to show.  Depreciation Forecast  The loonie will depreciate to C$1.03 by the end of the
first quarter after weakening 2.3 percent last year, economists
in a Bloomberg survey predicted.  “The price action in the Canadian dollar is more a
function of external risks, namely the outlook for the  euro
zone ,” Brown Brothers’ McCormick said. “We also expect
momentum in the  U.S. economy  is likely to wane. As a result,
we’re a bit more bearish on the Canadian dollar and expect it to
finish the quarter at C$1.06.”  RJOFX’s O’Neill predicted the loonie will stay in a range
between 99.60 cents and C$1.0050 at least until the payrolls
data this week. He recommended buying the greenback against the
loonie at 99.60 cents and 99.70 cents, exiting the trade if the
U.S. currency weakens to 99.45 cents.  Fibonacci Analysis  O’Neill, citing Fibonacci retracement levels on the range
between the July 26 high in the Canadian dollar at 94.07 cents
versus the greenback, and its low at C$1.0658 on Oct. 4, said if
the currency breaks through the 61.8 percent retracement level
at about 98.80, “we should get 100 percent retracement” back
to 94.07 cents. That is unlikely to happen unless the euro can
appreciate beyond about $1.3250, O’Neill said. It rose 0.6
percent today to $1.3158.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities
tend to rise or fall by specific percentages after reaching a
new high or low.  Canada’s dollar gained 2.8 percent over the past three
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
appreciated 0.4 percent, while the euro weakened 4 percent.  The EU’s  Van Rompuy  told European lawmakers
“substantially” lower yields on Italian and Spanish bonds
signal efforts to overcome the debt crisis and preserve the euro
are paying off.  Greece  and private creditors are near an accord
on a debt swap that in principle would include a sweetener tied
to a revival in economic growth to ease the plan’s impact on
bondholders, people with knowledge of the talks said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 0.9 percent in its
first advance in five days. Crude oil for March delivery climbed
as much as 1.2 percent to $99.49 a barrel in  New York  before
sliding to $97.31. Crude, Canada’s biggest export, reversed
gains after a report showed U.S. inventories climbed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  