-- Carlos Slim Criticism of Mexico Competition Study Off the Mark, OECD Says
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-01T23:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/carlos-slim-s-criticism-of-mexico-study-off-the-mark-oecd-says.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  was out of
context and off the mark in his criticism of a study finding a
lack of competition in Mexico’s phone industry, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Slim told reporters yesterday that the group’s report,
released earlier this week, seemed to use data “pulled out of
thin air.” The 72-year-old, who controls Mexico’s largest
wireless and landline-phone companies, denied the study’s claims
that Mexican carriers overcharged consumers $13.4 billion a year
for phone and Internet services from 2005 to 2009.  Mexico’s government, which commissioned the  study , is using
it to validate efforts to create more competition in
telecommunications. The findings support the government’s plan
to auction off fiber-optic lines owned by the state power
company and contracts to push high-speed Internet into
communities where it’s not available, Communications and
Transportation Minister Dionisio Perez-Jacome said this week.  “The OECD stands by its report in full,” the group said
today in an e-mailed statement.  In addition to $13.4 billion a year in overcharges, the
study concluded that Mexican phone companies missed out on $12.4
billion in sales a year because their prices weren’t low enough.
Adding up those figures, the OECD said  Mexico ’s phone market had
an “opportunity cost” of $25.8 billion a year.  Purchasing Power Parity  Slim dismissed that $25.8 billion figure, saying that the
OECD was implying that the industry, which generates sales of
$30 billion a year, should give up most of its revenue.  Instead, the OECD said, its report showed that if companies
had offered lower prices, the decrease in sales would have been
almost completely offset by an increase in new subscriptions.  Slim also criticized the use of a method called
“purchasing power parity” used by the OECD to compare prices
in different countries. He gave reporters copies of a separate
OECD document that said the method wasn’t appropriate “to
undertake price level comparisons at low levels of
aggregation.”  The statisticians that developed the method endorse the way
the OECD used it in the Mexico study, the group said today.
Using simple price comparisons based on foreign exchange, the
method Slim endorsed to show that Mexico’s prices are lower than
in most other OECD member countries, is too vulnerable to
currency swings, the OECD said.  Lower Broadband Adoption  Slim also took issue with the OECD’s conclusion that
Mexico’s rate of broadband adoption, at 10.5 high-speed Internet
subscribers per 100 habitants in 2010, was near the bottom of
the rankings of its 34 member countries. It would have been more
fair to divide those rates by the per-capita gross domestic
product of each country, a measure which would make Mexico
compare much more favorably, Slim said.  The report took GDP into account in its calculations of how
lower prices would affect subscriptions, the OECD said today.  The OECD met with Slim’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB and with other
carriers last year, the group said. Representatives of all 34
member countries reviewed the study in an October 2011 meeting
in which  America Movil  had a representative present, the OECD
said. Afterward, America Movil submitted comments on the study
that were “given serious consideration” as the report was
being finished, the OECD said.  An official at America Movil’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB
fixed-line unit didn’t have an immediate comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  