-- China Home Prices May Decline as Much as 15%, GreenOak’s Kalsi Says
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   R o b   U r b a n
-- 2012-02-01T22:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/china-home-prices-may-decline-as-much-as-15-greenoak-s-kalsi-says.html
Chinese  home prices  may fall as
economic growth decelerates and income gains lag development,
said panelists at the Bloomberg Link  China  conference.  “I don’t think China’s going to blow up, but prices are
ahead of affordability,” Sonny Kalsi, a founder of GreenOak
Real Estate and former global co-head of property at Morgan
Stanley, said at the panel discussion in  New York  today. “At a
minimum, it will take some time for growth to catch up to
valuations. On the less generous end, we could have real price
declines of 10 to 15 percent.”  China’s real estate market is caught between diverging
goals of the central government and province heads and local
mayors, according to the panelists. The central government has
been trying to restrain speculation in housing, while local
officials encourage development, they said. Reconciling those
goals may influence whether a property crash can be avoided.  “Every mayor wants their own Gucci store,” said  Bhaskar
Chakravorti , senior associate dean of the Fletcher School at
 Tufts University . “You create jobs at the local level when you
give away land, motivate developers. The external problem is the
global economy is still not quite on steady ground, particularly
in  Europe , which has got a huge relationship with China.”  Local Chinese officials want to build more high-rise
residential housing than the population can support, according
to  Michael Klibaner , head of China research for Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. “They’re vanity projects,” he said.  While local officials favor building offices and shopping
centers because of the tax income they produce, the policy may
lead to oversupply, Klibaner said.  Commercial  real estate  in China has shown signs of a
bubble, according to Kalsi. “You’ve got tremendous commercial
building, poorly conceived shopping centers, offices where
there’s no demand,” he said. “We’re not investing right now.”  Opportunities for investors are in “budget retail, budget
hotels, not five-star hotels, affordable housing,” Kalsi said.
“It’s not Class A office buildings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  