-- China’s Manufacturing Industry Holds Up Against Global Slowdown: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-01T07:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/china-manufacturing-index-rises-to-50-5-beating-analyst-estimates-of-49-6.html
Chinese manufacturing indexes rose in
January as the world’s second-biggest economy withstood weaker
exports driven by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a government-induced
property slowdown.  The official  purchasing managers’ index  increased to 50.5
from 50.3 in December, exceeding the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey for a reading below the 50 level that
divides expansion from contraction. The data may have been
distorted by a weeklong holiday. A separate gauge from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 48.8.  India ’s
manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in eight months.  Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday reiterated his government will
“fine-tune” economic policies as needed after the central bank
held off on a reduction in bank-reserve requirements that some
analysts had forecast for January. Indexes for export orders,
imports and employment in the official PMI showed a deeper
decline, underscoring an International Monetary Fund warning
last week that the euro area’s crisis could trigger another
global recession.  “Today’s data further confirmed a soft-landing story for
 China ,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas
SA. “However, consumer demand may weaken after holiday effects
disappear,” and global “uncertainties” and the Chinese
government’s efforts to curb property prices “will continue to
weigh on exports and industrial production,” Peng said.  That will result in a bigger slowdown in China’s growth in
the coming months, he said.  India Manufacturing  A PMI gauge for India rose to 57.5 in January from 54.2 in
December, according to HSBC and Markit, an acceleration that may
stoke inflation and reduce scope for the central bank to cut
interest rates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.3 percent at 3:46 p.m.
in  Tokyo  on cuts to profit forecasts for Japanese companies and
speculation that China may refrain from immediate monetary
loosening.  The Lunar New Year holiday, which ran from Jan. 22 through
Jan. 28, helped increase  consumer spending  and domestic demand,
the Beijing-based statistics bureau said in a statement on its
website. The festival provided a “temporary boost” to the
data, said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe
Generale SA.  Better Than Forecast  The official PMI reading, released by the statistics bureau
and logistics federation, compared with a median  estimate  of
49.6 from 17 analysts. Eleven forecast a contraction.  A gauge of output rose to 53.6, the highest since May.
Readings for new export orders and imports contracted for a
fourth month and an index of  employment  dropped to 47.1, the
lowest in almost three years.  The purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC was
unchanged from the preliminary reading released Jan. 20. While
it was the third straight contraction, the gauge rose from 48.7
in December and 47.7 in November.  The federation’s index is based on a survey of managers at
more than 820 companies in 28 industries, while the HSBC
indicator surveys more than 430 companies.  The official PMI report suggests manufacturing “has
stabilized somewhat due to supportive fiscal and monetary
policies,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., who accurately
predicted today’s reading. “Stronger-than-expected PMI also
provides solid evidence that a hard landing for  China’s economy 
is very unlikely.”  ‘More Accommodative’  Even with today’s gain, Chinese officials will lean toward
being “more accommodative” in their monetary policy to protect
against risks in the  property market  and a “still uncertain
outlook,” Liu said.  Another report today said China’s home prices fell for a
fifth month in January as the government continued to control
the property market, the longest losing streak since SouFun
Holdings Ltd. started tracking the data.  South Korea ’s exports unexpectedly fell for the first time
in more than two years in January and inflation moderated to the
slowest pace in 12 months as Europe’s debt crisis dimmed the
outlook for demand, reports today showed.  Hong Kong ’s economy
grew a less-than-estimated 3 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier as Europe’s debt crisis damped exports.  Australia Home Prices  In Australia,  house prices  plunged by the most on record in
2011 as global economic uncertainty and concerns about its
impact at home kept a lid on demand.  Later today in Europe, reports may show gauges of
manufacturing in Germany and  France  in January held at their
preliminary estimates, showing expansion in the former and
contraction in the latter, according to separate Bloomberg
surveys.  China’s economy grew 8.9 percent in the final three months
of 2011, the least in 10 quarters, as exports rose at a slower
pace and property curbs hurt output of products including steel
and cement. Expansion may slide to about 7.5 percent this
quarter and 7.6 percent in the three months through June until
policies to spur growth kick in, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc.  The government has so far refrained from following Asian
nations including  Thailand  in lowering benchmark  interest rates 
and held off in a cut in bank reserve requirements that
Industrial Bank Co. and Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. had forecast
for January.  Adding Cash  Instead, the People’s Bank of China has added cash to the
financial system through reverse-repurchase operations. The
money-market rate in January had its biggest monthly drop since
July after the central bank added the most funds in almost four
years.  The banking regulator asked the country’s five largest
banks to conduct stress tests on lending to local government
financing vehicles and on property loans, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported today.  The IMF last week cut its 2012 growth forecast for the
nation to 8.2 percent from an earlier estimate of 9 percent.  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company, and Anglo
American Plc said last week China’s growth will remain resilient
to a contraction in Europe, underpinning a long-term expansion
in demand for raw materials.  Today’s government report was “broadly positive,” said
Dong Tao, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse AG. Even
so, “export orders surprised on the weak side.” The data
indicate China’s economy is expanding at a 7 percent to 9
percent pace with a “declining risk” of a so-called hard
landing, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  