-- China Home Prices Post Longest Stretch of Declines on Curbs, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-01T07:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/china-home-prices-post-longest-stretch-of-declines-on-curbs-soufun-says.html
China’s home prices fell for a fifth
month in January as the government continued to control the
 property market , the longest losing streak since  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN)  started tracking the data.  Home prices dropped 0.18 percent last month from December,
according to SouFun, the nation’s biggest real-estate website
owner that began compiling the figures in July 2010. Residential
prices slid in 60 of 100 cities tracked by the company, same as
in December, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday reiterated that the government
will maintain curbs on the property market to bring prices down
to a reasonable level. The capital Beijing and the financial
center of Shanghai are among Chinese cities that have said they
will continue to impose home purchase restrictions this year.  “ Home prices  are really falling and will drop further as
the government curbs remain in place,”  Nicole Wong , a Hong
Kong-based property analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said
in a phone interview today. “The stance of the policies has
softened, but we can’t see a firm timeframe for the government
to relax the current policies.”  Average home prices nationwide climbed 1.7 percent in
January from the same time in 2011 to 8,793 yuan ($1,394) a
square meter (10.76 square feet), the slowest pace of growth
since August, SouFun said.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index fell 1.4 percent at the close, the most among the five
industry groups on the benchmark measure.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the
nation’s biggest listed real estate developer, dropped 1.2
percent, while Poly Real Estate Group Co. lost 1.8 percent.  Holiday Caution  The government also signaled caution toward more monetary
loosening by holding off on a reduction in bank reserve
requirements that some economists had predicted would come
before the week-long holiday. Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Industrial Bank Co. said last month
that ratios were likely to fall ahead of the festival, which
boosts demand for cash. The central bank instead used reverse-
repurchase contracts to add money to the financial system.  Some banks in Shanghai lowered their mortgage rates to the
benchmark rate for first-home buyers, China Business News
reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify. Some
banks’  mortgage rates  for first-home buyers were 10 percent
above the benchmark in the second half of 2011 partly because of
cash shortages, according to the newspaper.  Shanghai, Beijing  Home sales in China’s four-biggest cities declined during
the week-long Lunar New Year holiday last week. Transactions in
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen fell 66 percent to 109
units compared with the holiday period a year earlier, Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest real-estate brokerage,
said Jan. 30.  The central Chinese city of Luoyang and the northern city
of Ordos had the biggest month-on-month decline in January,
falling 2.6 percent and 2.3 percent, respectively, according to
SouFun. The eastern city of Taizhou had the largest gain, up 1.5
percent.  “ China ’s property policies are unlikely to be reversed
this year, but the implementation will possibly be less strict
if the sector deteriorates further,” said Gao Ting, chief China
strategist at UBS AG, in an interview in Bloomberg’s Shanghai
office yesterday ahead of the SouFun data.  China’s outstanding property loan growth slowed last year by
13.5 percentage points from 2010, the central bank said Jan. 30.  Margins of developers will be under pressure this year and
home prices may be little changed at the end of the year after
falling 5 percent in the first three quarters, said CLSA’s Wong.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  