-- China Workers Abroad Becoming Easy Prey
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-01T07:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/chinese-workers-easy-prey-in-africa-as-growth-sending-more-citizens-abroad.html
The capture of 54 Chinese citizens in
 Egypt  and Sudan signals growing concern for  China  as its
economic power expands  abroad  and it sends more people to work
on infrastructure projects in dangerous places overseas.  Rebels in Sudan seized 29 Chinese hostages Jan. 28 after
they attacked the camp of a Chinese road-building company, and
25 Chinese nationals working at a cement plant in Egypt’s Sinai
peninsula were released after being detained yesterday, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The kidnappings reflect the growing global reach of China’s
companies and banks as they invest in projects such as roads,
cellphone networks and ports. Lacking a military to project
power globally, the Chinese often pay ransoms to free hostages,
said  Bonnie Glaser , a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington .  “China’s an easy target,” Glaser said in a telephone
interview. “They want to defuse these situations quickly,
they’re willing to pay and that just emboldens people to go
after their workers. And their workers are everywhere.”  The incidents in Sudan and Egypt are likely to spur more
calls inside China for an expanded capability by the  People’s
Liberation Army  for overseas missions, she said. China’s defense
budget this year is 601.2 billion yuan ($95.3 billion), second
only to the U.S.  ‘Not Powerful Enough’  “China is not powerful enough at this time to protect
every Chinese citizen scattered around the vast continent” of
 Africa , the state-owned Global Times newspaper wrote in an
 editorial  yesterday.  China’s Going Out Policy, meant to encourage more
investment abroad, preceded a rise in the number of workers
overseas. China had 812,000 workers abroad at the end of 2011,
 double the number  from 2002, the Ministry of Commerce said Jan.
18. Outbound investment excluding the financial sector rose 1.8
percent in 2011 to $60 billion, the ministry said.  China evacuated 35,860 of its citizens from  Libya  during
the war there, Xinhua said. Four Chinese citizens were kidnapped
by rebels in  Colombia  in June.  “Chinese companies tend to operate in environments where
others dare not go, hence it may appear as if they are more
likely to be kidnapped,” said Taylor Fravel, a professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  who studies China’s
foreign policy.  Reluctant to Deploy  Even if China had military teams to rescue hostages in
places such as Sudan, it may be reluctant to deploy them out of
fear a botched rescue operation would reflect poorly on the
leadership in Beijing and on the PLA, Glaser said.  The Chinese in Sudan were attacked by rebels near the town
of Al-Abbasiya over the weekend. Vice Foreign Minister Xie
Hangsheng summoned Sudan’s charge d’affaires in Beijing
yesterday to express concern about the safety of the Chinese
workers, Xinhua said, citing a foreign-ministry statement.  A team dispatched by China arrived in Sudan yesterday,
Xinhua reported earlier today. The team includes members from
the Foreign Ministry and the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission to help the embassy in a rescue
operation and speak with Sudanese officials, Xinhua reported.
The commission is an administrative organization that holds the
state’s shares of companies including  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) , or CNPC, which drills for oil in  Sudan .  Sudan Fighting  Fighting in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states has
intensified since  South Sudan  seceded in July from its northern
neighbor. President Umar al-Bashir’s government is battling
members of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North, which
was part of South Sudan’s ruling party until the south’s
independence and is banned by Sudan.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels of oil a day when it gained
independence. The crude is pumped mainly by CNPC,  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  China imported about 250,000 barrels a day, or more than 65
percent of total Sudanese oil exports, accounting for 5 percent
of the nation’s imports in 2010, according to data from the U.S.
Energy Department.  In Egypt, the 25 freed Chinese workers were in good
condition after being held yesterday by local Bedouin tribesmen,
Xinhua said, citing Ma Jianchun, the commercial affairs
counselor at the embassy in Cairo. The tribesmen had demanded
the release of relatives detained by Egyptian authorities on
suspicion of being involved in attacks, Xinhua said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  