-- China Holds Eight in Cadmium Leak, Names Companies, Xinhua Says
-- B y   J i m   J i a
-- 2012-02-01T23:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/china-detains-eight-over-leak-identifies-companies-xinhua-says.html
Chinese police detained eight
executives from two companies over a leak of cadmium into the
Longjiang river, Xinhua News Agency said, citing He Xinxing, the
mayor of Hechi city.  He identified Jinhe Mining Co. and Jinchengjiang Hongquan
Lithopone Material Co. as the two most-likely sources of the
discharges, the official news service reported yesterday. Police
have detained three managers from Lithopone and five from Jinhe
Mining, and are pursuing four other executives.  No one at Jinhe Mining answered the phone outside of normal
business hours today and the search engines of Baidu Inc. and
Google Inc. returned no contact details or information on
Lithopone beyond the Xinhua article. Calls to the directory
information number for Hechi didn’t go through.  The contamination, first detected on Jan. 15, threatened
the water supply of Liuzhou, a city of 1.5 million, prompting
panic-buying of bottled water. Cadmium levels are declining and
tap water produced at the four treatment plants that serve the
city meets national standards, Xinhua said.  Cadmium, used in batteries and paint pigments, may cause
kidney dysfunction and cancer, according to the U.S. Labor
Department. The metal will have a lasting  environmental impact
on fish and soil when it sinks to the riverbed,  China  National
Radio reported earlier, citing Li Li, a researcher at Chinese
Research Academy of Environmental Sciences.  Lead poisoning from battery makers,  fluoride leaks from
solar-panel plants and acid spills from mines have sparked
outrage in China as three decades of growth transformed the
nation into the world’s second-biggest economy and its largest
polluter.  The government has examined 145 heavy-metal-using companies
along the Longjiang, shutting or suspending operations at 11 of
them, Mayor He said yesterday, according to Xinhua. The local
environmental regulator also ordered the closing of more than 90
dump sites for minerals or tailings by Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Jia in New York at 
 jjia1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  