-- Christie Apologizes After Civil-Rights Remarks Turn Into Weapon for Foes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-01T15:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/christie-apologizes-after-civil-rights-remarks-turn-into-weapon-for-foes.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who once urged reporters to “take the bat out” on a 76-year-
old legislator, called union leaders “political thugs,” and a
lawmaker “numbnuts,” is saying he’s sorry for his latest
remarks.  While such brash comments have helped make Christie a
national political figure, his remarks about the civil-rights
movement in the 1960s angered supporters and have become fodder
for political rivals. That may cost Christie support for his
proposals, backed by some black clergy and politicians, to
overhaul urban education and increase the number of charter
schools, said  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth
University Polling Institute in  West Long Branch , New Jersey.  “It’s possible that he’s gone off the rails a bit too
much,” Murray said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Christie, a 49-year-old Republican, was accused of
ignorance by black leaders after responding last week to
Democratic lawmakers’ statements that gay marriage is a civil
right and therefore shouldn’t be put before voters as a ballot
question. In a radio appearance last night he apologized for the
remark.  “People would have been happy with a referendum on civil
rights rather than fighting and dying in the streets of the
South,” Christie told reporters Jan. 24 in Bridgewater.  ‘History Books’  The comments brought Georgia Representative  John Lewis , a
Democrat and veteran of the U.S. civil-rights movement, to
Trenton. They also drew criticism from Newark Mayor  Cory Booker ,
a black Democrat who has allied with the governor on efforts to
improve urban schooling.  “Apparently, the governor of this state has not read his
recent history books,” Lewis, 71, said in Trenton, the capital
of a state where 13.7 percent of residents are black, almost 1
percentage point more than the U.S. average.  “I fought too long and too hard against discrimination
based on race and color not to stand up and speak out against
discrimination based on sexual orientation,” he said.  “If anybody was offended by what I said, and if they’re
listening out there, I apologize,” Christie said last night
during his monthly “Ask the Governor” radio show. “I wasn’t
clear enough. I absolutely wasn’t.”  The governor has “voiced regret before on some things he’s
said,” his spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said in an e-mail. “I
am not going to definitively characterize any of those remarks
on his behalf.”  ‘Numbnuts’ Comment  Christie said that while he was willing to apologize for
his civil-rights remark, he wouldn’t do the same for his use of
“numbnuts.” He said his mother used to use the name for him.  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, saw his stature in the national party rise weeks
after taking office in January 2010. He froze $2.2 billion in
expenditures to close a midyear deficit and then cut $10 billion
in projected new spending for schools, pensions and towns.  The governor has gained national popularity by “standing
almost entirely on fiscal conservatism,” and avoiding taking
positions on social issues, said  Peter Woolley , director of the
PublicMind poll at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison,
 New Jersey .  Touchy Issue  Democrats in New Jersey made same-sex marriage a priority
for 2012. They vowed to push the measure through the
Legislature, even though Christie has said he is “not a fan”
of the practice.  Christie’s proposal for a referendum on gay marriage was
aimed at avoiding “what is really a very touchy social issue
among national Republicans,” Woolley said.  The governor last year turned down entreaties from party
leaders and donors to enter the Republican presidential primary
race. He was a key surrogate for  Mitt Romney  during primaries in
 Iowa  and  New Hampshire , before he went on national television
and pressed Romney to release his income-tax returns. Christie
didn’t appear in  Florida  during the run-up to that state’s
contest.  Romney “doesn’t want to bring Christie anywhere that this
may be an issue,” Murray at Monmouth said of gay marriage.
“You don’t want him on a national stage when this has been such
a big issue. It certainly puts him on the sidelines for a
while.”  Public Vote  Christie said this week that in the political climate of
the 1960s, no referendum for civil rights would have passed. He
said those pushing for same-sex marriage have cited popular
support for same-sex marriage among voters in the state, a
message he said contradicts their opposition to a referendum.  The governor said critics, including Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a gay Democrat who represents Trenton, are
“numbnuts” for comparing him to segregationists because of his
civil-rights comments.  Christie compared the furor to comments he made last April
during a dispute with Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from
Teaneck. Christie told reporters they should “take a bat” to
Weinberg, 76, for collecting both a public pension and a
paycheck as a legislator while knocking others for similar
practices.  The governor “reverted to name-calling” because he
couldn’t take on the issue on its merits, Gusciora said.  “The governor’s opposition to the civil right of marriage
equality is comparable to others who opposed other civil
rights,” Gusciora said in a statement. “If he doesn’t like the
comparison, then he should change his position on marriage
equality and sign the bill into law.”  Unions Law  Black unemployment in New Jersey is higher than the
statewide average, at 15.8 percent in 2011, 6.8 percentage
points above the state figure of 9 percent, according to the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Gusciora and other advocates for gay marriage say the
current system of civil unions in New Jersey often denies rights
to same-sex couples.  Christie, who cut almost $1 billion from school funding in
his first budget, is looking to restrict teacher tenure, create
a voucher program in failing school systems and expand  charter
schools  in cities. In education, Christie has found some of his
strongest allies in urban politicians such as Booker.  Education Allies  Booker said he favors same-sex marriage, though he said he
hasn’t followed the furor over Christie’s civil-rights comments
and doesn’t expect them to impact his ability to work with the
governor on education. Other allies may not be so forgiving,
said Murray, the pollster.  “His allies on education reform in the African-American
community could become upset by his continued statements,”
Murray said. “The bigger issue is his political future on the
national level and whether this is going to go into someone’s
vault to be used at some point in an attack ad.”  Reginald Jackson, executive director of the Black
Ministers’ Council of New Jersey, has supported Christie in
pushing for school vouchers and increasing urban charter
schools. He said he wants Christie and his critics to distance
themselves from the situation to avoid derailing the education
proposals.  “I don’t know that we’re being alienated, but I do think
this is sufficient enough to make people have some questions for
the governor,” Jackson said by phone yesterday. “People will
need to take a step back and take a longer look at this.”  ‘Civil Right’  Christie said he’d urge Republicans in the Legislature to
vote to put gay marriage on the ballot to create a “broader
process.” Whether it rises to the level of civil rights is
“all in the eyes of the beholder,” he told reporters in
Trenton on Jan. 30.  “Those people who advocate for it consider it to be a
civil right,” Christie said. “I do not believe that marriage
between two people of the same gender is something that should
exist in this state, so my view on it is that we have an honest
difference of opinion on this issue.”  Christie last week said in addition to vetoing any
legislation allowing two people of the same gender to wed, he
would also vote against any referendum. He said he wouldn’t
attempt to overturn the results of a public vote and said a
ballot question would give backers a realistic shot at seeing
same-sex marriage become law.  Democratic leaders in the state have rejected the option of
a referendum on gay marriage. The Senate Judiciary Committee
advanced a same-sex marriage bill on Jan. 24, setting it up for
a floor vote in the full Senate. An Assembly panel is scheduled
to begin debate on the measure on Feb. 2.  “The governor rightfully acknowledged the hurtful and
insensitive nature of his remarks,” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver said in a statement after Christie apologized. “Going
forward, I now trust and expect that, as the legislature moves
toward implementing marriage equality, the governor will respect
the serious nature of the constitutionality of civil rights and
equal protection under the law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  