-- Cigarettes Are Safe as Long as You Just Invest: Riskless Return
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-02-01T17:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/cigarettes-are-safe-as-long-as-you-just-invest-in-them-riskless-return.html
Tobacco companies handed investors
the best returns in the last decade when adjusted for
volatility, and analysts at BNY Mellon Wealth Management and
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC say that will continue as profits
prove resilient amid economic turmoil.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the MSCI World
Tobacco Index had the highest return out of 67 groups in the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  in the 10 years through 2011. The tobacco
gauge, which comprises eight companies including  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , advanced 13.3 percent
after taking into account price swings, almost five times the
gain of the broader measure.  Tobacco stocks brushed off surging volatility during the
dot-com tumble, the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression and  Europe ’s debt crisis, because smokers are
reluctant to scale back when cigarette prices rise or the
economy struggles, so companies can give cash back to investors
at a stable rate. The industry, which fended off multibillion
dollar lawsuits over the past two decades, will weather more
regulation and a review of whether to ban menthol, said Murray Kessler, head of  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , maker of Newport, the top-
selling U.S. menthol cigarette.  “Will there be increased smoking restrictions and new
rules? Yes,” Kessler said in an interview from Greensboro,
North Carolina, where his company is based. “Underneath it all
I expect a very stable cash flow and an ability to reward our
shareholders.”  Beating Retailers  Tobacco’s risk-adjusted return over the past decade was 3.6
percentage points more than the next best performer, Internet
and catalog retailers, and 4.2 percentage points more than the
No. 3 industry, road and rail companies. The MSCI World Index
returned 2.8 percent on that basis.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. While Internet retailers produced the highest
total return over the past decade, their volatility was more
than 50 percent greater than that of tobacco stocks.  “Investors are willing to pay a premium for stability,”
James Hallisey, a New York-based consumer analyst at  BNY Mellon (BK) 
Wealth Management, which oversees about $168 billion, said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 24. “Tobacco stocks with their
strong, stable free-cash flow and high dividend yields are
attractive” in an environment with “geopolitical risks,
commodity inflation and currency fluctuations.”  Steady Gains  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, rose to a 29-month high of 48 last year on Aug. 8 after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s AAA credit rating. Volatility
reached a record in November 2008 after  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed, resulting in the biggest U.S. bankruptcy.  A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses compared with a security whose price moves
at a steady rate.  Cash flow from operations at tobacco companies has gained
at a more stable pace than at peers. Cash flow from operations
growth in the non-tobacco companies in the past 5 years was
almost twice as volatile as in the tobacco industry, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  They were also more profitable and returned more money to
investors. Tobacco companies globally with at least $1 billion
in market value had a median dividend yield of 5.1 percent in
their latest fiscal years, compared with 1.5 percent for non-
tobacco companies. The gross margin was 45 percent for the
tobacco companies, and 34 percent for others.  Threefold Gain  The global tobacco gauge more than tripled in the last
decade on an absolute basis, even as the  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24
raw materials surged 281 percent and the global economy suffered
a contraction in 2009. The MSCI World, which tracks equities in
developed nations, advanced 18 percent during the same time,
excluding dividends, the fourth-smallest return in a 10-year
period since 1970, Bloomberg data show.  Bears say valuations are stretched and prices may become
vulnerable. The tobacco index’s price-earnings ratio is 15.9,
compared with the full measure’s multiple of 13.4. The group
rallied 27 percent last year as investors sought dividend-paying
stocks insulated from Europe’s debt crisis, according to
 Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in St.
Louis.  ‘Not as Cheap’  “It’s hard to sit here and argue that” tobacco stocks are
cheap, Dmitry Khaykin, a New York-based fund manager who helps
oversee $4.5 billion for the Large-Cap Value Strategy Fund at
Clearbridge Advisors, a unit of  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  “They’re still
very attractive given the stability of the business and compared
with the alternatives in the marketplace but they’re certainly
not as cheap as they used to be.”  The four largest U.S.-based tobacco companies --  Philip
Morris , Altria Group Inc.,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and Lorillard
-- have slumped an average 5 percent this year. Valuations of
tobacco companies going forward will depend on factors including
whether  interest rates  will rise, damping the relative appeal of
dividend-paying stocks, Khaykin said in a telephone interview on
Jan. 24.  The MSCI World Tobacco Index returned 1.7 percent last year
when adjusting for risk, the highest of all groups and about
twice as much as the next best group, health-care technology.
The MSCI World declined 0.2 percent last year on a risk-adjusted
basis.  Most Underrated  The companies’ financial strength has been underestimated
by rating firms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Altria Group
Inc. (MO)  and Reynolds American are the two most underrated companies
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, based on the difference
between assessments from credit-rating companies and those given
by Bloomberg. Altria’s one-year  credit rating  is A2, Bloomberg
data show, while its long-term credit rating in the market is
BBB. Lorillard is the 12th most-underrated.  Tobacco “is so reviled and under-owned by investors,”
said Tom Russo, who manages more than $4 billion, including
shares of Philip Morris,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and
Altria, for Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
“The pressure from critics has made the industry more practical
and pragmatic.”  U.S. cigarette makers will increase prices by about 15
cents a pack this year to mute shipment declines of about 3.5
percent, said Growe at Stifel Nicolaus. He recommends buying
shares of Philip Morris and Lorillard and rates Altria and
Reynolds as “hold.”  Raising Prices  He projected industrywide per-share earnings growth of 10
percent, helped by stronger demand for smokeless tobacco and
“aggressive share repurchase activity.” International tobacco
earnings will outperform the U.S. industry this year, spurred by
price increases and a slowdown in the rate of shipment declines,
Growe said.  International sales made up 41 percent of Japan Tobacco’s
sales in 2011 compared with 30 percent in 2006. Revenue from
Asia, the  Middle East  and Africa more than doubled from 2006 to
2010 at British American Tobacco. Europe accounted for 34
percent of its sales in 2010, down from 41 percent in 2006.  Nearly one in five adults in the U.S. smoke, according to
the Washington-based Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. The
percentage is 28 percent in  China  and 35 percent in  India ,
according to the group’s website.  Philip Morris, spun off by Altria in 2008, has spent $20.3
billion to repurchase 399.6 million shares since that time. The
New York-based company, which makes all of its sales outside of
the U.S., has increased its quarterly  dividend  by 67 percent
since the spinoff while more than doubling its free cash flow to
$2.8 billion as of Sept. 30.  ‘Cash-Flow Generator’  “We are a tremendous cash-flow generator,” Philip Morris
Chief Financial Officer Hermann Waldemer told analysts on a
conference call Oct. 20. “Philip Morris is a company that has
been able to deliver in the good and in the bad times.”  Waldemer and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Louis Camilleri declined to be interviewed for this story, said Yuri
Omelyanenko, a company spokesman in Lausanne, Switzerland.  The  MSCI World Tobacco Index (MXWO0TB) ’s dividend rate of 4.1 percent
compared with the full measure’s 2.8 percent payout and 10-Year
U.S. Treasury’s 1.79 percent yield will continue to lure
investors, according to Hallisey.  “They are known to be steady, if not spectacular,
investments,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist with
Janney Montgomery Scott in Pittsburgh, said in a Jan. 25
telephone interview. “In difficult economic times, for people
who smoke, it’s a simple pleasure at a time when you have to
sacrifice other things.”  ‘War Zone’  Luschini’s firm oversees about $54 billion in assets,
including shares of Philip Morris International and British
American Tobacco.  Kessler, a former  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  executive who went to
work for smokeless tobacco maker UST Inc. in 2000, said even
with the prospect of tighter regulation, a lot of the
uncertainty facing the industry 10 to 15 years ago has been
removed.  “I came into kind of a war zone” when joining UST,
Kessler said. “The legal environment is always volatile, but
frankly, it has improved over the past decade a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  