-- Citigroup Says Bank Will Exit Mortgage Brokerage Business
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-02T00:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/citigroup-says-bank-plans-to-exit-mortgage-brokerage-business.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. lender by assets, plans to stop using brokers to originate
mortgages and probably will cut jobs as it exits the business
while banks grapple with the fallout from the housing collapse.  Most of the 300 employees tied to the brokerage business
will be reassigned and job “discontinuances” may be in the
“low double digits,” according to e-mails today from  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for the New York-based bank. Citigroup will
focus on its own retail and correspondent channels, he said.  Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  have stopped offering mortgages through brokers after lax
practices among people signing up borrowers helped create bad
loans and fueled losses. Citigroup originated $67.9 billion of
mortgages in total in 2011, 8.6 percent of which came from
brokers, according to trade publication Inside Mortgage Finance.  “Making this decision now affords us the opportunity to
better serve the financial needs of our customers,” Rodgers
said. “We anticipate the majority of our employees within the
broker channel will be transitioned to similar roles within the
business.”  Citigroup  advanced  2.9 percent to $31.60 in New York today.
The shares have gained 20 percent this year, after slumping 44
percent in 2011.  The bank’s share of the $1.3 trillion U.S. mortgage
origination market fell to 5.7 percent at the end of 2011 from
8.1 percent at the end of 2007, when Vikram Pandit was named
chief executive officer, according to  Paul Miller , an FBR
Capital Markets analyst. Citigroup’s mortgage unit is run by
Sanjiv Das.  Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest originator, almost doubled
its share to 30.1 percent during the same period. JPMorgan, the
second-largest originator, fell by almost one-third to 10.4
percent while Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America 
fell by almost three-quarters to 5.6 percent, Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  