-- Claremont McKenna Not Alone in Admissions Mischief: Jane S. Shaw
-- B y   J a n e   S .   S h a w
-- 2012-02-01T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/claremont-mckenna-not-alone-in-rankings-mischief-commentary-by-jane-shaw.html
The news that  Claremont McKenna
College  submitted false SAT scores for incoming freshmen to U.S.
News & World Report (and other outlets, including the Department
of Education) is causing a ripple of shock throughout higher
education.  On Monday, the college’s president, Pamela B. Gann,
acknowledged that the elite school -- No. 9 on the  U.S. News 
list of best colleges -- had submitted the inflated averages for
six years.  The shock is that the falsehoods were apparently
deliberate. A senior admissions official resigned after taking
responsibility for changing the results.  At first glance, the increases -- 10 to 20 points -- seemed
relatively small. Could a boost of 10 to 20 points on the
average SAT scores make a difference in the ranking of a
college? Sadly, the answer is yes.  Robert Morse , who directs the U.S. News rankings, hasn’t
said how much a difference such changes might make, but he noted
in a column about the news that the magazine will recalculate
the ranking when he gets the accurate scores. SAT scores
represent 7.5 percent of the U.S. News ranking.  Consistently high SAT scores also influence the reputation
of the school, and reputational surveys have a 22.5 percent
weight in the total ranking.  Many factors determine where a school stands, but it seems
likely that a few minor changes could shift a school’s position
-- from, say, No. 12 to No. 9.  Measuring Quality  The difference in educational quality between such rankings
would be nonexistent. There’s plenty of doubt whether the
rankings actually measure quality at all.  But being in the top 10 would give a school an enormous
public relations boost. And colleges are driven by public
relations, although college presidents don’t call it that.
Rather, the currency of higher education is “reputation.” Unlike
private industry, where profit matters, prestige is everything
for college administrators, faculty and fundraisers. It brings
in the best students, more money and bragging rights for years
to come.  By falsifying the figures, Claremont McKenna may have gone
further than other schools, but it is far from alone in its
desire to make itself look good through higher rankings.  Gaming the U.S. News system is common. Manipulation made
news in 2009, when, at an academic meeting, a Clemson University
staff member openly described ways the school had tried to boost
its ranking. Those techniques had apparently been successful,
noted Inside Higher Education, because the university had risen
from 38th to 22nd in its U.S. News category over seven years.  Some of the methods included:  -- Increasing the number of small classes. Having many
classes with fewer than 20 students boosts one’s ranking, even
if it means making some large classes even larger.  -- Boosting the number of alumni donors. Because the
indicator is the percentage of alumni who give, asking for $5
donations can boost the figures, even though those donations
cost more to get than they add to the bottom line.  -- Low-balling the reputation of other schools. Some
presidents indiscriminately claim on the reputation survey that
their school’s reputation is higher than that of its peers.  Flawed Rankings  Another technique to boost rankings is making the SAT
optional for admission. Although colleges (such as Wake Forest
and Smith) give a variety of reasons for the change in policy,
one effect is to increase the average of the reported SAT
scores. According to one study, students who don’t submit their
SAT scores test between 100 and 150 points lower than those who
do report their results. Keeping those scores out of a college’s
average makes it look better.  What have we learned? For the public at large, including
potential students and their parents, the lesson is to be
skeptical about rankings.  The fact that this duplicity went on for six years at
Claremont McKenna makes one wonder if officials at other schools
may be doing the same thing.  But far more important than giving too much credence to
rankings, the public should be more skeptical about our system
of higher education. Those highly respected institutions, our
colleges and universities, are composed of very human people.
When the prestige of their institutions is on the line, those
people can act in ways that are embarrassing and morally wrong.  (Jane S. Shaw is president of the John W. Pope Center for
Higher Education Policy in Raleigh,  North Carolina .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the writer of this article:
Jane S. Shaw at  shaw@popecenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 