-- China National Invests $300 Million in Isofoton PV Venture
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-02T11:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/cnooc-to-invest-300-million-in-isofoton-venture-for-china-solar.html
China  National Offshore Oil Corp.’s
battery unit invested $300 million in a venture with Spanish
solar power company Isofoton SA to develop photovoltaic plants
across  Asia .  China National, the country’s biggest offshore energy
explorer, will take a 51 percent stake in the Tianjin, China-
based company through its Tianjin Lishen Battery Co. The entity
will set up a 150-megawatt manufacturing plant and build  power
plants , said Isofoton Chief Executive Officer Angel Luis Serrano. Isofoton will own 49 percent and supply the technology.  Isofoton, which furnished solar panels for the Spanish
prime minister’s official residence in 2007, is developing
plants and shifting its manufacturing to China after subsidy
cuts in 2009 gutted sales of its panel unit in Spain. Solar
equipment makers are pinning their hopes on orders from China as
 Germany , the biggest market, reins in support for the industry.  “We need to be in China not as a way to cut costs as the
market is understood now but because there will be a real
market,” Serrano said at the company’s Madrid office Jan. 31.
“It’s the right moment to be there.”  Photovoltaic equipment makers have seen margins collapse
over the past year as falling costs cut panel prices in half,
prompting 15 of the 17 members of  Bloomberg Large Solar Index (BISOLAR)  to
post quarterly losses in their most recent earnings statements.
The index lost as much as 76 percent last year from its annual
peak in April.  Sales Slump  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the oil company’s Hong Kong-listed subsidiary,
rose 4.1 percent to HK$16.64 today after saying it plans to
boost capital spending by as much as 63 percent this year to
start new deepwater fields and acquire more assets.  Isofoton’s sales in 2011 were little changed from the 123
million euros the company reported in 2010, Serrano said. Profit
probably will be less than 5 million euros, compared with 10
million euros in the previous year.  The deal provides “financing for our pipeline of 1,000
megawatts in projects,” Serrano said. “The technology will be
supplied from either our plant in Malaga or the one we are
planning in the U.S.”  Isofoton was founded in 1981 as a spinoff from a Madrid
university and has developed projects in more than 60 countries.
It’s working on a 100-megawatt panel plant in  Ohio , for which
it’s hiring about 130 employees.  “We want to increase manufacturing capacity and that will
happen in the United States, China and  Latin America  rather than
in our plant in  Spain ,” Serrano said. “We believe that 100
megawatts allows us to enter the U.S but it’s still small for
the market available there.”  Potential for IPO  China may install 15 gigawatts of panels in the next three
years, Serrano said, adding that Isofoton may build its own
panel factory in the world’s second-biggest economy next year.  Isofoton’s sales slumped 83 percent and losses almost
tripled to 226 million euros in 2009. It was taken over by
Spanish company Affirma Energy Engineering & Technology SL and
South Korea-based Toptec Co. Ltd. in 2010. Last year,  Samsung
Group  said it will invest 50 million euros in Isofoton to
manufacture solar cells in its plant in Malaga, southern Spain.  As part of its growth plans, Isofoton may either seek
another investor or consider an initial public offering to raise
funds before 2015, Serrano said.  Suntech Power Holdings (STP)   Co. CEO Zhengrong Shi last week
estimated China may add 4 gigawatts or more of panels in 2012,
and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  CEO Jifan Gao expects 5 gigawatts. That
compares with about 2.2 gigawatts installed there in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  