-- Coal India Said to Suspend 250 Million-Ton Imported Fuel Order
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2012-02-01T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/coal-india-said-to-suspend-250-million-ton-imported-fuel-order.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest
producer of the commodity, has put on hold a plan to import as
much as 250 million metric tons of the fuel over a decade, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company scrapped a proposal to buy 4 million tons of
coal this year and suspended a separate plan to import about 20
million tons annually over a decade as it could not agree with
customers on delivering the fuel to plants, the people said
yesterday, asking not to be identified because they’re not
allowed to speak to the media. Coal India spokesman Devendra
Prasad didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Customers, including utilities, want coal to be delivered
at their plants, while the mining company offered to unload
shipments at ports, the people said. Coal  India  typically sells
its domestic output to customers at the mines and doesn’t engage
in inland transportation, they said.  “Inland movement of coal has been a big issue that needs
to be sorted out or it will hurt power production and in turn,
economic growth,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Kochi,
India-based Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services. “Many power
producers have kept their capacity addition plans on hold
because of coal shortages and Coal India’s decision is another
sign that the problem is becoming bigger.”  India’s coal production has trailed demand from utilities,
and cement makers because of delays in land acquisition and
environmental approvals. Output in the year ending March 31 is
expected to reach 559 million tons, falling short of demand by
137 million tons, Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said in
September. Supplies from countries such as Australia,  Indonesia 
and  South Africa  may be needed to meet the gap.  Single-Largest Order  Coal India sought to buy 20 million tons of the fuel in a
tender last year, the country’s single-largest overseas order,
as part of a plan to import 250 million tons of coal over a
decade, a company official said in April, declining to be
identified because the matter was confidential.  The state-owned miner has been seeking construction of at
least four railway links for as many as six years, to ease
congestion and enable a 66 percent increase in output. Many
Indian mines are operating at one-third of capacity as the rail
system can’t move more cargo, according to Alok Perti, secretary
at the coal ministry.  India has added an average 180 kilometers (112 miles) of
railroads every year since gaining independence in 1947,
according to the rail ministry. The nation may build a dedicated
3,300-kilometer freight rail network that will connect eastern
and western regions by 2017.  Power-station coal  prices  at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, rose 3.6 percent in the week ended Jan. 27 to
$118.80 a ton from $114.65 the previous week, according to IHS
McCloskey data on Bloomberg.  Separately, NTPC Ltd., India’s biggest power producer, may
award Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s largest coal importer,
contracts to import as much as 4 million tons of coal, three
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The total
order from NTPC is worth $475 million, according to calculations
based on current Newcastle prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in  New Delhi  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  