-- Cohen Said to Plan Donating Gains From SAC Spinout as Investors Flag Risk
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-02-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/cohen-said-to-plan-donating-gains-from-sac-spinout-as-investors-flag-risk.html
Steven A. Cohen  plans to donate to
charity any profits he makes from the former private-equity arm
of the SAC Capital Advisors LP hedge fund, according to three
investors.  Some limited partners and prospective investors in Siris
Capital Group LLC have expressed concern that the New York-based
spinout’s ties with Cohen left it vulnerable to “headline
risk,” or negative news, the people said. Two former employees
of SAC Capital have pleaded guilty to  insider trading  in the
U.S. government’s five-year probe of  hedge funds , and last month
a technology analyst at one of the $14 billion firm’s units was
accused of the crime.  Prior to the close of the first fundraising stage in
September, Cohen decided against investing in the Siris fund,
whose general partners are seeking $400 million, the people
said. Cohen also decided to hand over his cut of future profits
to charity, according to the investors. Siris had agreed at the
time of the spinout to give Cohen 20 percent of its slice of
profits, or carried interest, from the first fund, the investors
said.  Frank Baker, co-founder of Siris, declined to comment, as
did Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital at Sard
Verbinnen & Co. No allegations of wrongdoing have been levied
against Cohen or SAC.  Siris Fundraising  Siris, the private-capital group that spun off from SAC
Capital early last year, has raised $175 million for its first
buyout fund, said two of the investors, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The fund, Siris
Partners II LP, will invest in technology, telecommunications
and health-care companies.  Public pension plans have been sensitive to any bad press
around investments they make.  “The nightmare scenario for any public pension manager is
getting a call from a board member one morning because a
negative story involving a fund in their portfolio is on page
one,” said Jake Elmhirst, a managing director at  UBS Investment
Bank  in  New York .  Cohen’s decision not to invest in the fund has alleviated
concerns about potential headline risk, one of the people said.
Another possible limited partner said his investment firm
wouldn’t be troubled if Cohen’s had participated in the fund
because that would represent a “validation” of the Siris team.  At SAC, Cohen acted as the sole backer of deals by the
private-capital group and helped Siris get started.  Siris gathered $125 million in the first phase of
fundraising, according to one investor. Teachers’ Retirement
System of  Illinois  committed $45 million in August.  Tekelec, Applied Discovery  In January, Siris led a group that bought Internet services
company  Tekelec (TKLC)  in a deal valued at about $780 million. The firm
purchased LexisNexis’s Applied Discovery unit, a provider of
electronic legal services, in December.  Siris was founded by Baker, Peter Berger and Jeffrey Hendren, who have worked together for more than a decade. They
were colleagues at private-equity firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC
before joining SAC Capital in 2007.  SAC’s private-capital group invested in  Cosmos Bank Taiwan (2837) ,
network infrastructure company Airvana and MedQuist Holdings.
The deals have produced an average of about two times invested
capital, according to another person familiar with Siris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  