-- Colombia Peso Gains to Four-Month High on Steeper Interest Rate
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-02-01T19:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/colombia-peso-gains-near-four-month-high-on-higher-interest-rate.html
Colombia ’s peso rose to a four-month
high as steeper interest rates and gains in global stocks
boosted appetite for the South American nation’s higher-yielding
assets.  The peso climbed 0.6 percent to 1,799.63 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1,810.40 yesterday. Earlier it touched 1,793.15, its
strongest level since Sept. 9. The currency has gained 7.7
percent this year, the second-best performance after the Mexican
peso among the six most-traded currencies in  Latin America .  “Rate differentials are widening and that will continue as
the central bank raises” borrowing costs further, said Omar Escorcia, an analyst at Asesores en Valores SA brokerage in
Bogota. “We’re seeing more optimism abroad” pushing gains in
Latin American currencies today, Escorcia said.  Colombia’s central bank on Jan. 30 raised the overnight
lending rate 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 5
percent, surprising all except one of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. By comparison, counterparts from  Brazil  to  Indonesia 
have trimmed interest rates to fend off the effects of  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Banco de la Republica will raise the key rate to 6
percent by year-end, Escorcia predicts.  Stocks in the U.S. and Europe rose amid signals that
manufacturing growth is gathering pace from America to  China .  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said yesterday
the central bank’s rate increase will strengthen the peso
further to the detriment of the nation’s farmers and asked that
Banco de la Republica buy dollars in the  spot market  to ease
gains in the local currency. Colombia’s flower and banana
associations asked that policy makers take ‘decisive’ measures
to halt the peso’s rally, according to a joint e-mailed
statement today.  Yields Fall  In a bid to ease gains in the currency, the central bank
said Oct. 28 it will sell $200 million in dollar options
whenever the peso’s 20-day moving average changes by more than 4
percent. No options have been auctioned since the announcement.  The yield on the nation’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.33
percent, according to the central bank. The price rose 0.198
centavo to 121.2630 centavos per peso.  Colombia’s central government budget deficit was 2.9
percent of gross domestic product last year, less than the
government’s December forecast of 3.2 percent, Correval SA
brokerage said, citing a meeting today between Finance Ministry
officials and investors. Officials from the ministry didn’t
immediately answer calls when contacted by Bloomberg.  The government “temporarily” suspended auctions of short-
term notes, known as TCOs, Correval said, citing the
unidentified officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  