-- Companies May Oust Suppliers Over Environment Goals, Group Says
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/companies-may-oust-suppliers-over-environment-goals-group-says.html
Companies looking to save money by
going green may be willing to fire suppliers who don’t act
quickly to help, a nonprofit group called the  Carbon Disclosure
Project  reported after surveying  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and others.  The number of multinationals planning to dump vendors
within five years for missing environmental targets more than
doubled to 39 percent in 2011, according to a report today. The
study, released in  London  by Accenture Plc and the nonprofit,
involved 50 respondents, also including Kraft Foods Inc. and
 Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. The report didn’t name any of the companies
planning to dismiss suppliers.  Companies such as Wal-Mart require vendors to reduce
everything from water usage to carbon emissions as a means of
cutting operational expenses and the cost of goods. Investors
are paying attention, ranking companies on how well they enforce
reductions and lock in savings. There isn’t much effect on
multinationals’ suppliers yet, according to the report’s
backers.  “We are yet to see a transformational impact on suppliers’
emissions,” Frances Way, program director for the Carbon
Disclosure Project, said today in a statement.  Two-thirds of the companies surveyed train procurement
staffs on supply-chain carbon management, up from a quarter of
respondents in 2009, according to the report.  Last year, companies whose climate-change strategies
incorporated procurement guidelines rose to 90 percent, from 79
percent in 2010, according to the report.  Three times as many companies in 2011 -- 62 percent -- gave
incentives such as preferential treatment to suppliers on the
basis of carbon management, the survey found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  