-- Congress Faces Road Funding Gap ‘Reckoning’ Before Election
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-02-01T16:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/congress-faces-road-funding-day-of-reckoning-before-election.html
The  Highway Trust Fund , which
finances U.S. road, bridge and mass-transit projects, may become
insolvent just before the November presidential election unless
lawmakers lock in additional funding sources.  The fund, which reimburses states for transportation
projects, would be unable to meet its financial obligations as
soon as October, according to an analysis of Congressional
Budget Office data by the  American Association of State Highway
and Transportation Officials . The federal government could have
to ration payments to the states to keep the fund solvent,
according to the CBO.  That would gradually halt highway projects, leaving
hundreds of thousands of construction workers unemployed, said
Brian Deery, director of transportation at Associated General
Contractors of America, an Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group. Congress needs to pass long-term legislation that raises
the U.S. fuel tax, transfers money from the government’s general
fund or finds a new revenue source to keep transportation
projects going, he said.  “This is the day of reckoning,” Deery said. “They have
to come up with more money or make cuts. There are no two ways
about it.”  The fund’s revenue, from U.S. fuel taxes, has declined as
cars have become more fuel-efficient and Americans are driving
less because of higher gasoline prices, according to the U.S.
Department of Transportation.  States pay for transportation projects upfront and then
apply for reimbursement.  Closing the Spigot  “This would have a real impact on the states if the
federal government turns off the spigot to reimburse them for
money they have already spent,” Deery said.  California  has more than 600 construction projects under
way, Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for the California Department
of Transportation, said by e-mail. They include the Presidio
Parkway, connecting  San Francisco  to the Golden Gate Bridge, and
the world’s largest carpool lane on Interstate 405 in  Los
Angeles , she said.  “Disruptions in future funding could negatively affect
ongoing projects and have adverse economic consequences,”
McGowen said.  Surface-transportation  legislation  authorizing money for
the Highway Trust Fund was last passed in 2005 and ran through
2009. Highway funding has continued through a series of
extensions, the most-recent of which expires March 31.  Spending Drop  The Highway Trust Fund has approached insolvency three
times since 2008. Congress has moved $34.5 billion to it from
the general fund to keep it solvent and to pass extensions of
the surface-transportation bill.  President  Barack Obama  and Congressional Republicans have
ruled out increasing the 18.4-cent-a-gallon vehicle-fuel tax,
last raised in 1993. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Obama’s
deficit-reduction commission have recommended increasing the tax
by as much as 15 cents a gallon.  House Republicans  have also said they wouldn’t transfer
money from the general fund again. Without funding, by law,
Congress wouldn’t be able to extend the legislation without
reducing authorized spending, said Jack Basso, AASHTO’s chief
financial officer.  Energy Funding  At current  revenue  levels, that would result in a 72
percent reduction in authorized spending to about $11 billion a
year from $39 billion, Basso said.  “This is just straight math -- there is no guessing about
it,” Basso said. “A couple of weeks wouldn’t cause any big
economic disruptions, but if it goes on for a couple of months
it becomes a huge cash flow problem for the states.”  The  trust fund  collected $36.9 billion in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has
proposed filling the funding gap with new revenue from oil
drilling and other domestic energy production. His plan would
allow new offshore leases and drilling in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge, off the coast of  Florida  and in the  Rocky
Mountains .  Three bills on expanding drilling up for a vote today at
the House Natural Resources Committee would raise “maybe $5
billion over 10 years,” Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey
Democrat, said. House Republicans didn’t provide an estimate of
how much money the new drilling would bring in.  Widening Deficit  The Highway Trust Fund will probably run a deficit of $10
billion this year, compared with $8 billion in 2011, according
to the Washington-based CBO, which provides Congress with
analysis on programs funded by the U.S. budget.  “Republicans have been pretty firm in saying there will be
no more bailouts for spending money we don’t have,” said Paul Yarossi, president of HNTB Holdings Ltd., an engineering firm.
“But with this kind of job loss at stake, no congressman wants
to return to their district with these kinds of cuts associated
with their name.”  Yarossi is also chairman of the American Road &
Transportation Builders Association, a Washington-based industry
group.  Senate and House committees have proposed surface-
transportation bills authorizing the Highway Trust Fund to spend
more than its income.  ‘Real Money’  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, led by
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer , approved legislation calling
for $109 billion in highway, bridge and mass-transit spending
over two years. The House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, led by Florida Republican  John Mica , introduced a
bill yesterday authorizing about $260 billion over five years.  Obama last week proposed funding infrastructure projects
with money that had been previously allotted to the wars in
Afghanistan and  Iraq .  Obama will include “real money” to supplement the decline
in Highway Trust Fund revenue in his budget, Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said at the Aero Club of Washington
yesterday without specifying further. Obama is scheduled to send
his budget proposal to Congress on Feb. 13.  “Politicians are beginning to see the implications of the
problem,” AASHTO’s Basso said. “We have had trouble passing
transportation legislation in the past, but facing insolvency at
the same time is a whole new world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in  Washington  at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  