-- Most Asian Stocks Advance on China Manufacturing; Won Weakens, Oil Climbs
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-02-01T08:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/copper-rises-aussie-erases-drop-as-china-manufacturing-gains-euro-falls.html
European  stocks  rose for a second day
and the euro pared declines as  Greece  approached a debt-swap
agreement with its private creditors. U.S. equity futures erased
losses, while oil and copper advanced.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.5 percent as of 8:11
a.m. in  London . The euro fell 0.2 percent against the dollar.
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index futures were little changed after
losing as much as 0.3 percent. Oil added 0.3 percent and wheat
jumped to a four-month high. South Korea’s won dropped 0.3
percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index sank 0.9 percent as
economic data showed weakening growth across Asia.  The Greek government is “one step” from a debt-swap deal
with private bondholders, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
told reporters in Athens yesterday. Creditors negotiating with
Greece may get a sweetener tied to a revival in economic growth
that would ease the impact of accepting a lower  interest rate  on
the new bonds, people with knowledge of the talks said.  “There are some concerns that talks may continue to drag
on,” Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte. in
Singapore, said about the Greek debt negotiations. “The longer
it drags on, the more likely the crisis will continue to
worsen.”  Ten-year Treasury yields climbed one basis point to 1.81
percent. Data later today may show the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index rose to 54.5 last month, the most
since June, from 53.1 in December, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Amazon Shares  Amazon.com Inc. shares may be active. The world’s largest
Internet retailer fell as much as 11 percent in extended trading
yesterday after sales missed estimates, signaling that its
investments in media services, Kindle devices and shipping
promotions have been slow to pay off.  The euro fell as much as 0.5 percent to 99.29 yen, the
weakest since Jan. 23.  Portugal  will sell 105-day and 168-day
bills today. Standard & Poor’s increased the number of
Portuguese banks on “creditwatch negative” yesterday and the
nation’s 10-year bond yield reached a euro-era record 17.39
percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1.1 percent, falling to
the lowest in two weeks.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose
to 50.5 from 50.3 in December, the statistics bureau and
logistics federation said in a statement today. The report,
which exceeded economists’ estimates, cuts the need for
“aggressive” policy easing, Fan Cheuk Wan, head of Asia-
Pacific research at Credit Suisse Private Banking, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong .  Fujitsu Earnings  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  sank 2 percent.  Japan ’s largest computer
services provider cut its profit forecast 42 percent as floods
in  Thailand  disrupted output of computer components. Sumitomo
Heavy Industries Ltd. tumbled 9.8 percent. The maker of heavy
machinery cut its net-income forecast by 28 percent, citing a
strong yen and an economic slowdown in China.  Westpac Banking Corp. and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) 
dropped at least 0.8 percent. An index measuring the weighted
average of prices for established houses in eight major cities
slid 4.8 percent from a year earlier, according to the
Australian Bureau of Statistics, the biggest calendar-year drop
since the data began in March 2002.  South Korea’s won retreated 0.3 percent to 1,126.35 per
dollar. Exports shrank 6.6 percent from a year earlier in
January after a revised 10.8 percent rise in December as the
Lunar New Year holiday disrupted shipments, the Ministry of
Knowledge Economy said in a statement today.  Wheat for March delivery advanced as much as 1.4 percent to
$6.75 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest price
for a most-active contract since Sept. 21. Temperatures in parts
of Russia and Ukraine may drop as low as minus 15 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 26 degrees Celsius) this week, threatening to
damage winter wheat not protected by snow, forecaster Telvent
DTN said in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  