-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Charged With Falsifying Prices to Boost Bonuses
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/credit-suisse-worker-surrenders-to-fbi-as-prosecutors-said-to-plan-charges.html
Kareem Serageldin,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s former global head of structured credit trading, was
charged in a scheme to falsify prices tied to collateralized
debt obligations to meet targets and boost year-end bonuses for
his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, 38, who lives in the U.K. and led the
securities department of Credit Suisse’s investment banking
division, was named in an indictment unsealed yesterday in New
York. Two of his former subordinates, David Higgs, 42, and
Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York yesterday and said they’re cooperating with the U.S. in the
probe.  Higgs and Siddiqui said during their guilty pleas that
Serageldin told them to overstate the value of mortgage-backed
assets in a Credit Suisse trading book known as ABN1 after the
collapse of the U.S. housing market. Both said they did so to
enhance their job performance and bonuses.  “While the residential housing market was in a freefall,
these defendants decided they were above the rules of the market
and above the law,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara told
reporters yesterday.  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank said in 2008 it would
take writedowns on asset-backed securities after finding
“mismarkings” by a group of traders. The Zurich-based bank
said it would write down $2.65 billion after a review found
pricing errors on residential mortgage-backed bonds and CDOs
made “by a small number” of traders who were subsequently
fired or suspended.  ‘Victims’  John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia Law School professor, said
the charges differ from the civil lawsuits in which banks are
accused of lying about the risks of mortgage-backed securities
sold to investors.  “Credit Suisse could say they were the victims of this
crime,” Coffee said. “That’s fairly unusual.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday sued
Serageldin, Higgs, Siddiqui and Faisal Siddiqui. The SEC
identified Faisal Siddiqui, 36, of  New York , as a vice president
at Credit Suisse’s CDO trading group in New York. The SEC said
that Salmaan Siddiqui and Faisal Siddiqui aren’t related.  “The defendants’ overvaluation of mortgage-backed
securities benefitted them in the short run, and contributed to
Credit Suisse incurring a two billion-dollar-plus write down
when discovered,” Janice Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York
office, said yesterday at a press conference.  “While the housing market was collapsing, the defendants
profited, not by correctly predicting the trend, but by cooking
the books,” she said.  Rescinded Pay  Serageldin earned $7.27 million in salary and other
compensation in 2007, the U.S. said. Once Credit Suisse learned
of the scheme, they rescinded more than $5.2 million of the
incentive pay he received, prosecutors said.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen living in the U.K., isn’t in
U.S. custody, Bharara said.  “We do not consider him a fugitive,” Bharara said. “We
encourage him and his lawyer to come to the  United States  and
answer the charges against him.”  If Serageldin doesn’t come to New York, Bharara said his
office will seek to extradite him.  “As we do in every case, when we charge people who are not
in the United States, we work with the relevant authorities in
that country to make sure we bring them here to face trial,”
Bharara said.  P&L Objectives  Higgs and Salmaan Siddiqui said they participated in the
manipulation scheme at Serageldin’s direction to meet targets
and increase their compensation. The bank said yesterday that
the three were fired in 2008.  “I, with the agreement and assistance of Kareem Serageldin
and others, manipulated and inflated the cash bond position
markings of a trading book referred to as ABN1, in order to hide
losses in this book and to achieve specific daily and month-end
profit and loss objectives,” Higgs told U.S. District Judge
Alison Nathan.  “As a result of my actions, senior management of Credit
Suisse was given the false impression that the ABN1 book was
profitable and caused Credit Suisse to report false year-end
numbers for 2007 in their books and records,” he said.  Higgs, who said in court that he worked as a managing
director in the investment banking division at Credit Suisse in
 London , told the judge he participated in the scheme, “because
I wanted to remain in good favor with my boss, Kareem
Serageldin, and enhance my job performance.”  Year-End Bonus  Asked by the judge if he received any monetary benefits, he
said, “Yes, a year-end bonus, your honor.”  Higgs and Siddiqui, who worked for Higgs and was based in
 Manhattan , signed cooperation agreements with U.S. authorities
in the probe. Lawyers for both said in court that they are also
cooperating with the SEC.  Siddiqui, a Dartmouth College graduate who now lives in
McLean,  Virginia , said that at the end of 2007 he was directed
by Higgs and a person he said was “my boss’s boss at Credit
Suisse” to mark down the ABN1 trading book.  “I knew that what I was directed to do, and did, was
wrong,” Siddiqui said. “Specifically on or about Dec. 31,
2007, I had a telephone conversation with my supervisor during
which he communicated this directive.”  After court,  Ira Sorkin , Siddiqui’s lawyer, identified his
client’s immediate supervisor who led the scheme as Higgs and
said Serageldin was Higgs’s boss who had known about the
manipulated assets.  ‘Cooperating’  “He played a minor role in the conspiracy,” Sorkin said.
“He has been cooperating both with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the U.S. Attorney.”  The evidence against the three men includes internal
e-mails and telephone conversations recorded in keeping with
Credit Suisse policy, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Virginia
Chavez Romano in court. In addition to Higgs, a court document
refers to four Credit Suisse employees without naming them.  In a phone call on Sept. 17, 2007, a data-entry employee in
the ABN1 book who reported to both Higgs and Serageldin, asked
Higgs: “What sort of P&L do you need today?” according to the
charges.  “Higgs responded that all books should end the day ‘up’ by
$35 million,” according to the U.S. Later, one of the traders
“artificially increased the prices of several ABN1 positions”
to meet Higgs’s profit target, prosecutors said.  Beginning in late 2007, risk management officials at Credit
Suisse began questioning the valuation of the AAA-rated bonds in
the ABN1 book, according to the government.  ‘Increasingly Illiquid’  “We should mark these down because someone is going to
spot this,” Higgs was told on Jan. 4, 2008, by the Credit
Suisse employee he identified as Serageldin.  “As the mortgage delinquencies increased, the value of the
securities backed by the mortgages decreased and the market
became increasingly illiquid,” Higgs said yesterday in court.  On March 20, 2008, Credit Suisse announced it was writing
down the value of its asset-backed securities by $2.65 billion.
About $540 million of that amount was attributed to the ABN1
trading book, according to the government.  “As a result of my actions, senior management of Credit
Suisse was given the false impression that the ABN1 book was
profitable and caused Credit Suisse to report false year-end
numbers for 2007 in their books and records in their books and
records,” Higgs said.  Possible Sentences  Both Higgs and Siddiqui pleaded guilty to one count each of
conspiracy to falsify books and records and commit  wire fraud ,
which carries a maximum five-year prison term and three years of
supervised release.  Higgs and Siddiqui were released on $500,000 bond each and
ordered to surrender their passports. Both agreed to pay
unspecified restitution, the U.S. said.  Higgs, Siddiqui and Serageldin haven’t worked for Credit
Suisse since their employment was terminated in 2008, said
Steven Vames, a spokesman for the bank in New York.  Serageldin couldn’t be immediately reached for comment on
the allegations.  A person familiar with the case said that fewer than five
people will be charged as part of the CDO scheme. The person
declined to be identified because the investigation wasn’t
public at the time. Credit Suisse won’t be prosecuted, the
person said.  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors.  Obama Mandate  In his State of the Union address to Congress last month,
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he would establish a financial
crimes unit “to crack down on large-scale fraud and protect
people’s investments.”  Robert Khuzami , the head of enforcement at the SEC, said
the case wasn’t tied to that unit.  The prosecution is one of only a handful brought over
charges tied to the subprime-mortgage market. The government
failed in its biggest prosecution tied to the 2008 financial
collapse when ex-Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin  were acquitted in 2009 in federal
court in  Brooklyn , New York, of charges they misled investors
who lost $1.6 billion after their fund collapsed in 2007.  2010 Convictions  Julian Tzolov , and  Eric Butler , two former Credit Suisse
brokers, were convicted in 2010 of a scheme to fraudulently sell
subprime securities to corporate clients that cost investors
$1.1 billion in losses.  The U.S. said Tzolov and Butler falsely told clients the
products were backed by federally guaranteed student loans and
were a safe alternative to bank deposits or money market funds.
Butler was sentenced to five years in prison while Tzolov, who
pleaded guilty and testified against Butler at trial, was
sentenced to four years in prison.  U.S. prosecutors in  Washington  in 2010 decided not to bring
charges against former  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
executive  Joseph Cassano  after a probe into whether executives
in the firm’s financial products division misrepresented the
value of a portfolio of “super senior” credit-default swaps,
which insured bond losses tied to the U.S. housing market.  Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  