-- Power-Grid Cyber Attack Seen Leaving Millions in Dark for Months
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/cyber-attack-on-u-s-power-grid-seen-leaving-millions-in-dark-for-months.html
A blackout that swept parts of  North
America  in August 2003, leaving 50 million people in the dark
for as long as four days, provides a glimpse of the havoc a
cyber attack could inflict on the nation’s power grid.  Internet-based terrorists would be capable of causing
blackouts “on the order of nine to 18 months” by disabling
critical systems such as transformers, said Joe Weiss, managing
director of Applied Control Solutions LLC, a Cupertino,
California-based security consulting company.  “The dollars are incalculable,” Weiss said in a phone
interview. The 2003 event, triggered when a power line touched
tree branches in  Ohio , caused losses of as much as $10 billion,
according to a study by the U.S. and Canadian governments.  Energy companies including utilities would have to increase
their investment in computer security more than seven-fold to
reach an ideal level of protection, according to a survey done
for Bloomberg Government by the Ponemon Institute LLC, a data-
security research firm based in Traverse City,  Michigan .  Electric utilities fail to recognize the risk because,
unlike banks and telecommunications companies, they aren’t prime
targets for Internet theft or espionage, said  James Lewis ,
technology program director at the Center for Strategic &
International Studies in Washington. Yet “if there was a cyber
attack, the electrical grid would be target number one” for
terrorists, he said.  “There’s some percentage of utilities out there that just
don’t take this seriously,” Lewis said.  Security Spending  The Bloomberg survey of network managers at 21 energy
companies including 14 utilities found the companies spend an
average of $45.8 million a year on computer security and are
able to prevent 69 percent of known cyber strikes against their
systems.  Over the next 12 to 18 months, the companies estimated they
could increase annual spending to an average $69.3 million and
be able to avert 88 percent of attacks. It would take an average
annual budget of $344.6 million per company to stop 95 percent
of the threats, the survey found.  That sum exceeds the $277 million in profit that Atlanta-
based  Southern Co. (SO) , the largest U.S. utility by market
capitalization, reported for the fourth quarter of 2011.  Bloomberg also surveyed other fields -- including
telecommunications, financial services and health care -- and
found that technology managers in 124 companies and 48
government agencies said they could double their spending on
cybersecurity, and still their networks would remain vulnerable.
All of the companies surveyed employ at least 10,000 workers.  Companies Surveyed  The energy companies surveyed anonymously included eight
private utilities, six public utilities, four oil and gas
exploration and production companies, and three pipeline and
retail businesses.  The four largest U.S. utilities by market capitalization
declined to release information on their cybersecurity spending
when contacted by Bloomberg News. They are Southern; Dominion
Resources Inc. of Richmond, Virginia; Duke Energy Corp. of
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina ; and Exelon Corp. of  Chicago .  Congress is considering legislation that may include
increased government sharing of information, as well as tax and
insurance benefits for companies that implement certain
cybersecurity controls.  Setting Priorities  “Regardless of how much money we spend, it is simply not
possible to eliminate all risk,” James Fama, vice president for
energy delivery at the  Edison Electric Institute , said in an e-
mail. “Utilities have to make choices and set priorities
concerning investments.”  The Washington-based industry group, whose members include
Duke Energy Corp. and Consolidated Edison Inc., wants more
senior executives at utilities to have top-secret security
clearance so they can get better intelligence on cyber threats.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced an initiative Jan. 5
aimed at helping utilities and grid operators identify
weaknesses in their cyberdefenses and devise research and
investments to eliminate them. The Energy Department plans
workshops with utilities this year to come up with a set of best
practices for the industry.  Information Sharing  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  of Columbus, Ohio, received $75
million from the 2009 stimulus law and is working with 15
unnamed utilities to share cyber-threat information learned
using software developed by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   While no major cyber attacks on the U.S. electric grid have
been reported, Russia and  China  have “probed the electrical
grid to find vulnerabilities to exploit if they needed to attack
it,” Lewis said, citing the National Security Agency. “The
risk is that the attack capabilities are spreading, and
countries like  Iran  and  North Korea , along with jihadis and
anarchists, will eventually be able to attack.”  Power companies have become more exposed to hackers and
cyber terrorists as they replace older equipment with digital
devices and the electrical grid becomes more interconnected
through the Internet.  “In almost every case, a control system is connected to
the Internet and it’s vulnerable to being hacked,” said Lewis.  Utilities are investing in technologies designed to give
their customers greater control over their energy use, such as
the ability to use a cell phone to set the air conditioning
level at home. As computer links create the so-called “smart
grid,” power companies will need to spend about $3.7 billion
between now and  2030 on protection from cyber threats,
according to a 2011 study by the  Electric Power Research
Institute  of  Palo Alto ,  California .  Industrial Controls  Power-grid security is “both a hardware and a software
issue,” because hackers can use viruses to make industrial
control programs go haywire and damage critical equipment such
as transformers, Roger Cressey, senior vice president at Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp., a McLean, Virginia-based
consulting firm, said in an interview.  If hardware is attacked “the concern is we don’t have
enough replacements in supply to switch them out,” he said.  The Stuxnet computer worm, which attacks software sold by
Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , is an example of a virus that can
overtake a power plant’s industrial control systems. Almost 60
percent of Stuxnet-infected computers were in Iran, where
officials said systems used to enrich uranium were the targets.  Isolating Computers  The North American Electric Reliability Corp. has
instructed power companies to isolate computers to prevent a
hacker attack from triggering a widespread blackout, said Gerry Cauley, chief executive officer of the Atlanta-based
organization that develops standards for the nation’s utilities.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  reviews NERC’s
cybersecurity standards for approval, and utilities can be fined
as much as $1 million a day for violations. The process for
approving reliability standards can take years, according to
FERC Commissioner John Norris.  “That’s not in my mind an adequate mechanism for
addressing an imminent threat,” he said in an interview.  Cybersecurity legislation should allow FERC to issue
emergency orders to protect the grid and give the agency the
authority to respond to a threat before an incident occurs,
Joseph McClelland, the commission’s electric reliability
director, told a congressional panel May 31.  Government can help utilities prioritize cybersecurity
investments by keeping them apprised of threats, Fama said.  “While we spend significant money and resources to provide
reliable service, we also have to accomplish this at a
reasonable cost,” he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  