-- Czech Central Bank Keeps Main Interest Rate on Hold as Koruna Prevents Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-02T14:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/czech-central-bank-to-keep-interest-rates-on-hold-as-koruna-prevents-cut.html
The Czech central bank kept  interest
rates  at a record low for a 14th meeting as a weaker koruna
prevented a decrease in borrowing costs and the euro area’s debt
crisis prompted policy makers to cut the outlook for economic
growth in 2012 to zero.  The Ceska Narodni Banka’s board voted 6-0 to leave the
 benchmark two-week rate  at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point below
the  European Central Bank’s (EURR002W)  main rate, in line with the
forecasts of all 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The new
forecast assumes stable market interest rates in “the near
term” and a “moderate decline” after that, Governor Miroslav
Singer told reporters in  Prague .  “A decrease can be seen only in the third and fourth
quarters, which is not very relevant form a practical point of
view because there will be new forecasts before then,” he said.
“What is important is the stability in the nearest future.”  The economic outlook has worsened because of the crisis in
the euro area, the market for about 70 percent of Czech exports.
The bank lowered its forecast for this year’s gross domestic
product growth to zero from 1.2 percent, and to 1.9 percent next
year from a previous 2.7 percent. The  Finance Ministry  cut its
2012 gross domestic product estimate on Jan. 31 to near-zero
growth and didn’t rule out a recession.  Weaker Koruna  The central bank’s new forecast sees the koruna at 24.9 to
the euro, weaker than the 23.1 rate predicted in November, while
the estimate for the average three-month Prague interbank
offered rate rose to 1 percent from 0.9 percent. The three-month
Pribor was 1.18 percent today and forward-rate agreements fixing
the ask three-month rate in six-months were quoted at 1.11
percent.  “Given the expected recession in the eurozone and in the
 Czech Republic , and an absence of demand-driven inflationary
pressures, the central bank is unlikely to start raising
interest rates anytime soon,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at
Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague said. Raiffeisenbank sees a quarter-
point rate reduction in the first half of the year, although a
weaker koruna may prevent such a move, he said.  The Finance Ministry cut its forecast for 2012 economic
growth to 0.2 percent from 1 percent and said the outlook
carried downside risks.  Koruna’s Influence  Developments in the koruna influence the central bank’s
policy approach as a stronger currency tames inflationary
pressures and tightens monetary conditions by making Czech
exports more expensive, while a weaker koruna makes imported
goods cost more. The central bank also uses the outlook for the
euro area’s market interest rates among variables in its
forecasts. Today’s projections assumed a three-month Euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, at 1 percent in 2012.  The koruna has lost 3.4 percent to the euro in the past six
months, the fourth-worst performance among 25 emerging-markets
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It rose 0.23 percent to 25.117
against the euro as of 2:58 p.m. in Prague, after strengthening
0.5 percent yesterday.  Poland left its main rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a
sixth meeting on Jan. 11 and said the probability of interest-
rate cuts has declined as the weaker zloty fuels inflation
pressure. Hungary kept its rates on hold at 7 percent on Jan. 24
as local assets rose from record lows after Premier  Viktor Orban 
said he would yield in a row with the European Union that has
held up talks on an international bailout.  Economic Contraction  The Czech economy shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, the first quarterly contraction
since a 2009 recession.  GDP (CZGDPSAY)  growth slowed to 1.2 percent from a
year ago in the July-September period, from 2 percent in the
previous quarter.  Inflation (CZCPYOY)  was 2.4 percent in December, slowing from a 3-
year high of 2.5 percent in November, while remaining above the
central bank’s 2 percent target for a third month.  Consumer-price growth will rise “temporarily” to just
above 3 percent in 2012 because of an increase in the value-
added  tax rate  before slowing again below the target in 2013,
the bank said in a text outlining the forecasts.  The bank lowered its forecast for the headline inflation
rate in the first quarter of 2013 to 1.5 percent from November’s
1.6 percent prediction, while keeping its second- quarter 2013
estimate unchanged at 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  