-- Dendreon Appoints Savient’s John Johnson as Chief Executive Officer
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-02-01T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/dendreon-appoints-savient-s-john-johnson-as-chief-executive-officer.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  named  Savient
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT) ’s John H. Johnson chief executive officer
and president, putting him in charge of boosting the sales of
the company’s only product, the prostate-cancer drug Provenge.  Johnson, a member of Dendreon’s board since August,
succeeds Mitchell H. Gold, the Seattle-based drugmaker said in a
statement today. Johnson resigned as Savient CEO and will be
replaced on an interim basis by David Y. Norton, the East
Brunswick, New Jersey-based company said in a separate
statement. Dendreon shares rose 4.9 percent.  Johnson will take over as the company works to get more
physicians to prescribe Provenge, which was approved in April
2010 as the first therapy in the U.S. that trains the body’s
immune system to attack cancer cells as if they were a virus.
The treatment, at a cost of $93,000, was cleared for patients
with advanced cases of the disease after the company’s three-
year effort to persuade the  Food and Drug Administration  to back
the medicine.  “We view this transition as a positive sign for a troubled
company that faces problems with product adoption, high
production and development costs and mounting pressures from
emerging competitors,”  Geoff Porges , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research note today.  Dendreon gained 67 cents to $14.25 as of the 4 p.m. close
of trading in New York. The shares are down 59 percent in the
last 12 months. Savient sank 11 percent to $2.26, the biggest
drop since August, and has lost 75 percent in the last year.  First One  Because Provenge is the first of its kind, doctors need
time to get comfortable prescribing the treatment and to
understand the reimbursement system, Gold said in an interview
last month. Provenge generated $228 million in sales last year.  Expanding the medicine’s use among U.S. physicians and
lowering the cost of goods sold are the top priorities, incoming
CEO Johnson said today on a conference call with analysts and
investors.  “We need to be more efficient with how we manufacture
Provenge,” Johnson said. Dendreon is preparing to start selling
the medicine in  Europe , and will open an office on the U.S. East
Coast to augment its team in  Seattle , he said.  Gold will serve as executive chairman until June 30,
Dendreon said. At that point he will become a director and
Johnson will take over as chairman.  ImClone CEO  Johnson was CEO of ImClone Systems Inc. from August 2007 to
November 2009, during which time the company was sold to
Indianapolis drugmaker  Eli Lilly & Co.  for $6.5 billion. Johnson
ran Lilly’s cancer business until January 2011, when he joined
Savient, which had tried, unsuccessfully, to sell itself in
2010.  “John Johnson has history of M&A -- he successfully sold
ImClone to  Eli Lilly  and attempted to sell Savient,” Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities, wrote in a
note to clients today. “M&A history of new CEO and a fresh
perspective might benefit the company’s near-term strategy.”  Savient’s ability to boost slow sales of gout drug
Krystexxa may be impeded by the management change, said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. He lowered his rating on
the stock to “neutral” from “outperform.”  “Though we continue to view Krystexxa as a valuable asset,
turmoil in the company’s top ranks has hampered its launch, and
a further managerial change introduces a new element of risk,”
Schmidt wrote in a research note. “Savient’s financial position
necessitates a significant gain in sales traction within six
months, and we are now less optimistic that this can be
achieved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  