-- Dissident Blogger Says Cuba Wanted More on Human Rights From Rousseff Trip
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-02-01T13:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/dissident-blogger-says-cuba-wanted-more-on-human-rights-from-rousseff-trip.html
Cuban blogger Yoani Sanchez said her
compatriots had hoped for more from Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , who avoided criticizing the human rights situation on
the communist island during a state visit to Havana this week.  Sanchez said she had looked for at least a “small wink”
from Rousseff, who was imprisoned and tortured for fighting
Brazil’s dictatorship in the 1960s, after a jailed dissident,
Wilman Villar, died last month following a hunger strike and
President  Raul Castro  vowed to maintain single-party rule.  “It was pure chance that she came at this time, but people
had hoped for more,” Sanchez said in an interview last night in
Havana. “I would’ve hoped for a small wink, a phrase with a
double meaning that we could interpret, and that the government
could interpret too.”  Rousseff, who concludes a three-day visit to  Havana  today,
said that it was an internal matter for Cuba to decide whether
to allow Sanchez to leave the island after Brazil last week
granted the 36-year-old blogger an entry visa to attend next
month a screening of a documentary she appears in. Sanchez, a
critic of the Castro government on the Generation Y blog, has
been denied permission to leave Cuba for four years.  “Brazil gave the visa to the blogger,” Rousseff, 64, told
reporters yesterday in Havana before meeting with Castro and his
brother Fidel. “The rest is not a matter for the Brazilian
government.”  Throwing Stones  Rousseff, who has vowed to make human rights a cornerstone
of her foreign policy, failed to comment on the Cuban
government’s record, pointing instead to the U.S. detention camp
for suspected terrorists at Guantanamo Bay on the island’s
southeastern tip.  “He who throws the first stone has a roof made of glass,”
said Rousseff, whose Workers’ Party has long supported Cuba.
“We in  Brazil  have our problems too.”  While critical of the Brazilian president’s stance, Sanchez
said Rousseff’s silence is preferable to her predecessor and
mentor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s siding with the Castro
government after the death of another jailed hunger striker in
2010, she added.  “I wake up every day and say to myself, today I am going
to behave like a free person,” Sanchez said. “Dilma once said
the same. She paid a high personal and physical cost, but in the
end life proved her right and Brazil became a democracy.”  ‘Zero Comparison’  Julia Sweig, an author of publications on Cuba and Brazil,
said criticism of the Castro government is more widespread today
than it’s ever been since the 1959 revolution and taking many
forms that escape the attention of foreign governments and
media. As Cuba’s second-biggest investor, helping Castro ease
state control of the economy, Brazil is well-positioned to
discuss the island’s rights record behind the scenes in a
productive manner, she added.  “Yoani’s situation bears zero comparison to what Dilma
went through,” said Sweig, director of the Latin America
program at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington .
“Unlike Dilma, she hasn’t been and won’t be jailed or tortured
and I seriously doubt she’s going to be president of Cuba.”  Cuba’s government relies on beatings, short-term
detentions, forced exile and travel restrictions to repress
virtually all forms of political dissent, New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in a  report  this month. Cuba denies it’s
holding any political prisoners and considers dissident activity
to be counterrevolutionary supported by anti-Castro
“mercenaries” in the U.S.  Castro Visit  While blocked from traveling abroad, Sanchez has emerged as
a leader among a group of young dissidents who describe the
daily travails of life in Cuba through difficult-to-access
social media. Many of her chronicles are published by newspapers
throughout  Latin America . She has also written a book, “Havana
Real: One Woman Fights to Tell the Truth About Cuba Today.”  Sanchez said the visibility she has gained through blogging
gives her some protection from the Cuban government.  “The day I stop blogging, they’ll put me on trial,” she
said.  Rousseff, who travels to  Haiti  today, discussed the
possibility of hosting Raul Castro at a future date, according
to a Brazilian official with the president who isn’t authorized
to comment on the two leaders’ talks publicly.  Editors: Joshua Goodman, Harry Maurer  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Havana at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  