-- Don Cornelius of ‘Soul Train’ Dies at 75 in Likely Suicide
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-01T17:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/don-cornelius-soul-train-host-dead-in-apparent-suicide-la-police-say.html
Don Cornelius, the creator and host
of “Soul Train,” the television show that brought R&B music
and the moves of young black dancers to a U.S. audience, has
died in an apparent suicide. He was 75.  Officers responding to a report of a shooting found him at
his Mulholland Drive home at around 4 a.m.,  Los Angeles  police
told the  Associated Press . He was pronounced dead of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound at 4:56 a.m. at Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles County Assistant Chief Coroner Ed Winter
told AP. The entertainer was recently divorced, the Los Angeles
Times said.  Cornelius was a part-time news announcer on AM radio in
Chicago when he left to create “ Soul Train ” in 1970. From its
local start on Chicago’s WCIU-TV, the show generated a national
version based in Los Angeles that grew through syndication to
more than 130 stations in 1989, according to the  Chicago
Tribune .  Like its pop music counterpart, Dick Clark’s “American
Bandstand,” Cornelius’s “Soul Train” became a fixture of
Saturday-morning television.  “‘Soul Train’ was a new idea,” Cornelius told  United
Press International  in 1984. “It was special-market television
in a general audience medium before cable came along. It was
very difficult to compete and survive out there. We took the
‘Bandstand’ format and gave it another look, created another
character. We have white viewers, of course, but it wasn’t
practical to sell the show in areas of low black population.
Some of our sponsors were definitely looking for the black
audience.”  Franklin, Jackson, Wonder  Aretha Franklin ,  Stevie Wonder , Luther Vandross,  James Brown , Whitney Houston and  Michael Jackson  were among the black
artists who appeared on “Soul Train.” In 1974, Elton John
became the first white artist to appear on the show, according
to Rickey Vincent’s 1996  book , “Funk: The Music, the People and
the Rhythm of the One.”  “Dance shows aren’t new, of course,” the radio host and
reviewer Clayton Riley wrote in the New York Times in 1973.
“But if you’re into comparisons, ‘Soul Train’ is to the old
‘American Bandstand’ what champagne is to seltzer water.”  Vincent called “Soul Train” the “most undiluted showcase
of black sexuality in the country” and “a cultural mecca for
the entire decade of the 70s.”  Expanding his franchise, Cornelius created the annual Soul
Train Music Awards in 1987.  Sale to MadVision  He hosted “ Soul Train ” until 1993 and produced his last
new episode in 2006. In 2008, he sold the franchise to Los
Angeles-based MadVision Entertainment, which planned to open the
show’s archives for older viewers and create a new version of
the program, the New York Times reported at the time.  He told the Los Angeles Times in 2010 that he was excited
about a movie project he was developing, “a biographical look”
at the history of “Soul Train.”  Donald Cortez Cornelius was born on Sept. 27, 1936, in
 Chicago , according to the Gale Group’s “Who’s Who Among African
Americans.”  He sold insurance for Golden State Mutual Life from 1956 to
1966, became an announcer at WVON radio in Chicago and then
joined WCIU as a sports anchor in 1968. With his wife, Delores,
he had two sons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  