-- ECB May Hold Out on Greek Swap Until Investor Deal Reached on Debt Burden
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ecb-may-hold-out-on-greek-debt-swap-until-investors-reach-deal.html
The  European Central Bank  is likely
to refuse to show its hand on how it will help cut Greece’s debt
burden until investors and the government have agreed to a deal,
said economists from ING Group to Deutsche Bank.  While Greece’s creditors are increasing pressure on the ECB
to join the bond swap being negotiated with the country, central
bankers have remained silent on their intentions. Economists say
the ECB wants to see the private-sector agreement concluded
before indicating its strategy, which may include forgoing
profits from its Greek bonds or a transfer to one of the
region’s rescue funds.  The Greek government needs to reach a deal and secure a
second European Union-led bailout by March 20, when it faces a
14.5 billion-euro ($19.1 billion) bond payment.  Charles Dallara ,
who as managing director of the  Institute of International
Finance  leads a group negotiating on behalf of creditors, says
involvement of public institutions is needed as bondholders hold
only about 60 percent of Greek debt.  “Politicians will bang their heads against the wall trying
to get the ECB to be involved at this stage,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING in Brussels. “The ECB will
stay out of this as long as it can. While they won’t take a
haircut, not booking profits would be a realistic option.”  Summit Discussions  At a summit in Brussels this week, ECB President  Mario Draghi  rejected the idea of transferring back profits from bond
holdings to the Greek government, according to a person with
knowledge of the discussions who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. Greek government spokesman
Pantelis Kapsis said yesterday that officials expect to complete
talks in the next days.  The ECB has purchased 219 billion euros of debt-strapped
nations’ bonds since 2010. Between 36 billion euros to 55
billion euros are invested in Greek sovereign debt, according to
estimates by  Barclays Capital  and UBS AG.  When the ECB started buying bonds as part of its Securities
Markets Program, Greek 10-year bonds traded at 84 cents on the
euro. Since then, prices have dropped to 23 cents as investors’
concern about debt sustainability has pushed the country close
to default. The ECB insists that the purchases are aimed at
restoring the functioning of its monetary policy.  “The ECB remains against an involvement simply because
monetary and fiscal policy would cross paths,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , euro-area economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London. “Participating would severely undermine the role of
the ECB in  crisis management .”  ‘Logical’ Step  The ECB is “not party” to ongoing discussions between the
Greek government and the private sector, Draghi said on Jan. 19,
without elaborating further.  ING Groep NV Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said this
week it would be “logical” for the ECB to participate in
alleviating Greek debt.  “I’m not saying they should take a loss,” Hommen told
reporters in the Hague. “But they have a potential gain on
their position which they bought at a discount.”  Even if the ECB remains outside the outright restructuring
of  Greece ’s debt, policy makers have not ruled out other
involvement. The region’s central banks will await the outcome
of the deal currently being negotiated, Bundesbank board member
Joachim Nagel told Deutsches Anleger Fernsehen yesterday.  Economists have suggested options that include the ECB
selling back its holdings to Greece, or to  Europe ’s temporary
bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, or to
its successor, the European Stability Mechanism.  Selling Bonds  “The ECB could promise to sell their holdings of Greek
sovereign bonds upon maturity to the Bank of Greece at their
original purchase prices,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  A “middle way” might involve the EFSF or Greece, via an
EFSF loan, buying the bonds off the ECB at their original
purchase price, said Mohit Kumar, head of euro-area rates
strategy at Deutsche Bank in  London .  Selling the bonds to the ESM would be the best option, said
ING’s Brzeski. The permanent rescue fund will have the capital
available to fund such a move, while the EFSF would have to
raise money in the market beforehand, he said.  “It’s possible that the ECB is already working on a
compromise behind closed doors,” said  Michael Schubert , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s a dangerous
game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  