-- ECB’s Weidmann Says EU Deal Isn’t Beginning of Real Fiscal Union
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-01T16:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ecb-s-weidmann-says-eu-deal-isn-t-beginning-of-real-fiscal-union.html
European Central Bank council member
Jens Weidmann said the fiscal treaty agreed by European leaders
this week isn’t the foundation for a fiscal union.  “Obviously in the negotiations, as often in the past,
things were watered down,” Weidmann, who is also head of the
Bundesbank, said according to remarks prepared for a speech in
Dusseldorf,  Germany  today. “It’s clear that the cornerstone for
a real fiscal union hasn’t been laid here.”  The fiscal-discipline treaty completed in Brussels late
Monday speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law. The
German-led deal is designed to prevent a repetition of the
sovereign debt crisis that has seen Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
require external aid and has swollen the borrowing costs of
Italy and  Spain .  Weidmann said that without the ability of a central
authority to intervene in budgetary policies, common debt
instruments such as euro bonds are “unjustifiable.”  “The provisions for national budget rules still leave
significant leeway and it won’t be policed at the European level
just how far they are actually held to,” he said. “Most of the
member states are seemingly not ready to give up their
sovereignty in fiscal policy.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said earlier this week that the
fiscal compact “will strengthen confidence in the euro area,”
when calling it “the first step toward the fiscal union.”  Weidmann said the “key to solving the debt crisis”
remains with governments. There’s a “good reason” why the
monetary financing of states is banned, he said, calling it a
redistribution of “solvency risks” within the region.  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, is “basically well
positioned,” Weidmann said, with the biggest risk coming from a
possible worsening of the debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  