-- ECB Plan for Loans as Collateral Said to Be Avoided by Some Euro Members
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-01T12:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ecb-plan-for-loans-as-collateral-said-to-be-avoided-by-some-euro-members.html
The  European Central Bank ’s plan to
accept more bank loans as collateral may not be used by all
euro-region nations, threatening to fragment the rules applying
to bank funding operations, said two euro-area officials with
knowledge of the discussions.  The initiative is likely to be implemented on a voluntary
basis by national central banks and several of them may opt out,
said the officials, who declined to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Germany ’s Bundesbank has indicated
it may be among those to shun the measure, arguing the country’s
banks don’t need to borrow more from the ECB. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment.  “It contradicts the idea that all banks are treated
equally in the euro area,” said  Klaus Baader , co-head of
economic research at Societe Generale SA in  London . “It creates
a two-class society. Central banks that take part are therefore
identifying themselves as ones that are dealing with a weak
banking system.”  The ECB is trying to improve funding access for banks in
debt-strapped nations by widening the pool of eligible
collateral at its market operations to include more bank loans.
Citigroup Inc. estimates the total store of loans that could be
used in market operations may be more than 10 trillion euros
($13 trillion).  While the ECB already accepts some credit claims, policy
makers are trying to build on the success of their three-year
loans to institutions and further soothe tensions in the euro
area’s financial system.  Binding Rules  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
in  New York  on Jan. 24 that the rules would be binding on
countries that sign up. An ECB spokesman declined to comment
beyond the announcement of the planned change made on Dec. 8.  Surging bond yields, credit downgrades, and declining asset
prices have reduced available collateral in some euro countries,
forcing national central banks to set up special refinancing
facilities for the countries’ banks.  ING estimates that alongside Ireland, Greece and  Belgium 
are also operating Emergency Liquidity Assistance programs, in
which banks can pledge assets as collateral that don’t qualify
for regular ECB operations, paying more interest on the funds in
return. The ECB thereby reduces refinancing costs for the
region’s most troubled lenders.  As part of a loosening of collateral rules last month, the
ECB said it planned to accept assets such as pools of bank
loans, a measure that would take effect “as soon as the
relevant legal acts have been published.”  Collateral List  If some central banks choose not to implement the
initiative, which ECB President  Mario Draghi  said should be
ready in time for the next three-year refinancing tender on Feb.
28, it would delay the process of harmonizing eligibility rules
under the so-called “Single List” of collateral that can be
pledged across the currency bloc.  Bundesbank board member Joachim Nagel indicated in an
interview with the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  published Jan. 21 that
his institution may not take part. “German banks don’t need
it,” he said.  The principle of sharing any losses on collateral across
all members of the euro in accordance with their relative size
will be suspended.  ‘Temporary’ Solution  “The responsibility entailed in the acceptance of such
credit claims will be borne by the national central bank
authorizing their use,”  the ECB said on Dec. 8 , adding it is a
“temporary solution.”  The move to force national central banks to assume the risk
associated with the new collateral may stem from the Bundesbank,
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep in Brussels.  “Limiting the liability reflects the strong influence of
the Bundesbank, which is trying to avoid a ‘liability union’
within the  euro zone ,” he said.  Juergen Michels, chief European economist at Citigroup in
London, said such moves go against “the European idea.”  “It’s a move from the better-situated countries which
don’t want to take on any more risk from the periphery,” he
said. “While it’s not the beginning of everybody for himself,
it’s a small step in that direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  