-- Hedge Fund Frankenstein Algorithm Stalks Robert Harris Thriller
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/hedge-fund-s-frankenstein-algorithm-stalks-robert-harris-thriller-books.html
Dr. Victor Frankenstein thought it
would be a good idea to bring an inanimate body to life. We all
know how that turned out.  Now  Robert Harris  -- bestselling author of novels about
 Nazi Germany  (“ Fatherland ”), ancient  Rome  (“ Pompeii ”) and
modern Britain (“ The Ghost ”) -- has updated Mary Shelley’s
classic tale of hubris in “ The Fear Index ,” a brisk new
thriller set at a Geneva hedge fund.  Instead of a lumbering giant, the monster is a computer
algorithm that makes a killing on the stock market by sensing
fear and trading on this information.  Our flawed hero is a quant named Alex Hoffmann, a brilliant
American physicist who moved to Geneva to work on the Large
Hadron Collider at CERN and then founded a hedge fund. Not
because he cared about making money; it was just the best way to
test his “autonomous machine-learning algorithm.” He doesn’t
like the term “artificial intelligence,” but that’s what he’s
talking about -- an algorithm that keeps learning, growing and
improving its performance.  Everything goes swimmingly for a while. Powered by the
latest version of the algorithm, VIXAL-4, Hoffman’s fund has
made $79.7 million in just one week. On the day he and his
partner are scheduled to meet with their top clients to give
them the opportunity to invest more money, things go wrong.  Sharpen the Knives  First someone sends Alex an expensive first edition of a
book by  Charles Darwin  -- anonymously.  Then Alex finds an intruder sharpening knives in the
kitchen of his $60 million house, but there’s no sign of a
break-in. How did he get past the security system, with its two
different codes? He cracks Alex over the head with a fire
extinguisher and takes off.  Over the course of the day, Alex finds mysterious e-mails
sent from his own address opening bank accounts, transferring
money, even buying that Darwin book. Is someone trying to make
him look crazy, or is he actually crazy? Perhaps a computer
algorithm that trades on fear is doing a little experiment of
its own. Or maybe it was that bump on the head.  Harris is a master of pacing -- the story moves swiftly
while never feeling rushed, and the tension increases subtly
chapter by chapter.  There isn’t much time for characterization, but there are
some intriguing details. Alex, for instance, is so averse to
publicity that he pays a public relations firm $200,000 a year
to keep his name out of the papers.  Anonymous Clothing  “His clothes said nothing at all about him, which was the
way he liked it,” Harris writes of Alex. “A hedge fund manager
with $10 billion dollars in assets under management could these
days pass for the guy who delivered his parcels.”  Alex’s wife, Gabrielle, is an artist having her first
exhibition; she worries that it’s only because of her husband’s
money. There’s also his English partner, Hugo Quarry, who has
“an ex-wife and three children safely stowed in a gloomy
Lutyens mansion in a drizzled fold of Surrey,” and Leclerc, the
police inspector assigned to the break-in, who lost half his
savings in the market and has to commute from  France  because
it’s cheaper than Geneva.  As the day goes on, VIXAL-4 takes ever-riskier positions,
eliminating the hedge from the fund. That’s not what it was
programmed to do. Once an algorithm can run a hedge fund by
itself, what’s next?  “The Fear Index” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and
Hutchinson in the U.K. (286 pages, $25.95, 18.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 