-- Medicare Advantage Premiums Fall 7 Percent as Enrollment Rises, HHS Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-01T17:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/medicare-advantage-premiums-fall-7-percent-as-enrollment-rises-hhs-says.html
Medicare Advantage plans have 9.4
percent higher  enrollment  than a year earlier and fees that are
7.2 percent lower, according to a U.S. official who credited the
2010 health-care law for the gains.  In Medicare Advantage, people over age 65 get expanded
coverage beyond the standard federal program from private
insurers including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Humana Inc (HUM)  that
are subsidized by the government.  The enrollment rise to 12.8 million exceeded Medicare
 projections  in May that membership would peak at 12.5 million in
2012 before falling to about 9.2 million by 2018 as cuts kick in
on federal subsidies to insurers. The average premiums dropped
to $31.54 per month, the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services said in a statement.  “Not only are average premiums lower, but plans are
better,” said Marilyn Tavenner, acting administrator of the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, in a statement. The
health-care overhaul is “motivating plans to improve the
quality of their coverage,” she said.  Democrats have long charged that subsidies for Advantage
plans are excessive, and the health-care overhaul cut their
payments by  $136 billion  over a decade, starting in 2013.  “We continue to see more plans seek to enter the market,”
said  Jonathan Blum , deputy director of CMS, in a conference call
with reporters. “We continue to see plans lower their prices.
We’re confident that the program will continue to grow over the
next several years.”  Out-of-Pocket Costs  Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for  America’s Health
Insurance Plans , a trade group in Washington, wrote in an e-mail
that plan members will face “higher out-of-pocket costs,
reduced benefits and fewer health-care choices” as the health
law’s payment cuts accelerate.  The business will probably continue to grow despite the
cuts, said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in
 New York  who owns shares of Humana.  Baby Boomers  now entering
the Medicare market are more comfortable with managed-care plans
than older people, he said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a generational thing,” Funtleyder. “Making money
on that population is a different story.”  Large plans like Humana probably will be more successful
than smaller plans because their scale gives them an edge at
managing the actuarial risk of insuring older people, he said.  There were about 48 million people enrolled in Medicare in
2011, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a  Menlo Park ,
Calif. nonprofit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  