-- Medivation Surges on Prostate Cancer Drug: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-02-01T21:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/medivation-surges-on-prostate-cancer-drug-san-francisco-mover.html
Medivation Inc. (MDVN)  surged the most in
almost three months after the development-stage drugmaker said
its most-advanced product prolonged the lives of men with
prostate cancer.  Medivation rose 22 percent to $67.57 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day increase since the shares more than
doubled on Nov. 3, when the San Francisco-based company and its
partner, Tokyo-based  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) , said the medicine was
so beneficial they halted a study to give the treatment to all
participants.  Men with prostate cancer that was spreading despite
chemotherapy lived for 4.8 months longer if they were given
MDV3100 rather than a placebo, with few serious side effects.
The results are slated for presentation at the Genitourinary
Cancers Symposium in  San Francisco  later this week.  “It’s a big deal when you see this kind of survival
benefit with a pill” that doesn’t have a lot of side effects,
said Howard Scher, co-principal investigator on the trial and
head of genitourinary oncology at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  in New York, by telephone. “This trial exceeded
its expectations both in terms of the efficacy and the safety.”  If approved, the drug would compete with Johnson &
Johnson’s prostate cancer medicine Zytiga, which was cleared by
U.S. regulators in April for patients with late-stage prostate
cancer who have failed chemotherapy.  Drug Differences  One difference between the drugs is that MDV3100 does not
have to be used in combination with the steroid prednisone,
Scher said. Otherwise, the Medivation trial produced “very
similar results” to what was seen with Zytiga, Scher said.  The Medivation drug, called an androgen receptor signaling
inhibitor, works to blunt the effects of male hormones that spur
tumor growth, Scher said. Among other actions, the drug blocks
testosterone from binding to its receptor in tumor cells. J&J’s
Zytiga works in a different way to block machinery that makes
the male hormones.  Another new therapy for advanced prostate cancer is
Provenge from  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  in  Seattle . It is a vaccine that
stimulates the immune system against the cancer. It was approved
in the U.S. in April 2010 after tests on minimally symptomatic
patients who mostly had not had chemotherapy.  The Medivation drug was tested on a “much more advanced
population,” Scher said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  