-- Egyptian Lawmakers Criticize Police After Soccer Clashes Kill More Than 70
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-02-02T17:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/egypt-soccer-fans-clash-leaves-at-least-40-dead.html
Egypt ’s premier said he accepted the
resignation of the governor of Port Said where soccer clashes
left more than 70 dead, falling short of lawmakers’ calls for
firing the interior minister and purging the police force.  Members of the newly elected parliament demanded the
government step down and criticized the ruling military council
after the violence, which has deepened political tensions and
fueled pressure on the ruling generals to speed up the transfer
of power to civilians. Addressing parliament, Prime Minister
Kamal el-Ganzouri said the Port Said security chief had been
suspended and the head and board of the football association
fired.  “It’s not acceptable for the head of the Port Said
security, who I don’t absolve of responsibility, to become a
scapegoat. We want full cleansing of the interior ministry,”
lawmaker Hussein Mohamed Ibrahim said in a televised emergency
session of parliament. He said he held the army “fully
responsible for protecting this country” and called for the
public prosecutor to be fired.  The clashes were the worst outbreak of violence since  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown a year ago and the deadliest in the
history of Egyptian soccer. The riots underlined the breakdown
of security after the political upheavals of the past year,
which has seen repeated clashes between security forces and
protesters demanding that the ruling generals hand over power.  Premier Quizzed  Tensions brewed today with security forces firing tear gas
after dusk near the Interior Ministry to prevent protesters from
reaching the building, according to the state-run Middle East
News Agency. Demonstrators have marched in Cairo, protesting the
violence and condemning the military rulers.  “I am ready to face any institution because I know I have
political responsibility,” el-Ganzouri told parliament. “Some
media said, ‘where is the prime minister?’ The prime minister
hasn’t even had a chance to change his clothes.”  His address, which was continually interrupted, failed to
placate parliamentary members.  “What happened yesterday can’t be called an incident, it’s
a conspiracy that the military council should be asked about,”
lawmaker Mohamed Abou Hamed said. “The military council must be
brought down, the military council must be brought down, the
military council must be brought down.”  Parliamentary Speaker Mohamed El-Katatni began today’s
emergency session by saying there was a security “failure” in
controlling the violence.  Economic Slowdown  Footage from local television stations after yesterday’s
game showed crowds rushing onto the field and a fire burning in
the stands as police forces stood by following Al-Masry’s 3-1
home victory yesterday against Al-Ahly. Seventy-four people were
killed, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported, citing
the health ministry. Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim said 47
had been arrested, the news agency reported.  Egypt’s economy is struggling to recover from a year of
unrest in the wake of the uprising that ousted Mubarak last
February. The economy grew 1.8 percent in the last fiscal year
through June, the slowest pace in at least a decade, as income
from tourism and foreign investment dried up. Tourist arrivals
fell 33 percent last year, while international reserves are at
the lowest level since March 2005. Today, Egypt’s benchmark
stock index, the  EGX30 Index (EGX) , fell 2.2 percent at the 2.30 p.m.
close in Cairo, the biggest loss since Dec. 22.  Violence Condemned  The state-owned Ahramonline website cited two witnesses,
identified as Ahmed Gaffar and Mahmoud Hani, as saying police
did little to prevent Al Masry fans from invading the pitch.
Ibrahim said there was a “semi-deliberate” hostile escalation
by some fans, according to Mena.  “I have ordered an investigation,” the head of the
military council, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, told
reporters last night. “Those responsible will be punished.”  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice party, which
holds the largest bloc in parliament, condemned the violence in
a statement, saying the riot “aims to block the peaceful
democratic transition of power through internal parties who
still have strong relations with the former regime.”  Early today, thousands rallied at the Ramses train station
in downtown Cairo to meet Ahly fans returning from the match in
the coastal city,  Ahramonline  said. “Police are the thugs” and
“Down with military rule,” chanted Ahly supporters, condemning
the military council and Egypt’s security forces as they marched
to the train station and gathered on platforms.  Soccer Rivalry  The Egyptian Soccer Federation said on its  website  that it
has indefinitely suspended all league matches.  “This is a black day for football,”  Sepp Blatter ,
president of the world soccer governing body, FIFA, said in a
statement. “Such a catastrophic situation is unimaginable and
should not happen.”  Cairo-based Al-Ahly, one of Egypt’s most popular teams, is
second in the Egyptian league. Al-Masry, which is located on the
Mediterranean coast, is fourth. Video footage on the Nile News
 website  shows Al-Ahly players rushing for their dressing room
when the field was stormed by spectators after the final
whistle, with some having to fight to get past fans.  Al-Ahly goalkeeper coach Ahmed Naji was quoted by Nile News
as saying the team’s locker room had turned into a morgue and
that a fan died in the room from injuries.  “Players are devastated over the fan that died in the
room, and there were 1,000 injured fans on the corridors leading
to the changing room,” Naji said.  After the riots in Port Said, officials suspended a game in
Cairo between Zamalek and Ismaily. Fans of Zamalek, one of Al-
Ahly’s biggest rivals, responded by shooting fireworks into the
stands and setting fire to the Cairo Stadium, according to  the
Telegraph .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  