-- Elon Musk’s SolarCity Said to Prepare Initial Public Offering
-- B y   P e t e r   N e w c o m b
-- 2012-02-01T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/elon-musk-s-solarcity-said-to-prepare-ipo.html
SolarCity Corp., the developer of
rooftop solar power systems whose chairman is Elon Musk, is
preparing to file for an initial public offering, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The  San Mateo , California-based company, which lost a U.S.
loan guarantee in the wake of Solyndra LLC’s bankruptcy, may
file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as early
as next month, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. The IPO may value the
company at more than $1.5 billion, the person said.  The offering would catapult Musk, 40, into the ranks of the
world’s billionaires. He owns a 26 percent stake in electric-car
maker Tesla Motors Inc. worth more than $650 million as of
yesterday’s market close, after adjusting for collateralized
shares. His 25 percent stake in SolarCity would be valued at
$375 million at the valuation the company is seeking.  A phone call to Jonathan Bass, a spokesman for SolarCity,
wasn’t immediately returned.  At $1.5 billion, the company would be valued at more than
twice what research firm GSV Insight estimated in December. On
secondary exchange SharesPost Inc., the most recent SolarCity
transaction was on Jan. 1, at $23 a share, giving the company an
implied valuation of $828 million. In November, SolarCity said
it would move forward on a $1 billion solar rooftop project for
military housing with financing from Bank of America Corp.  Musk owns more than 70 million shares of closely held
rocket maker Space Exploration Technologies Corp., also known as
SpaceX. Recent transactions in the private market have pegged
his stake in the company at about $875 million.  SolarCity was founded in 2006 by brothers Lyndon Rive, the
company’s chief executive officer, and Peter Rive, chief
operations and technology officer, Musk’s cousins.  The company’s projects are financed with partners including
Google Inc. and Citigroup Inc. SolarCity’s backers include
Mayfield Fund, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, DBL Investors and  Al
Gore ’s Generation Investment Management LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Newcomb in New York at 
 pnewcomb2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  