-- Emergency Jobless Benefits Could Slow Payroll Tax-Cut Talks
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-01T17:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/emergency-jobless-benefits-seen-slowing-payroll-tax-cut-talks.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  seeking an
agreement to extend a  payroll tax  cut through 2012 say they
would consider reducing emergency jobless benefits in states hit
hard by the recession from the current maximum of 99 weeks.  Most Democrats said they wanted to stay as close to 99
weeks as possible and wouldn’t say how much time they would be
willing to slice from the program. Any reduction would represent
a major concession from Democrats who have maintained that the
expanded benefits are necessary to fuel the  U.S. economy  and
support laid-off workers.  Unemployment compensation is one of the most polarizing
parts of a legislative package including a payroll tax cut,
which was extended in December for two months until Feb. 29. In
trying to hammer out a deal to continue the benefits through
2012, Republicans want to cut the maximum to 59 weeks, a level
that Democrats have said is unacceptable. Extending the jobless
benefits for 59 weeks would cost $26.1 billion over 10 years,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  House and Senate lawmakers appointed to resolve the impasse
over the payroll tax cut will discuss the jobless benefits issue
at a meeting today. Ahead of that gathering, Democrats said they
aren’t ruling out options when it comes to unemployment
compensation.  “We’ve got to talk it over,” Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who sits on the House-
Senate conference committee, told reporters yesterday.  Baucus said today that his fellow Senate Democratic
conferees would make a proposal on  unemployment insurance  to
House Republicans tomorrow.  Seeking Conditions  Republicans are seeking conditions for continuing the
emergency unemployment insurance -- such as authorizing states
to require drug testing and requiring individuals without high
school diplomas to enroll in GED programs -- that House
Democratic negotiators have said they won’t accept.  To be adopted and sent to the House and Senate floors for a
vote, the negotiators’ report must win the backing of a majority
of each chamber from among the 20 lawmakers on the conference
panel.  If Congress doesn’t act by Feb. 29, the 2 percentage-point
cut in the payroll tax for workers would expire,  unemployment
benefits  would be scaled back to 26 weeks and doctors who are
reimbursed through Medicare would receive lower payments.  Open to Talks  Several Senate Democratic conferees said they are open to
negotiations on the length of time for the jobless benefits.  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, described his
preference for continuing the benefits for 99 weeks as “where
I’m starting from.”  “I’m certainly going to listen to the arguments that are
made” at the conference, Cardin told reporters yesterday.
Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat who sits on the
negotiating panel, said he wants lawmakers to end up “as
close” to 99 weeks “as possible.”  Democratic leaders in the Senate say they want the 99-week
threshold while encouraging the conferees to make a deal.  “I would encourage 99 weeks but it’s not a deal breaker,”
Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, told
reporters yesterday. “If you’ve lived around  Capitol Hill  for
awhile, you know that some things are going to be negotiated.”  Timing Criticized  Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who was
appointed to the negotiating panel to focus on the unemployment
issue, said this is a bad time to start reducing benefits.  “If we truncate the number of weeks, we might find
ourselves still in a situation with 8 percent unemployment”
while the jobless would be “left without support,” he said at
today’s committee meeting.  If Democrats agree to back away from 99 weeks of benefits,
Republicans could be pressured to accept a package that extends
compensation beyond the 59 weeks they have been seeking. Senator
 Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican on the conference panel, said he
was open to allowing workers to claim benefits beyond 59 weeks.  “When we get to the details, I may or may not be willing
to agree to some of the positions,” he said in a Jan. 30
interview.  Cutting Benefits  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, said he still wants to cut benefits to 59
weeks. The Republican-led House passed a bill in December that
would have made those reductions.  “Even the president has suggested it is time to reduce the
number of weeks UI benefits are available and  House Republicans 
couldn’t agree more,” he said in an emailed statement
yesterday. “The House-passed bill reflects a level of benefits
in line with what was offered after previous recessions, while
also supporting training for the unemployed so they have the
skills to successfully get back to work.”  Lawmakers need to “do better” than continuing the
existing unemployment program, said Representative  Tom Reed , a
New York Republican. The panel should “lead to reforms that
lead to paychecks for Americans.”  Obama has proposed changes to the unemployment system
including more training to help laid-off workers find a new job.  The federal government establishes the framework for the
nation’s unemployment system and states administer the program.
States provide the first 26 weeks of compensation. That amount
has been supplemented by additional compensation from the
federal government in response to high unemployment.  High-Unemployment States  The next two levels of assistance -- known as Tier 1 and
Tier 2 -- provide workers with 20 weeks and 14 weeks of jobless
benefits, respectively. In states where the unemployment rate
exceeds 6 percent, workers can take advantage of Tier 3 and
claim an additional 13 weeks of benefits. Tier 4 allows workers
to claim six more weeks of benefits in states where the
unemployment rate exceeds 8.5 percent.  The final 20 weeks are available to people in the hardest-
hit states where the number of unemployed workers is 110 percent
of the level during any of the previous three years.  Republicans say they would simplify the program by
eliminating three of those building blocks -- the final benefits
for workers in states with the highest unemployment rates along
with Tiers 2 and 4 -- to bring it down to 59 weeks of benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  