-- Employment Gains as U.S. Health Care Eclipses Manufacturing
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-01T17:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/employment-rising-as-health-care-eclipses-factories-with-aging-americans.html
The aging of America may be good for
the U.S. labor market.  A growing number of older people and rising health-care
spending are driving demand for workers from nursing aides to
surgeons. While the economy lost 7.5 million positions during
the recession, health care expanded staff. Together with social
assistance, it will add more than 5.6 million employees to
become the largest job gainer by 2020, according to new
projections released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Manufacturing is forecast to lose 73,000 jobs by then.  Health care -- including doctors, nurses and hospitals --
was the largest contributor to employment growth in the past two
years, with a 22 percent share that was almost twice as big as
manufacturing. The U.S. workforce could use the boost: Monthly
payroll gains are running below what’s required to reduce
significantly the  8.5 percent  jobless rate. Unemployment was 5
percent in December 2007, when the recession began.  “The first baby boomer just turned 65 last year, so when
it comes to health-care jobs in America, we haven’t seen nothing
yet,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. These jobs “are going to
literally explode over the next two decades.”  Almost 87 million, or one in four, Americans will be 65 or
older by 2050, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Lack of Clarity  “The demographic story for health care remains good and
will get better,” said  Jim Paulsen , who helps oversee about
$333 billion as chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based
Wells Capital Management. It still will be hard for investors to
pick stocks in the industry, as prospects for hiring and
profitability are clouded by lack of clarity on legislation.  The U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments in late March on
President Barack Obama’s health-care law, including the
requirement that Americans either buy insurance or pay a
penalty. Republicans competing for the White House have all said
they’ll get rid of the law if they’re elected in November.
Regardless of who wins, future presidents may try to turn the
clock back on changes made by the previous one, Paulsen said.  “There’s going to be a chronic state of uncertainty in the
health-care arena,” making it “really hard to place specific
bets,” Paulsen said. “There will be opportunities on a value
basis, rather than buy-and-hold.”  Best Rewards  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S. health insurer, and
 Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-largest Medicare provider, may offer
some of the best rewards for investors, according to Matt Borsch, a health-care analyst at Goldman Sachs & Co. in New
York, who has “buy/attractive” ratings on both.  Competition among health-care providers will limit costs
for managed-care companies, many of which also have a low price-
to-earnings ratio, he wrote in a Jan. 4 note.  The Labor Department’s 10-year projections through 2020
showed total employment will grow by 14 percent during the
decade, resulting in 20.5 million new jobs.  On Friday, the department will report that payrolls, which
averaged a monthly gain of 137,000 last year, rose by 145,000 in
January after climbing 200,000 in December, according to the
median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 unemployment rate  probably held at 8.5 percent, as factories
added 13,000 jobs.  ‘Improving Very Slowly’  “The labor market is improving very slowly, but at least
we’re headed in the right direction,” said David Autor, an
economist at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. Employment in health care “is
definitely going to continue” rising, and manufacturing jobs
“will see a recovery” as demand picks up.  While factories still represent a larger share of the
economy -- 12 percent of gross domestic product compared with
7.6 percent for health care -- they have fallen behind since
2008 as a percentage of total payrolls, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. Health services accounted 11 percent
of jobs in 2011, outpacing manufacturing’s 9 percent.  The shift reflects productivity gains as factories produced
more goods by replacing workers with technology and by shipping
jobs overseas to cut costs. Health services require more face-
to-face interaction, which means “these jobs are protected from
the forces of globalization,” Rupkey said. “We can’t imagine a
time when we’ll be able to outsource the job of a home health
aide giving a senior a bath or helping with physical therapy.”  ‘All That’s Left’  Openings in health care are more broadly distributed
geographically, even in economically distressed small towns
where they often are “all that’s left,” said David Card, an
economics professor at the  University of California , Berkeley,
and director of the  Labor Studies Program  at the National Bureau
of  Economic Research .  They also provide “pretty good” opportunities,
particularly for women, he said. This was evident during the 18-
month recession, when health care added almost half a million
positions, while construction, which typically employs more men,
shed 1.2 million workers.  More importantly, the industry’s projected expansion would
generate more jobs young people can prepare for and absorb out-
of-work Americans -- even those without education beyond high
school -- once they adapt to the skills needed.  “One of the few bright spots in retraining has been health
care,” Card said. “That’s a kind of reliable thing.”  $21,760 to $225,390  Opportunities range from home health aides, who made an
average of $21,760 in 2010, to surgeons, whose annual wages
averaged $225,390,  BLS data show .  Sharon Rudolph, 64, says she’s studying to be a nurse
alongside classmates who previously worked in real estate and
banking, as well as one who owns a nail salon. The  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida , resident was a radiologic technologist for
two decades before taking a break during the 1990s to raise her
family. Now she’s in a 27-month training program at the city’s
Nova Southeastern University.  “I felt I’d become more marketable once I get out,” said
Rudolph, who ensured that her licenses, including in registered
diagnostic medical and cardiac sonography, remained current. “I
have to work twice as hard as some of the kids” to keep up with
the coursework, and the increased use of technology has “been a
challenge.”  Demand for Nurses  Registered nursing, which requires at least an associate’s
degree, will have the largest growth of all occupations,
according to the  new BLS projections , adding 711,900 jobs
between 2010 and 2020, to reach about 3.4 million. Home health
aides, who don’t need a high-school diploma but should have on-
the-job training, will surge by 706,300, or 69 percent, to 1.7
million. Hiring among physicians and surgeons will rise by 24
percent, or 168,300, to 859,300.  Ten of the 30 occupations with the fastest projected growth
are in health-care fields, including physical-therapist
assistants, audiologists, dental hygienists and Rudolph’s
specialty of medical sonography.  While the additional jobs will lift employment, many pay
low or very low wages, according to the BLS. That means these
workers will have less ability than employees in higher-paid
industries to boost  consumer spending , the biggest part of the
 U.S. economy .  “It is fine to have low-skilled jobs as part of the mix or
portfolio of employment opportunities,” said  Michael Spence ,
winner of the  Nobel Prize  in economics in 2001, and a professor
at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business. “It is
better than no jobs. But the mix is important too.”  Rising Government Spending  The work opportunities also are propelled by rising
government spending on programs such as Medicare and Medicaid at
a time when there’s pressure to cut costs and rein in the
deficit, Autor said.  Health-care expenditures grew at an annual rate of 4.5
percent through November 2011, up from 3.9 percent in 2010,
according to the nonprofit Altarum Institute’s  Center for
Sustainable Health Spending , based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . They
accounted for 18 percent of GDP in October, compared with 16
percent at the start of the recession.  A continued rise may be moderated in coming years by
looming budget constraints, because “we have to be able to
afford it,” said  Charles Roehrig , the center’s director.  Over time, “to fully address unemployment and income-
distribution issues,” the U.S. needs more effective investment
in skills, education, infrastructure and technology, and must
become more competitive in the so-called tradable side of the
economy, which includes manufacturing, Spence said.  Greater Stability  Even so, health-care jobs may provide greater stability
than factory and building-related work, which tends to fluctuate
more with economic conditions. The unemployment rate for  health
services  was 6 percent in December, compared with 16 percent for
construction, according to BLS data that isn’t seasonally
adjusted.  The U.S. also lags behind many smaller economies in the
number of health-care providers per person, with two doctors for
every 1,000 people in 2009, compared with three for Ireland,
four for Spain and  Portugal , and six for  Greece , according to
the most-recent OECD  data .  Roehrig said that every 10 jobs in health care ultimately
generate an additional 12 elsewhere in the U.S. economy, so
without the industry’s hiring growth, the unemployment rate
would have been 9.5 percent in December, instead of 8.5 percent.  For now, having more jobs “outweighs any other concern,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa  at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  