-- EPA Shrinking ‘Halliburton Loophole’ Threatens Obama Gas Pledge
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/epa-shrinking-halliburton-loophole-threatens-obama-gas-pledge.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
is moving ahead with hydraulic fracturing standards that
industry groups say will undercut President  Barack Obama ’s bid
to speed the search for natural gas.  The EPA is preparing guidelines, due for release by mid-
March, which would set how gas-drilling companies can use
diesel. In 2005 Congress  exempted  fracking from  requirements  of
the Safe Drinking Water Act, a move health advocates labeled the
“ Halliburton loophole ” after the company led by Richard Cheney
before he became vice president. Halliburton is the world’s
largest provider of fracking services.  The 2005 law specified that the EPA retained authority if
diesel is used. While companies such as  Schlumberger Ltd . say
they no longer use diesel, industry lobbyists in Washington are
warning that the EPA’s guidelines, the first for the agency on
fracking fluids, may constrain drilling if they include a broad
definition of diesel and amount to the establishment of national
regulation.  “This effort to federalize fracking can create enormous
delays,” Lee Fuller, vice president of government relations for
the Independent Petroleum Association of America in  Washington ,
which represents companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp . and
 Marathon Oil Corp ., said in an interview.  It could force states to hold up drilling while rewriting
their own rules, or compel companies to seek permits from the
EPA, which isn’t set up to process them, he said.  Energy Bills Cut  Delays could harm those gas producers and drillers, which
boosted gas sales in 2011 to 65.92 billion cubic feet a day, up
4.5 billion, or 7.4 percent, the largest annual gain in history,
according to the Energy Information Administration. Natural gas
prices fell more than 30 percent last year. That drop may mean
American consumers would see a cut of $16.5 billion a year in
their energy bills, according to Mine Yucel, senior economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  The EPA’s proposed guideline “provides a flexible approach
for permit writers to develop permits that protect drinking
water sources,” Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “It is based on existing best practices in use by
industry today.”  The agency’s proposal, which is called a guidance document,
has not been released. It was sent to the White House for review
in December, putting its schedule for publication by mid-March.
The guidelines have taken on new importance following Obama’s
public advocacy in his State of the Union address for the
drilling for natural gas in shale, which he said will mean the
country doesn’t have to “choose between our environment and our
economy.”  ‘Necessary Step’  Some environmental groups, such as the Philadelphia-based
Protecting Our Waters, disagree. They say hydraulic fracturing,
in which a mix of water, sand and chemicals are shot underground
to break apart rock and free gas or oil, can contaminate
groundwater and even trigger earthquakes.  Environmentalists say the EPA’s diesel guidelines may be
one way to clean up the process.  “Drilling companies have succeeded in exempting themselves
from every major” environmental law, Dusty Horwitt, senior
counsel of the Environmental Working Group, said in an
interview. “This is a small, but necessary step” in the
opposite direction, he said.  Diesel is used in some fracking operations where the
underground rock or clay will absorb water, according to a
report by Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
The lawmakers  said  Halliburton and BJ Services, now part of
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , injected millions of gallons of diesel from
2005 to 2009.  Waxman Letter  Beverly Stafford, a Houston-based spokeswoman for
Halliburton didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Two e-
mails sent to  Halliburton’s  public relations department weren’t
returned. Pamela Easton, a spokeswoman for  Baker Hughes , third-
largest oilfield services provider, didn’t respond to e-mails
and phone messages seeking comment.  Lawmakers, such as California Democrat Henry Waxman, urged
the EPA to adopt a broad definition of diesel to include similar
products that may contain benzene and related compounds, which
the agency says is the greatest risk from diesel.  “Limiting the definition of diesel fuel to only a slim
set” of compounds “would not be consistent with Congress’s
intent,” Waxman wrote in a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson Aug. 8. Environmental advocates who met with White House
officials on Jan. 19 pushed for the same approach.  Mineral Oil  The EPA has considered that approach, asking companies such
as  ConocoPhillips  and  Chesapeake  how inclusive it should be in
its consideration of diesel, according to a synopsis of the
meeting posted on the agency’s website. Some analysts expect
them to follow through and include petroleum distillates and
mineral oil within its definition of diesel, which would curb
their use.  “EPA is expected to use a broad definition of  diesel
fuel ,” Whitney Stanco, a Washington-based energy policy analyst
at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  New York , said in an interview.  And if it happens, “that would surely hold up an awful lot
of fracking projects no matter how much the administration might
want to promote use of natural gas,” Richard Stoll, a lawyer at
 Foley & Lardner  LLP in Washington, said.  The U.S. holds an estimated 2,214 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for about a century at
current consumption rates, according to the Energy Department.
At least 90 percent of onshore natural gas production in the
U.S. comes from fracking, according to Richard Spears, vice
president of the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Spears & Associates Inc.  Well Design  The EPA may also establish standards for well design and
construction that will be difficult for state regulators to
ignore, whether or not diesel is being used, according to Jason Hutt, a lawyer at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in Washington, which
represents companies such as Chesapeake.  Environmental groups want Congress to pass legislation that
would close the Halliburton loophole and give EPA authority to
preserve safe drinking water, Craig Segall, an attorney at the
 Sierra Club  in Washington, said in an interview.  “This is setting a federal baseline standard for how you
drill one of these wells,” said Segall, who was part of the
group of environmentalists that met with White House officials
on Jan. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  