-- Equity Residential FFO Climbs on Increased Renter Demand for Apartments
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-02-01T21:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/equity-residential-ffo-climbs-on-increased-renter-demand-for-apartments.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, said fourth-quarter
funds from operations climbed as the nation’s rents increased
amid a 10-year low in vacancies.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, increased to $201.4 million, or 64 cents a share, from
$136.4 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
real estate investment trust founded by  Sam Zell  said today in a
statement. Analysts expected FFO of 65 cents a share, the
average of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Rising foreclosures and stricter mortgage-lending standards
have helped make rental housing the best-performing segment of
commercial real estate for the past two years, according to Reis
Inc. In the fourth quarter, the U.S. apartment vacancy rate
dropped to 5.2 percent, the lowest since the end of 2001, the
New York-based property-research firm said. The average monthly
effective rent, or what tenants paid after landlord giveaways,
climbed 2.3 percent from a year earlier to $1,009.  “We expect apartments to produce strong results and offer
2012 guidance that demonstrates the recovery continues to
accelerate,” Alexander Goldfarb, an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said in a Jan. 13 report.  Few new apartments will be delivered to the market until
2013 at the earliest, giving landlords at existing properties
the flexibility to push rents higher in the face of increasing
tenant demand, said Goldfarb, who has a “buy” rating on Equity
Residential.  Fourth-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Equity Residential rose 0.8 percent to
$60.02 today in New York. The shares have gained 9 percent in
the past 12 months, compared with a 14 percent increase in the
 Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index (BBREAPT)  of 16 companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  