-- Tesco Promotes Robbins, Recalls Bush to Help U.K. Turnaround
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-02-01T16:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/tesco-s-robbins-promoted-to-new-global-role-supporting-clarke.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest
supermarket company, promoted a senior executive and called back
the head of the Thai unit to help a turnaround at home after its
share of the U.K. grocery market fell to a seven-year low.  U.K. Chief Operating Officer Bob Robbins, whom the grocer
defended last month over a sale of shares shortly before it
trimmed profit expectations, will take on a global role that
includes supporting U.K. CEO  Richard Brasher , according to an
internal memorandum seen by Bloomberg News. Chris Bush, a 29-
year veteran of the Cheshunt, England-based retailer who has led
the Thai business since 2010, takes over Robbins’ former post.  The reshuffle provides additional support for Brasher as he
seeks to improve the range and quality of products, and invests
in better service and lower prices to win back shoppers.
Competitors are eating into Tesco’s domestic sales with
promotions and fresh-food offers. The retailer’s share of U.K.
grocery spending dropped below 30 percent for the first time
since 2005 this month, Kantar Worldpanel said yesterday.  “This is evidence of Tesco managing change,” said Nick Coulter, an analyst at Nomura with a “buy” recommendation on
the stock. “The byproduct is that the business also benefits
from another heavy hitter coming back to the U.K.”  Robbins will work directly with Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  on “strategic priorities” for the entire
business, according to the memo. He will also strengthen support
provided to the U.K. by playing a “leading role” in the U.K.
investment program, it shows.  Share Sale  “It signals Tesco’s intent to sort out the U.K. fast,”
said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon.  Tesco rose 0.6 percent to 321.45 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close of trading in  London . The stock has fallen 20 percent this
year, declining the most since at least 1988 on Jan. 12 after
the company reported Christmas sales that missed analyst
estimates and reined back profit expectations.  Tesco defended Robbins after disclosing that he sold 50,000
shares eight days before it lowered the profit outlook, saying
he wasn’t in possession of price-sensitive information.  Clarke has promised to focus on in-store labor, better
products and improved service after conceding that Tesco’s Big
Price Drop campaign, which cut the price of thousands of
everyday items such as bread and milk, didn’t lure customers as
much as the grocer expected. The retailer last month introduced
advertising coupons, where 5-pound ($7.93) vouchers are given to
customers who spend 40 pounds or more, along with promotions
such as 10 pence per liter discounts on fuel when they spend 60
pounds on groceries.  Thai Replacement  “Last month, we set out our determination to invest in the
U.K. business,” Brasher said in a separate statement. “These
changes give the U.K. board the combined strength of a very
experienced leader of change and a talented country CEO who has
done an extraordinary job in  Thailand .”  John Christie, who heads Tesco’s business in Slovakia, will
replace Bush in Thailand, according to the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  