-- Esprit to Close All N. America Stores Amid Losses
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-01T10:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/esprit-to-close-all-n-america-stores.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the clothing
retailer struggling to recover from last year’s 98 percent
earnings slump, plans to close all stores in  North America  after
failing to find a buyer for the unprofitable business.  Hong Kong-listed Esprit intends to focus on “finding one
or more license partner” to maintain the brand’s presence in
North America, said Patrick Lau, head of investor relations and
mergers and acquisitions, in an e-mailed statement. The U.S. and
Canadian subsidiaries haven’t decided on whether to file for
Chapter 11 or equivalent Canadian proceedings.  “Esprit is cutting losses in a tough market that it hasn’t
been able to break into,” said Andrew Sullivan, principal sales
trading at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“Retailers in the U.S. all face a difficult moment since U.S.
consumer spending continues to shrink.”  Esprit, which said in September its brand had “lost its
soul,” rose 1.1 percent to HK$11.56 at the close in Hong Kong
trading. Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis has said he
plans to turn the retailer around by improving fashion designs
to revive earnings in  Europe  while doubling  China  sales in four
years.  The U.S. and Canada business has lost HK$1.6 billion ($206
million) in a four-year period, Esprit said last year. “Our
North American subsidiaries’ current intentions are to close all
stores in North America unless a potential partner for North
America is interested in taking over any of the stores,” Lau
said.  The clothing retailer had been exploring the sale of its
U.S. and Canadian operations, three people familiar with the
matter said in August.  Profit Plunge  Esprit in September reported full-year  profit  plummeted 98
percent to HK$79 million after it booked costs for closing
stores worldwide and selling its operations in the U.S. and
 Canada . It was the third consecutive  decline  in annual profit
for the casual clothing maker that makes 79 percent of sales in
Europe.  Chief Executive Van der Vis is setting up design teams in
Paris and China and has hired managers and designers from Adidas
AG, Puma AG and Hennes & Mauritz AB. Esprit shares have risen
15.4 percent this year, better than the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index ’s 10.3 percent gain. The stock lost 73 percent in 2011.  Negotiations with landlords for ending store leases have
begun, Lau said. In North America, Esprit had 93 outlets as of
Sept. 15. The brand was founded in  San Francisco  in 1968.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ; 