-- Euro Weakens for a Third Day Against Dollar
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-02-01T08:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/euro-holds-decline-as-greek-debt-talks-continue-before-portugal-bond-sale.html
The euro fell for a third day against
the dollar before  Portugal  sells bills amid concern the nation
will follow Greece in needing more aid to avoid default.  The 17-nation currency dropped for a fifth day versus the
yen as Greece struggles to conclude debt-swap talks with
creditors. The yen rose against most of its major counterparts
even as Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said again today he
will take “bold” steps to curb the currency’s strength if
necessary. The Swiss franc climbed to a four-month high against
the euro, approaching the central’s bank’s ceiling.  “There does seem to be an underlying negative euro
story,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “People are
worried about the rise in Portuguese yields that we’ve seen.
Increasingly the periphery is being left behind.”  The euro dropped 0.1 percent to $1.3071 at 8:47 a.m. in
 London  after sliding to $1.3026, the lowest since Jan. 25. The
shared currency weakened 0.2 percent to 99.55 yen. The yen
climbed 0.1 percent to 76.17 per dollar after rising to 76.12,
the strongest since Oct. 31.  Portugal will sell 105-day and 168-day bills today.
 Standard & Poor’s  increased the number of Portuguese banks on
“creditwatch negative” yesterday after it cut the country’s
sovereign rating on Jan. 13.  ‘More Pressure’  “There are concerns that Portugal may also need a second
bailout,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast
Pte in Singapore. “If the economy slows even more, banks would
come under more pressure.”  The German government assumes the European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s future permanent backstop, will have
sufficient funds at its disposal, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview on Deutschlandradio public radio.
Greece must fulfill its obligations under its first assistance
program to qualify for aid from a second one, he said.  Europe ’s crisis has increased demand for safer assets. The
yen gained 6.9 percent over the past six months, the second-best
performer among the 10 currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 7.1 percent, and
the euro weakened 2.4 percent.  Japan may act if the yen approaches a new record against
the dollar, according to Naohiko Baba, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s chief economist in Tokyo. The authorities may attempt
large-scale intervention and continue so-called stealth
operations for several days, he wrote in a note today.  Goldman’s Prediction  Japan  refrained from selling yen in the market last month,
the Ministry of Finance said yesterday on its website. Japan
sold the currency on Oct. 31 when it climbed to a postwar record
of 75.35 per dollar.  The implied  volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven currencies rose to 10.61 percent from 10.22 percent last
week, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . An increase
makes investments in currencies with higher lending rates less
attractive because the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profits.  The franc was little changed at 1.20482 per euro after
earlier rising to 1.20319, the strongest since Sept. 19, two
weeks after the SNB imposed the 1.20 floor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  