-- Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Takeover Vetoed by European Commission
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-01T18:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/european-commission-blocks-proposed-deutsche-boerse-nyse-euronext-merger.html
European Union regulators vetoed
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext’s plan to create the
world’s biggest exchange after concluding that the merger would
hurt competition.  The deal would have led to a “near-monopoly” in European
exchange-traded derivatives, the European Commission said in an
e-mailed statement today. Any savings would “not be substantial
enough to outweigh the harm to customers caused by the merger.”
Both exchanges said they will focus on standalone strategies and
are negotiating to terminate the merger, without ruling out an
appeal.  Deutsche Boerse  agreed to acquire its New York rival in a
deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
Since then, the value has plummeted to about $7.45 billion as
Deutsche Boerse’s shares fell before today. The companies
appealed directly to commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
last month to try to salvage their merger, arguing that a ban
would harm European exchanges and drive business to other parts
of the world.  “This is a black day for  Europe  and for its future
competitiveness on global financial markets,” Deutsche Boerse
said in an e-mailed statement. The “decision is based on an
unrealistically narrow definition of the market that does no
justice to the global nature of competition in the market for
derivatives. We therefore regard the decision as wrong.”  Deutsche Boerse advanced 1 percent to 45.653 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  Merger Prohibition  The merger prohibition is the commission’s fourth since
2004, when it overhauled its rules for reviewing deals. The
ruling can be challenged by the companies in the EU courts.
Appealing a merger decision is an attack on the commission’s
legal reasoning and doesn’t say anything about whether companies
intend to resurrect a deal.  “Any challenge is likely to center on whether off-exchange
or over-the-counter exchanges compete against Deutsche Boerse
and  NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  derivatives exchanges,” Emanuela Lecchi, a
London-based lawyer at Watson, Farley & Williams LLP, said in an
e-mail. “This is not an easy challenge” and could take several
years.  Break-Up Fee  NYSE Euronext won’t have to pay a break-up fee of 250
million euros ($329.8 million), Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said in an interview today. The exchange will
consider its options, he said, declining to comment on whether
he will bid for the London Metal Exchange or LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd. An appeal of the ruling to the EU courts “is an option
going forward,” he said.  The veto “really sends a message to the whole industry,”
Niederauer said. “An industry that should consolidate has run
into unanticipated resistance.”  The EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  blocked the deal
“to protect the European economy from the perverse effects of a
combination that would have practically eliminated effective
competition in the market,” he told reporters.  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex, the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, and NYSE’s Liffe “compete head-to-head and are each
other’s closest competitor,” Almunia said. Exchange-traded
derivatives and over-the-counter derivatives are “simply
different products,” he said, rejecting the companies’
arguments that they share the same market.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a group
that represents lenders and brokers including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG,
said regulators “reached the correct decision” because
“potential benefits were undermined” by competition concerns.  Antitrust Problems  There were “serious” antitrust problems on derivatives on
European  interest rates , European single equities and European
equity indices, Almunia said. CME Group Inc., the owner of the
world’s largest futures exchange, offers little real rivalry to
the Deutsche Boerse or NYSE for these derivatives, he said.  Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition of NYSE Euronext would have
put more than 90 percent of Europe’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of  stock trading  in the hands of one
company.  Almunia also cited concerns over access to clearing because
the model used by Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext would create
“major barriers” to any future rivals.  He said customers prefer “to stay on exchanges where they
can pool margin and thereby save collateral” and as a result
“there is simply no prospect of CME or any other player”
posing any real rivalry in the near future.  National Interest  Antitrust concerns have thwarted other exchange tie-ups
around the world.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  abandoned an unsolicited bid for
NYSE Euronext after the U.S. Justice Department threatened to
sue.  Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s (SGX)  $8.8 billion bid for ASX Ltd.
collapsed after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the deal
wasn’t in the national interest.  The commission said offers by NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse to sell overlapping businesses and give rivals access to
post-trade services were “inadequate.”  NYSE Euronext wouldn’t agree “to any concessions that
would compromise or undermine the industrial and economic logic
of the proposed combination,” NYSE Euronext Chairman Jan- Michiel Hessels said in a statement. NYSE said it would now
focus on its “successful standalone strategy.”  NYSE said it will resume a $550 million stock repurchase
program after it reports earnings on Feb. 10 and after the
agreement is formally terminated. Deutsche Boerse reports
earnings Feb. 13.  “I fully expect consolidation to continue in the
industry,” said Richard Perrott, an analyst at Berenberg Bank
in  London . “This last year was a disaster for the exchanges
that wanted to merge, but in this deal it was clear from the
start it was going to be tricky. You were looking to combine the
two dominant derivatives exchanges in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  