-- Europe Needs Tax Cuts for Poor to Boost Labor Market, Borg Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-02-01T18:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/europe-needs-tax-cuts-for-poor-to-boost-labor-market-borg-says.html
European countries should consider
lowering taxes on the poorest citizens to bolster participation
in the labor market, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  “We need income-tax cuts for low-income groups in the long
term,” he said in a speech today at the Stockholm School of
Economics in the Latvian capital, Riga. “It’s a huge difference
when you raise taxes on low-income earners or on income taxes
where you see a direct impact on labor-force participation, or
whether you increase taxes on consumption or property.”  Latvia’s gross domestic product shrank about 25 percent
during its 2008-2010 crisis and the government passed spending
cuts and tax increases equal to approximately 18 percent of
economic output. The country needed a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.9
billion) bailout from a group of international lenders.  The government of Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, which
completed its loan program in December, raised taxes on the
country’s poorest people. The government choose those measures
over higher real-estate taxes or a progressive income tax.  In 2009, the non-taxable minimum income was cut to about 35
lati ($65.88) from 70 lati per month, which was the equivalent
to increasing the effective  tax rate  for the bottom third by 7
percentage points, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
The non-taxable minimum later rose to 45 lati.  ‘Quite High’  “Not only for economic, but also for social reasons, it’s
very, very important that the threshold ceiling, the reward for
entering the labor market, is quite high,” Borg said.  The Baltic country sold international bonds last year and
plans to narrow its  budget deficit  to about 2.5 percent of GDP
in 2013 to qualify for euro adoption two years later.  Latvia’s gini coefficient, which measures inequality, was
the second-highest level in the European Union in 2010, behind
neighboring  Lithuania , according to most recent data available
from  Eurostat . About 21.3 percent of Latvians were at risk of
poverty in 2010, the  EU’s highest level , according to Eurostat.  “The Latvian government has overpreformed when it comes to
building credibility,” Borg said said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
%lvl 