-- Euro Rises Versus Dollar as Manufacturing Data Beats Estimates; Yen Gains
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-01T22:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/euro-erases-decline-against-u-s-dollar-to-trade-little-changed-at-1-31.html
The euro rose against the dollar for
the first time in three days as a purchasing managers’ index of
manufacturing output in the region beat analysts’ estimates,
adding to signs  Europe ’s economy is stabilizing.  The greenback fell versus 13 of its 16 most-traded peers
after manufacturing in  China  and the U.S. also rose, damping
demand for safer assets. The yen earlier appreciated against its
U.S. counterpart, trading within one yen of a record high and
adding to speculation Japan’s central bank may sell the currency
to stem its appreciation.  “The main factor boosting the risk sentiment today is from
the PMI reports globally,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “Markets are
pricing in a more constructive outlook for global growth in
2012, so that’s the main factor behind dollar weakness and
stronger risk appetite.”  The 17-nation currency climbed 0.6 percent to $1.3161 at 5
p.m.  New York  time. The euro rose 0.5 percent to 100.29 yen, and
the dollar dropped 0.1 percent to 76.20 yen, after reaching
76.03 yen, the least since Oct. 31, when it touched a post-World
War II record of 75.35.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.9 percent and
the MSCI World Index of equities rose 1.4 percent.  South Africa ’s rand rose the most against the dollar among
the major currencies, adding 1.6 percent to 7.6884.  The euro reversed an earlier decline after Markit Economics
said its manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the euro region rose to 48.8 in January from 46.9 in
December. That compares to a median estimate of 48.7 in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. In  Germany , the output gauge
reached the highest in six months.  ‘Surprisingly Good’  The official Chinese purchasing managers’ index increased
to 50.5 from 50.3 in December, though the data may have been
distorted by a weeklong holiday.  “The surprisingly good manufacturing PMI surveys out of
Europe are helping risk sentiment and the euro,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva.
“Expectations are everything in this environment, so any upside
surprise is going to have a bigger impact.”  U.S. manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace since June.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  manufacturing index  rose
to 54.1 in January from 53.1 in December, the group said today.  Job Gains  Companies in the U.S. added 170,000 workers in January,
reflecting job gains in services and at small businesses,
according to a private report based on payrolls.  The increase was less than forecast and followed a revised
292,000 rise the prior month that was smaller than previously
reported, the report from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services showed today.  The euro appreciated 1 percent against the dollar last
month as Italian and Spanish bonds outperformed their German
counterparts amid speculation policy makers are bringing the
region’s debt crisis under control. European economic confidence
increased in January and German unemployment dropped more than
economists estimated from the previous month.  In discussions late last week in  Athens , bondholders
negotiating a debt swap with  Greece  lowered their demands for an
average coupon on the new 30-year securities they would receive
to as little as 3.6 percent from 4.25 percent after European
officials demanded they take steeper losses, people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Bear Trend  The euro’s appreciation may be short lived if it fails to
break through the $1.3244-$1.3290 resistance zone,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical
strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York, wrote in a note
to clients. The currency may be poised to resume its bear trend
and weaken to $1.25. Resistance refers to a level where sell
orders may be clustered.  The dollar and the yen are the best performers among the 10
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
in the past six months after the euro area’s debt crisis
increased demand for safer assets. The dollar gained 6 percent
in the period and the yen advanced 5.7 percent, while the euro
weakened 2.2 percent.  Japan  may act if the yen approaches a record against the
dollar, according to Naohiko Baba, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
chief economist in  Tokyo . The authorities may attempt large-
scale intervention and continue so-called stealth operations for
several days, he wrote in a note today.  Swiss Franc  The nation refrained from selling yen in the market last
month, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday on its website.
Japan sold the currency on Oct. 31 when it climbed to the
postwar record, hurting the overseas competitiveness of
exporters and cutting the value of their repatriated income.  Switzerland ’s franc climbed to a four-month high against
the euro, approaching the  Swiss National Bank ’s ceiling. The
franc was little changed at 1.20456 per euro after earlier
appreciating to 1.20319, the strongest since Sept. 19, two weeks
after the SNB imposed a 1.20 cap on the currency.  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro against the
franc has increased for the past four days. Risk-reversal rates
for one-month options on the  currency pair  had a 1.27
percentage-point premium for contracts that grant the right to
sell the euro over those allowing for purchases, after touching
1.47 percentage points, the most since Sept. 19.  The risk-reversal rate “continues to reflect a rising
premium for puts over calls, seemingly indicating a looming test
of wills,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to clients.  Norwegian Krone  A  call option  grants the buyer the right, but not the
obligation, to purchase a security, while put options confer the
right to sell.  The Norwegian krone advanced against the euro after
Norway’s manufacturing expanded in January for the first time
since October. The krone strengthened 0.4 percent to 7.6423 per
euro as the Fokus Bank index rose to 54.9 from 46.6 in December.
It was forecast to rise to 48, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts. A reading above 50 signals an expansion.  South Korea ’s won dropped against all its major
counterparts as exports dropped for the first time in two years
and inflation decelerated. Consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in
January from a year earlier, compared with 4.2 percent the month
before. Exports shrank 6.6 percent, the first decline since
October 2009.  The won declined 0.3 percent to 1,126.35 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  