-- Manufacturing Showing Growth Worldwide as Slump in Europe Eases: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-01T17:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/euro-region-manufacturing-output-contracts-for-sixth-month.html
Global manufacturing picked up in
January, with factory indexes from  China  to Germany and the U.S.
showing growth.  Chinese manufacturing indexes rose as the world’s second-
biggest economy withstood weaker exports driven by Europe’s debt
crisis and a government-induced property slowdown. A U.S. gauge
rose to the highest in seven months. In Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, output grew for the first time since September.
Manufacturing contracted less than initially estimated in the
euro region.  “There are signs that the global economy, the global
manufacturing cycle, is finding its feet,” said  Nick Kounis ,
head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “Things are no
longer deteriorating. On the other hand, we’re not seeing signs
of a sharp rebound. We’re not out of the woods yet in terms of
the European economy at least.”  The strength of  Germany ’s economy has helped to soften the
region’s economic slump as companies boost spending and output
to meet export demand. The danger posed by the euro area’s debt
crisis prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to cut its
forecast for growth throughout the world and warn that the
turmoil may threaten a global recession.  Five-Month High  A  manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the euro region rose to 48.8 from 46.9 in December,
London-based  Markit Economics  said today. It had previously
reported a gain to 48.7. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  With today’s report adding to some signs of economic
stabilization, Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson  said the
region “may avoid a slide back into recession.”  The euro erased losses after the data were released,
trading at $1.3192 at 5:44 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.8 percent. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 index was up 2 percent to 259.51.  Markit’s report that the euro-area manufacturing gauge
reached a five-month high followed positive news from  Asia . The
official Chinese purchasing managers’ index increased to 50.5
from 50.3 in December, though the data may have been distorted
by a weeklong holiday. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit rose to 48.8.  India ’s manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace in eight months.  ‘Soft-Landing Story’  “Today’s data further confirmed a soft-landing story for
China,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas
SA. “However, consumer demand may weaken after holiday effects
disappear,” and global “uncertainties” and the Chinese
government’s efforts to curb property prices “will continue to
weigh on exports and industrial production,” he said.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index  rose to 54.1 from 53.1 in December. The  median estimate  of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 54.5. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. A separate report showed
construction spending rose 1.5 percent in December.  Peter Loescher , chief executive officer of  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Europe’s largest electrical engineering company, said in an
interview on Jan. 24 that while he sees a “mild recession” in
Europe, the U.S. is showing a “stable environment.”  “We clearly stick to the targets despite the fact that the
real economy is impacted by the crisis in Europe,” he said.
“The underlying business is still positive.”  New Orders  The German  output gauge  reached the highest in six months,
while Austria also reported an expansion, Markit said. In the
Netherlands,  France , Ireland and  Italy , the indicator showed a
contraction last month. While a gauge of new export orders
dropped for a seventh straight month in January, companies
reported the weakest decline since July.  In the U.K., manufacturing returned to growth in January
after shrinking in the previous three months, a report showed.  “Euro-area manufacturing has started 2012 surprisingly
well,” Williamson said. “The concern is that new orders have
yet to return to growth, even in Germany, suggesting that
companies will be reluctant to expand capacity and take on more
staff until signs of stronger demand have appeared.”  Job gains in Germany and France were offset by losses
elsewhere, according to Markit. Companies in Greece and Spain
eliminated jobs at the fastest pace, it said. European
unemployment held at 10.4 percent in December.  “We are cautious about 2012 given the uncertainty in the
global economy, and Europe in particular,” Frans van Houten,
chief executive officer of  Royal Philips (PHIA)  Electronics NV, the
world’s largest lightbulb maker based in Amsterdam, said on Jan.
30. “Europe is not a great place for growth right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  