-- Euro-Area Inflation Remains Steady in January at 2.7%
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-01T10:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/euro-area-consumer-price-growth-held-steady-in-january-at-2-7-.html
European inflation  remained steady in
January, suggesting companies struggled to pass on higher costs
to consumers as growth weakened.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area was 2.7
percent, the same rate as in December, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. The  European Central Bank  aims to keep inflation just
below 2 percent.  Europe’s economy is showing signs of  contraction  as
austerity measures across the region undermine consumer demand,
making it more difficult for companies to pass on higher energy
costs. ECB President Mario Draghi on Jan. 12 cited rising energy
costs among the main reasons for faster inflation and called
risks to the price outlook “broadly balanced.”  “It may seem like price pressure at first glance, but
there’s a significant easing ahead,” Mario Jung, an economist
BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said before today’s report. “In the
fourth quarter at the latest, we’ll reach inflation rates just
below 2 percent. We expect the ECB to cut the benchmark as low
as 0.5 percent this year.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3141 at 11:07 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent.  Crude Prices  Euro-region inflation may average 2 percent this year, down
from an estimated 2.7 percent in 2011, the ECB said on Dec. 8 in
its latest projections. Next year, consumer prices may increase
1.5 percent on average, it said.  Crude-oil prices have increased 7.4 percent over the past
three months, eroding consumers’ purchasing power just as
governments from  Spain  to  Greece  toughened austerity measures.
European unemployment held at the highest in  almost 14 years  in
December, suggesting companies are increasingly forced to cut
jobs to protect earnings.  In  France , Europe’s third-largest economy,  consumer
spending  dropped 0.7 percent in December from the previous month
as President Nicolas Sarkozy prepared to implement the second
round of tax increases and spending cuts in less than half a
year. Italian  consumer confidence  remained at a 16-year low in
January after the government stepped up budget cuts.  Still, some companies have relied on faster-growing markets
to bolster earnings.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  is “very confident” for 2012,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said on Jan. 4. So-called
new markets, which accounted for 36 percent of sales last year,
will become the company’s  largest source  of revenue by region
this year, ahead of  North America  and  Europe , he said.  The statistics office is scheduled to release a breakdown
of January consumer prices later this month. Euro-area  core
inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as energy, held at
1.6 percent in December from the previous month.  The ECB will hold its next meeting on Feb. 9. The central
bank has cut its  interest rates  twice over the past three
months, bringing the  benchmark  to 1 percent, matching a  record
low .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  