-- Texas Billionaire Simmons Bankrolling Multiple Republican Causes
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-01T06:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/texas-billionaire-simmons-bankrolling-multiple-republican-causes.html
Harold Simmons, a  Texas  billionaire,
gave $8.5 million in the last six months of 2011 to support two
Republican presidential contenders and a political action
committee founded with help from  Karl Rove , U.S. Federal
Election Commission filings released yesterday show.  The donations make Simmons, 80, a standout in a roster of
executives and wealthy investors who are taking advantage of
loosened campaign-finance regulations to sink millions of
dollars into political committees seeking to influence the 2012
presidential race, according to the disclosure reports.  Such donors include Jon Huntsman Sr., a chemical company
executive and father of candidate Jon Huntsman Jr.;  Paul Singer ,
president and founder of hedge fund Elliott Management Corp.;
and  Steven Spielberg , co-principal of  DreamWorks Animation SKG. (DWA)   The four main Republican presidential super-PACs raised $34
million and spent $8.5 million in 2011, FEC reports show. A
super-PAC backing former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
Restore Our Future, raised $30.2 million of that $34 million, or
89 percent.  Simmons’ donations differ from other contributors in that
he gave to super-PACs backing presidential candidates and
American Crossroads, the group backed by Rove, a former adviser
to President  George W. Bush , that plans to run ads to defeat
President  Barack Obama . American Crossroads will also weigh in
on House and Senate races.  Swift Boat Ads  Long active in Texas politics, Simmons has a history of
using his money to influence politics outside the traditional
party and candidate structures. In 2004, he gave $4 million to
Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that questioned
Democratic nominee  John Kerry ’s Vietnam War service.  E-mails to Simmons and his assistant weren’t returned last
night.  Simmons and his Contran Corp. holding company were the
single-largest contributors to American Crossroads and to
independent committees backing former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  during the filing period
covered in yesterday’s release.  The $7 million that Simmons and Contran gave American
Crossroads accounted for 60 percent of the group’s total haul
between Oct. 4 and the end of the year. He also gave the group
$1 million in 2010, disclosure reports show.  Gingrich, Perry Donations  Simmons gave $500,000 to a pro-Gingrich group, Winning Our
Future, on Dec. 15, and his company wrote two $500,000 checks to
a pro-Perry group, Make Us Great Again, on Sept. 23 and Oct. 24.  Dallas-based  Contran (CTRW) , which has stakes in companies that
produce chemicals and manage waste, gave the most to Make Us
Great Again: $1 million in two donations, including the one in
October. Perry quit his presidential bid on Jan. 19.  Simmons and Perry have a record of supporting each other.
Simmons donated more than $1.2 million to Perry’s gubernatorial
campaigns. Under Perry’s watch in Austin, Simmons’ company was
granted a permit to build a radioactive waste dump -- a move
that prompted at least three members of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality to resign in protest.  The pro-Gingrich Winning Our Future’s latest backer, Las
Vegas casino mogul  Sheldon Adelson , didn’t contribute to the
committee in the period documented by yesterday’s FEC filing. He
and his wife gave $10 million to the committee last month,
according to  Rick Tyler , the super-PAC’s spokesman.  Family Ties  Other Las Vegas residents with family ties to Adelson, Oren
and Yasmin Lukatz and Sivan Ochshorn, gave a combined $1 million
in December to Winning Our Future, about half the committee’s
total receipts for December, the period the committee reported
yesterday.  Tyler, a former Gingrich campaign spokesman, said yesterday
on Bloomberg Television that he has “no knowledge” of whether
more money from Adelson, chairman of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , is
on the way to the super-PAC.  The super-PAC supporting Romney, the winner of yesterday’s
Florida primary, also listed large contributions from business
backers in the final three months of 2011.  Among them were checks for $1 million written by Robert Mercer, co-chief executive officer of hedge fund Renaissance
Technologies; Singer, Elliott Management’s president; and  Julian Robertson , co-founder and president of hedge fund Tiger
Management LLC.  Democratic Donors  Priorities USA Action, a super-PAC backing Obama, gained
the high-dollar support of several Hollywood fixtures.  Spielberg, the movie director, contributed $100,000 in
July, and William Little Jr., chairman of George Little
Management LLC in New York, contributed $150,000 in December.
Almost half of Priorities’ $1.2 million donations in the final
six months of the year came from a $500,000 Dec. 28 contribution
by the Service Employees International Union’s Committee on
Political Education.  Priorities was founded in April. Among its first
contributions was a $2 million check from Jeffrey Katzenberg,
chief executive officer of DreamWorks Animation, a July FEC
filing shows.  Bill Burton , co-founder of Priorities USA Action, said in a
telephone interview yesterday that he is seeking money from “a
community of Democrats” who fear the damaging messages expected
to come from Republican-backed super-PACs such as American
Crossroads.  ‘Open Checkbook’  Foster Friess, a  fund manager  and evangelical Christian who
told Bloomberg Television in a Jan. 27 interview that he has an
“open checkbook” for anyone who opposes Obama, contributed
$331,000 to a committee supportive of Santorum.  The Red White and Blue Fund also collected $250,000 from
John Templeton Jr. to assist Santorum, who on Jan. 14 was
endorsed by a group of religious leaders. Templeton runs his
late father’s philanthropy, the John Templeton Foundation.  Endorse Liberty, a super-PAC backing U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas, reported raising $1,020,055 last year, the
majority of it from two December contributions totaling $900,000
made by Peter Thiel, Clarium Capital Management investor and
active Republican donor.  Former Utah Governor Huntsman’s candidacy, which ended Jan.
16, was supported by $1.9 million from his father. The money
accounted for about 70 percent of super-PAC Our Destiny’s
receipts last year. Huntsman dropped out of the race after
placing third in the New Hampshire primary and endorsed Romney.  Congressional Donations  Big donors also are pouring money into Senate and House
races.  Majority PAC, which supports Senate Democrats saw
contributions of $500,000 in November from James H. Simons, a
philanthropist with Euclidean Capital LLC; $100,000 in December
from  George Soros ; and $100,000 in August from Portland
publisher Win McCormack. House Majority PAC took in $150,000 in
October from Fred Eychaner, a frequent donor.  Bernard Schwartz, a major donor to  Bill Clinton ’s 1992
election and re-election, made $100,000 contributions to both
groups. Schwartz is chief executive officer of BLS Investments,
a private investment firm based in  New York  and was chief
executive officer of  Loral Space & Communications Inc . in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  