-- Texas Voter Map Ruling Won’t Come This Month
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-01T23:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/texas-voter-map-ruling-won-t-come-this-month.html
The legality of Texas’s electoral
maps probably won’t be ruled on this month, said federal judges
in  Washington  considering whether the proposed districts put
Hispanic voters at a disadvantage.  The three-judge panel, in a ruling today, told both sides
in the case that “this court does not anticipate issuing any
order within the next 30 days.” The one-sentence order was
issued a day after the end of a two-week bench trial over the
legality of the state assembly and congressional districts.  Federal judges hearing a related case in  San Antonio  last
week urged the Washington panel to expedite a ruling to guide
their redistricting efforts. The state’s primary is scheduled
for April 3.  “This undoubtedly reduces the chances of an April 3rd
primary and absent a resolution by the litigants,  Texas  might
have a primary in the summer,” Trey Martinez Fischer, a
Democratic member of the Texas House of Representatives and
chairman of the Mexican American Legislative Caucus, which is
fighting the state’s maps, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Texas attorney general’s office is working to resolve
the redistricting matters as quickly as possible in a way that
properly and fairly applies the law,” Lauren Bean, a
spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said in an
e-mail. She said Abbott is personally reaching out to
representatives of both African American and Latino interest
groups to see if they can agree on interim maps.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on today’s order.  Republican Legislature  The dispute stems from maps drawn last year by the
Republican-controlled Texas legislature after the decennial
census. Governor  Rick Perry  signed the maps into law.  The U.S. objects to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts.  Texas sued the administration of President Barack Obama in
July seeking so-called pre-clearance for the state’s new maps
under the Voting Rights Act, a step required of all states with
a history of voting-rights violations.  U.S. District Judges Beryl Howell, Rosemary Collyer, and
Circuit Judge  Thomas Griffith  ruled in November that Texas used
an “improper standard or methodology” when determining whether
minorities had the ability to elect their preferred candidates.  Abbott’s office was asked by the judges in Texas last week
to keep trying to broker a compromise with Latino activists that
would let the court create interim election maps and allow Texas
to conduct primary elections without delay.  The case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  