-- Mexico’s Democracy Needs Justice System to Match: Enrique Krauze
-- B y   E n r i q u e   K r a u z e
-- 2012-02-01T00:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mexico-s-democracy-needs-justice-system-to-match-enrique-krauze.html
Mexican culture doesn’t have much
room for fiction about criminal investigations or the solving of
crimes by the police.  There have been some significant crime novels, notably the
series written by  Paco Ignacio Taibo II  starring the private
detective, Hector Belascoaran Shayne. But investigative
victories by the police? The mere idea of a Mexican Hercule
Poirot sounds unreal. This isn’t much of a mystery, either,
considering the nature, in general at least, of the Mexican
police and its procedures.  Here’s an example. About 30 years ago, a kidnapping and
murder in Mexico City deeply disturbed the public. The
perpetrator turned out to be a vicious member of an upper
middle-class family; the victim was a young girl. The wave of
indignation was such that the crime and its aftermath were
featured on the front pages of newspapers and as the lead story
of broadcasts. The killer was quickly arrested and, a few days
later, died by hanging while in custody. The official cause of
death was suicide but it was generally recognized that other
prisoners, in cahoots with prison authorities, had settled the
case long before trial.  In a country without the death penalty and where a suspect
with money to spend can hire an excellent lawyer and perhaps
even offer appropriately directed bribes, investigation,
conviction and adequate punishment might have been difficult to
achieve even in so horrifying a case. No matter. What we called
“the system,” unconcerned with mere “legality,” had its own
way of doing things, its own version of “justice.”  Idiosyncratic and Natural  We knew this “system” was corrupt. And yet some
illustrious political scientists outside the country (who
studied us with the curiosity of entomologists) saw this
corruption as something interesting, idiosyncratic, natural and
even positive. They would call it “the oil that lubricates the
machine” and argue that in “developing societies” corruption
within a hegemonic party (like the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , or PRI, during its 71 years in power) was preferable to
an open dictatorship or anarchy.  What they or their Mexican counterparts failed to note or
admit was that such governments accustomed their people to
illegality and personal power as a way of life. Nor did they
propose the remedy of a transition to true electoral democracy.  This notorious case was a good example of how this system
functioned in the area of criminal justice. The criminal’s rapid
identification and arrest were surely a product of information
obtained through the underworld connections of the police (the
use of informers is common in all criminal-justice systems). But
the utterly personal chain of command was a distinct feature of
the pre-democratic Mexican “system.”  Alarmed by all the media uproar, the president of  Mexico 
would have summoned his secretary of the interior and the order
to give this case special attention would have then been passed
down to a sub-secretary of the interior, and from there to the
director of national security, to the police chief of Mexico
City and on to the police officers who carried out the arrest.  Each level of communication involved a direct or implicit
menace. Heads would roll if this child-murderer remained at
large. And so he was arrested swiftly and the case ended with
what was, in effect, a modernized application of the Latin-
American ley de fuga (law of flight), the summary execution of a
prisoner justified, in its classic form, as a response to his
“attempt to escape.”  Democratic Transition  The transition to democracy in 2000 dismantled “the
system,” though it had already begun to change during the
previous decade. But its traces remain.  I once heard a recent secretary of the interior complain
that his predecessors hadn’t left him their files. It’s an open
question whether those files ever existed on paper or whether --
more likely -- only as notations in the minds of certain
officials, such as the celebrated Fernando Gutierrez Barrios,
who was at the center of power and controlled secret
intelligence for PRI governments off and on for 40 years. He was
a distinguished gentleman with an extremely keen and shrewd
intelligence. On the one occasion when I had a chance to speak
with him at length, he seemed to know everything related to
political or criminal violence in Mexico. I wouldn’t be at all
surprised if he were the decision maker behind the rapid arrest
(and perhaps even the ultimate fate) of that murderer.  Unpunished, or as the subject of a protracted search
chronicled in the media, the crime might have raised doubts
about the power of the state. For that reason, and not in the
first place for the sake of law or of justice, this assault and
murder of a child, a crime considered by the public as beyond
any acceptable bounds, was moved to the forefront of police
concerns.  Despite the reputation for corruption of the Mexican
police, it is by no means true that all officers were or are
corrupt; nor has the penal code, then or now, been simply
ignored. But under the PRI’s hegemony, justice was subordinated
to the needs of central power, especially in those areas that
were felt to compromise national security: highly publicized
crimes; the activities of guerilla groups; and, of course, the
traffic in narcotics.  The arrival of democracy had a centrifugal impact on this
“system.” The effect was beneficial but could also serve the
interests of more localized corruption, among politicians,
criminals and various elements of the police. A decision was
therefore taken to reconstruct the police, from the ground up
and beginning at the federal level.  It is vital that the next president and Congress (which
will be formed by midyear elections) accelerate this process.
The proposal that makes the most sense is the reconfiguring of
the police into 32 state forces closely linked with the center.
The task of this new force would be to eliminate the corrupt
procedures left over from the heyday of the “system” and
implement the ethical rules and practical methods of controlling
crime within the rule of law.  Perhaps then we would experience the minor, but satisfying,
added benefit of good fiction featuring the efforts of upright
and admirable police officers.  ( Enrique Krauze , the author of “Mexico: Biography of
Power” and “Redeemers: Ideas and Power in  Latin America ,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
This article was translated from the Spanish by Hank Heifetz.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Enrique Krauze at  ekrauze@prodigy.net.mx   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  