-- MF Global Risk Chief Switch Stalled Euro Debt Cut by Six Months
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-02T20:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mf-global-risk-chief-switch-stalled-euro-debt-cut-by-six-months.html
U.S. lawmakers questioned whether  MF
Global Holding Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s decision to replace Michael Roseman as
chief risk officer a year ago was driven by his warnings over
bets on European debt that helped push the firm to bankruptcy.  Roseman, who said that his concerns were dismissed as
“implausible” by then-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, testified today along with his successor, Michael G. Stockman, at a House Financial Services Investigation
subcommittee hearing in Washington.  “It appears Mr. Roseman was the chief risk officer until
he stopped telling Mr. Corzine what he wanted to hear,”
Representative Michael Capuano of  Massachusetts , the panel’s top
Democrat, said during a question-and-answer session.  In his first public testimony since MF Global filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, Roseman told lawmakers that the futures
brokerage “would still be here” if it hadn’t made a $6.3
billion bet on European sovereign debt. The concerns he
expressed about the firm’s exposure “certainly played a role”
in his removal, he said.  Congress, the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,
 Securities and Exchange Commission  and  Justice Department  are
investigating events surrounding the collapse of MF Global,
including the disappearance of $1.2 billion in customer funds.  Stockman, who replaced Roseman in January 2011, said he
initially agreed with Corzine’s assessment of the risks, calling
them “acceptable” when he joined the firm. That statement drew
criticism from lawmakers, who suggested that Stockman was given
the job because he would give the answer that Corzine wanted.  ‘Yes Man’  “It almost looks like they took Mr. Roseman out and
replaced him with a yes man,” said Representative Stephen Fincher, a Tennessee Republican.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, declined to
comment today about Roseman’s testimony.  Stockman told lawmakers that he changed his assessment
after credit markets deteriorated later in 2011 and that he told
MF Global’s senior management and board in July and August that
the European debt bets posed liquidity and default risks.  “To the best of my recollection, following my presentation
at the August 2011 board meeting, the board and senior
management made an informed business judgment to cease adding to
the company’s long position,” he said.  Corzine, a Democrat who served in the Senate and as  New
Jersey ’s governor, testified three times in December before
congressional panels looking into the brokerage’s bankruptcy.
Today’s hearing focused on the role of risk officers and credit-
rating firms in the run-up to the collapse.  Missing Client Funds  In his testimony, Roseman said the company steadily
increased its risk limits for bets on Italian, Spanish and other
European sovereign debt during 2010. In October of that year, he
expressed concerns about the capital and liquidity risk of the
trades, he said.  “I discussed my concerns about the positions and the risk
scenarios with Mr. Corzine and others,” Roseman said. “The
risk scenarios I presented were challenged as being
implausible.”  In January 2011, Roseman was told he would be replaced by
Stockman. Roseman assisted in the transition until March.  MF Global began cutting European debt exposure in August,
around the time regulators including the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority were pressuring the firm to raise capital.  Downgrade  By late October, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded MF
Global to one level above junk status, citing its ongoing
inability to meet earnings targets and concern that it wasn’t
sufficiently managing risk.  MF Global sought  bankruptcy protection  less than a week
after reporting a quarterly loss of $191.6 million for the three
months through Sept. 30.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , the Texas Republican who
led today’s hearing, said his panel will continue its
investigation and will produce a report on the findings.  Investigators have located almost all of the $1.2 billion
in client money that went missing as the firm unraveled, a
person briefed on the matter said yesterday. The probe has
traced 90 percent of the money to other customer or bank
accounts, according to the person, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the investigation is private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  