-- MF Global Parent Receives 71 Claims Totaling $188.7 Million Since November
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-01T16:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mf-global-parent-receives-71-claims-totaling-188-7-million-since-november.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , the bankrupt
parent of the commodity brokerage, received 71 claims totaling
$188.7 million from Nov. 4 to Jan. 31, according to a claims
register.  The largest of the claims was from former employees Todd
Thielmann and Pierre-Yvan Desparois, who sued the parent company
in November to recover 60 days’ wages and benefits for
themselves and other employees. They filed an unliquidated claim
of $25 million.  American Bullion Exchange Abex Corp. filed two claims
totaling about $7.7 million, and Blackrock Financial Management
Inc. claimed $4 million. MF Global Holdings previously published
a list of its largest known unsecured creditors that was topped
by bondholder trustees  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Deutsche Bank
AG, each guarding more than $1 billion of bonds.  Separately, the liquidator of broker-dealer  MF Global Inc. (MF) 
is counting “thousands of claims” that were filed by
yesterday’s deadline and expects to have a preliminary report
tomorrow on the type and number of claims filed, spokesman  Kent Jarrell  said. An estimate of the amount of payment requests may
be ready next week, he said in an e-mail today.  Brokerage trustee James Giddens has returned about
$3.8 billion to customers after estimating that $1.2 billion or
more is missing from their accounts.  ‘Actionable Intelligence’  “We are pressing our investigative team to now come up
with actionable intelligence that the trustee can use to
determine the location of remaining customers assets, and most
importantly, if we can get those assets back under the trustee’s
control for return to customers,” Jarrell said. “The trustee
will use all appropriate and legal means to get those assets.”  The MF Global parent filed for bankruptcy with almost $40
billion in debt on Oct. 31 after making bets on European
sovereign debt and getting margin calls.  The employee suit is Thielmann v. MF Global Finance USA,
11-02880,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  