-- MF Global Holdings Judge Rejects Customer Bid for Conversion to Chapter 7
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-01T16:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mf-global-holdings-judge-rejects-customer-bid-for-conversion-to-chapter-7.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s brokerage customers
can’t have the bankruptcy of the company’s parent converted to a
Chapter 7 liquidation or conduct their own probe into its
collapse, a judge ruled  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn denied a request from
former commodity customer Sapere Wealth Management LLC in papers
filed today in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court. Sapere argued
commodity customers should be paid in full before creditors of
the parent get any money and sought to have MF Global Holdings’
Chapter 11 bankruptcy converted to a Chapter 7 liquidation. The
firm also asked for its own probe of how MF Global failed.  “The  Justice Department , FBI, CFTC, SEC, SIPA Trustee, and
Chapter 11 Trustee are all actively investigating the collapse
of MFGI and MFGH,” Glenn wrote in his ruling. “Now is
definitely not the time for discovery by private parties, such
as Sapere.”  Glenn said Sapere failed to establish any reason that the
case should be dismissed or changed to a Chapter 7. The move
would “only increase the administrative expenses” and reduce
recoveries for all creditors, he said.  At a hearing on Sapere’s request Jan. 19, Glenn said the
customer can’t stake claims to the parent’s assets before
investigations into how the company failed are completed.  Margin Calls  The parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., once run by former New
Jersey governor  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank
demands for money. The brokerage and the parent are in different
bankruptcy proceedings handled by two trustees.  Sapere, an  investment manager  based in Matthews,  North
Carolina , said in court papers that the parent company violated
rules for protecting brokerage-customer funds. The parent should
be liquidated as a futures broker, giving customers all their
money “on a first priority basis, ahead of all creditors,
secured and unsecured,” Sapere argued.  The brokerage trustee is returning 72 percent of customers’
assets, saying at least $1.2 billion is missing from their
accounts. Brokerage customers are demanding more, while
creditors of the parent company, who have yet to receive any
money, are trying to improve their potential payout.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  