-- Facebook Builds Washington Presence With PAC
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-01T17:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/facebook-builds-washington-presence-with-pac.html
Facebook Inc., before a planned
initial public offering, is following the path of technology
companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in ramping up its presence in
 Washington  and forming a political action committee.  The PAC raised $170,000 in the last three months of 2011,
according to a filing with the U.S. Federal Election Commission
yesterday. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg gave $5,000,
marking his first federal campaign donation, according to a
search of records at the FEC and Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks political money.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
created the PAC in September. PACs allow companies to wield
clout in Washington by donating to lawmakers who share their
philosophy or sit on committees that have jurisdiction over
issues that affect their business. Facebook hasn’t yet donated
to any federal candidates, according to yesterday’s filing.  “Facebook has really increased its lobbying and also
started raising cash to make friends of its own in Washington
politics,” said Michael Beckel, a spokesman for the Center for
Responsive Politics. “These are the traditional tools that
companies and interest groups utilize, so it’s not surprising to
see Facebook jumping into that game.”  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, spent $1.35
million on lobbying last year, up from $351,390 in 2010.  Microsoft, Google  Microsoft accelerated its lobbying and PAC donations after
confronting a Justice Department antitrust suit and
congressional hearings in the 1990s. More recently,  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
ratcheted up its Washington presence while facing a Federal
Trade Commission investigation.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, gave $1.2 million
to federal candidates and political committees for the 2010
elections, up from $212,000 for the 1998 elections, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  Mountain View , California-based Google gave $336,000 to
candidates for the last set of elections, compared with $31,000
for the 2006 cycle.  Facebook’s chief operating officer,  Sheryl Sandberg ,
donated $5,000 to the company’s PAC on Oct. 13, the report
showed. She has contributed tens of thousands of dollars to
Democratic candidates including President Barack Obama.  Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman and Joe Lockhart,
the company’s vice president of global communications and a
former White House press secretary in Democrat  Bill Clinton ’s
administration, also gave $5,000 each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  