-- FCC Pushes E-Textbooks on U.S. Schools Facing Budget Crunch
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fcc-calls-for-u-s-students-to-have-e-textbooks-in-five-years.html
A Federal Communications Commission
effort to bring digital textbooks to U.S. students faces
resistance from schools with limited budgets for buying devices
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet computer.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  announced plans yesterday
to get all U.S. students from kindergarten through the 12th
grade using electronic titles within five years. The initiative,
which doesn’t involve any additional U.S. government funding, is
meant to speed adoption of e-textbooks. The U.S. spends $7
billion a year on textbooks, and digital versions are the
exception, rather than the rule, Genachowski said.  Textbook publishers including Houghton Mifflin Harcourt,
 Pearson Plc (PSON)  and  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  have been making the digital
transition and offer a “vast array” of electronic textbooks,
while many schools don’t have the devices needed to use them,
Jay Diskey, executive director of the school division for the
Washington-based Association of American Publishers, said in an
interview.  “There are a number of issues at the state and local level
where schools are cash-strapped and don’t have enough money to
spend on hardware,” including tablet computers, said Diskey,
whose organization represents publishing companies including
textbook manufacturers.  Genachowski and U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan
released guidelines yesterday for schools to transition to
digital textbooks. They plan to convene a meeting next month of
chief executive officers of technology, wireless and publishing
companies to spur growth in the e-textbook market. Apple,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  will be among those
invited, Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said.  Apple’s Service  Apple last month introduced a service to make digital
versions of textbooks available on the iPad and beef up the
education content for the tablet computer as it gains popularity
in classrooms.  The service, called iBooks 2, will help make textbooks more
interactive with videos, animations and search features,  Phil Schiller , Apple’s senior vice president of product marketing,
said at a Jan. 19 event in  New York . More than 1.5 million iPads
are being used for educational purposes, he said.  Apple couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the
FCC’s e-textbook initiative.  Electronic readers would let students avoid carrying
backpacks filled with 50 pounds of out-of-date textbooks, and
offer educational advantages, Genachowski said in prepared
remarks at an event yesterday in  Washington .  “We’re talking about students having interactive learning
devices that can offer lessons personalized to their learning
style and level, and enable real-time feedback to parents,
teachers, or tutors,” he said.  Funding Challenges  Many school districts grappling with lower  tax revenue  have
dismissed teachers and staff and put off building projects, and
may not have funding for digital devices, said Kitty
Porterfield, spokeswoman for the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 American Association  of School Administrators.  “There are lots of schools across the country for whom
this is going to be a long, difficult and expensive journey,”
Porterfield said by phone. “Everybody sees the future coming. I
don’t think that’s the issue, but financing is a problem.”  The FCC provides more than $2.25 billion annually to
connect U.S. schools and libraries to high-speed Internet
service through its E-Rate program, Grace said in an e-mail. The
program includes a pilot for supporting wireless connectivity
for mobile learning devices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  