-- Fed Nominee Stein Got Consulting Fees From Bank of America, State Street
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-01T13:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fed-nominee-stein-got-consulting-fees-from-bank-of-america-state-street.html
Harvard University professor  Jeremy Stein  earned $198,500 giving speeches and consulting for
financial institutions prior to his nomination to the Federal
Reserve’s Board of Governors.  Stein, a professor with expertise in banking and finance,
received earned speaking fees of $35,000 from Deutsche Bank AG,
$20,000 from State Street Corp. and $25,000 from Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch in 2010 and 2011, according to his
financial disclosure with the Office of Government Ethics. He
also was paid $100,000 for a consulting report for the Clearing
House Corporation, a group of the nation’s largest commercial
banks.  President Barack Obama last month announced the nominations
of Stein and Jerome Powell, an attorney who was a Treasury
undersecretary for President George H.W. Bush, to fill two
vacancies on the Fed’s board in November.  No hearing has been scheduled in Congress for the nominees.
Republican minority leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said that
Obama’s decision to use a recess appointment to install the new
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau “threatens
the confirmation process.”  Also in limbo are nominees for other bank regulator jobs:
Martin J. Gruenberg as head of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.;  Thomas Hoenig , the FDIC’s nominee for vice-chairman; and
Thomas J. Curry, Obama’s nominee to be the comptroller of the
currency. All three were approved by the Senate Banking
Committee with bipartisan support and are awaiting final
confirmation by the full chamber.  Asset Managers  According to his financial disclosures, Stein has between
$3 million and $6.3 million in assets, with most of that in
accounts with asset managers Vanguard Group Inc., TIAA-CREF and
 Fidelity Investments . The federal forms require officials to
report only a range in the value of holdings. Primary residences
are excluded.  Stein didn’t respond to a telephone message and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Stein served in the Obama administration from February to
July of 2009 as a senior adviser to U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and as a staff economist on the White
House’s National Economic Council.  Obama’s most recent pick for a seat on the Fed, Nobel
prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond , withdrew his nomination
in June of 2011 in the face of Republican opposition.  Diamond’s nomination ran into opposition from Senator
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee. Shelby said Diamond, a professor at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , lacked the practical
qualifications for the Fed job and experience regulating banks
and managing financial crises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  