-- Fernandez Curbing Imports Leaves Argentines Searching in Vain for Fridges
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-01T15:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fernandez-curbs-imports-as-argentines-search-in-vain-for-fridges.html
Retiree Teresa Teffer searched
branches of  Argentina ’s leading appliance retailers for a fridge
and oven she’d seen on display less than two months earlier. She
gave up after finding neither.  “They have nothing to offer me,” the 71-year-old said as
she left an  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  store in  Buenos Aires ’s Alto
Avellaneda shopping mall. “There are only a couple of lesser-
known brands. The government is forcing me to buy what it wants
and not what I want.”  Consumers face fewer choices in everything from blenders to
computer parts as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner curbs
 import s to shore up a dwindling trade surplus and protect
manufacturers whose competitiveness is suffering from a peso
that’s not weakening fast enough to offset  inflation . The
restrictions forced automaker  Fiat SpA (F) ’s local unit to suspend
production this month and prompted Brazil’s Trade Minister
Fernando Pimentel to say that neighboring Argentina is a
“permanent problem.”  In response to the restraints, which are set to tighten
further today, retailers and wholesalers are reducing the
selection of brands and goods they sell in  South America ’s
second-largest economy. Computer parts are among items that are
becoming increasingly difficult to obtain, said Oscar Delpino,
39, who builds and repairs PCs.  “Everything I use is imported, so I have to waste time
going from one supplier to another to find what I need,”
Delpino, who works from his home in the Buenos Aires suburb of
Colegiales, said in a telephone interview. Sellers also take
advantage of scarcities to increase prices, he said.  Replace Imports  Falabella declined to comment, according to Nueva
Comunicacion, which manages press relations for the Santiago-
based company.  Industry Minister Debora Giorgi said the government is
defending Argentine manufacturers and rejected Pimentel’s
charges about the country’s ties with  Brazil , its biggest trade
partner.  “The reality of bilateral trade between Argentina and
Brazil shows we don’t deserve such comments,” Giorgi said in a
Jan. 19 statement. “We defend our production from unfair
competition.”  Imports from Brazil rose 23 percent last year as Argentina
bought $5.8 billion more from its neighbor than it exported,
according to Giorgi.  Friction between Argentina and Brazil, the biggest members
of the four-nation Mercosur trade bloc, may rise from today,
when Argentina will require importers to seek authorization from
the federal tax agency before purchasing goods abroad.  Special Treatment  The measure will affect about 80 percent of Brazilian
exports to Argentina and involves about 5,500 Argentine
importers, according to the research department of the Sao Paulo
Industrial Federation. Its president, Paulo Skaf, said he’s
seeking special treatment for goods from Brazil given its status
as a Mercosur member.  “If we have an industry with containers that are held up
and need to be shipped, we can’t get into a dispute that’s going
to take a year to resolve,” Skaf said in a Jan. 20 statement.
Skaf will meet with Argentine Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino
tomorrow in Buenos Aires, officials at the industrial federation
said.  In the past 12 months, the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange’s
benchmark  Merval (MERVAL)  index lost 22.4 percent compared with a 5.3
percent drop in the Sao Paulo  Bovespa (IBOV)  index. Argentina’s  dollar
bonds  returned 1.2 percent in the same period while Brazil’s
 dollar bonds  returned 14 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ indexes.  Debt Default  Blocked from international credit markets since a 2001
default, Argentina relies on a  trade surplus  to build up central
bank  reserves , which the government uses to pay its foreign debt
and slow the depreciation of the peso. This year, the peso has
weakened 0.84 percent against the  U.S. dollar , the only decline
among the region’s major currencies.  Still, the peso isn’t weakening fast enough for the
nation’s manufacturers to compete with foreign-made goods. Last
year, the currency weakened 7.5 percent while economists
estimate consumer prices rose about 25 percent, more than double
the 9.5 percent reported by the national statistics institute.  “The government tries to restrict imports with
bureaucratic barriers,” said Maximiliano Castillo, a former
manager of macroeconomic analysis at the central bank, who now
runs ACM Consultores in Buenos Aires. “These measures won’t
reverse the decline in the surplus. More controls won’t solve
the problem.”  Narrowing Surplus  Imports rose 11 percent in December from a year earlier,
the smallest increase in two years. The  trade surplus , fueled by
demand for soybean and automobile exports, narrowed in 2011 for
a second year, falling to $10.3 billion from $11.6 billion. The
surplus will decline to $4.5 billion or less this year,
depending on the effects of a drought that may cost $2.5 billion
in lost agricultural exports, said Castillo.  To protect industry and encourage investment, the
government last year reached accords with sellers of foreign-
made cars to match their imports, dollar for dollar, with
exports. As a result, Porsche importer Nordenwagen SA will ship
wine and olives, while Bayerische Motoren Werke AG has committed
to exporting auto parts, upholstery leather and rice.  The shutdown of Fiat’s factory in Cordoba province this
month ended two days after it started when the government agreed
to expedite approval of the parts the company was trying to
import. Giorgi called the unit of Turin-based Fiat’s decision at
the time “incomprehensible and small-minded.”  Sales Increase  Sales by  Longvie SA (LONG) , which manufactures stoves, washing
machines and other appliances, increased last year, said Chief
Financial Officer Ernesto Huergo.  “It’s hard to know how much is due to the economic growth
and how much is a result of import restrictions,” Huergo said
in telephone interview from Longvie’s headquarters in Buenos
Aires. The company relies mostly on local suppliers for parts,
said Huergo, who declined to give details of 2011 sales.  The new requirements to get permission ahead of bringing
goods into the country will do little to help Argentina’s
narrowing trade surplus,  Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service Inc. in  New York , wrote in a Jan. 23 report.
Continued inflation is making the country’s goods uncompetitive,
according to Torres.  For Argentina’s 40 million inhabitants, the import
restrictions mean less choice and higher prices, said Jose
Lilino, head of the Argentine Federation of Home Appliance
Stores, which represents about 1,400 retail outlets.  Supply Difficulties  Six months ago, Lilino started to sell furniture, gym
equipment and plates and bowls at his home appliances stores in
the province of  Santa Fe  because of difficulties in obtaining
stocks of imported irons, refrigerators and blenders.  “I’m becoming a seller of whatever I can find to sell,”
Lilino said in a telephone interview from Santa Fe, the
province’s capital.  While the availability of goods has fallen, prices have
soared, said Lilino.  “An iron that cost 50 pesos ($11.5) last year today sells
for 120 pesos,” said Lilino. “It’s the consumer who’s paying
the cost of these measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  