-- Fiat Industrial Raises 2012 Sales Forecast
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-02-01T10:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fiat-industrial-raises-2012-sales-forecast.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and
tractor unit spun off from carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  last year, raised
its revenue forecast after earnings climbed 34 percent in the
fourth quarter on increased sales at the Iveco truck division.  Trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time gains or costs, advanced to 395 million euros ($518
million) in the period, from 294 million euros a year earlier,
the Turin-based company said today in a statement. Revenue rose
almost 15 percent to 6.82 billion euros.  Fiat Industrial, which sells  trucks  through the Iveco unit
as well as agricultural and construction equipment through CNH
Global NV, raised its 2012 revenue forecast to 25 billion euros
from 24 billion euros, and reiterated a target of as much as
2.1 billion euros in trading profit.  “The reiteration of guidance really is good news and
unexpected after CNH results,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Securities in  London . CNH fell 10 percent in New
York trading yesterday after reporting fourth-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates.  Fiat Industrial  rose as much as  5.5 percent in Milan
trading and was up 3.9 percent at 7.78 euros at 11:07 a.m. The
stock has declined about 12 percent since it began trading in
January 2011, while Fiat has plunged about 37 percent. The
carmaker also reports earnings today.  Harvesters  European revenue at CNH, or Case New Holland, was
restrained by the sovereign-debt crisis, and sales in  Latin
America  were hurt by deferred spending on heavy equipment, the
division said yesterday. The unit’s products include sugar-cane
harvesters, sprayers and excavators.  Iveco and the powertrain division, which makes engines for
Fiat Group companies and other manufacturers, probably can
“make up the profit shortfall” from CNH, Hauser said. Iveco
sales rose 9.9 percent to 2.79 billion euros.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  spun off
Fiat Industrial from the automaker to allow each manufacturer to
focus on a narrower product range and develop partnerships. The
CEO, who also runs Chrysler Group LLC, has said that different
 capital requirements  justified the separation of Fiat’s
industrial and automaking operations.  Fiat Industrial’s Iveco unit is “eminently saleble,”
Marchionne said in November, according to  Max Warburton , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
 Germany ’s third-largest carmaker, and “ Far East ” competitors
are “two classes of buyers who will be anxious to try and
strike up an arrangement,” Warburton wrote in a note to clients
Dec. 5, citing the executive.  Fiat Industrial proposed a dividend for 2011 performance of
18.5 cents per ordinary share and said it favors distributing
25 percent to 35 percent of consolidated net income each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  