-- Fibria Posts Second Straight Loss as Pulp Price Falls
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-02-02T10:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fibria-posts-second-straight-loss-as-pulp-price-declines-1-.html
(Corrects information on earnings per share in last
paragraph in story originally published Feb. 1.)  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp producer, reported a loss for a second straight
quarter after prices for the paper-making material declined amid
waning demand in  Europe .  The fourth-quarter net loss was 358 million reais ($206.4
million), compared with  net income  of 162 million reais a year
earlier, Sao Paulo-based Fibria said today in a statement to
 Brazil ’s securities regulator. That was more than the 202.7
million-real average loss estimated by seven analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg (FIBR3) .  Demand from European paper makers, which buy almost half of
Fibrias’s pulp, is slowing as the region’s debt crisis crimps
growth. Pulp prices will likely continue to fall in coming
months,  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s Raphael Biderman said.  A recovery in prices “seems even more unlikely in light of
the European debt crisis,” Biderman, an analyst at the Osasco,
Brazil-based bank, wrote in a report before earnings were
released.  Net sales dropped 11 percent from a year earlier to 1.4
billion reais.  Fibria was formed in 2009, when Votorantim Celulose & Papel
SA bailed out Aracruz Celulose SA after the bigger rival posted
more than $2 billion of losses stemming from wrong-way currency
bets. Fibria has since raised about $2.6 billion in asset sales
in a bid to reduce debt.  Banks allowed Fibria to exceed covenants on 2.5 billion
reais of loans without paying a waiver fee or higher rates after
the Brazilian real’s 17 percent decline in the third quarter
boosted foreign obligations in local-currency terms. Dividend
payments were limited to the mandatory minimum of 25 percent of
profits until July 2012 as part of the accord with banks, Fibria
said Dec. 20.  The company booked a financial loss of 142 million reais
after the Brazilian currency gained 0.7 percent in the quarter,
compared with a financial gain of 35 million reais in the year-
earlier period. Under Brazilian accounting rules, a reduction in
foreign debt stemming from a currency rally is booked as a gain.  Fibria (FIBR3)  rose 0.4 percent in  Sao Paulo  trading today to close
at 14.31 reais. Earnings were announced after markets closed.  Fibria reported a per-share loss of 80 centavos for the
quarter, compared with a gain of 30 centavos a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 